January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Low-key KIFF to kick off with virtual inauguration today||After much deliberation, the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) is starting today with Shah Rukh Khan joining the inaugural event virtually. The seven-day festival, which got postponed from its usual autumn dates due to the COVID-19 pandemic, is being held on a smaller scale. Though the usual extravaganza will be missing this time, it is still going to be a grand celebration of cinema. Director Anubhav Sinha will be present at Nabanna along with other dignitaries to kick start the festival. Besides, the filmmaker will also present the Satyajit Ray Memorial lecture at Sisir Mancha during the festival. Several members from the Bengal film fraternity will be present at the do. Cinema during COVIDThis year, a total of 131 films – in feature, short and documentary formats – will be screened at select state-run theatres in the city, including Nandan and Rabindra Sadan. Talking about the festival, KIFF chairman Raj Chakrabarty said, “This year, we are requesting all the film buffs to secure their seats online before getting into the auditoriums. Maintaining Covid guidelines is our priority. Instead of a digital event, we wanted to host the festival physically to honour the common people’s sentiments attached to KIFF.” Anyone who wishes to watch a film has to book their seat in the auditorium through a ticket booking app before entering the hall. “We are also requesting the audience to leave the auditorium as soon as the film gets over, as we need to thoroughly sanitise before the next show,” Raj added. No country in focusUnlike other years, there is no focus country this time. “We’ve got films from several countries. Since it is Federico Fellini’s centenary year, we’ve procured a bunch of his films. Besides, there are other films from Italy. We also have films from France, Turkey, Russia, Iran, Ukraine, Kyrgyzstan, Israel and several other countries from all around the world.” This year, the festival is not hosting foreign delegates as well. #KIFF2021: Things you cannot miss1. Anubhav Sinha will present the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture this year 2. There will be an exhibition on the life and work of actor Soumitra Chatterjee3. The festival will screen eight films of Soumitra Chatterjee in a special tribute section. There will be special tributes to other film personalities who passed away in 2020, including Rishi Kapoor, Irrfan, Kim Ki-duk, Amala Shankar and others. 4. Besides Fellini, the festival will also host centenary celebrations for Ravi Shankar, Bhanu Bandyopadhyay, Eric Rohmer and Hemanta Mukhopadhyay||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/low-key-kiff-to-kick-off-with-virtual-inauguration-today/articleshow/80159934.cms||Shamayita.Chakraborty
January 8, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka govt puts districts on alert over bird flu fears||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The Karnataka government on Thursday put border districts on high alert, directing them to take precautions and ensure incoming poultry products were safe for consumption, as concerns grew over a bird flu outbreak in Kerala and some other states. The deaths of six crows in Dakshina Kannada district, which is close to Kerala, have also prompted authorities to step up vigil. “We have sent the samples of the crows for tests to ascertain the cause of death. Once we get the report, we’ll discuss it with the Union health ministry and issue guidelines and initiate necessary action. People needn’t worry but should take precautions,” said health minister K Sudhakar. The Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner, KV Rajendra, said that the report was likely to arrive on Friday. “Prima facie, it looks like the crows died due to some injuries,” he added. Cases of bird flu, formally called avian influenza, have been reported in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, apart from Kerala. Sudhakar said that health and veterinary science officials were maintaining a strict vigil in border districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. Citing a circular of the Union health ministry, he asked citizens to only eat properly cooked meat. On Wednesday, the Centre directed Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh to cull sick birds following reports of a bird flu outbreak in 12 places. In Kerala, cases have occurred in parts of Alappuzha and Kottayam districts, prompting officials to cull more than 69,000 birds, including ducks and chickens. “We have put the entire state on high alert and asked staff to take all precautionary measures to control a possible spread. Officers have been asked to be ready with medication and steps required to control any spread,” said animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan. Rajendra said that Dakshina Kannada was taking all precautions. “We’ve asked all poultry farms, bird sanctuaries and agencies managing waterbodies to closely monitor birds. Owners of poultry farms should take extra precautions and should not allow people to enter their farms unnecessarily. Farm owners should inform the nearest veterinary dispensaries if they find symptoms of bird flu. Vehicles transporting feeds should be sprayed with disinfectants,” he said. “Officials from the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services should visit farms and do the needful.” According to officials, vehicles supplying poultry products from Karnataka to Kerala should also be disinfected before the return journey. A three-member team of experts from the Union health ministry visited the two districts in Kerala to study the possible virus mutation and risk for humans. They are from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and National Institute of Virology. “They’re expected to visit Dakshina Kannada if the report confirms that the six crows died because of bird flu,’’ official sources said. Following reports that the virus made inroads through migratory birds, sanctuaries across the state, including the famous Kokrebellur in Mandya district’s Maddur taluk, have been put on high alert, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/bird-flu-ktaka-puts-border-dists-on-alert/articleshow/80163046.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka govt puts districts on alert over bird flu fears||BENGALURU/MANGALURU: The Karnataka government on Thursday put border districts on high alert, directing them to take precautions and ensure incoming poultry products were safe for consumption, as concerns grew over a bird flu outbreak in Kerala and some other states. The deaths of six crows in Dakshina Kannada district, which is close to Kerala, have also prompted authorities to step up vigil. “We have sent the samples of the crows for tests to ascertain the cause of death. Once we get the report, we’ll discuss it with the Union health ministry and issue guidelines and initiate necessary action. People needn’t worry but should take precautions,” said health minister K Sudhakar. The Dakshina Kannada deputy commissioner, KV Rajendra, said that the report was likely to arrive on Friday. “Prima facie, it looks like the crows died due to some injuries,” he added. Cases of bird flu, formally called avian influenza, have been reported in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Himachal Pradesh, apart from Kerala. Sudhakar said that health and veterinary science officials were maintaining a strict vigil in border districts such as Dakshina Kannada, Kodagu, Mysuru and Chamarajanagar. Citing a circular of the Union health ministry, he asked citizens to only eat properly cooked meat. On Wednesday, the Centre directed Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh to cull sick birds following reports of a bird flu outbreak in 12 places. In Kerala, cases have occurred in parts of Alappuzha and Kottayam districts, prompting officials to cull more than 69,000 birds, including ducks and chickens. “We have put the entire state on high alert and asked staff to take all precautionary measures to control a possible spread. Officers have been asked to be ready with medication and steps required to control any spread,” said animal husbandry minister Prabhu Chauhan. Rajendra said that Dakshina Kannada was taking all precautions. “We’ve asked all poultry farms, bird sanctuaries and agencies managing waterbodies to closely monitor birds. Owners of poultry farms should take extra precautions and should not allow people to enter their farms unnecessarily. Farm owners should inform the nearest veterinary dispensaries if they find symptoms of bird flu. Vehicles transporting feeds should be sprayed with disinfectants,” he said. “Officials from the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services should visit farms and do the needful.” According to officials, vehicles supplying poultry products from Karnataka to Kerala should also be disinfected before the return journey. A three-member team of experts from the Union health ministry visited the two districts in Kerala to study the possible virus mutation and risk for humans. They are from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and National Institute of Virology. “They’re expected to visit Dakshina Kannada if the report confirms that the six crows died because of bird flu,’’ official sources said. Following reports that the virus made inroads through migratory birds, sanctuaries across the state, including the famous Kokrebellur in Mandya district’s Maddur taluk, have been put on high alert, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bird-flu-ktaka-puts-border-dists-on-alert/articleshow/80160580.cms||---
January 8, 2021||World||Biden blames Trump for violence at Capitol that's shaken US||WASHINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden on Thursday denounced the rioters who stormed the US Capitol as “domestic terrorists” and he blamed President Donald Trump for the violence that has shaken the nation's capital and beyond. The protest by Trump supporters that breached the security of Congress on Wednesday was “not dissent, was not disorder, was not protest. It was chaos.” Those who massed on Capitol Hill intending to disrupt a joint session of Congress that was certifying Biden's election victory over Trump “weren't protesters. Don't dare call them protesters. They were a riotous mob — insurrectionists, domestic terrorists. It's that basic,” Biden said. In solemn tones, Biden said the actions Trump has taken to subvert the nation's democratic institutions throughout his presidency led directly to the mayhem in Washington. Read Also“In the past four years, we've had a president who's made his contempt for our democracy, our constitution, the rule of law clear in everything he has done,” Biden said. "He unleashed an all-out assault on our institutions of our democracy from the outset. And yesterday was the culmination of that unrelenting attack.” The mob of hundreds of Trump backers broke into the Capitol and roamed the halls looking for lawmakers, who were forced to halt their deliberations a nd evacuate to safety. The violent protesters were egged on by Trump himself, who has falsely contended that he lost the election due to voter fraud. Read Also4 dead, democracy wounded, as US stumbles out of Trump nightmareWASHINGTON: A female Trump supporter was shot dead by security personnel and democracy was wounded in the halls of the American legislature by mobs incited by defeated President Donald Trump as the United States Congress stumbled through the process of formally recognizing Joe Biden and KamalaTrump's claims have been repeatedly dismissed in the courts, including the Supreme Court, and by state election officials from both parties, and even some in his own administration. But the president has gone to greater and greater lengths to try to overturn the results, culminating this week in efforts by a small group of Republican senators and larger numbers in the House to objects to the congressional certification of the results on Wednesday and the scene of violence at the Capitol. After the disruption, Congress returned to work late Wednesday and affirmed Biden's victory early Thursday. Watch US elections: Our democracy is under unprecedented assault, says President-elect Joe Biden||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-blames-trump-for-violence-at-capitol-thats-shaken-us/articleshow/80161571.cms||---
January 8, 2021||World||Iraq to send peacekeeping force to US!||It was a day when Iraq decided to send peace forces to the US while Afghanistan and Somalia expressed concern about the situation in Washington DC. No, none of this happened in reality. This was social media users chortling at America’s predicament and piling on the snark with scathing, sarcastic one-liners, memes and spoofs on the storming of the Capitol by a pro-Donald Trump mob. While millions of Americans and people across the world balked at what they saw live on TV, jokes on how the tables had turned on the country that positions itself at the global vanguard of democracy also began circulating widely. One that blazed through WhatsApp went, “Due to travel restrictions, this year the United States had to organize the coup at home.” It was in the same spirt of a meme on Iraq sending peacekeepers to Washington – with the subtext, ‘they need democracy now more than ever’ – and Twitterati chiming in that Somalia and Afghanistan would do the same. “I’m waiting for the USA to invade the USA so they can ‘re-establish democracy’,” wrote Felipe Neto, a Brazilian political commentator. Other social media users put themselves in Pakistan’s shoes and called on Americans to “maintain peace and respect the outcome of the elections”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/iraq-to-send-peacekeeping-force-to-us/articleshow/80161861.cms||---
January 8, 2021||World||Iraq to send peacekeeping force to US!||It was a day when Iraq decided to send peace forces to the US while Afghanistan and Somalia expressed concern about the situation in Washington DC. No, none of this happened in reality. This was social media users chortling at America’s predicament and piling on the snark with scathing, sarcastic one-liners, memes and spoofs on the storming of the Capitol by a pro-Donald Trump mob. While millions of Americans and people across the world balked at what they saw live on TV, jokes on how the tables had turned on the country that positions itself at the global vanguard of democracy also began circulating widely. One that blazed through WhatsApp went, “Due to travel restrictions, this year the United States had to organize the coup at home.” It was in the same spirt of a meme on Iraq sending peacekeepers to Washington – with the subtext, ‘they need democracy now more than ever’ – and Twitterati chiming in that Somalia and Afghanistan would do the same. “I’m waiting for the USA to invade the USA so they can ‘re-establish democracy’,” wrote Felipe Neto, a Brazilian political commentator. Other social media users put themselves in Pakistan’s shoes and called on Americans to “maintain peace and respect the outcome of the elections”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/middle-east/iraq-to-send-peacekeeping-force-to-us/articleshow/80161842.cms||---
January 8, 2021||World||Coup Klux Klan: Don triggers mob & rob bid||WASHINGTON: Leaders have a choice. They can inspire, or they can incite. Donald Trump, raging furiously against the dying of the light, incited an insurrection, goading a violent mob into rampaging through the Capitol, the symbol of American democracy. Already defeated, he will end his tenure thoroughly disgraced. Over the years, many commentators have compared Trump to a dementor -- the fictional dark creatures imagined by JK Rowling who "glory in decay and despair, and drain peace, hope, and happiness out of the air around them". Whether it's name-checking the Proud Boys, or supporting other groups that embody the worst human impulses, Trump has constantly provoked violent, impulsive behaviour. On Wednesday, he finally drove his supporters over the edge and beyond even his control, as is usually the case with demagogues. The Trump insurgency spooked several lawmakers and public officials into calling for invoking the 25th Amendment to remove him from office immediately, fearing he may cause even more damage to the country in the two weeks he has before he has to demit office. Even business leaders, who were otherwise smitten with Trump, called for his firing, with the National Association of Manufacturers urging Vice President Mike Pence to remove Trump and "preserve democracy." Top Senate Democrat Chuck Schumer called on the Cabinet to remove Trump from office, saying he shouldn't be president "one day" longer. Nearly 100 Democratic members of Congress backed calls for Trump's removal from office in the next several days either through the impeachment process (for which there is very little time) or deploying the 25th Amendment, which will require approval of half the Trump cabinet. The problem with the second option is several cabinet members are unconfirmed "acting" secretaries and it is unclear if they count. Earlier, a female Trump supporter was shot dead by security personnel and democracy was wounded in the halls of the American legislature by the rampaging mob as the United States Congress stumbled through the process of formally recognizing Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as winners of the 2020 Presidential elections. In scenes unprecedented in modern US history, violent insurrectionists described as "great patriots" by Trump attacked the US Capitol, overrunning an unprepared police and disrupting a joint session of Congress that was already fraught with tension as dozens of pro-Trump lawmakers sought to challenge the election results. Amid bloodshed and clashes that killed four people, three from what was described as "medical emergencies," lawmakers were evacuated, curfew was imposed in the capital, and the mob was evicted before legislators returned under heavy security cover shortly before midnight to complete the process in the wee hours (3.41am) of Thursday, going beyond the constitutionally mandated January 6 deadline. Pipe bombs, molotov cocktails and guns were discovered during a security sweep. Trump, blamed across the political spectrum for igniting violence, agreed to a orderly transition on January 20 while maintaining that he disagreed with the outcome of the election on the basis of his bogus claims of fraud that he was unable to establish legally. An aide posted the statement on social media after he was banned across most platforms for violating their civic integrity policies and inciting violence. "These are the things and events that happen when a sacred landslide election victory is so unceremoniously & viciously stripped away from great patriots who have been badly & unfairly treated for so long. Go home with love & in peace. Remember this day forever!" Trump tweeted, rationalising the violence before he was turfed out of Twitter and other platforms. "We have to have peace. Go home. I know how you feel -- we love you, you are very special," he told the thugs he first incited by urging them to march to the Capitol during a wild, hour-long speech outside the White House. He said he would be joining them but slipped away in a motorcade, leaving some of the filthiest dregs of America, its flotsam and jetsam, washing up at the Capitol. One was wearing a Camp Auschwitz t-shirt, and another vandal wore appropriate horns and tattoos. A noose was hung outside the Capitol in a dark reminder of the treatment meted out to Black slaves. As usual, the President's supporters, without any evidence, blamed Antifa and Black Lives Matter activists for the violence even though there is copious video evidence to show racist, white supremacist louts roaming the hallways of Congress, some of them waving Confederate flags representing states that opposed abolition of slavery. The headline for a commentary on the events in Mother Jones, a liberal publication, read, "Donald Trump is now a terrorist leader." Right wing media outlets glorified the woman, a 14-year military veteran from San Diego who was shot while breaking into a lawmaker's chamber, as a "patriot." Several lawmakers who had pledged to oppose the ceremonial certification of results folded up in remorse as the insurgent mob overran the Capitol and the election certification process. "There is nothing patriotic about what is occurring on Capitol Hill. This is 3rd world style anti-American anarchy," Florida's Republican Senator Marco Rubio, one of the many GOP lawmakers who enabled Trump over four years, said. In course of the ceremonial process, vice-president Mike Pence and Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (soon to be reduced to minority leader following the loss of two Senate seats in Georgia), also parted ways with Trump, paving way for a formal or informal split in the GOP. The President's sons Donald Trump Jr and Eric Trump both gave previews of the split by invoking "Donald Trump's Republican Party." "This gathering should be a message to all the Republicans who have not been willing to actually fight, the people who did nothing to stop the steal: This isn't their Republican Party anymore. This is Donald Trump's Republican Party," Trump Jr said a rally his father addressed later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/coup-klux-klan-don-triggers-mob-rob-bid/articleshow/80161869.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
January 8, 2021||World||Shaken Congress certifies Biden win after storming||WASHINGTON: Congress confirmed Democrat Joe Biden as the presidential  winner before dawn Thursday after a violent mob loyal to President Donald Trump stormed the US Capitol on Wednesday. Lawmakers were resolved to complete the Electoral College tally in a display to the country, and the world, of the nation's enduring commitment to uphold the will of the voters and the peaceful transfer of power. They pushed through the night with tensions high and the nation's capital on alert. Shortly before 4 am on Thursday, lawmakers finished their work, confirming Biden won the election. Vice President Mike Pence, presiding over the joint session, announced the tally, 306-232. Trump, who had repeatedly refused to concede the election, said in a statement immediately after the vote that there will be a smooth transition of power on Inauguration Day. “Even though I totally disagree with the outcome of the election, and the facts bear me out, nevertheless there will be an orderly transition on January 20th,'' Trump said in a statement posted to Twitter by an aide. One Republican lawmaker publicly called for invoking the 25th Amendment to force Trump from office before Biden is inaugurated. Others said there must be a review of the US Capitol Police's inability to prevent the breach of the complex by the protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/shaken-congress-certifies-biden-win-after-storming/articleshow/80162009.cms||---
January 8, 2021||World||FB, Twitter, Instagram restrict, indefinitely suspend Trump a/cs||NEW DELHI: Major social media giants, including Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and Snapchat, on Thursday banned, restricted or “suspended indefinitely” US President Donald Trump from their platforms following his allegedly provocative posts which led to a violent insurrection at the Capitol Hill. YouTube has also removed several Trump videos. Around 9.30pm IST, Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg posted, “We believe the risks of allowing the President to continue to use our service during this period are simply too great. Therefore, we are extending the block we have placed on his Facebook and Instagram accounts indefinitely and for at least the next two weeks until the peaceful transition of power is complete.” “Over the last several years, we have allowed President Trump to use our platform consistent with our own rules, at times removing content or labeling his posts when they violate our policies. We did this because we believe that the public has a right to the broadest possible access to political speech, even controversial speech. But the current context is now fundamentally different, involving use of our platform to incite violent insurrection against a democratically elected government,” Zuckerberg wrote. Twitter also asked for the removal of three of Trump's tweets and banned him from using the platform for 12 hours following their deletion. Snapchat, too, restricted the President from posting to his account indefinitely. One of the tweets, which the microblogging platform took down, contained a video, posted two hours after the siege at the Capitol, which showed Trump asking protesters to go home, but also had him repeat his claims of “fraudulent” election results. Twitter had initially not taken down the video, but had restricted people from retweeting, liking and commenting on it. “As a result of the unprecedented and ongoing violent situation in Washington DC, we have required the removal of three @realDonaldTrump Tweets that were posted earlier today for repeated and severe violations of our Civic Integrity policy,” Twitter wrote from a verified handle @twittersafety. It added that “future violations of the Twitter Rules, including our Civic Integrity or Violent Threats policies, will result in permanent suspension of the @realDonaldTrump account.” Trump had been using his social media accounts to challenge the 2020 Presidential election since the declaration of results in early November last year, calling them fraudulent on several occasions. Twitter had flagged several of his tweets, labeling them as “disputed”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fb-twitter-instagram-restrict-indefinitely-suspend-trump-a/cs/articleshow/80162065.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 8, 2021||Business||GDP may contract by 7.7% in FY21: NSO data||NEW DELHI: India’s economy is estimated to contract by a record 7.7% in 2020-21 ravaged by the impact of the Covid-19 induced lockdown, with the crucial services and manufacturing sectors taking a massive hit and the farm segment expected to remain the only bright spot. The first advance estimate released by the National Statistical Office (NSO) on Thursday comes ahead of the Union budget on February 1, which is expected to unveil fresh measures to get growth back on track. The NSO data estimated the economy to contract by 7.7% compared to an 11-year low growth of 4.2% in 2019-20. This will be the first contraction in over four decades since the 5.2% fall recorded in 1979-80. This is also the record contraction since annual GDP data began to be published in 1951-52. The Reserve Bank of India estimates GDP to contract by 7.5% while other agencies forecast in the range of 7.4% to 10.3% decline for the current financial year and rebound next year on the back of the low base and measures unleashed by the government and the central bank. The impact of one of the strictest lockdowns in the world has been evident on the economy with a record slump of 23.9% in the June quarter. The restart of economic activity has helped narrow the contraction to 7.5% in the September quarter, with the festival and pent-up demand lending a huge push. Most economists now estimate the economy to return to positive territory in the third and fourth quarters and move away from the technical recession that it entered with two consecutive quarters of contraction. Thursday’s data showed only the farm and electricity sectors posted growth, with agriculture forecast to grow by 3.4% and electricity by 2.7% in 2020-21. The crucial manufacturing sector is estimated to contract by 9.4% compared to a 0.3% growth in 2019-20. Construction, which has been hit hard by the lockdown, is forecast to contract by 12.6% in 2020-21, while hotels, transport, communication and broadcasting services is estimated to decline by a record 21.4% in the current fiscal. The overall services sector, which accounts for nearly 60% of the economy, is estimated to fall by 8.8% in 2020-21 compared to a growth of 5.5% in 2019-20. The NSO cautioned against interpreting too much from the latest numbers as it is based on extrapolation of 6 to 9 months of sectoral numbers as data collection had been hit by the lockdown. It said the estimates are likely to undergo sharp revision . Reacting to the NSO data, the finance ministry said the movement of various high frequency indicators in recent months, points towards broad based nature of resurgence of economic activity. The relatively more manageable pandemic situation in the country compared to advanced nations has further added momentum to the economic recovery, it said. The ministry said as two vaccines get emergency use approval, the government is undertaking preparations of a mass mega vaccination drive. The NSO data showed that nominal GDP, which is excluding inflation, is estimated to a contract by a record 4.2% and has implications for calculating the fiscal deficit numbers. Except government expenditure (5.8%), all other segments of GDP are estimated to post a steep fall in 2020-21, with private final consumption expenditure falling by 9.5% and investment by 14.5%. Economists said all eyes are now on the budget for measures to boost growth and help sustain the recovery that is underway. “With inflation likely to have significantly picked up pace in December, monetary policy accommodation has been exhausted. Thus the budget could be the immediate starting point of a revival,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser at State Bank of India. “However, a word of caution. The pandemic has exacerbated the risks associated with a decade-long wave of global debt accumulation. Debt levels have reached historic highs, making the global economy particularly vulnerable to financial market stress. The pandemic has also amplified the risk that contingent liabilities will be realized, which could further strain public finances,” said Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gdp-may-contract-by-7-7-in-fy21-nso-data/articleshow/80162302.cms||---
January 8, 2021||India||Sikh religious leader meets Tomar, unions on talks eve||NEW DELHI: A meeting between Baba Lakkhawal of Nanaksar Gurudwara with agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Thursday set off speculation of the Sikh religious leader being an intermediary to convey certain proposals or attempt to narrow the trust gap between farm unions opposed to the new farm laws and the Centre. However, farm representatives said there was no such formal communication. It is understood the Baba interacted with some union members, a day ahead of the next round of discussions between the Centre and farm unions. Simultaneously, there was some discussion on “alternatives” in the agriculture ministry, which was seen as loud thinking rather than a concrete proposal. Since the government is not willing to repeal the laws and the unions are insisting on such a course of action, it was felt that keeping the laws in abeyance for now or leaving it to individual states to enforce it might be options. However, as things stand, it is unclear if the unions, or even the government, will be ready to find not implementing the laws acceptable. And states can bring in certain laws, as Congress-ruled ones have done, to "negate" the central legislations. The proposal on leaving it to states to implement laws was shared with few leaders of farm unions after Baba Lakkawal met Tomar. Farm leaders, however, said they did not get any ‘formal’ proposal in writing even as few people at different protest sites discussed it as something which came from followers of Baba Lakkhawal. “We have not received any such proposal. I think it’s an attempt from the Centre to divert media attention (by initiating such discourse) from successful tractor march around Delhi. It’s also a move to divide farmers by projecting it as a state-specific (Punjab-Haryana) problem. Our demand is repeal of laws,” said Yogendra Yadav of Jai Kisan Andolan. Sources said that since the government won’t repeal the laws, both sides need time to discuss finer points of reforms, including the issue of minimum support price (MSP), after suspending the farm agitation. “As representatives of central government had sought to confirm repeatedly in the last meeting about our demand of repealing of three farm laws, we are again reminding the government ahead of tomorrow's (Friday) meeting that these laws should be completely repealed and remunerative MSP should be made into a legal right of all farmers,” said unions’ umbrella body, AIKSCC, in a statement. It said, “We will never accept the amendments offered by the government. We will continue to intensify the protests for fulfilling our demands.” Referring to some discourse around the proposal where the Centre’s won’t push enforcement of laws and rather leave it to states to enforce it, Avik Saha, general secretary of AIKSCC, said, “If states are given power to enforce or not to enforce these laws, the entire narrative (unified market where farmers will have freedom to sell) on which these three laws have been created will collapse.” He said, “I don’t know how farm unions will counter it. But if the central government comes up with this proposal, we will be even more sure the government with this is certainly not batting for the farmers but for large corporations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sikh-religious-leader-meets-tomar-unions-on-talks-eve/articleshow/80162337.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 8, 2021||Allahabad||HC protection to interfaith couplein Bijnor||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court has provided protection to another interfaith couple from family members and directed the Bijnor police to do the needful to “ensure that nobody interferes in peaceful life of two adults residing together with their own free will”. One Shaista Parveen alias Sangeeta and her husband, a Muslim, had moved a writ petition stating they have solemnized their marriage and living together by their own free will, but were being harassed by the family members. The court passed this order on January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-protection-to-interfaith-couplein-bijnor/articleshow/80176971.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 8, 2021||Patna||PU: Virtual classes of Part I students likely from Jan 12||PATNA: Patna University (PU) is likely to start virtual classes of the newly admitted students of the Degree Part I programme from January 12. The offline classes will begin only after receiving fresh instructions from the state education department on January 18. According to students’ welfare dean of PU, N K Jha, admissions to Part I courses in arts, science and commerce streams will be completed by January 11 and allotment of hostels made on the basis of the marks. “A final list of the hostel-wise allotment will be displayed on PU’s website and a copy of it sent to the nearest police stations to check the entry of unauthorized people,” Jha said, adding that the students would have to submit an affidavit claiming that they would never allow any other person to reside in their hostels. Meanwhile, the last date for admission to the conventional postgraduate (PG) courses in the faculties of arts, science and commerce has been extended till January 14. The admission portal has been reopened so that the Part III students, whose results were declared late, can apply online now. “Admission to the PG courses will be completed by the end of January so that classes can commence in the first week of February,” Jha said. Improved attendance in colleges: The attendance of Part III and PG students has improved considerably in different institutes of PU in the last three days. Magadh Mahila College principal Shashi Sharma told this newspaper, “Only 20% of the Part III students had turned up on Monday when classroom teaching resumed after 10 months, but their attendance has increased to more than 40% now. Many parents are still not willing to send their children to college due to the Covid-19 pandemic.” The principal of Patna College, Ashok Kumar, and his B N College counterpart, Raj Kishor Prasad, also admitted that there had been an improvement in the attendance of students. Patna Science College teacher Anil Kumar pointed out that more and more students were attending theory classes with the passage of time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pu-virtual-classes-of-part-i-students-likely-from-jan-12/articleshow/80158915.cms||B K Mishra
January 8, 2021||Varanasi||Amid bird flu alert, crows found dead in Sonbhadra||Varanasi: Forest officials swung into action and doctors were asked to be on alert after several crows were found dead in Dala area of Sonbhadra on Wednesday. With at least four states reporting cases of bird flu, Uttar Pradesh has been put on high alert and districts have been given strict instructions to start culling infected birds even if a single case is reported. Large-scale sampling of birds has also started in Varanasi. Divisional forest officer Obra Prakhar Mishra said, six crows were found dead in different areas of Dala, after which teams of forest officials and veterinary officer were rushed to take stock of the situation. A post-mortem report is awaited to know whether they died due to bird flu. Mishra admitted that a vigil has been increased following the Wedmesday’s incident and bird flu guidelines issued by the state government . Dala residents said crowd scattered in Dala Chadhai, Chudigali, Badi and Hanuman temple premises after the incident. In Varanasi, chief veterinary officer Dr VB Singh said surveillance has been increased at around 150 small and big poultries and 25 wholesalers. Samples are being sent for test and no inputs on spread of any disease has been received so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/amid-bird-flu-alert-crows-found-dead-in-sonbhadra/articleshow/80159010.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Vadodara||Cab driver knocks down five in Bodeli, one dies||Vadodara: A 27-year-old woman died and four persons, including three children, were severely injured after a cab driver ran over them on Bodeli-Halol road on Wednesday night. The cab driver, who is absconding, lost control of the vehicle and banged into an electric pole before knocking down Neelam Rathwa, 34-year-old Jagruti Koli and their children. All five were taken to a trust-run hospital in Waghodiya where Rathwa succumbed to her injuries. The injured were still undergoing treatment, cops said. Rathwa’s husband Umesh is a constable with Karali police station in Chhota Udepur. Police said that the car is owned by a travel firm and was on contract with a bank. At the time of the accident, only the driver was present in the car, said police. “It is possible that the driver may have been drunk due to which he lost control over the vehicle. We are yet to ascertain his identity so an offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence has been registered against an unidentified driver,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cab-driver-knocks-down-five-in-bodeli-one-dies/articleshow/80158371.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Postal dept bid to get more families insured in Gaya||GAYA: The department of posts has launched a campaign to ensure that more families, including common people and public sector employees, opt for the rural postal life insurance (RPLI) and the postal life insurance (PLI). Addressing a press meet on Thursday, senior superintendent of post offices (Gaya division), Ranjay Kumar Singh, said, “Common people in the age group of 19 to 55 years can get themselves insured under RPLI. PLI, on the other hand, is meant for public sector employees.” The campaign, which began on January 4, will continue till January 12. “We have also planned to promote the Sampoorna Bima Gram Yojana that provides affordable life insurance services to people living in rural areas. We will try to ensure that at least one person from each family living in 100 villages of Gaya division gets himself insured,” Singh said, adding that the insurance scheme would provide employment opportunities to the locals. Talking about the recent activities of the department, Singh said, “We opened nearly 72,000 new accounts from December 4 to 19, 2020.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/postal-dept-bid-to-get-more-families-insured-in-gaya/articleshow/80158630.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Cops facing extortion charge still at large||PATNA: Police have intensified raids to arrest an assistant sub-inspector, two constables and a driver who were allegedly seen collecting money from truckers on national highway near Jehanabad border under Masaurhi police station in Patna on Tuesday night. The four had fled after locals video-recorded their act of seeking money from truckers. SHO of Masaurhi police station Shubham Arya said efforts were on to arrest ASI Arvind Kumar, constables Pradeep Kumar Rajak and Abhijeet Kumar and contractual driver Nitish Kumar. “The four were patrolling the area,” he said. City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said if necessary, police would move court seeking warrants against the accused. “Police will record statements of eyewitnesses,” he said. The ASI and the two constables were suspended by SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-facing-extortion-charge-still-at-large/articleshow/80158711.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Pocket-pinch worry as diesel hits new high||Kolkata: The diesel price in Kolkata on Thursday breached records to touch Rs 77.96 per litre. Since diesel runs transport vehicles like buses and goods vehicles and even goods trains, there is a possibility of imminent rise in prices of commodities across categories. This is the second such record spike of diesel price after 2018. On October 16, 2018, the diesel price rose to Rs 77.59 per litre. Thereafter, it kept plunging steadily because of successive dips in international crude oil price. International oil prices have bounced back with heightened human activities in the post-lockdown period. The crude was trading at $50.96 per barrel on Wednesday, compared to $19.9 a barrel in April when several nations went into lockdown to curb the pandemic, said a senior IOC officer. The fossil fuel price varies from state to state. Central and state taxes and dealers’ commissions are added to the refinery gate price to arrive at the retail price, explained a oil marketing company (OMC) official. This spike is going to hit the goods and passenger transportation in the city hard. Already both state transport undertaking (STU) and private bus operators have scaled down their operations due to non-viability. “Unless the fare is immediately revised, the entire bus transit system will go moribund. After a point, it will be next to impossible to revive the system,” said Tapan Bandyopadhyay, secretary, joint council of bus syndicates. “Kolkata has a robust bus transit system. This was the reason why the share of private vehicles is low in the city. But the absence of buses underlines a great danger. It will force passengers to lean towards private vehicles, which will mean more traffic snarls, more choking of road intersections and more pollution,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director, Centre for Science and Environment, and a transportation expert. The impact of the fuel price hike on the goods transportation sector is higher. “A spike in diesel price will increase the transportation cost of every commodity — from vegetables to electronic spare parts. The entire country’s transport system runs on diesel. If the government keeps withdrawing subsidy on diesel, the crucial balance will be lost,” said Subhas Chandra Bose, president, West Bengal Federation of Truck Operators’ Associations. Internationally, diesel is priced slightly higher than petrol because of its higher cost of production. In India, diesel remained subsidized for a long time. Now, diesel attracts lower tax than petrol and the former’s price has been lower for several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pocket-pinch-worry-as-diesel-hits-new-high/articleshow/80159221.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Docs write to CM on fight against air pollution||Kolkata: Leading health experts and doctors’ forums across Bengal have written to the chief minister highlighting the health emergency situation due to air pollution and urging her for urgent measures to fight it. Citing the December 2020 Lancet Planetary Health Report — which said 9,712 people died of Covid in Bengal last year, whereas pollution claimed 1.2 lakh lives in 2019 and caused an economic loss of around Rs 15,516 crore — doctors asked the CM to prioritize the fight against air pollution. Bengal CAN Doctors’ Forum, a network of health experts, have urged the government to issue immediate health advisories. Arup Halder, a consultant pulmonologist, Woodland Superspecialty Hospital, said, “When we plan recovery of our economy after Covid, it should be a green recovery.” Soirindhri Banerjee, radiation oncology, IPGMER & SSKM Hospital, Kolkata, said, “2020 was tricky since most of our respiratory systems were compromised by a deadly virus and toxic pollutants will irritate our airways further.” Sanjukta Dutta, consultant and head, emergency medicine department, Fortis Hospital, said, “Authorities and political leaders must fight for clean air.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/docs-write-to-cm-on-fight-against-air-pollution/articleshow/80159259.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||Tiger & boar plunge into well in heat of hunt in MP's Sehore, die||BHOPAL: A hunt that killed both predator and prey. A tiger cub and a wild boar plunged into an abandoned well in the heat of the chase in Sehore district of Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday evening. Both died. According to forest officials, a farmer noticed the carcasses floating in the well in Dungaria village, about 50km from Bhopal, on Thursday morning and alerted forest officials. “The well had no wall or fence. The tiger cub, around a year old, must have been chasing the prey when it entered the revenue village and fell into the well by accident,” said Sehore DFO Ramesh Ganawa. Foresters ruled out poisoning, electrocution and poaching attempt, and said all the body parts of the tiger were intact. “The carcasses were disposed of in compliance with NTCA protocols after autopsy,” said the officer. Villagers had noticed the movement of a tigress and her two cubs in the area for the last few days. “We have set up teams to locate the tigress and ensure its safety. Forest guards are in constant touch with villagers and are patrolling the surrounding areas,” DFO added. Dungaria where the cub and wild boar were found dead, is located around 150km from the Sehore district headquarters but only 15km from Ratapani Wildlife Sanctuary. which still awaits notification as a tiger reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/tiger-boar-fall-into-well-in-heat-of-hunt-die/articleshow/80159474.cms||P Naveen
January 8, 2021||Patna||All set for Covid vaccine dry run in Bihar today||PATNA: All the selected health facilities in 38 districts of the state have geared up for the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Friday. The dry run will be conducted at three health centres in each district under the supervision of health department officials. The aim of the dry run is to test planning and preparation prerequisites, session site creation and mapping, data uploading on Co-Win, vaccinator deployment, vaccine and logistics mobilisation at session site, mock drill of beneficiary vaccination and reporting. Manoj Kumar, special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society, said the required preparations were made at all the selected sites. “There will be separate entry and exit points in selected sites which will have a three-room set up -- a waiting room, a vaccination room and an observation room. The information, education and communication materials have been provided to all districts,” he said. State health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday participated in the virtual meeting convened by the Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan to check the preparedness for dry run. Meanwhile, the number of Covid-19 cases in the state rose to 2,55,474 on Thursday with 377 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Four fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s Covid toll to 1,424. According to the state health department bulletin, three more people have succumbed to the virus in Patna and one in Saran. With this, the Covid toll in Patna district has jumped to 392. Altogether 423 patients were discharged from different hospitals in the state in the last 24 hours. The number of active cases in the state stood at 4,107 on Thursday. The state’s recovery rate, on the other hand, has touched 97.84%. As many as 98,085 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) registered four fresh deaths in the last 24 hours and the victims were a 72-year-old woman from Lal Kothi in Bhagalpur district, a 36-year-old man from Akbarpur in Nawada, a 60-year-old man from Surajganj in Madhubani and a 65-year-old man from Khajpura in Patna. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 15 patients were admitted to the hospital and 10 discharged on Thursday. At NMCH, no new Covid casualty was reported on Thursday. However, three Covid patients were admitted to the hospital and six discharged in the last 24 hours. Of the 377 new Covid cases recorded in the state on Thursday, Patna accounted for 147. With this, the district’s tally has increased to 50,033. With 48,044 people recuperating from the virus, there are 1,597 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Begusarai reported 31 cases, Muzaffarpur 26, Nalanda 15 and Saran 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/all-set-for-covid-vaccine-dry-run-in-bihar-today/articleshow/80158848.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||Slain gangster Vikas Dubey’s mother visits Bikru, apologises for his deeds||KANPUR: Sarla Devi, mother of slain gangster Vikas Dubey, has apologised for the deeds of her son during a visit to her ancestral village Bikru on Tuesday. Vikas was killed in an encounter with the police after he and his aides had ambushed a police party in Bikru village on the night of July 2 and killed eight policemen. “I really regret giving birth to a crook and I apologise to each and everyone who had lost their near and dear ones owing to Vikas’s deeds. However, I have nothing to do with Vikas and his deeds,” she said with folded hands, when a group of women complained to her that her son had ruined several families in the village. Village sources informed TOI that after arriving in the village from Lucknow on Tuesday, she straight away went to one Uma Shankar’s house. Uma Shankar is one among the alleged aides of Vikas and had surrendered later before the police. “From there, she then went to see her ancestral house that was allegedly razed by authorities soon after the Bikru ambush. After spending a few minutes, she then returned to Uma Shankar’s house, where she had been staying since Tuesday,” said sources. A police team was sent to Bikru village after news of Sarla Devi visit spread in the area. “Sleuths of LIU had also visited the village and inquired from a few villagers regarding the purpose of Sarla’s visit, but they feigned ignorance,” said a villager pleading anonymity. To recall, a day earlier prior to the gangster’s encounter, Sarla had stated that she would have no regrets if her son was gunned down for being responsible for an act which claimed the lives of eight policemen. Later, after Vikas was arrested from Mahakal temple in Ujjain in a dramatic turn of events, Sarla had said that Lord Mahakaal saved her son’s life but also said that the government can do whatever they want to do with him. She had then also told the media that Vikas was involved in criminal activities from a young age and did not change his path despite repeated requests by her and other family members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/vikass-mom-visits-bikru-apologises-for-his-deeds/articleshow/80159068.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 8, 2021||Patna||Jeevika groups to look after maintenance of ponds: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar||PATNA: In tandem with ‘Sashakt Mahila-Saksham Mahila’ component of Saat Nischay 2.0 of the state government, CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday said maintenance of ponds being developed under Jal Jeevan Hariyali mission would be handed over to Jeevika groups. Nitish also said ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ will be set up across the state, under which Jeevika women workers will prepare hygienic and affordable food in all government hospitals. He instructed the officials concerned to introduce the system of supplying bed sheets to government hospitals by Jeevika groups. “We will provide all necessary support to Jeevika groups for this purpose,” Nitish said.The CM made the announcements while addressing an event organised by Bihar Rural Livelihoods Promotion Society (BRLP), locally known as Jeevika, at Dhamdaha block in Purnia district. He was interacting with hundreds of Jeevika workers. Nitish said there are more than 10 lakh Jeevika groups in the state in which over 1.20 crore women are working. “Our motive is to extend the work being done by Jeevika, not merely increasing their numbers. Women have played a key role in economic growth in Bihar. Jeevika is creating awareness among women in the state. Jeevika Didis know more about the banking system than many educated people. In fact, Centre launched Aajeevika (National Rural Livelihood Mission) by adopting the Jeevika model of Bihar,” he said. The CM added, “There is no big factory in Bihar. Still, the state’s per capita income is increasing, mainly because of JEEVIKA workers. My motive is progress in the society and it will happen only when women contribute to development works.” Inspecting the exhibitions and stalls set up by Jeevika Didis, Nitish asked the officials to make arrangements for manufacturing agro products from maize. “Apart from maize and banana, steps should be taken for enabling Jeevika groups to do other works,” Nitish said. Reiterating the government’s commitment to empowering women, the CM said, “We have provided 50% reservation in panchayati raj and urban local body elections to women. The number of girl students in state governmentschools was 1.70 lakh earlier. However, the number of girl students was more than boys in the Matriculation examinations held last year.” Nitish said school uniforms would now be made by Jeevika.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jeevika-groups-to-look-after-maintenance-of-ponds-cm/articleshow/80158432.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 8, 2021||Patna||Bhagalpur, Saran gear up for vaccine dry run today||BHAGALPUR/CHHAPRA: Authorities were busy making final round of preparations for the second round of dry run for vaccination against Covid-19 scheduled to be held on Friday. The dry run will be organized in three hospitals of Bhagalpur and three in Banka district. It is a rehearsal to understand the readiness of the health department and hospitals and is also aimed at removing the shortcomings and plug the loopholes before the actual process is undertaken. Bhagalpur civil surgeon Dr Vijay Kumar Singh said three hospitals, including the sadar hospital and Hussainabad primary health centre (PHC) and one private hospital have been selected. Banka civil surgeon Dr Sudhir Kumar Mahato said the dry run would be held at Banka sadar hospital, Katoria block PHC and a private hospital. “The objective of the dry run is to remove the shortcomings of the ambitious plan for vaccination against Covid. The entire process will be followed as per the guidelines of ministry of health and family welfare,” Dr Mahto said. Two India-made vaccines—Covishield (of Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (of Bharat Biotech)— have been given the nod for emergency use after the Central Drugs and Standards Committee (CDSCO) and the Directorate General of Health Services approved them on the basis of recommendations made by the subject expert committee. In Saran district, around 7,500 government health workers and 2,300 private health will execute the dry run. Saran civil surgeon Dr M.Jha said verification of beneficiaries, vaccination, cold chain, logistic management of bio- medical waste and adverse effect following immunization (AEFI) would be rehearsed. A call centre will also function during this exercise. “During dry run, which will begin at 9am, the ANMs and ASHA workers will conduct thermal screening of the beneficiaries. Thereafter, the beneficiaries will be sent to home guard jawans for verification of identity proof, who would act as the ‘first vaccinator’. After this exercise, the beneficiaries will be sent to data operators to verify the data of registration as ‘second vaccinator’. The ‘third vaccinator’ will inject the vaccine,” Dr Jha said. He added: “After vaccination, the beneficiaries would have to wait for half-an-hour in the waiting hall.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhagalpur-saran-gear-up-for-vaccine-dry-run-today/articleshow/80158868.cms||Kumar Rajesh
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||5% cashback with FASTag on BWSL, Pune e-way toll soon||MUMBAI: To encourage more motorists to use FASTag for toll payment, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation has decided to offer 5% cashback on toll paid at Bandra-Worli seal link and Pune eway from January 11. The system is to reduce long queues at toll booths, resulting in delays, fuel consumption, pollution and thus carbon emission, bringing in transparency in collection.  But many vehicles are still not using it, leading to traffic jams and delays for even those who hold valid stickers. Non-FASTag holders blocking FASTag lanes are charged double toll.For every trip motorists will get cashback deposited in their FASTag bank accounts. The offer will be for a limited period to attract more vehicles to go for it, said MSRDC joint MD Vijay Waghmare. Union road transport ministry appointed MSRDC as nodal agency to collect toll at posts in Maharashtra. While one-way toll for a car or SUV is Rs270 on the e-way, it is Rs70 on sea link. To avoid hassles for motorists in buying FASTag, MSRDC has stalls near toll posts, food malls and petrol pumps with the help of banks, besides advertising about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-cashback-with-fastag-on-bwsl-e-way-toll-soon/articleshow/80159532.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Kerala high court extends deadline for church takeover by CRPF||KOCHI: The high court on Thursday extended the implementation of the directive to CRPF to take over Kothamangalam church if the state government fails to implement the court directive to do so and hand it over to the Orthodox faction. A division bench comprising justices Alexander Thomas and T R Ravi extended the deadline until January 15 after considering an appeal filed by the state government. The division bench said the directive of the single bench to CRPF and the government’s contention that the single bench’s directive was without following procedure have to be considered in detail. The court has now posted the case for a hearing on January 15. During the hearing, the division bench asked whether any efforts are being made to find a resolution through talks. The Orthodox faction contended that the talks are being led by a faction. The court said it should be remembered that all are part of a system and that it is not a matter of one winning and the other losing. The court also quoted from the Bible to say that a church is the body of Christ and asked whether the court’s directive is not being implemented purposefully. State attorney K V Sohan submitted that the chief minister held three rounds of talks to try and settle the matter amicably. It is due to these ongoing efforts that the government is seeking three months to find a resolution. Central government informed that it can interfere only if the state government makes a request and talks have been initiated at the behest of the Prime Minister to find a resolution, the court was told.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-extends-deadline-for-church-takeover-by-crpf/articleshow/80159479.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Patna: NMCH ready to store 15 lakh vaccines at a time||PATNA: The state vaccine house at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) is ready for storage and distribution of vaccines against Covid-19. “The five walk-in-cooler (WIC) rooms at the hospital, built with an expenditure of Rs 10 crore and running at a temperature of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius, have the capacity to store 15 lakh vaccines at a time for supply to regional vaccine houses in different parts of the state,” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said, adding each WIC is fully equipped to store three lakh vaccines on the recommended temperature range. Dr Singh said two more WIC rooms would become functional at the hospital soon. Chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey had visited the NMCH on Wednesday and reviewed preparations for the mega vaccination drive to be launched by the government soon. Dr Singh said though consignments of vaccine are yet to reach, about three crore syringes arrived about a week ago and one-and-a-half crore of them had already been sent to different districts. The syringes to be used for injecting vaccine are of different types and made for single use. Their pistons would be locked and even broken. Dr Singh said the health department has already developed a system for supply of the vaccines to different districts. “Our vaccination system is working round the clock. After the arrival of vaccines by special flights, the consignment would be brought from Patna airport to NMCH vaccine house by freezer vans. After necessary documentation, the vaccines will be sent to regional houses,” he said. The NMCH vaccine house already stocks about 10 types of vaccines like BCG, polio, hepatitis B, Japanese encephalitis, Nemovac, pentavalent and measles-rubella. The proposed vaccination drive against the Covid-19, however, would be a larger exercise and the NMCH, which worked as a dedicated Covid hospital for months, is now ready for shouldering the task, Dr Singh said. The dry run for vaccination will be organised on the hospital premises on Friday. Altogether 25 employees have been enrolled for the exercise and separate rooms made for registration, vaccination and post-vaccination observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nmch-ready-to-store-15l-vaccines-at-a-time/articleshow/80158854.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Patna Museum to get a facelift by next year||PATNA: The new structures at the century-old Patna Museum are being developed based on the Indo-Saracenic architecture, though with modern touch. Work on extension and upgradation of the museum is expected to be completed by next year. The U-shaped structure will have three additional layers of galleries, covering the left, right and back sides of the existing main structure of the museum. The new building, which would come up in an area of 7,078sq metre, will be equipped with modern technology. It is being constructed with an expenditure of Rs 152 crore, including the cost of renovation of the existing building. “Around 10% work has been completed so far. The project will gather pace after relocation of trees,” said an executive engineer of the state building construction department (BCD). For relocation of trees coming in way of the new building, the BCD officials have sent a request letter to the department of environment, forest and climate change. “Once the trees are cleared, the construction work will speed up and it will be completed by the next 18 months. The expansion work had commenced in October last year after the work tender was awarded to private companies. The estimated cost of the construction and renovation is Rs 71 crore while Rs 62 crore is for the exhibits, new look of galleries and digital expansion,” the executive engineer said. The one-storey building will have a digital gallery based on the theme of ‘Ganga river and its origin’, which will showcase the evolution of civilisation on the banks of the Ganga and the emergence of Patliputra on the shores of the Ganga. This gallery will be of same length as the existing building. It is being constructed behind the old structure. A play area for kids is also being developed between these two structures. Besides, there will office space, reception area, auditorium exhibit area, conference hall, orientation room and storerooms. A garden with around 700 old sculptures will add beauty to the campus. The galleries at the existing building will be redesigned to give a new look to the museum. According to museum’s curator Shankar Suman, the artefacts and the rare objects will be displayed in chronological form as per their timeline and era. “All the galleries will be theme-based. The main objective of the extension and renovation is to rearrange the artefacts in chronological order. As of now, only 5% of total artefacts with the museum are on display in the galleries at the main building, while the remaining are locked in the storeroom due to space crunch,” Suman said. Established in 1917, the Patna Museum housed over 75,000 antiquities, including more than 4,000 terracotta and stone sculptures and 28,000 coins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-museum-to-get-a-facelift-by-next-year/articleshow/80159249.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: Peacock among four more birds found dead in Chandigarh||CHANDIGARH: Four more birds, including a peacock, were found dead in the city on Thursday, taking the toll to nine.  UT chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said, “The forest and wildlife department’s teams found a dead bird each in Sector 36, Maloya, Sukhna Lake and Leisure Valley. To date, nine birds, including a migratory one, have been found dead in the city. Their samples have been sent for testing.” The department teams carried out a surveillance exercise in the regulatory end of the Sukhna Lake, Nepli and Kansal range of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, Nature trail of the Sukhna Lake forest and other parts of the city for search and rescue of the diseased and dead birds. The teams segregated the dead birds from the others. “The collected samples have been sent to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, and the reports are expected by January 8,” said sources.  The CCF, on Thursday, had a word with the Himachal Pradesh forest officials in connection with bird flu at Pong Dam.  “All bird watchers, volunteers, visitors and public to Sukhna and other water bodies have been asked to note any unnatural symptoms in birds such as diarrhoea, head tilt, paralysis and sluggish behaviour. In case of any such symptoms, they should report to the forest and wildlife department at landline number 0172-2700217. The general public is also requested not to panic with any misleading information on bird flu,” Dalai said.  In December 2014, the administration with the assistance of experts from Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had culled 110 domesticated geese after the central government notified the outbreak of avian influenza at Sukhna.  A senior UT official said migratory birds begin flocking to Sukhna and water bodies in Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary during winter. The regular winged guests to the city are ruddy shelducks, white-eyed pochards, common pochards, common coot, ferruginous pochards, tufted ducks and greylag goose, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/peacock-among-4-more-birds-found-dead-in-city/articleshow/80159472.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||CP assures Nilanjana of all support||Kolkata: Nilanjana Chatterjee, who was injured while trying to save a woman from harassment in September at Anandapur off EM Bypass, visited the office of Kolkata Police commissioner Anuj Sharma on Thursday with her husband Deep Satpathi. She was assured of all support from the commissioner, as well as joint CP (crime) Murlidhar Sharma. “They assured me charges in the case will be framed at the earliest. The necessary instructions were passed today. I have assured full cooperation. We decided on a few initiatives once the Covid situation eases,” Chatterjee said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cp-assures-nilanjana-of-all-support/articleshow/80159295.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Patna: ASI, two constables booked for extortion||PATNA: An FIR was lodged against ASI Arvind Kumar, two constables and a private driver with Masaurhi police station in Patna district on Wednesday after a video went viral on social media allegedly showing them collecting money from truckers passing through their area on Tuesday night. SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma said all the four persons were evading arrest and the police personnel had been placed under suspension. He said the matter was being inquired by an assistant SP-rank officer named Shubam Arya. Sharma said besides lodging an FIR, departmental proceedings would be separately initiated against them. In the alleged video, a large number of Indian currency notes of smaller denominations were shown kept in the storage compartment of the police patrolling vehicle. The money was allegedly collected from trucks passing through Masaurhi. Later in the video, it was shown that all the policemen fled from the spot leaving behind the patrolling vehicle. The alleged video was also shared by RJD on its official Twitter handle stating that there was no bridge or bypass road in state where policemen don’t extort money from truckers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/asi-two-constables-booked-for-extortion/articleshow/80140740.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Organisers seek nod to host Sunburn in March||Panaji: The organisers of the electronic dance music (EDM) festival, Sunburn, have applied afresh to the tourism department for permission to hold the event for three days starting from March 27. The department has not taken a decision yet as it has sought more details from the organisers, a senior tourism official said. In November, the state government had withdrawn permission to the EDM festival scheduled for December amid mounting criticism that it was allowing a mega event that would cause crowding while Goa was reeling under the Covid-19 pandemic. Congress had also held a demonstration in the state capital demanding that the event not be held. If permission is granted, this will be the first time Goa will host an EDM festival in March after over a decade of scheduling it during the last week of December. Although final approval for all mega events is given by the government, the tourism department’s state-level permission committee assesses such applications and gives its recommendations. The government takes a call based on these recommendations. Covid-19 cases in Goa have dropped drastically since November after logging a daily average 400-500 fresh infections. A tourism stakeholder said that although the state is inching towards normalcy and is witnessing a dip in infections, the onus is on the government to consider all factors while issuing permission for big-ticket events, especially how social distancing and other requisite norms will be implemented at the venues which will attract large crowds of people. “If the SOPs are implemented and followed thoroughly, I don’t see why Sunburn should not be held,” the stakeholder said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/organisers-seek-nod-to-host-sunburn-in-march/articleshow/80161696.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||All set: City’s hot seats will be occupied today||MAYORAL POLLSChandigarh: The UT administration and the municipal corporation have completed all arrangements for mayoral elections to be held on Friday morning. It will be for the first time that neither any visitor nor media will be allowed in the assembly hall for the election of the mayor, the senior deputy mayor and the deputy mayor. Only five persons from the BJP, four from the Congress and one from the SAD will be allowed to come and sit in the visitors’ gallery. The media has been given a separate place in the conference hall to cover the proceedings through a live telecast.Taking Covid-19 precautions, the counting for all three posts will be done by the MC employees, who would be wearing PPE kits.The proceedings will start at 11am and nominated councillor Ajay Datta will be the presiding officer for the mayor’s election. After that senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor’s poll proceedings will take place under the leadership of newly-elected mayor. Chandigarh deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar, along with senior officers, will supervise and monitor the election proceedings. As secrecy of the ballot has remained a major concern for the authorities, especially after the Congress and its mayoral candidate raised the issue before the UT administrator and the DC on Wednesday, MC secretary Anil Garg was issued orders to look into the matter and prohibit mobile phones, cameras, weapons and electronic gadgets in the assembly hall during the election process. Chandigarh police have made security arrangements inside and outside the hall. Besides the personnel from the Sector 17 police station, additional force has also been deployed to check any untoward incident. For Covid patients The authorities have made special arrangements for the Covid patients also. As per the plan, if a councillor is positive, he or she will come in an ambulance, where the vote would be cast. An MC employee will bring the slip to the assembly hall and mix it with other slips, after which counting will start. --Attendance register Since the SAD has ended its alliance with the BJP in Punjab, the lone SAD councillor will not cast his vote, though he will remain present in the assembly hall. City MP is also not in Chandigarh for the past over a month and undergoing treatment in a Mumbai-based private hospital. BJP councillor Heera Negi is suffering from Covid-19. --Ballot secrecy Chandigarh Congress president Pardeep Chhabra, senior Congress leader Subhash Chawla and Congress mayoral candidate Devinder Singh Babla, on Thursday, met DC Mandip Singh Brar and discussed the ballot secrecy issue. The DC issued instructions to the MC secretary to take all required steps to hold free and fair elections. The secretary later issued orders. --POLL NOTICE BOARD Total votes---------------------------------------27BJP councillors---------------------------------20Congress councillors--------------------------5City MP as ex officio member--------------1 SAD-----------------------------------------------1 -----In the frayPost---------------------BJP candidates---------------------Congress candidates Mayor------------------Ravikant Sharma------------------Devinder Singh BablaSr deputy mayor-------Mahesh Inder Sidhu--------------Ravinder Kaur GujralDeputy mayor-----------Farmila------------------------------Satish KainthDinner partyThe BJP organised a dinner party for its councillors to discuss the poll strategy on Thursday. The party’s in-charge, Dushyant Gautam, also attended it. Due to some work, he could not have an elaborate talk with the councillors and asked them to meet him on Friday morning at UT’s guest house, where he is staying. Though the leadership claimed that all was well, sources said the party was yet to convince some people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/all-set-citys-hot-seats-will-be-occupied-today/articleshow/80159456.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Know live location of bus with ‘Chalo’ app||PATNA: In an attempt to switch to the smarter mode of transportation, the Bihar State Road Transport Corporation Limited (BSRTC) has launched the ‘Chalo’ app and a mobile pass for city-based bus services. While the former provides live location of all BSRTC city buses, the latter ensures cashless and contactless ticketing. According to transport secretary Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who is also the chief executive administrator of the BSRTC, a final agreement in this regard has been signed with a private firm after a trial period of 18 months. “The digitalization of tickets amid the Covid-19 pandemic will ensure the safety of passengers and provide a hassle-free experience to them,” Agarwal told this newspaper and added that the app and the mobile pass would encourage more people, especially the youth, to switch to public transport. Meanwhile, bus passengers hope to avail the benefits of the app and the pass fully. “Now, I can buy a digital ticket or use my prepaid ‘Chalo’ card for a comfortable bus ride to my office,” Rahul Kumar, a resident of Kankarbagh, said. Many also like the live location feature available on the app. Patna Women’s College student Ankita Bharti said, “I will not have to wait for hours or miss my bus again because the ‘Chalo’ app will save a lot of time.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/know-live-location-of-bus-with-chalo-app/articleshow/80159445.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||48% fewer dengue cases in 2020 than 2019, except in Vasco and Candolim||PANAJI: In 2020, Goa witnessed an overall 48% drop in dengue cases vis-a-vis 2019, but two areas — Vasco and Candolim — saw their numbers rising. Till December-end, 376 dengue cases were reported from across the state whereas, in 2019, the state saw the highest tally of infections of the decade at 726 cases. Deputy director of the national vector borne disease control programme, Dr Anant Palekar, said that there was a significant drop in dengue cases, including at the centres such as Panaji, Margao, Cortalim, which had seen a spurt in 2019. “Hard work of health workers and doctors seems to have paid off,” he said. The increase in dengue cases at the Vasco and Candolim primary health centres (PHC), mainly covering Calangute area, Palekar said is due to two reasons. “During the lockdown and subsequent months, hotels in Calangute and Candolim remained shut. As a result, cleaning exercises which they otherwise carried did not happen. Dengue mosquito breeding sites were found in every ward of Calangute,” he said. Most of the hotels in Calangute are amid residential areas and naturally, cases were found everywhere and much more than what were reported in 2019, Palekar said. The Candolim PHC reported 136 confirmed dengue cases in 2020 as against 114 in 2019. Vasco, saw its numbers doubling in 2020, because many areas of the port town do not have regular water supply and as a result people indulge in unsafe water storage practices, he said. “They store water in every possible pot in the house for days together. Vessels are not emptied and cleaned at regular intervals, thus providing breeding space for dengue mosquitoes,” Palekar said. Since during the lockdown period people remained at home, their water requirement must have been more, compelling them to store it, he said. Last year, Vasco reported 60 cases, while in 2019 it had 33 confirmed cases. Since 2016, the state has seen a sudden jump in dengue cases, and 2019 proved to be the worst.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/48-fewer-dengue-cases-in-2020-than-2019-except-in-vasco-and-candolim/articleshow/80161773.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Two shots fired at BJP man’s house||Kolkata: At least two bullets were allegedly fired at a BJP worker’s house in Baranagar on Wednesday night, minutes after the accused came to meet him on the pretext of joining the party. Another BJP leader, who was then entering the former’s house, was injured while trying to run for cover. No one has been arrested in this connection but cops are looking for the culprits. According to locals, the incident took place around 11pm when three youths came to the two-storey house of BJP’s north Kolkata vice-president Rajib Mishra on Kedarnath Bhattacharya Lane. “They started calling my name from outside and said they wanted to join BJP. I didn’t go out and told them to call me later. A couple of minutes later, I heard the gunshots and found the trio fleeing. My party colleague Atanu Mukherjee, who had come to my house, was injured when he fell while running for cover,” Mishra said. Mukherjee is a BJP leader of Baranagar Mondal committee. Mishra alleged that it was the work of local Trinamool leaders. “The Trinamool-backed goons hatched a conspiracy to kill me. They are trying to get back control on the area,” he said. Trinamool district secretary Kamal Das said, “It was the fallout of a factionalism between two BJP groups. None of our supporters was involved.” Shrihari Pandey, DCP, zone south, Barrackpore Commissionerate, said, “We have received a complaint and an investigation is on.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-shots-fired-at-bjp-mans-house/articleshow/80159248.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
January 8, 2021||Patna||Challenges galore for PPU acting VC||PATNA: Patliputra University Teachers’ Association (PPUTA) believes that L N Mithila University (LNMU) vice-chancellor (VC) Surendra Pratap Singh, who assumed charge as the acting VC of Patliputra University (PPU) on Wednesday, will have to face challenges to streamline the functioning of the university. Soon after assuming charge, Singh held discussions with the university officials to chalk out strategy to address grievances of the teaching and non-teaching staff. PPUTA president A K Singh Thakur said the university administration has remained apathetic to problems being faced by staff and students. “The Covid-induced lockdown hit academic activities at the university and its constituent colleges. Various academic works related to examinations and publication of results got delayed due to the pandemic, much to the inconvenience of students,” he said. Thakur said the acting VC would also have to look into the plight of retired teachers. “Even after one year of retirement, they have not been given their dues by the university. Pension adalat, which was to be held every month as per the directive of the Raj Bhavan, is now only on papers. At least pension payment order (PPO) papers should be handed over to teachers on the date of their superannuation,” he said. PPUTA general secretary Hridaya Narayan Singh said the new acting VC should look into the compassionate ground appointment cases sympathetically as the matter has been pending for long in the university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/challenges-galore-for-ppu-acting-vc/articleshow/80159232.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Business||‘Infra push can help boost consumption’||Namrata.Singh@timesgroup.com Strong brands and organisational resiliency helped Fevicol-maker Pidilite Industries bounce back at a faster clip than market, although the B2B segment and metro cities continue to face headwinds. Pidilite Industries MD Bharat Puri expects the economy to get back to growth by early 2021... What are the key learnings from the pandemic? In any crisis, there are two rules. The first is to focus on what you can control and not worry about what you cannot. The second is to make sure that your people are together and aligned. When Covid hit, we formed two leadership teams: ‘Act Now’ and ‘Plan Now’. The Act Now team focused on ensuring safety, security, and the day-to-day operation, while Plan Now looked at how we can be at the forefront of change after Covid. The volatility has reiterated the importance of adaptability, resilience, and agility. To what extent has your business returned to normal? Overall, the consumer and bazaar (end-user) segment returned to growth exceeding the pre-Covid level in most geographies. However, there’s a significant difference in the recovery and growth trajectories across business segments. Growth is healthy in construction chemicals, DIY businesses and in rural and semi-urban areas. B2B segment and metro cities continue to face headwinds, but they have shown signs of recovery. Given our strong brands and organisational resiliency, we have probably bounced back at a faster rate than the market and hope to sustain the growth. When do you expect things to get back to normal? Consumption has seen green shoots around the festival season in many sectors, although it remains to be seen to what extent it will sustain. A lot depends upon the trajectory of the pandemic and vaccination measures. While we are seeing input costs hardening, we remain cautiously optimistic on steadily improving demand recovery and expect the economy to get back to growth by early 2021. What additional steps are required by the government to help your business? The key lies in reviving consumption among consumers. Thrust on construction & infrastructure can do that as these have a trickle-down effect on many sectors. From a longer-term perspective, it would help to have a continuous focus on providing enablers to drive global competitiveness of Indian companies in priority sectors, while stepping up the ease of doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/infra-push-can-help-boost-consumption/articleshow/80098601.cms||Namrata Singh
January 8, 2021||Patna||NDA govt will fall victim to internal conflict: Kirti||PATNA: Former Darbhanga MP and Congress leader Kirti Jha Azad on Thursday claimed that the NDA government led by chief minister Nitish Kumar in Bihar would not survive for long and fall victim to internal conflict within its constituents very soon. Talking to mediapersons in Darbhanga, Azad, who had quit the BJP and joined the Congress after being denied a ticket from Darbhanga ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, said at least 15 MLAs of the JD (U) were in constant touch with the UPA and would switch sides at an opportune time. Azad’s statement came a couple of days after the JD (U) predicted a split in the state Congress. The party’s spokesperson, Sanjay Singh, had hinted at a possible defection in the grand old party in the state. The Congress has 19 MLAs in the 243-member legislative assembly. Meanwhile, the Congress replaced Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil with Bhakta Charan Das after the former requested the party high command to relieve him. This shuffle has given rise to the speculation that a new state chief may be appointed in place of Madan Mohan Jha. Lashing out at the state of higher education in Bihar, Azad said, “The semester system has been introduced only at the postgraduate level which is a huge loss to the undergraduate students.” The cricketer-turned-politician also alleged that a conspiracy was being hatched by the University Grants Commission at the behest of the Centre to end the distance education system in the universities located in remote and backward areas. Azad threatened to launch an agitation if the distance education facility was withdrawn from Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU). “The students will march from Patna to New Delhi to lodge their protest against the move,” he said, adding that the appointment of employees on a permanent basis had stopped and adversely affected the university’s work culture. Referring to the lack of quality education in the state, the Congress leader, who had unsuccessfully contested the previous Lok Sabha polls from Dhanbad in Jharkhand, said it was a blot on the face of the Nitish Kumar government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-govt-will-fall-victim-to-internal-conflict-kirti/articleshow/80158530.cms||Ramashankar
January 8, 2021||Patna||Katihar makhana growers upbeat as prices stabilise after big slump||KATIHAR: Farmers involved in makhana cultivation in the district are hopeful of financial recovery with prices of the produce stabilising to some extent and markets opening up. A huge slump was prevailing in the market due to Covid pandemic and farmers were forced to sell their produce (raw nuts with black kernel intact) at throwaway prices. Nine months of agonising spell of corona pandemic turned out to be a dampener for makhana growers in the district. The price of raw makhana (with black kernel intact) was Rs 12,000 per quintal in August-September 2020 as compared to Rs 20,000 per quintal in 2019, Rs 16,000 per quintal in 2018 and Rs 14,000 per quintal in 2017. Mandan Kumar, a makhana grower under ward 9 of Phulwaria panchayat of the district, said, “We sold makhana with black kernel intact in August-September 2020 at very low prices as corona cases were spreading in the country exponentially. Market was down and we didn’t get the right price.” Another farmer, Ajay Kumar, of the same panchayat said, “Makhana from Katihar is sent to mandis in Kanpur and Delhi and thereafter exported to other Middle-East and Gulf countries via Pakistan. However, relations between India and Pakistan were going through rough patches during those days and borders had been sealed due to corona pandemic. This could be the reason for drop in makhana prices,” he said. Former head of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (Katihar) Ramanand Singh said makhana of this region is not only exported to Pakistan and Gulf countries, but also to Bangladesh. “Farmers suffered a lot due to slump in the markets. Export routes were closed due to the pandemic. They didn’t get access to the market and were forced to sell their raw produce at throwaway prices,” he said. The district, which comes under the Kosi region, is one of the prominent producers of makhana in the state. According to an official figure, Katihar produces 3,000 metric tonne (MT) of makhana annually. Katihar town and Karhagola are two important mandis in the district from where bulk purchases are made. As per an official figure, around 25,000 metric tonne (MT) of makhana is produced annually in Bihar with a turnover of around Rs 300 crore. “This protein, calcium, magnesium and potassium-rich nut is highly nutritious. It helps in controlling blood sugar and cholesterol,” Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-makhana-growers-upbeat-as-prices-stabilise-after-big-slump/articleshow/80158771.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Low turnout at primary, middle classes in Mohali||Mohali: Day One of the opening of primary and middle school classes in Mohali saw a poor response with about 30% to 40% turnout of students. High school attendance improved to 60% to 70%, said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. Following the Punjab government orders, primary school’s Class V and middle school’s classes VI to VIII were resumed from Thursday. Dayalan said, “The overall turnout was a bit low, but in many schools there was 100% attendance in primary and middle classes. There was 100% turnout in GHS, Ramgarh Rurki, Class VII; GSH, Desumajra, GSSS, Mullanpur, Class XII; GSSS, Sahauran, classes VII, X and XII; and GMSS, Kharar, classes V to XII.” However, many other schools saw zero attendance. These included GHS, Mianpur, Class VI; GHS, Jayanti Majri, classes VI to VIII; GSSS, Mullanpur, classes VI to VIII; and GSSS, Hasanpur, classes VI to VIII. Sohana GSSS saw 7.9% attendance and Sialba Majri GSSS 9%. The DC said high school classes XI and XII were already functional. “Duties were assigned and directions issued to all school principals to ensure social distancing and check that children wore masks. The attendance is purely on parents’ consent,” he said. The Punjab school education department had issued SOPs for reopening of schools on January 6 and stated the online education would continue as the preferred mode of teaching, and physical attendance was not a must. The education department issued directions that the schools would mark the seats ensuring distance of minimum six feet and maintain social distancing in staffrooms, office area, hostels and other places of public interaction. The schools were told to ensure installation of posters or stickers and signage at appropriate places, reminding students about maintaining social distancing. The assembly may be conducted in respective classrooms or at outdoor spaces or halls under the guidance of teachers, the orders said.Children enjoyed coming to schoolThe students of primary, middle and high schools enjoyed attending physical classes. Many said they were facing problems as they could ill afford android mobile phones, while some were finding it difficult to get a good internet connection.A Class V student said, “I loved coming to school and was fed up sitting at home for the past many months. We covered our faces properly with masks and sanitisers were provided in the school.” Middle and high school students of GMSSS Phase-III-BI were seen attending classes with masks. A girl student said, “We enjoy coming to school. At home, mother made us do kitchen work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/low-turnout-at-primary-middle-classes-in-mohali/articleshow/80159476.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 8, 2021||Patna||BJP in touch with Nitish Kumar for cabinet expansion: Bhupender Yadav||PATNA: Amid rumours of a rift between ruling JD(U) and BJP after Arunchal Pradesh episode, senior leaders of the saffron party, including its national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and two deputy CMs, met CM Nitish Kumar and recently-appointed JD(U) national president RCP Singh on Thursday. BJP’s state president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal also accompanied Yadav in the meeting with RCP at JD(U)’s state headquarters here. Asked about cabinet expansion, Bhupendra told reporters that it will happen at the right time. “Top leadership of BJP is in touch with the CM. A decision will be taken at the right time,” he said. RCP, on the other hand, said, “Cabinet expansion is not a big issue. We are in constant communication. The CM has special powers on this matter and a decision will be taken after talking to all NDA allies.” Bhupender said he met RCP to congratulate him on behalf of the BJP. “He has a long administrative and organisational experience. RCP also follows the politics of Ram Manohar Lohia,” he said. BJP’s Rajya Sabha MP also lauded the state government for announcing free Covid vaccine to everyone. The state cabinet, in its meeting held on December 15, had resolved to give free vaccination to everyone in the state against Covid-19 virus. “The kind of strong determination being shown by the state government under the leadership of Nitish Kumar is commendable. Bihar government was the first in the country to take such a decision,” Bhupender said. He added, “The groundwork for Covid vaccination has been initiated and we (BJP) are committed to fulfil our election promise.” Asked about reported demand for an MLC seat and a berth in the state cabinet by Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM (S), RCP said, “All these issues will be sorted out through discussion among the four NDA allies.” After meeting RCP, Bhupender called on the CM in the evening along with deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bhupender-bjp-in-touch-with-nitish-for-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/80158464.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Minimum temperature in January swings both ways, at 4-year high||NEW DELHI: Just a week after the mercury dipped to 1.1 degrees Celsius on the first day of the year, the city recorded its highest minimum temperature in the last four years at 14.4 degrees Celsius. This was seven notches above normal, according to Met department. Before this, the highest minimum temperature in the month was on January 26, 2017, at 16 degrees Celsius. Met officials said the minimum temperature is likely to remain above normal till January 13. There is a possibility of very light rain on Friday. The maximum temperature recorded on Thursday was 19.9 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. Kuldeep Srivastava, IMD scientist and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “As a western disturbance has passed, a layer of cloud has formed over Delhi-NCR and hence, the minimum temperature is not falling.” Met officials said there are chances of very light rain on Friday evening or night. The city has reported 56.5mm rainfall this month, while the normal average rain in January is 21.7mm rainfall. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 19 and 12 degrees Celsius, respectively, on Friday, shows the forecast. Moderate to dense fog in the morning is also predicted. According to IMD, dense fog occurrences over central and eastern parts of Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) region was sub-duded during December, 2020, while at its extreme western parts that is over Punjab areas, it was higher and more frequently observed. “Daily data shows that dense to very dense fog occurred at a few places to most places over Punjab during December 16-31 last year and at isolated places during December 13-15; at isolated to few places over Haryana, Chandigarh and Delhi on December 13, 16, 22, 24, 25, 30 and 31,” said RK Jenamani, scientist at IMD. Meanwhile, the air quality was in ‘poor’ category with an AQI reading of 255 on Thursday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said, “AQI is likely to marginally improve in the ‘poor’ to ‘moderate’ category on January 9 and 10.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/min-temp-in-jan-swings-both-ways-at-4-yr-high/articleshow/80160656.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Patna: One held as two more cases of illegal transactions surface||PATNA: Two fresh incidents of fraudulent transactions from the bank accounts of an industrialist and a woman were reported to the Patna police in the last 24 hours. Of these, one took place in the main branch of the State Bank of India at Gandhi Maidan on Thursday. In less than a month, at least eight cases have surfaced in which fraudulent transactions were either made successfully through forged bank cheques or attempts were made to do so in the state capital. According to Ranjeet Vats, the SHO of Gandhi Maidan police station, one Ranjan Kumar was arrested when he tried to withdraw Rs 1.75 lakh from the account of an industrialist, Ankur Parliwal (34). “Ranjan was given the cheque by Prem Kumar, who used to handle Parliwal’s accounts and was fired two years ago. The bank authorities decided to contact the industrialist before making the transaction due to a signature mismatch. They also informed police and Ranjan was arrested,” the SHO said, adding that Prem was evading arrest. In another incident, a sum of Rs 5 lakh was allegedly withdrawn via RTGS with the help of a cloned cheque from the PNB account of one Champa Devi. An FIR in this regard was registered with the Pirbahore police station on Wednesday night. SHO Rizwan Ahmed Khan said, “The money was transferred to the account of one Ranveer Kumar. The matter is still being investigated.” Champa’s son Manoj Kumar Agarwal, who is a trader, told TOI on Thursday that his mother had issued the cheque to a relative, Arun Kumar, a fortnight back. “A forged cheque, bearing the serial number of the one issued to our relative, was used to make the transaction. Now, the authorities are alleging that my mother had issued the cheque,” Agarwal rued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/one-held-as-2-more-cases-of-illegal-transactions-surface/articleshow/80158732.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Why Amitabh Bachchan's voice in caller tune on Covid warning, asks PIL in HC||NEW DELHI: A social worker has approached the Delhi high court questioning why Bollywood star Amitabh Bachchan’s voice is used as caller tune on Centre’s message for precautions against coronavirus, when he himself, along with some family members, had been infected by the virus. The plea, which said there were some famous corona warriors who were willing to provide their services for free, came up for hearing on Thursday before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh. The bench posted it for January 18. The petition filed by one Rakesh, said the government engaged Bachchan for making people aware of preventive measures to fight the pandemic while the superstar himself, as well as other members of his family, could not escape it. “The government of India has been paying fees to Amitabh Bachchan for chanting such preventive measures on the caller tune,” said the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-big-b-voice-in-caller-tune-on-covid-warning-asks-pil-in-hc/articleshow/80162339.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Fortnight after Galgibaga nest, Olive Ridley turtle lays eggs at Agonda beach||Poinguinim: Forest department officials at the Agonda beach were witness to the first Olive Ridley turtle nest on Thursday around 1.30am when an Olive Ridley turtle laid 127 eggs and returned to the sea. The responsibility of protecting the eggs in the nursery is now with the forest staff on duty, round the clock. About a fortnight ago, Galgibaga beach, also in Canacona, received its first nest on December 23, 2020. A total of 22 Olive Ridleys visited the twin turtle nesting beaches of Agonda and Galgibaga last year laying a total of 2,278 eggs. The turtle conservation programme of the Canacona forest department had received a major boost with flippered visitors arriving regularly last season. Nesting season usually starts in September though in the recent past, it has shifted to December-January and ends in March-April. This change in the start of the nesting season is attributed to climate change, range forest officer (wildlife) Vikramaditya Gaonkar said, adding that the incubation period will last between 48 to 52 days. The Olive Ridley laid eggs which have been shifted to the hatching nest protected just outside the Nature Interpretation centre at Agonda beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fortnight-after-galgibaga-nest-olive-ridley-turtle-lays-eggs-at-agonda-beach/articleshow/80160653.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Cops charge 21 persons with attempt to murder for Melauli violence||Valpoi/Panaji: A day after villagers clashed with police over the setting up of IIT-Goa campus at Melauli village in Sattari, leaving several persons injured including 10 police personnel, Goa police on Thursday registered FIR against 21 persons for attempt to murder, unlawful assembly and criminal conspiracy among others. Till late evening, two persons—Vishwesh Parab in the early hours of the day and Shailendra Velingkar, son of former RSS chief Subhash Velingkar, later in the day—were arrested. More arrests are likely to follow, a police officer said. “The FIR registered against several people for clashing with police during the protest against IIT-Goa has been transferred from Valpoi police station to the crime branch,” SP Shobhit Saxena said. DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena along with other officers reached Valpoi on Thursday morning and held meetings with Sattari deputy collector Rajesh Ajgaonkar and mamlatdar at the IRB camp. An uneasy calm prevailed at Melauli as villagers sat on the main road till afternoon, while a large posse of policemen brought in from across the state were scattered across Valpoi town. But with police not venturing into Melauli village, the locals also dispersed. After Wednesday’s clash, the villagers had marched to Valpoi police station demanding chief minister Pramod Sawant must visit Melauli to listen to their grievances and the government should immediately suspend Valpoi police inspector Sagar Ekoskar for illtreating women protesters. They planned to continue their protest till their demands were met but on Thursday, Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan convener Shashikant Savordekar said they cancelled the plan and will decide on the next course of action. Sawant on Thursday reiterated that IIT-Goa campus will come at Melauli and nobody can take law in their hands. “We will continue demarcation of the land,” he said. Melauli has been on the boil since IIT-Goa was proposed to be set up on the government land, with a small group of villagers opposing the project on the ground that they would be rendered landless and homeless. The Sawant government has promised to rehabilitate all those who hold land rights, but that has not been acceptable to a section of villagers. For past two days, there have been violent clashes between the locals and police for stopping the land demarcation work for the proposed IIT campus. On Wednesday, police had to resort to tear gas shelling after protesters refused to budge and lay on the ground. In retaliation, locals pelted stones at police, injuring 10 personnel, including a lady constable who was seriously injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cops-charge-21-persons-with-attempt-to-murder-for-melauli-violence/articleshow/80161441.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Court seeks police’s response on Umar Khalid plea over info ‘leak’||NEW DELHI: A court on Thursday directed Delhi Police and the prosecution to file a reply to a petition by former JNU student Umar Khalid, who has pleaded that the media reports of him “admitting the disclosures” in a recently filed riot-case chargesheet had caused him “deep anguish” as below his alleged statement, it is written “refused to sign”. “I am of the opinion that a reply is required to be called from the prosecution and from the police department to submit their response on the allegations made in the application. Notice of the application is issued to the investigating officer and to the SPP,” said chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar. Khalid’s counsel contended that the media had a copy of the chargesheet in a rioting case filed at Khajuri Khas police station even before the court had taken cognisance. He argued that the media had “misreported the facts of the chargesheet” that could result in prejudice to the accused. It was also submitted that the media had reported that “Khalid had confessed his involvement in a conspiracy to fuel the riots in Delhi”. Khalid, however, stated that he had not made any such confession and prayed that an explanation might be sought from the prosecution as to how the chargesheet was leaked to the media. Appearing from jail via videoconferencing, Khalid said, “I have just got the chargesheet, which shows that below my disclosure statement, it is written ‘refused to sign’. Despite this, the chargesheet was leaked to the media. This isn’t the first time... I don’t expect it to be the last time on behalf of the police. I seriously request your honour to make sure that these practices don’t happen again.” He also said that though he had been provided with a hard copy of the chargesheet, some documents, including video footage, weren’t provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-seeks-polices-response-on-khalid-plea-over-info-leak/articleshow/80160670.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||SC notice to Punjab over delimitation of wards in Mohali||MOHALI: The Supreme Court on Thursday issued a notice to the Punjab government over the delimitation of wards in Mohali. The notice is returnable within two weeks. The division bench of Chief Justice Sharad Arvind Bobde, Justice A S Bopanna and Justice V Ramasubramanian—while hearing a petition challenging a Punjab and Haryana high court order that dismissed the plea of the petitioners against the delimitation process—issued directions to the local bodies department of Punjab to file a reply in this regard. The petition has been filed by Sukhdev Singh Patwari, Bachan Singh and others. The HC had on December 16 dismissed the petition, observing, “In such matters, the scope of judicial review is very limited. Judicial review of administrative action is intended to prevent arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias and mala fides. Its purpose is to check whether choice or decision is made ‘lawfully’ and not to check whether choice or decision is ‘sound’. We find no arbitrariness, irrationality, unreasonableness, bias and mala fide in the action of the respondents…” Sukhdev Patwari and Bachan Singh said, “We approached the apex court after the dismissal of our writ petition and now the SC has issued notice to the Punjab government. The delimitation of wards was not done as per rules, as many wards have been divided and merged arbitrarily.” The report on the delimitation of wards was submitted to the Punjab government on October 29, after which the government had notified the civic elections to be held in 50 wards, out of which 25 have been reserved for women candidates. The Akali and BJP councilors have criticised the delimitation report of the Mohali Municipal Corporation, alleging that it has been done to oust them of the civic elections. Former BJP councillor Rajinder Sharma alleged that the delimitation has not been done as per rules, and its only purpose is to give benefit to Congress councillors. Opposing the report finalised by a Congress-led panel, the SAD and BJP councillors have alleged that 70% of the wards held by them have gone into delimitation, while only 10% of the Congress councillors’ wards have been delimited. Now, either the sitting SAD and BJP councillors would have to forgo their candidature or they would have to shift their placements as councillors, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-notice-to-punjab-over-delimitation-of-wards-in-mohali/articleshow/80159480.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Central govt team in Pkl to inspect poultry farms||Panchkula: After a team of Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, collected 57 samples from poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani, a four-member rapid response team of the Central government reached Panchkula on Thursday. The rapid response team — comprising members from National Centre for Disease Control, Delhi, Chandigarh PGI and Central government — will inspect the poultry farms here on Friday and take samples to check avian influenza.The Panchkula health department has formed an isolation ward in Raipur Rani to tackle emergency cases, if any.In Panchkula, deaths of over 4.30 lakh poultry birds in Barwala-Raipur Rani belt have been reported. In its wake, the Centre has dispatched the team.The Panchkula health department had also sent teams to the poultry farms for surveillance. Four of its teams visited 69 farms and no influenza-like symptoms have been reported in the workforce so far.  Meanwhile, the poultry industry says they are taking precautions and that there has been no impact on their functioning and sales.The Jalandhar-based team said there was a delay in reporting the matter to them. Also, the four samples sent to then on January 3 were not of requisite quality, making the reports inconclusive. The reports of RDDL are likely to come by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/central-govt-team-in-pkl-to-inspect-poultry-farms/articleshow/80159478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Goa||From Jan 11, school for Classes IX, XI ‘if feasible’||PANAJI: After physical classes resumed for students of Class X and XII from November 21, 2020, classes in the offline mode are set to be held for students of Class IX and XI as well, “wherever feasible”, from January 11. For students of Class I to VIII, exams can be answered from home, the directorate of education (DoE) stated. In a circular issued on Thursday, the DoE directed schools to start conducting practical sessions for Classes IX and XI subjects with practical component in the science and vocational streams. Schools have been told to conduct the sessions from January 11 by following “SOPs strictly”. The decision was taken in consultation with principals’ forum and high school heads, DoE said. It directed institutes to take the initiative to start the classes “wherever it is feasible”. While the exams for Class I and II shall be as per guidelines issued by the SCERT, exams for class III to VIII shall be in written form and to be answered from home. The exams for class IX and XI will be conducted as per guidelines issued by the Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education. All school heads have been requested to send the student attendance through the Google link to be able to generate accurate attendance report for onward submission to the government. They have also been directed to initiate proactive measures to conduct assessment or evaluation of exams for midterm, first terms and second term in offline mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-jan-11-school-for-classes-ix-xi-if-feasible/articleshow/80161491.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||SOS button in vehicles: Command centre to be set up in Gwalior||BHOPAL: Tracking of passenger transport vehicles like cabs, auto rickshaws, buses and taxis for women safety will become a reality in Madhya Pradesh, with the transport department setting up a command and control centre for responding to such alerts. It will be integrated with the state emergency response system. Vehicle location tracking (VLT) devices and emergency buttons will be made mandatory for all passenger vehicles once this centre is established, said transport commissioner Mukesh Jain. Vehicle owners will be given a They month for this, he added. A list of approved vendors will be published on the portal and devices should meet Automotive Industry Standard 140 (AIS 140) standards, officials said. While all new passenger vehicles have in-built VLTD and panic buttons, old vehicles will have to install them before they apply for annual fitness tests. It will help police respond quickly if anyone presses the panic button. The system also generates alerts such as speeding, route violation and entering restricted areas. Emergency alert will be of “highest priority”, said officials. The VLTD will also send information to the server if its power cable gets disconnected or is tampered with, said a statement by the transport department HQ in Gwalior.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sos-button-in-vehicles-command-centre-to-be-set-up-in-gwalior/articleshow/80159481.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Expressway to cut Mumbai-Delhi distance by over 220km||MUMBAI: Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday announced that the Mumbai-Delhi greenfield expressway would be extended to the Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust (JNPT) instead of ending at Thane district. The Delhi-Mumbai Expressway will be India’s flagship expressway with a 120kmph speed limit. It will cut the distance between Mumbai and Delhi by over 220km. Gadkari announced that road works worth around Rs 7,000 crore had been approved for the state. “The annual plan for national highway works in Maharashtra was approved for Rs 2,727 crore. I got it enhanced to Rs 5,801 crore, which will improve and develop 1,035 km of national highways in the state,” the Union minister said. Reconstruction of five major bridges and 10 minor bridges will be done at a cost of Rs 429 crore. Projects worth Rs 1,800 crore under the Central Road Fund have been sanctioned, said Gadkari. He was speaking at the Sahyadri state guest house after a meeting with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat and urban development minister Eknath Shinde were present. Gadkari said the state government will partner in the Mumbai-Delhi expressway construction by means of GST exemption and royalty-free supply of steel and cement, which will be considered as state government equity in the project. “I have approved road works in the annual plan for Maharashtra and under the Central Road Fund. We have decided to extend the Mumbai-Delhi highway to JNPT. This extension of the road will cost around Rs 15,000 crore. We wanted the state government to fund 50% of the land acquisition cost. But the state government has agreed to waive off GST for all the cement and steel purchases for the project in Maharashtra. Even the royalty for the raw materials will be waived off. This will be the equity contribution of the state government. This will ease traffic congestion around Mumbai and add to capacity of container traffic from JNPT. This will be a cement-concrete road and will be a six- to eight-lane highway. The capacity of the JNPT will increase due to this,” Gadkari said. Gadkari also announced a new highway that will link north and south India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/e-way-to-cut-mum-delhi-distance-by-over-220km/articleshow/80160661.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 8, 2021||Pune||EOW raids in teachers’ recruitment scam case||Pune: Officers from the economic offences wing of the Pune police on Wednesday carried out simultaneous searches at six places, including residences and school offices in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad, and recovered documents related to the teachers’ appointment scam. The Bund Garden police had registered a case in October 2019 after it was revealed that a nexus of school trustees, zilla parishad officials and others prepared fake appointment papers despite the state ban on teachers’ recruitment. The state government issued salaries and other packages to the schools based on them. ACP (EOW) Shivaji Pawar told TOI, “We also seized fake rubber stamps of the ZP education department, used to lend authoenticity to the fake documents. The scrutiny of the seized documents is going on.” The police have booked 28 people, including trustees of schools, some ZP officials, municipal officials and members of different schools’ managements. Education officer Kisan Dattoba Bhujbal, currently posted with the Pune ZP’s education department, had lodged a complaint on October 20, 2019. A senior EOW officer said, “A primary estimate of the scam is over Rs2 crore. The suspects showed that the teachers were hired for unaided posts and were transferred to aided positions to claim funds from the government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eow-raids-in-teachers-recruitment-scam-case/articleshow/80274322.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||SC-appointed team to inspect Mollem project sites||Margao: The central empowered committee (CEC) constituted by the Supreme Court will visit Goa and Karnataka for a site visit from January 20 to 23 of the three contentious infrastructure projects—doubling of railway line from Tinaghat to Vasco, four-laning of national highway 4-A, and laying of Tamnar power transmission line—all passing through Mollem forest. The visiting team will comprise CEC chairman P V Jayakrishnan, member secretary Amarnatha Shetty, member Mahendra Vyas and amicus curiae A D N Rao. On January 21, the team will proceed on a site visit to the proposed four-lane NH 4-A falling in Goa and Karnataka and the proposed alignment of Goa Tamnar transmission line in Kali Tiger Reserve and forest areas falling in Karnataka. On January 22, the team will conduct a site inspection of the proposed doubling of railway line from Tinaghat to Kulem by Rail Inspection Car. On January 23, the team will visit the Mormugao Port Trust, besides visiting the proposed Goa Tamnar Transmission line project. The CEC is currently conducting hearings in the complaint filed in the Supreme Court by Goa Foundation against the approvals granted to the infrastructure projects by the Standing Committee of the National Board of Wildlife (NBWL). The CEC, it is learnt, has so far conducted two hearings on the complaint. The three contentious projects have led to widespread protests across the state, as the they cut through the dense Mollem forest that houses the biodiversity hotspot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sc-appointed-team-to-inspect-mollem-project-sites/articleshow/80160667.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chennai||Won’t stop new postal ballot move without hearing ECI out: HC||Chennai: The Madras high court on Thursday refused to put a stopper on postal ballot voting option for those aged above 80 years, persons with disabilities and those infected/ suspected to be infected with Covid-19 in the upcoming assembly . The court admitting the pleas moved by the DMK and two others challenging the constitutional validity of notifications issued by the Election Commission of India (ECI) extending the postal ballot option. The first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy adjourned the next hearing after four weeks. When the pleas came up for hearing, senior advocates R Viduthalai, R Shanmugasundaram and P Wilson argued that adjourning the matter after four weeks would become disadvantageous to the petitioners as the scope of judicial review in such matters would be restricted once election notification is issued. However, refusing to accept the arguments, the court said they cannot issue any interim order without hearing the additional solicitor general representing the ECI. Earlier, Wilson, representing the DMK, submitted that section 60 (c) of the Representation of People Act is against the basic feature of the Constitution in as much as it violates the secrecy in voting guaranteed in direct elections, which is a sine qua non for ensuring free and fair elections. Section 60 (c) gives the executive to name any one to be entitled for postal ballot who can skip from visiting the polling booth and political parties audit, which is arbitrary to law. “The new rules have brought four category of absentee voters — people employed in essential services, people above age 65 years, those with disabilities and those affected or suspected of Covid-19,” the senior advocate said. The role of the political party auditing them is zero, he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wont-stop-new-postal-ballot-move-without-hearing-eci-out-hc/articleshow/80160674.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||No coercive action against Narayana school: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday directed the State Education Department not to take any coercive action against Narayana Vidyalayam School until further orders. The department on December 15, issued notice to Narayana management to refund excess fees of over Rs7 crore charged by it illegally from the parents over the years. Quoting parents, TOI in a series of reports had exposed how the private schools, including Narayana, were allegedly forcing the parents to pay full fees despite clear instructions from the Maharashtra government of reducing fees due to Covid-19 pandemic. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote clubbed the Narayana school’s petition along with earlier ones by the Bhavan’s Group comprising six schools, where similar interim directives of ‘no coercive action’ against their respective managements were issued. The petition (No 58/2021) was filed by Narayana Education Society through administrator and authorized signatory Roshan Dhore and others. Senior counsel Sunil Manohar and Wiliam Mathew pleaded for the petitioner. The Bhavan’s group had challenged Maharashtra Educational Institutions (Regulation of Fees) Rules, 2016, where powers of school management to fix the fees were now transferred to the executive committee of Parents Teachers Association (PTA), which it claimed as “not workable”. In another plea, the same group challenged the deputy director of education’s communication to its school to refund excess fees charged from the students in four years from 2014-15 to 2018-19. After Narayana management refused requests to reduce the fees and also stopped children’s online classes for a brief period for default, the aggrieved parents lodged a complaint with the Education Department and also met with speaker Nana Patole and minister for state of school education Bachchu Kadu with their grievances. The department officials then constituted teams to conduct an audit of private school’s accounts where they had detected excess amounts charged from the students and subsequently asked their management to refund that amount. Kadu in a press meet had even claimed that the city’s private schools had collectively charged over Rs100 crore excess fees from the students flouting rules stipulated under various laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-coercive-action-against-narayana-school-hc/articleshow/80159536.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 8, 2021||Surat||Surti archer wins silver in online event||Surat: Mustafa Barodawala, 48, has brought laurels for the Bohra community in Surat and Gujarat in general by winning a silver medal in the online archery competition organised by the Field Archery Association of India (FAAI). He has secured second position in both senior and veteran categories. Barodawala, staff member of Aljamea-Tus-Saifiyah (Surat centre), represented Gujarat in the online archery national event and successfully shot five arrows at a target in 3 minutes flat from 18 metres distance on January 2. The online archery competition was organized by the FAAI to keep archers’ enthusiasm alive amid the pandemic as well as to promote the sport among players across the country. Held through the Zoom application it was attended by about 240 players from 14 states. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surti-archer-wins-silver-in-online-event/articleshow/80158347.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||BMC first saw changes in Sonu Sood’s building in 2018||MUMBAI: BMC first spotted unauthorised additions and alterations in Juhu’s Shakti Sagar building, allegedly converted from a residential building into a hotel by actor Sonu Sood, in September 2018. It had issued a stop work notice after an inspection revealed unauthorised alterations and additions, BMC told Maharashtra Lok Ayukta in October last year. But no action was taken as Sood submitted an application to regularise the changes. “A notice was issued under section 354 of Mumbai Municipal Corporation (MMC) Act. The owners replied that they had moved an application to regularise unauthorised alterations and additions. The owners requested to stop the action as they had applied for regularisation. Notices were issued but as the proposal was moved, action was stopped,” assistant municipal commissioner (K-west ward) Vishwas Mote told Lok Ayukta. Officials said the proposal was approved in-principle by then civic chief Praveen Pardeshi in February last year, but it was subject to a clearance from Maharashtra Coastal Zone Management Authority. TOI had on Thursday reported that BMC on January 4 filed a police complaint against Sood for allegedly converting the six-storey residential building into a hotel without permission. BMC told Juhu police to take cognisance of the offence under Maharashtra Region and Town Planning (MRTP) Act for unauthorised additions, alterations and change of user. Activist Ganesh Kusmulu, who had filed a complaint with Lok Ayukta on Thursday, filed a fresh complaint with police, seeking an FIR. “Police must register an FIR and take action,” Kusmulu said. Sood iterated he would follow all rules. “I have always followed rules and will always follow them. I have taken approval for change of user from BMC, it has been granted. It was subject to approval of MCZMA. This permission has not come due to Covid-19. The hotel was used to house Covid-19 warriors. There are no irregularities. If permission does not come, I will restore it to a residential structure. I am appealing against BMC’s complaint in Bombay high court,” Sood said. Police on Thursday said that for an FIR to be registered, its engineer, who filed the complaint, will have to record his statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-first-saw-changes-in-sonu-soods-bldg-in-2018/articleshow/80159534.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 8, 2021||Chennai||30 of 78 Covid deaths in Tamil Nadu this week from Chennai||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu added 805 cases and a dozen deaths to the Covid-19 registry on Thursday. The case tally touched 8,23,986 and the cumulative death toll 12,200. There are 7,547 people still undergoing treatment. Perambalur and Villupuram districts reported zero cases in the 24 hours until Thursday noon, and 29 of 37 districts reported zero deaths. While Chennai reported four deaths, Trichy reported two, and six other districts – Chengalpet, Coimbatore, the Nilgiris, Ranipet, Tirupur and Vellore — reported one death each. In the past one week, 30 of the 78 deaths reported in the state were from Chennai. While Chengalpet reported seven deaths, Coimbatore added six and Ranipet had four. Since January 1, 15 districts in the state did not report any Covid deaths. Chennai topped the cases table with 210 new cases, followed by 78 new cases in Coimbatore. Fresh cases were below 50 in all other districts. Fourteen districts reported cases in single digits. While Chennai added 1,638 of the 5,972 cases reported in the state, Coimbatore reported 563 cases, Chengalpet recorded 383. Cases in all other districts were below the 300 mark. Since January 1, there were two cases in Perambalur and 13 cases in Ariyalur. On Thursday, with 387 fresh cases, the eleven districts in the north reported 48% of fresh cases in the state. These districts together reported 58% deaths in the state. Of this, the Chennai region reported all five deaths and 319 cases. The northern districts had 3,867 active cases, including 3,237 in the Chennai region. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the west together reported 213 fresh cases. The central districts reported 71 cases, while the 10 southern districts reported 133 cases. The west reported three deaths and the central region had two. There were no deaths in the southern districts. There were 2,005 active cases in the west compared to 723 in the centre and 947 in the south. In the past 24 hours, 64,060 people underwent RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 across 242 authorized labs. So far, 1.43 crore people (1.46 crore samples) have been tested for the viral infection. On Thursday, 911 patients were discharged from hospitals pushing recovered number to 8.04 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/30-of-78-covid-deaths-in-tn-this-week-from-city/articleshow/80160663.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Tribal groups hit out at Sawant, Rane||Margao: Expressing their solidarity with the villagers of Melauli in their anti-IIT protest, scheduled tribes associations on Thursday warned the government to “back off” from the village or “face a law and order situation” across the state. Representatives of Gakuved (Gavda Kunbi Velip Dhangar) Federation, Adivasi Sanghatana Quepem, Scheduled Tribes Association Sao Jose de Areal, and Goenchea Kul Mundkarancho Avaz, came together to condemn the “inhuman act of the state government and police of suppressing the voice of the Melauli tribals.” Addressing mediapersons, the ST associations accused the government and the police of inciting the people to retaliate following police action against the peaceful protestors “trying to protect their ancestral land from being grabbed for the IIT project.” They condemned the “abuse of powers” by police who, they alleged, “stamped on and walked over the poor tribal villagers.” “The police first incited violence by walking over the people who were peacefully protesting by sleeping on the ground, and then using tear gas and lathi-charge against them. The state government and the police have abused their powers to fulfill the greed of health minister Vishwajeet Rane who is eyeing the land of Murmune and surrounding villages,” they said. The tribal associations’ leaders also condemned chief minister Pramod Sawant’s statement that attempt to murder charges will be booked against the villagers for attacking the police, and demanded that Sawant and Rane step down for the injustice meted out to the tribals of Melauli. “We want to tell him that it is you who, in connivance with the police and Rane, incited violence and abused the human rights of the poor tribals. On this ground, the chief minister and the health minister should immediately resign from their posts. The government should also withdraw the cases booked against the villagers,” they said. “Development cannot be at the cost of lives and livelihoods of ST villagers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tribal-groups-hit-out-at-sawant-rane/articleshow/80160675.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Goa||GFP condemns police attack on Melauli women||Margao: The women’s wing of Goa Forward Party (GFP), while condemning the “brutal” attack on elderly women by the police at Melauli on Wednesday, has demanded that the police withdraw the “false” charges booked against the protestors. The party’s women’s wing president, Ashma Sayed, questioned the silence of the BJP’s women karyakartas over the “excesses” committed by the police on the elderly women of Melauli. “I want to ask the women workers of the BJP – whatever happened to their slogans of beti bachao, beti ki suraksha, beti ka abhiman? The police stamped on the chest of a woman and walked over others in Melaulic - they are also somebody’s mothers, somebody’s wives, and somebody’s daughters. How can any woman remain quiet after watching what is happening in Goa?” Sayed questioned. She called into question the “audacity “of the government and the police in filing attempt to murder charges against the protestors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-condemns-police-attack-on-melauli-women/articleshow/80160669.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Chennai||Truckers protest against poor upkeep of Chennai-Tirupati NH||CHENNAI: Upset over poor maintenance of Chennai-Tirupati Highway (national highway 716) and delay in construction of bridges, truckers from the city protested at the toll gate in Tiruvallur district on Thursday. “If the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is not able to maintain roads properly or provide basic facilities at toll plazas, then better they collect only half the toll amount,” said S Yuvaraj from Tamil Nadu Truck Owners Association. It has been more than five years since the toll at Pattaraiperumbudur came into operation, but till date, work has not been completed as promised, he said, referring to pending construction of Pattaraiperumbudur and Narayanapuram bridges. Around 30,000 vehicles cross the toll gate daily and the facility collects Rs 8 crore-Rs .9 crore as toll revenue a year. The estimated project cost (within TN limit) is Rs 98 crore, according to official documents. NHAI has failed to upload details pertaining to total capital cost of the project or design capacity (number of vehicles that can travel at a time without any congestion) in its official portal. The association claimed that this official negligence has resulted in more accidents of late, and has requested intervention of Tiruvallur district collector P Ponniah since he heads the district road safety committee. It is to be noted that Tiruvallur district reported around 400 accidents in 2019 and many among them involved trucks, buses and tourist vans. “Drivers returning from Tirupati tend to lose control and drive recklessly while entering smaller roads from a wider national highway. To avoid that, the road width has to be made uniform throughout,” said a senior police officer from Tiruvallur district. The officer also cited roaming stray cattle and other animals as another danger on the stretch of the NH. While P T Mohan, NHAI project director (Kancheepuram), was unavailable for comment despite several attempts, a staff at the Tiruvallur district collectorate said they were trying to sort out differences with the contractor roped in for road work along NH 716, and that work will resume in March. However, there was no clarity regarding another proposal to construct four bypass roads along this stretch of NH 716 to ease traffic. Meanwhile, residents complained that not just road work, even stormwater drain (SWD) work was pending in some areas along the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/truckers-protest-against-poor-upkeep-of-city-tirupati-nh/articleshow/80160681.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 8, 2021||Goa||Cabbies urge Lobo to scrap GoaMiles||Calangute: High drama was witnessed on Thursday morning at the Parra residence of ports minister Michael Lobo when around 50-60 taxi owners squatted on the road in front of his house shouting slogans to demand the scrapping of GoaMiles. Lobo, who was at home, invited the group leaders inside for a discussion, but they refused to go in, insisting that he come out to talk to them. A team of Mapusa police soon arrived at the spot, but Lobo told them to leave the protesters alone. Lobo said the taxi owners should meet the CM to find a solution to their problem. “GoaMiles was given permission by the previous chief minister, Manohar Parrikar. If the government now reverses that decision without a valid reason, then the high court will grant a stay order,” he said, explaining that GoaMiles cannot be scrapped. All Goa Taxi Union leader Chetan Kamat said the government is out to finish Goan taxi owners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabbies-urge-lobo-to-scrap-goamiles/articleshow/80160679.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Lupin’s Mihan-made drug gets USFDA nod||Type 2 diabetes generic medicine manufactured in drug maker Lupin Limited’s Mihan unit in Nagpur will soon be sold in the American markets. The company has received tentative approval for empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release tablets in multiple strengths from the United States Food and Drug Administration (USFDA), Lupin said in a statement on Thursday. The Mumbai headquartered company’s product is a generic equivalent of Boehringer Ingelheim Pharmaceuticals’ synjardy XR tablets, it added. Empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride extended-release (ER) tablets are indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus treatment with both empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride is appropriate. As per November 2020 data of IQVIA, formerly Quintiles and IMS Health Inc, an American multinational company serving the combined industries of health information technology and clinical research, empagliflozin and metformin hydrochloride ER tablets had estimated annual sales of $357 million in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lupins-mihan-made-drug-gets-usfda-nod/articleshow/80159566.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man kidnaps girl, held under Pocso||Juhu police arrested a 25-year-old man for allegedly kidnapping an eight-year-old girl after promising to buy balloons from her on Wednesday. The accused took the girl to Sewri on a stolen scooter. The scooterist was spotted by the Sewri police patrol team. The accused left the girl and fled. He was arrested under the Posco Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-kidnaps-girl-held-under-pocso/articleshow/80160684.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Diesel touches Rs 81, petrol Rs 90||Fuel prices escalated for the second day in a row on Thursday. The rates shot up by 23 paise for petrol and 20 paise for diesel. At Rs 81.07 per litre, diesel crossed the Rs 81-mark for the first time. The price of petrol currently stands at Rs 90.83 a litre in Mumbai. In Thane and Navi Mumbai, the price of petrol is Rs 90.96, while diesel price is Rs 81.19 per litre. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/diesel-touches-rs-81-petrol-rs-90/articleshow/80169090.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Act against cops who stamped on women: Cong||Panaji: Congress protested outside the police headquarters on Thursday and demanded that strict action be taken against personnel who “brutally stamped” on elderly women at Shel-Melauli. The party has also threatened to escalate the agitation against the IIT-Goa campus if the government does not release the arrested protesters. The lathicharge and firing of tear gas shells on villagers who were peacefully protesting is undemocratic and highly condemnable, said Congress in a letter to the Goa DGP. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat and party president Girish Chodankar led a group of Congress workers in a protest to the police headquarters where police personnel blocked them. “We strongly object to the high-handedness of the police officials who have brutally stamped on the chest of elderly women,” said Kamat. “The government has taken a dictatorial approach and is now using the police force to go ahead with the demarcation of the land for the proposed IIT project,” said Chodankar. The villagers of Shel-Melauli have been opposing and protesting for the past six months against the proposed IIT-Goa project to save their livelihood, cultivable lands and houses. Though chief minister Pramod Sawant has offered to address all their concerns, he remains firm about the location of the IIT-Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/act-against-cops-who-stamped-on-women-cong/articleshow/80160685.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Goa||Curb pollution in Valvanti: Rights panel to civic bodies||Panaji: The Goa Human Rights Commission on Thursday passed recommendations for Morlem, Keri and Poriem panchayats to inspect the Valvanti every six months and ensure that dumped or accumulated garbage is removed regularly. The commission stated that the three panchayats must “take all measures to curtail pollution of the Valvanti and its tributaries, springs and nullahs, and prevent any encroachments therein”. The three-member commission comprising chairperson Justice U V Bakre and members Desmond D’Costa and Pramod V Kamat, stated that the panchayats and other authorities took steps to control the dumping of garbage in the river after the media highlighted the issue and after the commission issued notices to the government. Goa State Pollution Control Board conducted an inspection of the river in 2018 and found that there were no public toilets available along the road, resulting in open defecation. The board asked Keri panchayat to install public toilets along the highway to ensure there was no open defecation in the river. Inspections carried out by the community health centre, Sakhali revealed that several households in the vicinity of the river didn’t have toilets, following which notices were issued to households in Keri and Morlem that were releasing waste water.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/curb-pollution-in-valvanti-rights-panel-to-civic-bodies/articleshow/80160682.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Mental hosp clerk absconding in sexual harassment case||Nagpur: The clerk at Regional Mental Hospital who was accused of sexually harassing a staff nurse has not appeared before the hospital’s Vishaka Committee for two consecutive hearings held on January 4 and 6. Deputy medical superintendent Dr Shrikant Karode said the clerk is absconding. The panel led by Dr Archana Zode has now issued an ultimatum to the accused. In the complainant filed in the last week of December, the nurse alleged the clerk sent her obscene messages on WhatsApp. The hospital had instituted a seven-member inquiry committee following the allegation. Dr Karode said the statement of the complainant has been recorded and the panel has decided to issue an ex parte order in case the accused fails to attend the hearing. However, the panel and hospital administration didn’t disclose the date of next hearing. As per rules, the accused has to be given sufficient opportunity to defend himself. On December 29, a fight had broken out at the hospital between the complainant and the accused clerk over the alleged message. Sources claimed the two had been exchanging messages for a while on mobile but suddenly something went wrong and fight came out in the open.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mental-hosp-clerk-absconding-in-sexual-harassment-case/articleshow/80159571.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 8, 2021||Agra||UP STF merges 2 cases filed against 4 alleged PFI men||Strap: Now accused are facing just one case in Mathura, STF move makes getting bail easier now Agra: The UP’s Special Task Force (STF), probing the alleged conspiracy by four PFI men to “incite caste riots” in the state, on Thursday moved a local court to scrap a case registered against them at Hathras’s Chandpa police station, leaving the probe agency with just one case to deal with and giving the accused some hope of bail in near future.The other FIR with the same sections-- including the stringent sedition and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) -- is registered at Mathura police station and the probe in that case will continue.On Thursday, the STF moved an application before Chief Judicial Magistrate of Hathras, Shiv Kumari, informing that it wants to close the FIR filed at Hathras’s Chandpa police station. The agency also asked the court to cancel the judicial remand of the accused in the case, defence lawyer Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi told TOI.Accepting the STF plea, the court ordered the cancellation of judicial remand of the accused in the Chandpa case and directed the district jail authorities to mention it in their records. The accused are now technically released in one of the two cases filed against them. So, now, the four accused will have to file for bail in just one case, and not in two.In its application, the STF stated the FIR registered at Chandpa police station has been merged with the FIR registered at Mathura’s Maant police station.The four alleged PFI activists, Siddiqui Kappan, 41, a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site in Delhi, Atikur Rahman, 28 of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad, 28, from Bahraich and Aalam, 37, from Rampur, were booked on October 5 by Mathura police while they were on way to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit rape-murder victim. Their names were later included in the case registered at Chandpa police station in Hathras on October 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-stf-merges-2-cases-filed-against-4-alleged-pfi-men/articleshow/80158394.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police: Tahir Hussain used cash to organise riots||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police, in its chargesheet filed against Umar Khalid related to a northeast Delhi violence case, has alleged that former AAP councillor Tahir Hussain “used cash to organise riots”. Chief metropolitan magistrate Dinesh Kumar had on Wednesday taken cognisance of the chargesheet, which runs into 55 pages. Police alleged that a witness examination revealed financial transactions by Hussain in January, 2020 for “preparation of anti-CAA protests and riots.” In his statement recorded with police under section 161 CrPC, the witness allegedly stated that he had taken cash from two persons and given it to Hussain. Cops further alleged that Hussain transferred this money from his company’s account to the account of other companies – details of which had already been filed in the previous supplementary chargesheet. “This cash was then used by Hussain to organise riots in the area of northeast district,” the chargesheet alleged. Police have relied on Hussain’s disclosure statement to allege that a “meeting of minds had taken place among him, Khalid and Khalid Saifi” wherein a “conspiracy of riots was hatched”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cops-hussain-used-cash-to-organise-riots/articleshow/80160706.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||‘Nothing bars schools from charging fee in pandemic’||Nagpur: Amid talks of state education department and some parents association moving the minority commission, its deputy chairman J Abhyankar on Thursday said here that private unaided schools were empowered to charge fee as per Fee Regulation Act, 2012, and there was no provision under which the government can stop them during the pandemic too. Addressing the media at Ravi Bhavan, Abhyankar said the Unaided Schools Welfare Association met him with grievances regarding unpaid fees and threats from education officials and parents about getting their minority status scrapped. Barring a few, most of the CBSE schools in the city carry religious or linguistics minority status. Association’s core committee members comprising principals of CBSE schools and management representatives were present during the meet. The deputy chairman, who is equivalent to a minister’s rank, assured the schools that unless the Act is amended it remains in operation. “This view is also held by the courts,” he said. The association complained that majority of students are yet to pay fee despite 10 months delay and multiple deadlines. “We haven’t hiked the fee this year. We are requesting parents to pay as per their convenience. If anyone is facing any extraordinary situation, such individuals have been given more time. We have also provided books free of cost to many students,” said Neeru Kapai, president of the association. Inderpreet Singh Tuli of the association said, “Herd mentality and misguidance are main reasons why parents are still reluctant to pay the fee.” Tuli and Kapai said online education was in fact proving more costly than physical classes as it involves additional cost of gadgets and high speed data. The deputy chairman acknowledged the association’s grievances that local education officials were allegedly harassing them. “I told them that as per 2012 Act, any fee grievance has to be investigated by the officer not below the rank of deputy director. They complained deputy education officers were serving them notices, threatening to file FIRs and derecognizing them. I told them it can’t be done as per norms,” he said. Abhyankar also told the association members that they were entitled to hike the fee once in two years as per the Act. The association also raised the issue of students admitted under RTE quota at minority schools. “It may be a fault on both sides (schools and education department), but as per Sec 12 of the RTE Act, minority schools are exempted from reserving 25% seats for poor students. In case any student has been admitted, the school must let him continue till Class 8,” he said. On May 8, 2020, the Maharashtra government had issued a circular curbing fee hike, if possible slashing fee and providing instalment facility. Some Mumbai schools had challenged the circular which was stayed by the Bombay HC and subsequently upheld by the SC too. The Nagpur bench of Bombay HC too has stayed all notices issued to private schools to recover alleged excess fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nothing-bars-schools-from-charging-fee-in-pandemic/articleshow/80159606.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Thousands of Pilibhit farmers on 470 tractors & 500 bikes rally against new Farm Acts||Pilibhit: After a national call by farmer leaders, more than 3,000 farmers of Pilibhit took out a rally, occupying a 22km stretch of the Puranpur tehsil area on Thursday, under the joint aegis of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan (RKMS) and Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU). A few hundred farmers associated with CPI(ML) also joined in.The farmers, on 470 tractors and over 500 bikes, began their march from Shahjahanpur-Pilibhit border near Kajri Niranjanpur village on Pilibhit-Basti NH-730 at 10am, to reach the Puranpur tehsil headquarters, where they handed over a memorandum of their demands to administrative officials.Earlier on January 5, the state government had sent senior IPS officer Ajay Pal Sharma and Puranpur circle sub-divisional magistrate Rajendra Prasad as emissaries to specifically visit Pilibhit villages with large Sikh populations and convince farmers to not to attend the anti-Farm Act protest programmes. They had addressed a gathering of farmers at Kajri Gurudwara, and appealed to them to cancel the tractor rally, said Jasveer Singh, a farmer of village Andbhoji.“The official also told the farmers they will come to the Shahjahanpur-Pilibhit border to receive the memorandum of farmers’ demands on spot. But as the national leadership of farmers had already issued a whip to take out the tractor rally, it was not possible for us to deviate from the programme,” said local farmer Kuldeep Singh associated with RKMS.The district vice-president of BKU, Manjit Singh, who patronised the rally, said the administration had deployed police force at many spots, though they did not obstruct the march anywhere.After doing a round of Puranpur city, the rally reached Sirsa crossing along the national highway on the outskirts of Puranpur tehsil headquarters, where the farmers handed over their memorandum to the SDM, Rajendra Prasad, in the presence of heavy police force.The 10-point memorandum addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi included the demand for immediate withdrawal of all three Farm Acts, making provisions for awarding pension to farmers and to ensure clearing of sugarcane price arrears of all past as well as the current crushing season immediately, along with interest, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/thousands-of-pilibhit-farmers-on-470-tractors-500-bikes-rally-against-new-farm-acts/articleshow/80158420.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Actor Shwetha Kumari remanded in judicial custody||South Indian actor Shwetha Kumari, arrested in a drug seizure case, was remanded in judicial custody by a court on Thursday. Her bail plea will be heard on Friday. Kumari, who has acted in Kannada and Telugu films, was arrested by the NCB from a hotel in Thane district, following alleged seizure 400gm of Mephedrone drug.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-remanded-in-judicial-custody/articleshow/80160705.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chennai||Edappadi K Palaniswami says bring it on, M K Stalin can pick spot||ERODE: Hours after DMK president M K Stalin accepted the challenge for an open debate on corruption charges, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami upped the ante, demanding that the opposition leader prove his allegations against the government “if he was man enough and the true leader of the DMK”. Addressing cadres during his campaign at Gobichettipalayam assembly constituency in Erode district on Thursday, EPS said he was prepared to participate in the debate at any place of Stalin’s choice, but demanded that the DMK leader answer his questions without help of reference papers (thundu cheetu – pointing to Stalin reading out from a prepared text during his campaigns). “You have to prove the charges you have levelled against me. I am ready to answer all your questions. At the same time, you should answer my questions,” EPS said. Earlier at Arachalur in Perundurai assembly segment, EPS made a speech on a similar note, demanding that Stalin participate in the open debate if he had the ability and the guts. EPS said Stalin was actually not prepared for an open debate and wanted to avoid one and hence he was laying down conditions. “What is the connection between the court stay on a CBI inquiry and an open debate?” EPS asked, noting that the debate could happen even without vacating the stay. EPS said the tenders called for by his government were e- tenders where there could not be any irregularities. “This would be revealed if Stalin came for the open debate,” he said. Seeking to turn the tables, EPS said it was Karunanidhi’s family that had amassed wealth across the state. “Stalin had presumed that since I was from a village, he could level false allegations at me. His dream of spreading falsehood about the government, confusing people and winning the elections will never happen,” EPS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/eps-says-bring-it-on-stalin-can-pick-spot/articleshow/80160702.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Varanasi||Building owned by Don Kuntu razed in Azamgarh||Varanasi: A day after former block chief Ajit Singh, the prime witness in former MLA Sarvesh Singh Sipu murder case, was shot dead in Lucknow, a Rs 6.46 crore three-storied building belonging to jailed mafia don Dhruv Singh alias Kuntu was demolished by the administration in Azamgarh on Thursday. Kuntu is presently lodged in Azamgarh district jail in Sipu murder case. Moreover, worried over the murder of Ajit, the slain MLA’s brother Santosh Singh, who is also a witness in Sipu murder case, met SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh and demanded enhanced security to his family members claiming threat from Kuntu. He alleged that Kuntu was masterminding murders of witnesses like Ajit from Azamgarh jail. SP Azamgarh said, “Security concerns of Santosh have been taken seriously. The security for him and his family will be reviewed and enhanced accordingly. No irregularities have been detected at Azamgarh jail. Things would become clear in police investigation in Ajit murder case.” Confirming the demolition of Kuntu’s building, SP Azamgarh said, “The police had earlier confiscated Rs 8 crore properties of Kuntu under Gangster Act.” Kuntu is lodged in jail for involvement in the killing of Samajwadi Party’s former MLA from Sagadi assembly area Sipu in July 2015. Apart from Sipu’s brother Santosh, former block chief Ajit was also a witness in Sipu murder case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/building-owned-by-don-kuntu-razed-in-azamgarh/articleshow/80159016.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra minister Chhagan Bhujbal marks presence in special court||MUMBAI: State cabinet minister for food & civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal, his nephew Sameer, and 50-odd accused marked their presence before a special court for crimes where politicians are accused. Bhujbal is an accused in an alleged Rs 840-crore money-laundering case linked to “malpractice over contract’’ for Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi.  A December 19, 2020, order passed by the special court hearing cases against politicians, directed that all accused, including those who were absent that day, to appear on January 7 “without fail’’. Bhujbal’s son Pankaj was among those not present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhujbal-marks-presence-in-special-court/articleshow/80159535.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kozhikode||Clear air on ‘missing’ Jesna: PFI||Kozhikode: Popular Front of India (PFI) has asked the government to clear the air on the disappearance of Jesna Mariyam James, who went missing from Mukkoottuthara on March 22, 2018. A press release issued by PFI state secretary C A Rauf said Sangh Parivar and some Christian groups are using the incident to rake up discussions on ‘love jihad’ that has been rejected by various courts in the country. “Investigation into the missing case is still progressing and the police team has said that they have not received any significant clues yet. But investigating officer K G Simon, who retired recently, said there is some information in the case that could not be revealed,” he said. Using the remarks Sangh Parivar and some Christian organizations have launched an anti-Muslim campaign through social media that Jesna is in a religious study centre. “The government should reveal the exact information before the public,” the statement said. Crime branch had taken over the case after local police failed to achieve any breakthrough. The case is being used to create a communal divide in society, PFI said. “Moreover, there is a move to keep the home ministry in the shadow of suspicion. It is the soft Hindutva attitude of the government that creates a fertile soil for Sangh Parivar,” it said. Meanwhile, Hindu Aikya Vedi alleged that police are hiding ‘explosive information’ in the case to help ‘anti-national forces.’ It said hundreds of girls are missing from Kerala and police are reluctant to probe into many cases. “The information can throw light into many such disappearances, but police are playing a hide-and-seek game. It is also suspicious that those who are responsible to seek explanations are maintaining silence,” Vedi state secretary R V Babu said. He alleged that the silence is a pointer to ‘compromises’ at the top level. Babu asked the government to rectify the government stand that helps the anti-national and anti-social forces and to publicize the results of the investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/clear-air-on-missing-jesna-pfi/articleshow/80159617.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Commence work for 2022 elections, Shah tells CM||Panaji: Union home minister Amit Shah on Thursday advised chief minister Pramod Sawant to start preparations for assembly elections, which are due next year. Shah also told Sawant to win the upcoming municipal elections scheduled this year and the assembly elections with a thumping majority. The Union home minister assured Sawant full support from the Centre to fight Covid and in the vaccination drive. The chief minister met Shah in Delhi and discussed various issues, including resumption of mining. “I have updated Shah on resumption of mining activities in Goa and the mining matter scheduled for hearing in the apex court in January 21. We are hoping for the best,” he said. Sawant said that he also briefed the home minister about sweeping ZP elections in both districts, political developments and the progress of central-funded infrastructure projects. With regards to central government projects, Shah, the chief minister said, has asked that they be fast-tracked and assured to release funds. Sawant said that there was no discussion on IIT-Goa. “We will resolve the IIT issue,” he said. There has been no mining activity in Goa since March 15, 2018, after the Supreme Court quashed the second renewal of 88 mining leases. The state government had filed a review petition on February 7, 2018, in the apex court against the order. When Sawant met PM Narendra Modi in March 2020, he had requested the PM to direct the authorities to file an affidavit before the SC in support of resumption of mining activities. Two mining companies had approached the SC for extension of leases till 2037.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commence-work-for-2022-elections-shah-tells-cm/articleshow/80160698.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chennai||Stalin accepts EPS challenge to open debate, but has conditions||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Thursday accepted the challenge posed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami for an open debate on the corruption charges levelled against him and his cabinet members. But Stalin’s acceptance has come with a few conditions. Participating in an election campaign in Erode district, chief minister Palaniswami on Wednesday challenged Stalin to an open debate on the corruption charges levelled by the DMK and submitted as a petition to Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit. The chief minister has been maintaining that the allegations of corruption and irregularities are baseless. “The chief minister has issued a challenge to participate in an open debate. I accept the challenge. But before that, the chief minister has to do a few things. Let him move the Supreme Court and get the stay, ordered by the apex court, on CBI inquiry against the chief minister vacated. Let him move the court tomorrow (Friday) saying he is willing to face the inquiry and get the necessary order,” Stalin said in a statement. “Let the chief minister convene a cabinet meeting and pass a resolution tomorrow itself (Friday), requesting the governor to grant permission for investigating the corruption charges, submitted as a petition by the DMK. Let him also agree to subject himself to an inquiry for amassing wealth disproportionate to his known source of income and write a letter to the governor,” Stalin said. “I am ready. Are you ready chief minister Palaniswami?” Stalin asked. The AIADMK is the only party in the country that had a CM who was jailed for corruption and was forced to step down due to the charges. “CM Palaniswami has been subjected to CBI inquiry but brazenly claims he has not indulged in any irregularities and is trying to bury the truth,” Stalin said and listed, once again, the DMK’s charges of irregularities committed by the AIADMK government. Terming the repeated charges of land grabbing by DMK functionaries as total lie, Stalin said it is the AIADMK that has been in power for the past 10 years and Palaniswami has been CM for the past four years. “How many people from the DMK have been convicted under land grabbing charges,” Stalin asked. Meanwhile, the DMK has extended the deadline for holding the people’s grama sabha meetings till January 20. While it was decided to hold 16,500 meetings from December 23 and January 10, heavy rains had forced the party to cancel several meetings, DMK said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-accepts-eps-challenge-to-open-debate-but-has-conditions/articleshow/80160696.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Dead toddler’s kin get Rs 4L aid||The family of the tribal toddler who was raped and murdered in Pen has been given half the financial aid of Rs 4.1 lakh under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The girl was raped and killed by a serial accused Adesh Patil on December 30. The autopsy report said death was caused due to smothering and sexual assault.—Umesh Parida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dead-toddlers-kin-get-rs-4l-aid/articleshow/80168998.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Fisheries dept to keep eye on catching juvenile fish||Panaji: In a major step to ensure fish growth and conservation of the marine ecosystem in the state, the fisheries department has prohibited catching juvenile fish in the state. The department has decided a minimum legal size (MLS) for certain fish variants and has restricted the catch of such fish below certain centimeters. MLS is seen as a fisheries’ management tool with the ability to protect young fish, maintain spawning stocks and control the sizes of fish. “The restriction has been brought out so that fishermen do not catch fish which is less than the particular size. We already have a mesh size regulation, but this notification will give it more weightage. Fishermen are not restricted from catching any fish, but they are restricted from catching fish less than the given size,” director of fisheries, Shamila Monteiro said. The department has listed out 20 types of fish and shrimp that are very dominant in Goa (see infographic). There will be a check on fishermen at landing centres to ensure that the rule is being followed. Fishermen might have to resort to using fishing nets of bigger mesh size to pull their shoal from the waters to ensure that juvenile fish do not get trapped in their nets. Considering that there could be chances of some quantity of fish that may end up being of smaller size, action will be taken only if more than 50% of the catch in the shoal comprises of small size fish, Monteiro said. It has come to the state government’s attention that a large quantity of low-value (non-target), smaller size fish (juveniles) are caught by mechanized fishing vessels, only to be cast off later since the commercial value is lesser. Though there is no information on the volume of the rejected fish, the department maintains that the fish “are found killed and discarded in varying proportions” after being caught by mechanized fishing vessels. “The juveniles of various species of fishes are caught before they attain maturity, and this severely affects the fish population. Along with juvenile fish, other non-edible biota, which are vital to the existence of marine eco-system are caught in a fishing operation,” a notification issued by the department on Thursday read. The notification also stated that the government has considered the matter serious since it will affect the juvenile population of the marine life and in the long run may also “bring about a disaster in the fishing industry making it unsustainable and uneconomical” as a result of which the state government has decided to prohibit the catching of the different species of juvenile fish in the specified area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fisheries-dept-to-keep-eye-on-catching-juvenile-fish/articleshow/80160707.cms||Nida Sayed
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Just handing out petitions is not Oppn’s job: Guv||Lucknow: Taking the Opposition parties to task, UP governor Anandiben Patel on Thursday said that Opposition hardly exists in the state. “There is hardly anything like Opposition in Uttar Pradesh at the moment... they come to hand over petitions and get themselves clicked with me. I take their papers... Writing memorandums is not what Opposition is meant for. They are hardly visible. They must work hard to build their organisation and strengthen their base to be visible. They must go house to house to tell people about what they do and where the government is wrong,” she said in a brief interaction with TOI. She also attacked former CM Akhilesh Yadav for his recent statement, calling Covid-19 vaccine as BJP’s vaccine and refusing to take it. “Democracy needs a powerful and healthy Opposition. Making statements like corona vaccine is BJP’s vaccine and I will not take it is not done. What can such an Opposition do?” she asked. Stating that the development of Covid-19 vaccine and the programme was a matter of public interest, Patel said that there should be healthy Opposition. “Instead of making such statements, the Opposition must come forward, volunteer to take the vaccine and help the country in fighting the calamity. Democracies need a healthy Opposition,” she said. When asked to comment on the increasing incidents of crimes against women, she said: “The life of women has surely changed compared to what it was 60 years ago. But a lot more needs to be done. I think time has come to keep an eye on what the boys do. Parents must question them when they come late... they must keep an eye on the kind of company they keep. Alongside, preparing girls to face any kind of adverse situation is also the responsibility of the parents. They must be given nutritious food, sent to school and trained in self-defence.” Talking about her cause of helping TB-inflicted children, she said: “TB and any health challenge in a place is not a problem of the governments. The society also has a role to play. Civil society in individual or group capacity must come forward to contribute in setting things right. So far, I have adopted more than 15,000 TB-inflicted children and majority of them have recovered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/just-handing-out-petitions-is-not-oppns-job-guv/articleshow/80161122.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||Woman, her paramour arrested for killing husband||Jhansi: A woman and her paramour were arrested on Thursday for killing her husband in Jhansi. As per Jhansi SSP Dinesh Kumar P, the two arrested were identified as Pinki Ahirwar and her paramour Asif. The body of Pinki’s husband Sonu alias Rahul Ahirwar was recovered from Lalitpur highway on Wednesday. The police zeroed in on Pinki and her paramour Asif, and arrested them within hours of recovering the body. During interrogation, Asif confessed that he had befriended Pinki through a common friend around four months ago. He started frequenting Pinki’s house, and soon the became closer to each other. Fearing exposure of their relationship, the duo hatched a plan to eliminate Sonu. Pretending to be a property dealer, Asif called Sonu for a hangout on Tuesday night. The two were boozing in the SUV that actually belonged to a man for whom Asif worked as a driver. Asif secretly mixed sedatives in Sonu’s drink, and after a while, Sonu went unconscious. Asif then took him to a deserted place and slit his throat. He later dumped his body somewhere on Lalipur highway and returned. “We have recovered the vehicle and the murder weapon. Both have blood stains on them. The accused Pinki and Asif have been arrested,” said the SSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/woman-her-paramour-arrested-for-killing-husband/articleshow/80159118.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||23-year-old hacked to death by Maoists||Nagpur: Maoists have allegedly killed 23-year-old Vinod Madavi by slitting his throat in the early hours of Wednesday labelling him a police informer. His body was found on the approach road to his village Kothi Tola in the Bhamragarh taluka in south Gadchiroli. Madavi was whisked away from his residence by the Maoists along with his parents and other members of his family. The family was thrashed after being taken to an adjoining forest. The Maoists had later sent the family back but detained Madavi whose body was later found on the road with deep cuts all over the neck and face. Maoists had also left behind a letter on the body in which they mentioned that their decision to eliminate Madavi was due to his actions as police informer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/23-year-old-hacked-to-death-by-maoists/articleshow/80159618.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Ghaziabad roof collapse: Five-member team to probe||LUCKNOW: A five-member team headed by an SP-rank officer will investigate Ghaziabad’s Muradnagar crematorium roof collapse case. The team was formed on Thursday by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) of Uttar Pradesh Police on directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath. As many as 25 people were killed after the roof of the crematorium caved in on January 3 in Muradnagar,. The SIT has registered an FIR under charges of causing death by negligence against Niharika Singh, JE Chandra Pal, supervisor Ashish, and Ajay Tyagi, along with unidentified others. Director general of the SIT RP Singh said that an officer of the rank of DIG will also join the probe later. Singh also said that assistance of a forensic team has been sought for collecting samples from the scene. “The mandate of the team is overall investigation along with probe into corruption committed by the builders involved,” he said. Other members of the team include a deputy SP and three police inspectors. The FIR has been lodged under charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder, causing hurt to any person by rash or negligent act to endanger lives and causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/5-member-team-to-probe-gzb-tragedy/articleshow/80161264.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Rallies, city-centre traffic load after Cov lull force cops to shift to manual signal system||Kolkata: The Kolkata traffic police has shifted from automated signal system to manual along two stretches of central Kolkata to reduce traffic snarls. A spurt in political rallies at Esplanade Y-channel and Dorina crossing has been disrupting traffic movement along Chowringhee Road and Central Avenue and left commuters frustrated. Coupled with that, the number of vehicles has almost gone back to the that of pre-Covid days. To clear the huge volume of vehicles that pile up, cops have switched from the automated to the manual system that gives them the flexibility to control signal timings, according to the traffic volume at that moment. Automated signal timings, which had been crunched to reduce the wait period at signals when traffic volumes dipped to near zero during the lockdown, was gradually calibrated between June and December as traffic returned to the road. Police recently restored the signal timing to that which existed last February. Sandipan Dey, who travels to his Park Street office and Shibaji Saha, who travels to Bowbazar from Hazra each day, say waiting time at signals had increased considerably, both in the morning and evening. “I had decided not to reconsider bringing my car to office, especially as the city is back to its old ways and the diesel wasted in waiting is pinching the pocket,” Dey said.Traffic cops have moved to controlling the signals manually at two alignments — SP Mukherjee Road (Elgin Road crossing)-Exide Crossing-Park Street-Esplanade and Alipore-Bhawani Bhawan-PTS-Park Street-Esplanade — during office hours. Cops pointed out that the effectiveness of automated signal calibrated according to traffic volume at a particular time in a day were being foiled by the disruptions caused by rallies, leading to huge jams. Several other factors, ranging from reopening of the Majerhat bridge and jump in the number of visitors to markets and hotspots even on weekdays, contributed to the logjam in the heart of the city. Also, many office-goers, who earlier travelled by Metro, are now using their cars to avoid crowds in Covid times. “We are studying the traffic cycles. Certain situations are forcing us to divert traffic in Esplanade and unless those conditions are taken care of, switching to a new automatic set-up will not make sense,” said an officer. . “Even till last month, we passed around 60 vehicles at the PTS crossing from DL Khan Road in the one-minute cycle. Now there are around 80-90 vehicles and the tail gets held up if we do not switch to the manual system,” said a sergeant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rallies-city-centre-traffic-load-after-cov-lull-force-cops-to-shift-to-manual-signal-system/articleshow/80160708.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Gonda woman lodges fake abduction case, held||Lucknow: A festering land feud between two neighbours in Gonda led a 20-year-old woman, Shaira, to spin a kidnapping story and lodge a fake complaint with Gonda police. Shaira, who tried to frame his father’s rival, Buddhu, was arrested on Wednesday after her cover blew up. On Monday, the girl walked up to the Wazirganj police station in Gonda and told police she had wriggled out of the clutches of her captors after she was sedated and bundled into a SUV by Buddhu and his accomplices and driven to a desolate place. Police tracked Buddhu’s location in Delhi on the day, the girl claimed she was abducted. Cops also found he was locked in a protracted land dispute with Shaira’s father, who had vowed to throw him behind bars. Superintendent of police, Gonda, Shailesh Pandey, who supervised the probe said, Shaira stated in her complaint she was kidnapped while returning home from college and driven to an isolated place from where she escaped when her captors got busy in morning chores. “A named FIR was lodged and teams were formed to crack the case. During investigations, we found nobody came to lodge a missing complaint from the girl’s family and the location of those named in the FIR were found to be in Delhi. We also unearthed that girl’s father, Munawar, had a land dispute with his neighbour, Buddhu, and wanted to muzzle him by trapping him in a kidnapping case,” said the officer. To recreate the crime scene, a woman inspector was told to take Shaira to the spot where she was purportedly abducted and the location from where she fled. However, Shaira failed to locate the crime spots, raising suspicion among investigators. “After Shaira was arrested, she broke down and spilled the beans. She also named her father as a co-conspirator,” the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gonda-woman-lodges-fake-abduction-case-held/articleshow/80160999.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||56 test positive in Satara district, 72 in Solapur||Kolhapur: Satara district reported 56 fresh Covid-19 patients and no deaths due to the infection since Wednesday late night, taking the total number of cases to 55,002. The death toll has now risen to 1,797. As many as 52,454 patients have recovered so far while 751 patients are undergoing treatment. Solapur district, covering city and rural parts, reported 72 new cases while 145 patients were discharged after recovering on Thursday. Three deaths were registered in the district. As many as, 46 people tested positive in the rural areas of Solapur while 59 patients were discharged on Thursday. A 45-year-old man from Sangola tehsil succumbed to Covid. Solapur rural has 38,407 patients, of them, 1,134 have died, 474 patients are undergoing treatment and 36,799 have recovered.  Solapur city reported 26 fresh cases and two deaths on Thursday. The deceased include a 43-year-old man from Mangalwar peth and a 60-year-old woman from Shastrinagar. Solapur city has recorded 11,192 cases so far, which includes 605 deaths, 264 active cases and 10,323 recoveries. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/56-test-positive-in-satara-district-72-in-solapur/articleshow/80157669.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur reports 10 Covid cases, Sangli 22||Kolhapur: Kolhapur district recorded registered ten new coronavirus cases on Thursday. With this, the total number of confirmed patients in the district reached 49,608, of which, 15,138 were from the city. The district witnessed 12 patients getting discharged from various Covid facilities on Thursday, taking the total number of recoveries to 47,856 so far. Of the recent cases identified on Thursday, four were from the city limits. As far as the district is concerned, Panhala and Radhanagari talukas reported one case each. All ten remaining talukas did not record any new patient. Three patients were reported from urban areas while one person was from outside Kolhapur district. According to official information, the district has registered 1710 deaths so far, including 368 from the city. At present, Kolhapur district has 42 active cases. Meanwhile, Sangli district reported 22 new patients on Thursday, including two from the limits of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation. The district’s Covid count has reached 47,733. As many as 45,782 patients were discharged from various Covid care facilities while 1,735 deaths have been reported till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-reports-10-covid-cases-sangli-22/articleshow/80157672.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||Dubey’s another aide arrested||Kanpur: Another aide of gangster Vikas Dubey was arrested from Ghatampur’s Sajeti area on Thursday. Identified as Vitul Dubey, he carried a reward of Rs 50,000, and was wanted in the massacre of eight policemen in Bikru village on the intervening night of July 2 and 3 last year. Vitul’s father Atul Dubey and cousin Amar Dubey had already been gunned down by the police in separate encounters since the Bikru ambush. On a tip-off, a police team laid a siege at Vitul’s hideout in Sajeti area and arrested him. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dubeys-another-aide-arrested/articleshow/80159095.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Chanda admin leaves nothing to chance during vax dry run||Chandrapur: Mock inoculation was carried out and all eventualities were considered on 25 beneficiaries at four vaccination booths in Chandrapur city as well as rural areas on Friday. Civil surgeon Dr Nivrutti Rathod said that the 25 beneficiaries for each booth were selected from already registered 16,259 health workers for the first phase of vaccination. The ‘vaccination’ was carried out at booths specially set up at Chandrapur GMCH, urban primary health centre at Ramnagar in city, primary health centres at Durgapur and sub-district hospital in Warora. As planned, auto generated SMS messages from CoWIN app were sent to the 100 beneficiaries a day before. As the beneficiaries started queuing up at the respective booth, vaccination officer-I outside verified their identity documents and allowed them to enter the waiting room. The vaccination officer-IV, who is mobile medical officer, sent one after other beneficiary to the vaccination room. “Vaccination officer-II in the vaccination room again verified the documents of the beneficiaries and registration on Co-WIN app and sent them to the vaccinator. Each of the beneficiaries were given messages by vaccinator before dummy stimulation of the vaccination. Once vaccinated, their entry was uploaded on the app. The beneficiary was then sent to observation room where vaccination officer-III supervised their response to the vaccine for half an hour,” said Dr Rathod explaining the procedure. He claimed that all the vaccination formalities like generating SMS, online validation of documents and uploading vaccination data on Co-WIN app were glitch-free. “We also took trail of eventualities like refusal, absentee and adverse effect following immunization (AEFI),” he said. “A beneficiary each at every booth remained absent, while one refused to get vaccinated after online document validation and the third one mocked of having AEFI. The procedural formalities following these eventualities were followed up strictly during the dry run at each centre,” said Dr Rathod. The ‘vaccination drive’ started at 9am and was completed by 2pm at GMCH here. Overall dry run at all the vaccination booths was successful and completed without hurdle. “We are now ready for vaccination drive with trained staff. The first phase of vaccination will see immunization of 16,259 health workers in the district,” he said. District administration has readied 80 cold chain storage centres to store the vaccine, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/chanda-admin-leaves-nothing-to-chance-during-vax-dry-run/articleshow/80175742.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 8, 2021||Goa||North, South ZP chiefs, deputies set to be elected unopposed||Panaji/Margao: With only four candidates, all BJP, filing nominations for the posts of adhyaksha (chairperson) and upadhyaksha (vice chairperson) of North Goa and South Goa zilla panchayats, respectively, their election to the top slots now remains a formality. Kartik Kudnekar representing Socorro zilla panchayat and Suvarna Tendulkar representing Sanvordem constituency are poised to be elected chairpersons of North and South Goa zilla panchayat, respectively, unopposed. As for the vice chairperson’s post in both districts, Diksha Dilip Kandolkar (Sirsaim) and Khushali Jorgo Velip (Barcem) have bagged them, also unopposed. The deadline for filing nominations was Thursday and the meeting to elect the new heads will be held on Friday. “Only one set of nominations was received for both the posts. The declaration of their election will be formally made at the meeting to be held on Friday,” Triveni Velip, CEO of the South Goa zilla panchayat, told TOI. BJP had scored an emphatic victory in the zilla panchayat polls held last month, thereby retaining its sway over both the second tier panchayat bodies of the state with a comfortable majority. TOI had reported that Tendulkar was the frontrunner for the chairperson’s post for the South Goa zilla panchayat from the “seniority” point of view, though names of Anita Thorat, elected unopposed from Sancoale, and Sanjana Velip, who won from Guirdolim, were also doing the rounds. Sources said that as Tendulkar was elected for the second consecutive term, she was the “natural’ contender for the chairperson’s post, as both Thorat and Sanjana are new entrants in the zilla panchayat. For the post of South Goa zilla panchayat deputy chairperson, though Ulhas Tuyekar (Davorlim) and Khushali were favourites in terms of seniority, Khushali pipped Tuyekar to the post as his nomination found favour with the party brass. Khushali, a trusted aide of deputy chief minister Chandrakant Kavlekar, won from Barcem constituency for the fourth time, though a new entrant in the saffron party. In the North Goa zilla panchayat election, Kundekar had defeated independent MLA Rohan Khaunte’s candidate in ZP election, thus enabling him to lay claim to the coveted post. A BJP senior leader said that Kudnekar has been made chairperson to send a clear message in Porvorim constituency that BJP is “a serious contender” for assembly election scheduled next year. In Tivim, former BJP MLA and GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar’s wife won the Tivim ZP seat out of two seats in Tivim assembly constituencies. A political observer said that BJP wants to regain its lost ground in Tivim and that is the reason they have nominated the Sirsaim ZP candidate for the North Goa ZP. Five newly elected ZP members, including the kin of ruling politicians and two-time ZP members, were in the race to grab the post, but BJP selected the candidate keeping in mind the next assembly election “so that wrong signal does not go among the people that BJP favours the kin and close aides of politicians.” Ayush minister Shripad Naik’s son Siddhesh Naik, Cumbharjua MLA Pandurang Madkaikar’s brother Dhaku, chief minister Pramod Sawant-supported ZP member from Pale Gopal Surlakar, two-time Mayem ZP member Shankar Chodankar and Reis Magos ZP member Rupesh Naik were the frontrunners to become the chairperson of North Goa ZP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/north-south-zp-chiefs-deputies-set-to-be-elected-unopposed/articleshow/80160703.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||Minister Alamgir picked by Congress high command for campaign management in upcoming Bengal polls||Ranchi: Congress veteran and senior minister in the state government, Alamgir Alam, has been named in the party’s three-member campaign management team for the upcoming Bengal assembly polls. B K Hariprasad and Vijay Inder Singhla were the other two members in the committee. Hariprasad has been in-charge of Congress’s state unit in the past. Talking to TOI on Thursday, Alamgir, who represents Pakur assembly seat, said, “The upcoming Bengal polls will be crucial for the Congress and we are sure of putting up a good show this time. The Jharkhand model of governance — where we are a part of the ruling alliance — is being hailed by other states, specially the way we tackled the pandemic so far and tried to reduce rural distress by bringing new schemes under MNREGA jobs, among others.” Alam is a prominent Muslim face and also the Congress’s leader of legislative party in the assembly. He said that his constituency — Pakur —falls along the Bengal border, so he was aware of the bordering areas of the neighbouring state and this will be useful while planning the campaign and election management for the party. “Soon, the three of us will sit together to chalk out the party’s election management plan,” he said, adding that he was well-versed in Bengali. In the run up to the assembly elections in Jharkhand in 2019, Alam was part of the team that devised poll strategies for the Congress — right from stitching up the pre-poll alliance with JMM and RJD to hitting the ground for election campaigning. The Congress and its allies booted the BJP out of power by handing the latter a convincing defeat in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/minister-alamgir-picked-by-congress-high-command-for-campaign-management-in-upcoming-bengal-polls/articleshow/80159616.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 8, 2021||Puducherry||Pondy edu director to ask students to keep away from protests||Puducherry: A day before the ruling Congress party in Puducherry and its allies proposed to hold a six-day agitation against lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi from Friday, police have requested the director (higher & technical education) to issue an advisory to all the heads of institutions directing the student community to refrain from participating in the proposed agitations. The appeal came a few days after police resorted to using mild force to disperse students, mostly cadres of the students’ wing of Congress, protesting in front Bedi’s official residence Raj Nivas on December 21. They wanted the Centre to approve the Puducherry government’s proposal to provide 10% reservation in medical education for students from government schools. Senior superintendent of police (law and order) Mahesh Kumar Barnwal in a note to the director (higher & technical education) said police have made elaborate security arrangements around Raj Nivas, legislative assembly and chief secretariat. Meanwhile, two companies of rapid action force (RAF), central reserve paramilitary force (CRPF) and a company of central industrial security force (CISF) reached Puducherry on Wednesday to strengthen the security in the tourist town in wake of protests called for. The two RAF companies have 163 personnel while CISF has 85 personnel. Puducherry district magistrate Purva Garg imposed regulatory orders banning protests, demonstrations, agitations and rallies without prior permission from the magistrate’s office. The order, which came into force from Thursday, will be in force until further direction. Garg declared that the administration will not allow any protests within 500m of critical establishments including Raj Nivas, offices and camp offices cum residences of the CM and his cabinet colleagues, legislative assembly, chief secretariat, police headquarters and government Covid-19 hospitals. “The agitations must be within the framework of law and restrictions, keeping in view of health, security protocols,” said a release by the administration and police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/pondy-edu-director-to-ask-students-to-keep-away-from-protests/articleshow/80160710.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘Forest dept looking into illegal felling of trees’||NEW DELHI: National Green Tribunal (NGT) has disposed of a petition on illegal pruning of trees on a vacant plot in south Delhi after the forest department said that a tree officer is looking into the case. A report submitted by the forest department stated two trees were pruned and one tree was illegally felled without taking permission from the department. The petitioner had claimed that trees were illegally cut in Sainik Farms. A report submitted by principal chief conservator of forests stated, “The vacant plot in street number 7 in Sainik Farms was inspected by the department staff on August 21, 2020 and Google Earth images for last five years were also referred for the same. There are 12 trees of various species that are standing on the plot. Of these 12 trees, two branches of one Azadirachta indica tree, and two branches of one Syzigium cumini tree were pruned without prior permission of the forest department. Illegal felling of a tree was also observed.” The forest department said the owner of the vacant plot was served notice on August 29. “During a hearing on October 8, the owner appeared and claimed that BSES was pruning the trees in the area. Deputy conservator of forests (south) directed him to submit a written affidavit to this effect. Notice was issued to chief executive officer (BSES),” said the report. It added that both of them did not appear in the second date of hearing and a third date was finalised. “Tree officer will decide the case as per the provisions of Delhi Tree Preservation Act, 1994,” said the report. DCF (South) Amit Anand said, “Plot owner and chief executive officer did not appear in the third date of hearing. We are now serving them notice through police.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/forest-dept-looking-into-illegal-felling-of-trees/articleshow/80160718.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kozhikode||Former minister Ramachandran passes away at 84||Kozhikode: Former state minister and veteran Congress leader K K Ramachandran passed away at a private hospital in Kozhikode, following a heart attack on Thursday. He was 84. A six-time legislator, Ramachandran had served as food and civil supplies minister in the A K Antony government during 1995-96 and as health minister in the Oommen Chandy ministry in 2004. He was leading a retired life at Kakkodi in Kozhikode and had been under treatment for cardiac ailments for the last few years. He was hospitalized on Wednesday and breathed his last on Thursday at 3am. Though a native of Chokli in Kannur district, Ramachandran’s political life was based in Wayanad where he served as MLA for 26 years. Popularly known as Ramachandran master, he won the assembly elections from Sulthan Bathery in 1980, 82 and 1987 and represented Kalpetta constituency for three terms from 1991 till 2006. Ramachandran entered politics as a Youth Congress worker at Nidumbram village in Kannur. He served as teacher at V P Oriental High School, Chokli, and at Arimula LP School, Wayanad. He quit the teaching job in 1971 to take up full-time party work. He was instrumental in expanding the Congress party base among various sections, including plantation workers. Ramachandran led numerous agitations by plantation workers in Wayanad under Plantation Labour Congress banner. He had a narrow escape during a workers’ stir at Elimbilieri Estate when people allegedly connected with the management fired at the protesters. The bullet missed Ramachandran but claimed the life of an estate worker. He had served in various official positions in Congress, including as KPCC general secretary, AICC member and state vice-president of INTUC. In 2011, Congress expelled him after he publicly raised serious allegations against senior party leaders in the Travancore Titanium graft case. Though he was reinstated into the party, he was not active in politics for the last several years. The funeral was held at his son’s house at Kakkodi on Thursday afternoon. He is survived by wife Padmini, sons Sunil, Pradeep Kumar and Mahesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/former-minister-ramachandran-passes-away-at-84/articleshow/80159624.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to take 3 months for phase 1 of vaccinations||MUMBAI: Maharashtra may take three months to vaccinate nearly 8 lakh health workers in the first phase of immunisation drive. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said for the first phase nearly 100 sites have been shortlisted, most of which will be tertiary-level government hospitals, where adverse effects can be addressed immediately. “Vaccination in the first phase will be at around 100 centres. Since around 100 people will be vaccinated at each centre, it will take nearly 80 days for all beneficiaries in the first phase. We want to do it scientifically,” said Tope. He said at a meeting with health ministry on Thursday that Maharashtra demanded that the Centre sponsor the entire vaccination drive. “We demanded that the Centre covers operational costs of carrying out the drive. We also said the state must be covered by one vaccine provider for ease of maintaining records,” said Tope. He clarified that they have not been told about the date of roll-out or cost of vaccine. The state found some shortfalls in cold shortage system and sought the Centre’s help. Tope said they have raised the problems regarding Co-win app with Centre and they hope it will be fixed before the actual roll-out. It does not record refusals. As part of the country-wide dry run, Maharashtra will be carrying out the exercise in 30 districts and in 25 municipal areas on Friday. “The dry run will be conducted at 3 medical institutions in each of these 30 districts and in one medical institution in each corporation,” said Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer. In this dry run, 25 beneficiaries will remain present at one centre and each booth will be manned by eight trained health workers. In Mumbai, the drive will be at Rajawadi (Ghatkopar), R N Cooper (Juhu) and BKC jumbo facility. “We told staff who have been registered to participate,” said Dr Pinakin Gujjar, dean of Cooper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-likely-to-take-3-months-for-phase-1-of-vaccinations/articleshow/80159540.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Raped at gunpoint, thrown off terrace, UP girl fights for life||BAREILLY: The girl from Moradabad, 19, who was allegedly raped at gunpoint and pushed off the terrace is serious, her family said, and will be moved to the government medical college in Meerut. Police, meanwhile, have finally charged the main accused with rape, which the initial FIR did not include even though the girl’s father had written so in his complaint. UP: A 19-year-old girl from #Moradabad was allegedly raped at gunpoint and pushed off the terrace. The police have… https://t.co/nMyqiQQW6G— TOI Bareilly (@TOIBareilly) 1610072618000While the district hospital declined to comment on her condition, her family said she is serious. “Her backbone is fractured, she has head injuries. The district hospital has referred her to the Lala Lajpat Rai Medical College in Meerut. An ambulance has been arranged for us. My parents are taking her there now. I am hopelessly worried about her,” her brother told TOI on Thursday evening. “We have not been doing well financially. In these three days, we could not take the sugarcane we had harvested to the mill. Now, the factory won’t take it,” he added, worried how medical expenses would be met. He has been preparing for government service exams and helps his father in tending to their small agricultural field. His sister, meanwhile, had dropped out of school two years ago and would help at home. The accused, Arvind Singh, is a neighbour the family knew well. Late on Monday night, when everyone had fallen asleep, Singh had allegedly crept into the girl’s house. “He entered her room through the terrace, held her at gunpoint, gagged her, took her to the terrace and raped her,” the complaint to the police, filed by her father on Tuesday, said. “When she tried to get away, he pushed her off the terrace. We heard her scream and ran downstairs. He had fled.” The FIR, filed the same day at 5pm, did not include the rape charge — only attempt to outrage modesty, trespass and voluntarily causing hurt. The version of the father’s complaint in the FIR, too, had been changed. It said Arvind took her to the terrace and “molested” her. “When I told police about the case, Arvind was arrested. Police also took my daughter to the hospital. But they made me sign on a blank piece of paper, after which the complaint was filed by the SHO,” her father said on Wednesday. “Rape charge has been added to the FIR. The accused was sent to jail on Wednesday," Moradabad SP (rural) Vidya Sagar Mishra said. “We are investigating if the complaint was changed at the police station.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/raped-at-gunpoint-thrown-off-terrace-up-girl-fights-for-life/articleshow/80158440.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Row leads to murder, 3 brothers held||Kolhapur: Police have arrested three brothers in connection to a murder of a 25-year-old man in Kolhapur city after a minor dispute over disposing of garbage. The incident took place on Wednesday late night when Aakash Ananda Wanjale, a resident of Krantisinh Nana Patil Nagar, was stabbed to death by three brothers, who are neighbours of the deceased. Preliminary investigation suggests that Wanjale family were having a dispute with Kachare family over the disposal of garbage for the past few days. On Wednesday, Wanjale had a serious altercation with the Kachare brothers. After which, Wanjale was stabbed to death. The victim was taken to the hospital but he succumbed to his injuries before the medical treatment could begin. The accused have been identified as Bharat Kachare, Dilip Kachare and Suresh Kachare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/row-leads-to-murder-3-brothers-held/articleshow/80157674.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Eastern UP don-turned-politician behind Mau goon’s murder: Police||Lucknow: A day after unidentified shooters killed history-sheeter Ajit Singh, who had 19 criminal cases against him, Lucknow police on Thursday registered an FIR against six people. While three of them are unidentified, three others are Girdhari Sharma, who carries a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh, Kuntu Singh and Akhand Pratap. The FIR for murder was lodged by Ajit’s aide Mohar Singh. Cops have recovered two illegal loaded pistols from their possession. Meanwhile, 25 bullet injuies were found on Ajit’s body, found the postmortem report. Crime branch sleuths said that preliminary investigation had revealed Sharma was a shooter hired by an eastern UP don-turned-politician to eliminate Ajit. An official said that Girdhari and Kuntu used to work with Ajit. However, after the duo got involved in the killing of former Samajwadi Party MLA Sipu Singh in July 2013, Ajit and they fell apart. While Ajit then formed close ties with Mukhtar Ansari, Kuntu and Girdhari started bonding with a don-turned politician from eastern UP. “Sipu’s brother Santosh and Ajit were witnesses in Sipu’s murder case. Ajit was likely to name Kuntu and Girdhari in the case,” said crime branch officials. With Kuntu already in jail, if Girdhari too would have joined them, it would mean the end of strong hands of the eastern UP don in Azamgarh, Mau, Jaunpur and Varanasi, said officials. Police also said that while working for Ansari, Ajit came in contact with gang members of Prem Prakash alias ‘Munna Bajrangi’. Sleuths in the crime branch also said that after Bajrangi suffered major blows and personal losses including elimination of aides Pushpajeet Singh along with his friend Sanjay Mishra in 2016 and another important aide and contractor named Mohammed Tariq—he was killed by rivals in 2017—Ajit was trying to strengthen his role. Further, after Bajrangi was shot dead inside Baghpat prison in 2018, the gang needed a legacy. With the support of Ansari, Ajit was trying to fill in his shoes. This was also being monitored by the gang of the eastern UP don. Police commissioner DK Thakur said that a police team had been sent to Mau and Azamgarh and confirmed the involvement of the ganglord of eastern UP. He also said that from the nature of the attacks, it was evident that professional shooters had committed the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eastern-up-don-turned-politician-behind-mau-goons-murder-police/articleshow/80161099.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Chief Justice RS Chauhan takes charge of U’khand HC||Nainital: The newly-appointed Chief Justice of Uttarakhand high court (HC), Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan, assumed charge on Thursday after he was administered the oath of office by governor Baby Rani Maurya. CJ Chauhan was previously the Chief Justice of Telangana HC and was transferred to Uttarakhand on December 31. He was also the acting Chief Justice of the Telangana HC as well as a judge at the Rajasthan high court, his parent HC, and Karnataka HC. His swearing-in ceremony was attended by chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, s peaker of the assembly Premchand Aggarwal as well as most of the cabinet ministers along with chief secretary Om Prakash, senior police officials and judicial officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/chief-justice-rs-chauhan-takes-charge-of-ukhand-hc/articleshow/80158492.cms||Prashant Jha
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to hotel owner in minor’s rape||NEW DELHI: A hotel owner, jailed on charges of criminal conspiracy in the case of a minor’s rape, was granted bail by a Delhi court on Thursday, which took into consideration the fact that his mother was suffering from final-stage cancer. Additional sessions judge Raj Rani held, “Without commenting on the merits of the case at this stage and only in view of the fact that applicant is in judicial custody since October 31, 2020; the chargesheet has been filed and as the mother of the applicant is suffering from cancer, he is admitted to bail on furnishing of bail bond in a sum of Rs 40,000 with one surety.” Appearing for the application, advocate Pravesh Dabas argued that his client was not required for any custodial interrogation as a chargesheet had been filed in the case. He further contended that according to the complainant’s allegations and the FIR, his client didn’t have any incriminating or substantial allegations against him. “The applicant is not named in the FIR, which shows that he has no role in the commission of the alleged offences. The applicant was arrested only on the basis of a disclosure statement made by the other accused person,” Dabas added. The lawyer argued that the provisions pertaining to rape weren’t maintainable as the applicant never made “any physical contact with the survivor”. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-grants-bail-to-hotel-owner-in-minors-rape/articleshow/80160731.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Allahabad||Rs 15 crore Nishadraj Park in Prayagraj to be icon of caste unity||LUCKNOW: To mark the event of the meeting of Ram with Nishadraj in Ramayana, the UP government is constructing a Nishadraj Park in Prayagraj’s Shringverpur. Nishadraj, or the king of Nishads, had helped Ram, Sita and Lakshman cross the Ganga in Shringverpur when they were on their way to the forests to spend 14 years in exile. The three had also spent a night in the village before heading to the forest. To commemorate this incident, a park is being built in an area of 5,600 sq mt at a cost of Rs 15 crore and is expected to be a huge tourist draw in the area. “The park will also have a statue of Lord Ram and Nishadraj embracing, placed on a high platform. This statue will give the message that there was never a feeling of high and low caste in India. Social harmony has been a tradition here. There can be no other example of this greater than Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram,” said a government spokesperson. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has initiated various religious tourism projects in the state. Of these, Shringverpur will become an example of social harmony. With the Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya, other places associated with Ram and the Ramayana will also be developed as part of the Ramayana circuit,” said the spokesperson. He said that the park would showcase the trio’s night halt in the fisherman’s hut, Ram’s request for a boat to cross the Ganga, the communication between Ram and Nishadraj and Ram’s love for the boatman. These incidents will come alive through drawings in the park. The park will also document the meeting of Shringi Rishi with his sister Shanta. The UP Projects Corporation made a presentation before the CM in this regard. Shringverpur reportedly got its name from Shringi Rishi, who is believed to have meditated there. He is the sage who performed the Kameshti Yajna at Makhota Dham in Basti for King Dasharatha to get a son. Shringverpur, located on the Lucknow-Prayagraj road on the banks of the Ganga, finds mention in the Puranas. “Tulsidas’s Ramcharitmanas has a detailed description of the meeting of Nishadraj and Ram at Shringverpur. The park will become a testament to the incident. It will also have all the necessary public amenities for visitors,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rs-15cr-nishadraj-park-in-prayagraj-to-be-icon-of-caste-unity/articleshow/80161227.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||IIM-Indore to turn Ayodhya into world-class spiritual destination||LUCKNOW: As Ram Temple construction picks up pace in Ayodhya, the temple town is set to embrace the Indore swachh model to elevate it to standards of a global spiritual tourism destination. IIM-Indore and Municipal Corporation of Ayodhya (MCA) entered into a three-year agreement to chalk out an action plan to replicate the cleanliness model of Indore, which topped Swachh Survekshan four years in a row, creating a culture of cleanliness among its citizens. The business school will specifically help MCA put in place an swachh enhancement mechanism and implement best cleanliness practices adopted by Indore Municipal Corporation. The MoU signed by IIM-I director Prof Himanshu Rai and Ayodhya’s municipal commissioner Vishal Singh envisages drafting a plan for implementation of information, education and communication as per Centre’s flagship Swachh Bharat Mission. The two would also come together in organising training and capacity building programmes for employees of Ayodhya Municipal Corporation. This will be apart from training programmes in project management and best practices for civic officials. “Work has already begun for making a detailed action plan to develop the birthplace of Lord Ram as the cleanest spiritual tourism destination in the world,” Prof Rai told TOI on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/iim-indore-to-turn-ayodhya-into-world-class-spiritual-destination/articleshow/80161291.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Flower show at Raj Bhawan from Feb 6||Lucknow: The annual flower, fruit and vegetable show at Raj Bhawan will be held from February 6 to 8. Addressing a meeting on Thursday to review preparations, chief secretary RK Tiwari said the exhibition should be organized keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols. He said that Covid help desk should be set up at the exhibition where sanitizers, thermal scanners should be made available. Tiwari added that social distancing should be followed at the venue for which departments should have adequate arrangements on ground. He has directed the horticulture department to nominate a senior officer as the nodal officer who can coordinate with other departments for completion of all arrangements. Ahead of the exhibition on February 5, exhibition and judging of flower pots, vegetables, ornamental and medicinal plants, fruits, vegetables, processed foods, flower decoration and cut flowers will take place, an official said. Additional chief secretary, horticulture, Manoj Kumar said the entry fee for participation in the contest will remain the same as it was last year. For home gardens the fee is Rs 50, for government, semi-government, organisations and public parks, the entry fee is Rs 100. He added that women self-help groups will be given stalls free of cost at the food and commercial zone. The venue will also have the Army and PAC bands, police for security, arrangement for sanitation and facility for drinking water. Tiwari has also directed the information department to publicise the exhibition through print and electronic media, hoardings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/flower-show-at-raj-bhawan-from-feb-6/articleshow/80161204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Girl, 15, on way to ‘jagran’, raped by neighbour in Budaun||Bareilly: A 15-year-old girl who had gone to attend a ‘jagran’ in her locality was forcibly taken to a house and raped allegedly by her neighbour while his cousin stood guard in Budaun. One of the accused has been arrested and booked under IPC section for rape and provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act on Wednesday, police said. In their complaint, the survivor’s family claimed that on Tuesday night, the girl went to attend a jagran at the nearby temple when she was forcefully taken to a house by a neighbour and his cousin, where he raped her. The family said when the girl did not return home, they went out to search for her. They found her in the house of one Pintu, who also resides in the neighbourhood. In her statement to police, the girl alleged she was raped by Veer Pal, 20, while Pintu stood guard at the gate. Ashok Kuhad, senior superintendent of police, Badaun, said Veer Pal had been arrested while efforts were on nab Pinto. Based on the complaint received, an FIR has been registered under IPC section 376 (punishment for rape) and relevant sections of POCSO Act. Further investigation is on. “The girl has been sent for a medical examination and we are waiting for the report. We are probing the case from all angles,” said inspector Sudhakar Pandey, Civil Lines police station, Badaun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-15-on-way-to-jagran-raped-by-neighbour-in-budaun/articleshow/80158472.cms||Maria Khan
January 8, 2021||Kozhikode||Govt drops WIMS takeover plan||Kozhikode: The government has decided to drop the proposal to take over DM WIMS Medical College in Wayanad. The high-level meeting — presided by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday— instead took a decision to establish a government medical college in the district. Government had set up a committee headed by the chief secretary to look into the proposal and the decision – not to go ahead with the takeover of the private medical college – was taken on the basis of the recommendation of the expert committee. “The expert committee said that the proposals forwarded by DM Educational Research Foundation, which owns the medical college, for the takeover are impractical. Considering that, the government has decided to set up its own medical college. The health department has been asked to find suitable land to set up the medical college,” said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office. The meeting was attended by health minister K K Shailaja, revenue minister E Chandrasekharan, chief secretary Vishwas Mehta, law secretary P K Aravintha Babu and health department principal secretary Rajan Khobragade. Setting up a government medical college is a long-standing public demand in Wayanad, which lacks adequate tertiary care facilities. DM WIMS, led by Dr Azad Moopen, had expressed its willingness to hand over the medical college and related institutions at Meppadi to the government in July. The government had formed a seven-member committee to study the feasibility of the proposal. After committee submitted its findings, the government had constituted a high-power committee, headed by the chief secretary, to look into the matter. The government had in 2019 identified 50 acres, which was part of Chelod Estate near Vythiri, to set up the medical college but the move didn’t make much headway. During the previous UDF government, the foundation stone for the medical college was laid at the 50 acres given to the government by Chandraprabha Trust at Madakkimala in 2015. But the project hit a hurdle following the 2018 floods after GSI said that construction cannot be carried out in the land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/govt-drops-wims-takeover-plan/articleshow/80159661.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||3 women, man arrested for theft||Kolhapur: The police have arrested three women and a man for their alleged involvement in the theft of gold ornaments from a jewellery shop in Kolhapur. The gang was arrested within 24 hours of committing the crime and valuables worth Rs 11 lakh were seized from them. This included 110 grams of gold and a car. District superintendent Shailesh Balkawde said that the gang was involved in similar crimes in Pune and Ahmednagar-Pune road. All of them were arrested with the help of CCTV footage installed in the shop. The arrested have been identified as Sanju Raindra Gupta (35), a resident of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Sarita Rajaram Sharma (25) Ayushi Gukab Sharma, both resident of Boriwali in Mumbai and Aizaz Khan, (33) a resident of Karnataka. Police said the three women had gone to a jewellery shop at Dasara chowk on Tuesday and asked for some gold ornaments at the counter. They hid four bangles in the purse and left the shop. However, they were caught on CCTV installed in the shop. CCTV footage showed that women left by an autorickshaw. Police traced out the rickshaw driver and got some important clues from him. Police got the information that women were planning to come to a hotel in Shahupuri and the trap was laid. All four came to the hotel by car and were arrested immediately. All the stolen bangles were found in a purse of a woman. Their interrogation revealed that they had committed similar crimes in Koregon Park in Pune and a jewellery shop on Pune-Ahmednagar road. Both the crimes were committed before they came to Kolhapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-women-man-arrested-for-theft/articleshow/80157687.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Another doc loses battle against Covid||Kolkata: Bengal lost another doctor to Covid-19 on Thursday. Gynaecologist Rajib Gon Chowdhury was being treated for Covid-19 at KPC Medical College for about a week before he succumbed to the infection on Thursday afternoon. So far, the state has lost close to 90 doctors to the pandemic. Gon Chowdhury (62) was attached with Repose Nursing Home as a fertility expert. In addition to that, he was also the deputy director of planning for all the state-run ESI Hospitals, vice-president of West Bengal Medical Council and a member of West Bengal Dental Council by virtue of his post at the state medical council. “He was one of the finest human beings, a thorough professional and adept administrator,” said Indian Dental Association secretary Raju Biswas, who is attached with R Ahmed Dental College Kolkata. On Wednesday, city lost paediatric interventional cardiologist Biswajit Bandyopadhyay (51).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/another-doc-loses-battle-against-covid/articleshow/80160717.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||‘Probe in offensive tweets case on, don’t quash FIR’||MUMBAI: The state government on Thursday concluded its submissions before Bombay high court against a plea by Navi Mumbai resident Sunaina Holey to quash a criminal case against her for promoting communal disharmony. It said while her tweet was not responsible for crowds gathering outside Bandra Terminus, it made it seem like the gathering was from a particular community, where one man was trying to blame the PM for the pandemic. Three FIRs were filed against Holey for several tweets including a video, and allegedly offensive posts about Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son, Aaditya, in July. Senior counsel for the state, Manoj Mohite, before a bench of Justices S S Shinde and MS Karnik, denied the police were “vindictive”, and said the FIR was filed by a special officer who monitors social media handles. Mohite said HC cannot quash an FIR based only on the post, when prevailing circumstances, intention of accused and consequences are still under investigation. “There was a bandobast the next day, so there was definitely a public order situation and police registered cases against unknown persons who had gathered that day,” he added. “The bench asked if circumstances had got aggravated by someone else’s interpretation of her tweet. Mohite said Holey’s tweet was retweeted; when the judge asked “what happened then?” he said investigations were still on. The bench said, “Ultimately we have to view it from a prudent man’s point of view.” It added that along with freedom of speech, individuals must maintain “dignity” in their posts. Holey’s counsel Abhinav Chandrachud rebutted the state’s arguments and questioned Mohite’s claim of her being an “influencer”. He said in the last nine months, the police have been unable to point out any untoward incident caused by her tweets. If at all, the onus could be on a follower who commented on her tweet and Holey could not be held responsible for distortion of her tweet. He said Aaditya Thackeray has about 12,500 tweets, but that doesn’t make him a professional tweeter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/probe-in-offensive-tweets-case-on-dont-quash-fir/articleshow/80160726.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Better health infra, revenue and edu new mayor’s priority||Nagpur: The city’s 54th mayor Dayashankar Tiwari said his priority will be to strengthen Nagpur Municipal Corporation NMC) health care infrastructure. “To mark country’s 75th year of Independence next year, I aspire to create 75 new hospitals across the city. These hospitals, which will be known as ‘Vande Matram Jan Swasth Seva’, will come up with the help of NGOs. NMC will only provide infrastructure like buildings, electric connections and water supply while NGOs will take care of medical services, equipment and medicines in these new hospitals,” said Tiwari. The civic body will invite expression of interest from NGOs to run the hospitals, he said. “During Covid-19 crisis, I realized NMC’s health infrastructure needs to be strengthened,” he said after taking the charge from outgoing mayor Sandip Joshi on Thursday. Deputy mayor Manisha Dhawad too took charge from here predecessor Manisha Kothe. Tiwari said though his term will be for 13 months, almost four months will be consumed by the code of conduct for two elections, including MLC this year and NMC next year. The mayor also spoke about his intention to implement a Super-30 like scheme for children studying in NMC-run schools. “Twenty-five students will be prepared for competitive exams for further studies like engineering, medical and National Defence Academy. For this, day care boarding will come up in NMC’s defunct RBGG school in Bijli Nagar,” he said. Other focus areas for Tiwari will be creating smart hawking zone, forming a dedicated helpline, rooms for government health schemes for poor people, ex-army personnel etc Besides this, his focus will be on improving the financial condition of the civic body by bringing in some reforms in advertising policy, speeding up processes in town planning department, levying charges for billboards installed at shops etc. Levying charges for advertisement boards at shops can generate revenue of Rs10 crore for the NMC. He also aims to set up mineral water plant for the civic body. The NMC will provide one litre water for Rs5. “Through this, NMC can easily generate an additional Rs25 crore to Rs30 crore revenue per annum,” he said and also spoke about plans to give a conservancy lane on lease to citizens through which the civic body can generate additional revenue. About poor revenue generation from various departments including property tax, Tiwari said he will be holding a meeting with the civic chief for taking aggressive campaign to increase revenue collection. According to him, positive interaction with the civic chief can help in improving civic amenities in the city. He hoped for administration’s support to work for city’s development. “I will also take the help of district guardian minister Nitin Raut for the development works,” he said. Speaker’s meetings meaningless: Khopde’s jibe at Patole During swearing-in ceremony of both mayor and deputy mayor, MLA Krushna Khopde said with election due for next year, Tiwari will get only eight months to work as a mayor. Without naming state assembly speaker Nana Patole, Khopde criticized him for holding several meetings on issues related to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). “I have met the principal secretary who told me that a person holding constitutional post cannot hold such meetings outside the state legislature. Though he is holding meetings, it has no locus standi, the principal secretary told me,” said Khopde and added that the ruling party in the NMC is ready to face any inquiry. The ruling party in the state is indulging in dirty politics hampering the city’s development, he said. “The city has four state ministers still not a single project or special fund has been allocated for the city,” said Khopde. Outgoing mayor Sandip Joshi said he was not allowed to spend mayor’s fund of Rs5 crore for building public toilets across the city. Last calendar year was very a bad experience for corporators as they could not get even Rs50,000 sanctioned for taking up emergency works. Many senior BJP leaders including MLA Mohan Mate, MLC and ex mayor Pravin Datke, former MLC and ex mayor Anil Sole, ex MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, senior Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe, Tanaji Wanve among others were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/better-health-infra-revenue-and-edu-new-mayors-priority/articleshow/80159652.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||Two new depts of ayurveda research institute inaugurated||Jhansi: Two new departments of Central Ayurveda Research Institute (CARI), Jhansi was inaugurated by AYUSH minister Shripad Yesso Naik on Thursday. The two buildings inaugurated have been built under an estimated budget of Rs 14 crore, and as per the guidelines of World Helath Organization (WHO). These departments house a national raw drug repository, a pharmacy and a drug testing laboratory. A first of its kind in the country, the repository will have 500 varieties of medicinal plant samples to be used for research purposes. Similarly, the pharmacy department will be used for advanced research of new variants of ayurvedic medicines which can be lab tested and undergo clinical trials here itself. The research done in the institute will be further shared across the country in order to promote ayurvedic medicines. As per G Babu, assistant Director, CARI, the repository is a five-year project with a budget of Rs 10 crore sanctioned by National Medicinal Plant Board, Delhi. During his address at the inauguration ceremony, Naik said, “Amid the Covid-19 crisis, our ayurvedic medicines have been used in as many as 100 countries as an immunity booster, and is slowly gaining momentum across the world.” He also announced that a 50-bed OPD would soon start functioning here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/two-new-depts-of-ayurveda-research-institute-inaugurated/articleshow/80159141.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bengaluru||45+ patients’ private hospital spend in Karnataka 2nd highest in country||BENGALURU: The out-of-pocket expenditure of patients aged 45 and above in the private healthcare sector in Karnataka is the second highest in the country when it comes to in-patient service. As per the recently released Longitudinal Ageing Survey in India (Wave I), a 45-plus patient would have spent Rs 1.25 lakh for an in-patient admission in a private hospital in Karnataka. It is Rs 1.27 lakh in Andaman & Nicobar Islands, the highest in India. The lowest mean expenditure is reported in Chandigarh (Rs 13,448), followed by Haryana (Rs 19,302), and Chhattisgarh (Rs 19,848). The survey was conducted between April 2017 and December 2018 and covered 72,250 adults aged 45 years and above. The comprehensive report was released by Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday. The surveyors had asked the respondents what was their private/public hospitalisation expenditure during the year prior to the survey for in-patient treatment. The survey said just 18.2% of those aged 60 years have insurance cover in India: It’s more in rural areas (21%) than in urban clusters (19%). Overall, 21% of those aged 45 years and above are covered by health insurance. Doc: Age alone shouldn’t be criterion for insuranceThis was one of the most-needed and comprehensive reports. Cardiovascular diseases are the biggest reason for hospitalisation among the elderly. Fall and fracture are the other common causes. Also, many geriatric patients seek treatment for viral or bacterial infection, communicable disease and, in the course of hospitalisation, other underlying non-communicable diseases get diagnosed,” said Dr Anoop Amarnath, a leading geriatrician in Karnataka. According to Dr Amarnath, there is a need to address the issue of difficulties in elderly citizens obtaining individual health insurance cover. “What leads to out-of-pocket expenditure is the lack of insurance coverage. But it is very difficult to get individual insurance cover for someone aged 70. Age alone should not be a criterion for health insurance cover,” he said. “The reason why out-of-pocket expenditure is more for the public health sector in Delhi could be because premier government-run hospitals like AIIMS are in Delhi. In places like Bengaluru where private healthcare sector is predominantly present, the expenditure will be more in the private health sector,” said an expert closely working with the state government. Experts said the report lacks specifics. “The cost of hospitalisation always depends on the nature of illness and number of days,” said a member of Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association. “Going by the report, the outof-pocket expenditure is high in states — Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Andaman & Nicobar Islands — which have very few private hospitals. Karnataka’s situation is not the same. It’s not clear why there’s a big difference between Karnataka (Rs 1.3 lakh) and Maharashtra (Rs 24,883),” said a government officer who has worked with costing procedure in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/45-patients-pvt-hosp-spend-in-ktaka-2nd-highest-in-country/articleshow/80162545.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Surat||Undertrial caught taking on mobile phone in jail||Surat: Two mobile phones were recovered from two inmates of the Bharuch sub-jail during the special checking drive carried out by the authorities on Thursday. The phones were found recovered from Virpal Singh Jaysingh Chavda and Nirmal Singh alias Nimmo Amariksingh Bajigar lodged in C-22 barrack, according to the complaint filed by jailor KS Thakur. Nirmal Singh was caught red-handed talking on the mobile phone. On frisking, another mobile phone was recovered from his pocket. Both undertrials are lodged in the jail since 2015 in various dacoity and loot cases. On frisking, Nirmal Singh also threatened the jail guards with dire consequences. They will will be brought to the police station on production warrant for questioning as to know how they managed to get mobile phones inside the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/undertrial-caught-taking-on-mobile-phone-in-jail/articleshow/80158494.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||‘Ordinance aimed at preventing unlawful conversion’||Prayagraj: The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, is aimed at preventing any form of unlawful conversion actuated by elements of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement, etc., and the Constitution of India abhors any form of forceful conversion particularly in matters of religion. This was stated by the state government in its counter affidavit filed before the Allahabad high court on Thursday in response to the PILs challenging the recently promulgated Ordinance. “Being a secular state it becomes the foremost duty of the state to protect its citizens from any kind of unlawful or forceful conversion so that the liberty of thought, faith, belief and worship as well as equality of status stands safeguarded thereby assuring the dignity of the individuals,” the state government further stated in the affidavit. According to the state government, “the Ordinance was passed in public interest inasmuch as there is a fear psychosis prevailing in the community at large and the community itself is endangered and succumbs to the pressure resulting in forceful conversion”. In other PILs relating to the similar issue, it was informed to the court on behalf of the state government that the Supreme Court has taken cognizance of the matter and has issued notice to the state government. To recall, a bunch of PILs were filed challenging the Ordinance promulgated by the UP government to prohibit religious conversions in the name of so called ‘love jihad’. According to the petitioners, this Ordinance impinges upon their fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. According to the petitioners in the PILs, the Ordinance is violative of citizens’ rights under Article 14 (Right to Equality), 15 (Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, etc.), 21 (Right to life) and 25 (Freedom of conscience, etc.) of the Constitution of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/ordinance-aimed-at-preventing-unlawful-conversion/articleshow/80159217.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh to HC: Law is aimed at stopping unlawful conversion||PRAYAGRAJ: The Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, is aimed at preventing any form of unlawful conversion actuated by elements of misrepresentation, force, undue influence, coercion, allurement, etc., and the Constitution of India abhors any form of forceful conversion particularly in matters of religion. This was stated by the state government in its counter-affidavit filed before the Allahabad high court on Thursday in response to the PILs challenging the recently promulgated Ordinance. “Being a secular state it becomes the foremost duty of the state to protect its citizens from any kind of unlawful or forceful conversion so that the liberty of thought, faith, belief and worship as well as equality of status stands safeguarded thereby assuring the dignity of the individuals,” the state government further stated in the affidavit. According to the state government, “the Ordinance was passed in public interest in as much as there is a fear psychosis prevailing in the community at large and the community itself is endangered and succumbs to the pressure resulting in forceful conversion”. In other PILs relating to the similar issue, it was informed to the court on behalf of the state government that the Supreme Court has taken cognizance of the matter and has issued notice to the state government. To recall, a bunch of PILs were filed challenging the Ordinance promulgated by the UP government to prohibit religious conversions in the name of so called ‘love jihad’. According to the petitioners, this Ordinance impinges upon their fundamental right to choice and the right to change of faith. According to the petitioners in the PILs, the Ordinance is violative of citizens’ rights under Article 14 (Right to Equality), 15 (Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, etc.), 21 (Right to life) and 25 (Freedom of conscience, etc.) of the Constitution of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-hc-law-is-aimed-at-stopping-unlawful-conversion/articleshow/80161149.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 8, 2021||Allahabad||Rs 15cr Nishadraj Park in Shringverpur to come up as symbol of caste harmony||Lucknow: To mark the event of the meeting of Ram with Nishadraj in Ramayana, the UP government is constructing a Nishadraj Park in Prayagraj’s Shringverpur. Nishadraj, or the king of Nishads, had helped Ram, Sita and Lakshman cross the Ganga in Shringverpur when they were on their way to the forests to spend 14 years in exile. The three had also spent a night in the village before heading to the forest. To commemorate this incident, a park is being built in an area of 5,600 sq mt at a cost of Rs 15 crore and is expected to be a huge tourist draw in the area. “The park will also have a statue of Lord Ram and Nishadraj embracing, placed on a high platform. This statue will give the message that there was never a feeling of high and low caste in India. Social harmony has been a tradition here. There can be no other example of this greater than Maryada Purushottam Shri Ram,” said a government spokesperson. “Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has initiated various religious tourism projects in the state. Of these, Shringverpur will become an example of social harmony. With the Ram temple coming up in Ayodhya, other places associated with Ram and the Ramayana will also be developed as part of the Ramayana circuit,” said the spokesperson. He said that the park would showcase the trio’s night halt in the fisherman’s hut, Ram’s request for a boat to cross the Ganga, the communication between Ram and Nishadraj and Ram’s love for the boatman. These incidents will come alive through drawings in the park. The park will also document the meeting of Shringi Rishi with his sister Shanta. The UP Projects Corporation made a presentation before the CM in this regard. Shringverpur reportedly got its name from Shringi Rishi, who is believed to have meditated there. He is the sage who performed the Kameshti Yajna at Makhota Dham in Basti for King Dasharatha to get a son. Shringverpur, located on the Lucknow-Prayagraj road on the banks of the Ganga, finds mention in the Puranas. “Tulsidas’s Ramcharitmanas has a detailed description of the meeting of Nishadraj and Ram at Shringverpur. The park will become a testament to the incident. It will also have all the necessary public amenities for visitors,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rs-15cr-nishadraj-park-in-shringverpur-to-come-up-as-symbol-of-caste-harmony/articleshow/80159164.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Apna Dal seeks Bharat Ratna for Karpoori||Lucknow: Former Union minister and Apna Dal (Sone Lal) chief Anupriya Patel has demanded Bharat Ratna — the country’s top civilian honour — for socialist leader and former Bihar CM Karpoori Thakur on his birth anniversary on January 24. Anupriya also asked her party functionaries to hold district level conventions and raise the demand in every district on Thakur’s birth anniversary. She said a person from ‘nai’ (barber) community be felicitated on the day. Thakur belonged to ‘nai’ sub-caste under most backward castes. Anupriya was addressing workers at the party office during a function organised to mark New Year. She exhorted party workers to gear up for the panchayat elections and the UP assembly elections. She asked them to strengthen the party at the grassroots and invoke principles of party founder late Sone Lal Patel in every village. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/apna-dal-seeks-bharat-ratna-for-karpoori/articleshow/80161239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Two witnesses to move HC today against Babri case acquittals||AYODHYA: Exactly 100 days after special CBI court, Lucknow, acquitted all 32 accused, including BJP veterans LK Advani, MM Joshi and Uma Bharti in the Babri Masjid demolition case, two CBI witnesses will move Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court against the acquittals on Friday, when deadline for CBI to challenge the verdict in a higher court expires. The petition will be filed by two CBI witnesses — Haji Mahboob, 70, and Hafiz Sayyad Akhlaq, 80, who deposed during the trial at the Lucknow court. Both their houses, which were in close proximity to the mosque, were torched by a mob on December 6, 1992. Convenor of Babri Masjid Action Committee, Zafaryab Jilani, said, “On Friday, we will move Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court against the acquittals of Babri demolition accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2-witnesses-to-move-hc-today-against-babri-case-acquittals/articleshow/80161346.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 8, 2021||Kanpur||Charges under anti-conversion law dropped: UP Govt tells HC||Prayagraj: The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday informed the Allahabad high court that the state police has dropped charges under the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, against one Nadeem as no evidence in support of religious conversion came forward during investigation. In the affidavit filed by the state government, it has been clearly stated that no evidence was found that accused Nadeem was having ‘any illicit relationship with the woman in question’. Further, no evidence was found in support of the allegation that Nadeem was trying for her religious conversion as alleged by the informant, Akshay Kumar, in the FIR he had filed against Nadeem. An FIR was lodged against Nadeem at Mansoorpur police station in Muzaffarnagar only after two days of promulgation of UP government’s new anti-conversion law, alleging that he was trying to marry a woman of the district with the intention of her religious conversion. While hearing a writ petition filed by Nadeem on Thursday, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the state government to file its reply in the case and fixed January 15 as the next date of hearing. Earlier, on December 18, 2020, the high court had asked the UP Police not to take any coercive action against Nadeem, and tagged this matter with two other PILs challenging the constitutional validity of the ordinance. On Thursday, the court also extended the interim order dated December 18, which had stayed the arrest of the accused till further orders of the court. Incidentally, this is the first criminal case under anti-conversion ordinance where the court had stayed an arrest. During the court proceedings, senior advocate SFA Naqvi, who represented the petitioner, argued that the ordinance is ultra vires of the Constitution of India and any criminal proceeding initiated under the provisions of the ordinance shall be quashed. Nadeem, a resident of Haridwar, was booked by the UP Police on November 29, 2020, on a complaint filed by Akshay Kumar of Muzaffarnagar. Nadeem later sought quashing of the FIR lodged against him under Sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC and Sections 3 and 5 of the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020. It was alleged in the FIR that Nadeem developed an illicit relation with the complainant’s wife with the purpose of converting her religion by marriage, and was attempting to convert her by threat as well as by exerting undue pressure. Nadeem has denied all the allegations and asserted that he is a poor labourer who had been falsely implicated in the case by the complainant merely to avoid payment of some dues which the complainant owes to him. Subsequently, the police after investigation had dropped the charges under the anti-conversion law but filed a charge sheet against the petitioner Nadeem under sections 504 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code as it was found during investigation that on one occasion he had called the woman and threatened to kill her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/charges-under-anti-conversion-law-dropped-up-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/80159190.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||ASI slams brakes on flyover near Bada Imambara, files complaint||Lucknow: The construction of a two-lane flyover near Bada Imambara has been stopped after the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) lodged a complaint against the Uttar Pradesh State Bridge Corporation Limited (UPSBCL) with Chowk police, raising apprehension that the construction may cause damage to the monument. Bada Imambara is a protected site under the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological and Remains Act, 1958. The flyover will run from Bada Imambara to Vikram Patni Road in Chowk. In its complaint, ASI cited ban on any construction within the 200-metre radius of a protected monument and added that despite the ban, digging work for the approach road to the flyover was being carried out near the monument. The monuments’ body also claimed that UPBSCL did not procure the no-objection certificate (NOC) for the flyover from it. ASI has also written to the Lucknow divisional commissioner on the issue. It has asked the police to allow construction only after UPSBCL obtains an NOC. UPSBCL project manager AP Singh said the construction was stopped three weeks ago after ASI raised the objections. “We have also applied for an NOC from ASI. Flyover work is 95% complete and it will only take a month for developing the approach road, if granted approval,” he added. The flyover, which will cost Rs 110 crore, will benefit more than 50,000 commuters of Rajajipuram, Chowk, Aishbagh and Victoria Street. It will reduce the travelling time between Victoria Street and KGMU from 25 minutes to just 10 minutes. The project was announced by Lucknow MP Rajnath Singh in 2018. Singh’s representative Diwakar Tripathi said, “ASI should have objected to it at the start. Delaying the project when it is on the verge of completion is not the right way. The flyover will provide hassle-free commuting to lakhs of residents living in the Old City area.” ASI superintendent, Lucknow circle, Manoj Saxena said, “UPSBCL started the construction work without taking our approval. It can now obtain an NOC from the National Monument Authority if it wants to carry out the work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/asi-slams-brakes-on-flyover-near-bada-imambara-files-complaint/articleshow/80161011.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||3 centres clear vax dry run test in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: The Covid vaccination dry run at three centres in the district passed off without any glitches on Friday. The mock exercise was carried out to train concerned personnel and plug loopholes in logistical and other arrangements. The mock drill at Yavatmal and Darwha centres was over in 3 hours, while the work at Savargad PHC was over in two-and-half hours. As part of the dry run, for every centre, 25 persons each were informed by messages and all of them were present at their respective centres at the given time. The exercise at Yavatmal centre was inaugurated by district collector in the presence of ZP CEO, SP, dean of GMCH, civil surgeon and district health officer. While one centre was at civic health centre of Yavatmal civic body in the city, two were set up at the sub-district hospital at Darwha and primary health centre at Savargad village. Civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey herself participated in the dry run and went through the three steps successfully. According to Dr Warey, actual vaccination will be done in four phases whenever the government announces the dates. In the actual vaccination drive, all health workers will be covered under phase I, while front-line staffers will get the doses in the second phase. In the third phase, citizens above 50 years of age will be covered followed by general public in the fourth phase, said Dr Warey. There are 110 government-centres and 205 private centres in the district from where 14,967 persons have been selected and their details posted on Co-Win app.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-centres-clear-vax-dry-run-test-in-yavatmal/articleshow/80173777.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Kidnapped man rescued, eight nabbed||LUCKNOW: The Kakori police rescued a man who was kidnapped on Wednesday night and was taken to miscreants’ hide out in a mango grove in the area on Thursday. The police arrested eight miscreants in this connection and recovered a car, a motorcycle, a country-made pistol and two live cartridges from the miscreants. The victim was identified as Lalman Jaiswal (22) of Balrampur district. The accused were arrested from near Behta Nula when they were going towards a mango grove. Those arrested were identified as Mohammed Suhail and Ketan Valmiki, both of Ghazipur, Mohammed Saud, Mohammed Shariq and Nabil Ahmad, trio of Kaiserbagh, Shiva Valmiki of Sarojininagar, Aditya Kumar Valmiki of Hasanganj and Ikrar Ahamad of Vikas Nagar. All the accused are between 20-24 years of age. ACP, Kakori, Archana Singh said that one Shah Alam had lodged a complaint that Jaiswal was kidnapped from Machli Mandi in Dubaga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kidnapped-man-rescued-eight-nabbed/articleshow/80161052.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Pay 2% land transport cess with property tax||BENGALURU: From April 1, Bengalureans will have to pay 2% land transport cess along with their annual property tax. The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike deferred its plan of collecting cess from 2020-21 fearing citizens’ backlash. The government tried to introduce the cess in 2018 and 2019, but approved it for introduction from 2021-22, stating the money collected would be used to maintain roads. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta downplayed the burden on property holders and said there’s “nothing special” about it. Transport cess not needed: CitizensIt was to be implemented earlier, it has been done now,” Gaurav Gupta said. BBMP has to deposit the collections every quarter with the Directorate of Urban Land Transport, which will use the fund to develop pedestrian ways and cycle tracks, among others. A senior BBMP official said Rs 300 crore is collected in taxes from over 20 lakh properties. The civic administration collects four kinds of cess — beggary, health, library, and solid waste management — in the property tax. “We did not implement the new cess, keeping citizens in mind. Our pockets are now empty, and we need money,” a BBMP revenue official said. Nikhil Prakash, a resident of Wilson Garden, said BBMP is burdening citizens with the cess. “We are paying many kinds of cess without knowing what it’s spent on. This is not necessary. Let them provide us proper roads and we will then think of paying the new cess,” Prakash said. Vishnu Prasad, member of Save Bellandur, said when BBMP cannot provide proper roads, why does it need to collect land transport cess. “The cess should be added only when there is last-mile connectivity. Non-AC buses should be provided freely to commoners,” said Prasad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/pay-2-land-transport-cess-with-property-tax/articleshow/80162555.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Wrestler held for role in Kalamba cellphone case||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur police have arrested a man in connection with the incident in which packets were lobbed over the Kalamba jail to bring cell phone and marijuana into the prison. Police are looking for three of his accomplices. The police have identified the arrested person as Hrishikesh Sadashiv Patil, a resident of Radhanagari. Investigation has revealed that the suspects were in touch with Vikas Khandelwal, who is in Kalamba jail in connection with a case under Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act. District superintendent of police Shailesh Balkawde told the media that the vehicle was used in the crime has been seized. “Investigation revealed that two wanted suspects came to Kolhapur from Sangli using the vehicle. They met Hrishikesh Patil and another suspect, both wrestlers, and roped them in,” he said. On December 22, all of them went to Kalamba jail. One suspect got down from the jeep and threw three parcels inside the jail premises, police said. Balkawde said that they were traced with the help of private and public CCTVs installed on the road. Police first picked up Patil from a local talim. He allegedly confessed to crime and disclosed names of the other suspects. Police are investigating whether some jail personnel were involved in the crime. This is the first major breakthrough in a series of incidents in which cell phone and marijuana was found inside Kalamba jail. Apart from the December 22 incident, three more similar cases have been registered. On December 25, two cell phones and four batteries were traced out while a mobile and a charger was found on December 31. Earlier in November, three parcels were thrown from outside the jail. The parcels contain cricket balls, stuffed with marijuana. The then jail superintendent Shard Shelke was transferred following a series of incidents. Jail administration has already launched an inquiry, which is in progress currently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/wrestler-held-for-role-in-kalamba-cellphone-case/articleshow/80157728.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||2 houses collapse following landslide in Uttarkashi village||Uttarkashi: Two houses collapsed due to a landslide at Hatwadi village of Mori block, Uttarakashi district. No casualty has been reported so far.According to TOI sources, incessant rainfall from the past two days had triggered a massive landslide at Hatwadi village on Wednesday evening. Heavy boulders and debris fell from the top of the hill and damaged two houses.After receiving information, several teams consisting of revenue department, disaster management and other concerning departments reached the spot and began recuse and rehabilitation work.Chain Singh Rawat, master trainer, disaster management department, said, “We have shifted all the affected families to a nearby government school. The other teams are surveying the area to confirm the extent of the damage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/2-houses-collapse-following-landslide-in-uttarkashi-village/articleshow/80158513.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand records 249 Covid-19 cases, 6 deaths||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand on Thursday recorded 249 Covid-19 cases and six deaths. With this, the death toll has risen to 1,555 and the total number of positive cases soared to 92, 842. So far, Dehradun has recorded the highest number of deaths with 870, trail by Nainital (213), Haridwar (149), US Nagar (112) and Pauri (57). Whereas, Dehradun leads with the total number of cases with 27,967, followed by 13,570 recorded in Haridwar and 11,793 cases in Nainital. Meanwhile, 439 recovered and were discharged on Thursday. The Himalayan state has 11 containment zones, of which Uttarkashi has seven, Dehradun has three and Pauri has one containment zone. Meanwhile, the state will see second Covid-19 dry run across 13 districts today on Thursday.. The first dry run took place in Dehradun district on January 3, across five locations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-records-249-covid-19-cases-6-deaths/articleshow/80158523.cms||Shivani Azad
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Four armed men leisurely loot Rs 2 crore gold and diamonds from showroom in Mira Road||MUMBAI: Four armed men robbed gold and diamonds worth over Rs 2 crore from a jewellery showroom in Mira Road on Thursday. The over 15-minute theft, carried out leisurely, was captured on CCTV cameras in the showroom. The accused, in their 30s, wearing masks due to Covid-19, entered the eight-year-old S Kumar Gold and Diamonds showroom, on a busy road in Sector 4 of Shanti Nagar at 2pm. After interacting with counter-staff about jewellery, one of them pulled out a revolver, while the others walked around, picking up ornaments and putting them in their bags. They put few ornaments, like finger and ear rings, in their trouser pockets. The security guard was seated on a stool in the showroom with folded hands. After 15 minutes, the thieves ensure they have picked up every ornament and walk out. Police said they arrived on two motorbikes. While two left with a bag on a motorbike, two had to flee on foot as their two-wheeler gave way. The motorbike was abandoned outside the showroom. Police suspect the two-wheelers used were stolen. The men my have done a recce of the showroom, as they showed no no sign of urgency and did not try to avoid the CCTV cameras. Staffs told police that when the men walked in with masks they presumed they were customers. On December 30, Rs 8 crore jewellery was stolen from a Boisar showroom. The security guard, captured on CCTV camera carrying out the theft, is absconding.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-armed-men-leisurely-take-away-rs2cr-gold-diamonds/articleshow/80159722.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Awareness, dialogue needed’||AHMEDABAD: As the countdown for the arrival of the first batch of vaccine in Gujarat started with dry runs — the third one is set take place on Friday across the state — health experts stressed on creating awareness about the process and dispel myths to ensure greater participation in the voluntary process. Dr Parul Bhatt, professor and head of the medicine department at GMERS Medical College, Sola, who is the principal investigator of Covaxin trials at Sola Civil Hospital, said that over 1,000 persons have got the first shot and 300 have got second (booster) shot of the vaccine. “We will be able to make the society safer only when enough people develop the capacity to fight the infection. The vaccine becomes all the more important as there’s no proven medicine that works against it,” she said. It’s also about effectiveness, and even ensuring fa ighting chance against the virus, said Dr Nishchal Bhatt, a city-based child specialist and member of state Covid-19 immunization task force. “According to reports, the vaccines are 70% effective. In the current scenario, even that’s a significant number,” he said. A city-based public health expert, who did not wish to be named, said that the trust would be built with data in public domain. “Compared to several foreign-based manufacturers who have put in riders – for example, one of the manufacturers has asked those with severe allergies not to take it – we have not seen any. Even we are fielding questions on the conditions of getting the shot,” said the expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/awareness-dialogue-needed/articleshow/80160766.cms||---
January 8, 2021||India||Genetic link to heart disease, diabetes in South Asians found||BENGALURU: Scientists and doctors from several cities in India and the US say they have provided the first evidence for a shared genetic link between cardiomyopathy (condition of heart muscle leading to failure) and metabolic syndrome (high blood sugar, excess body fat around the waist and abnormal cholesterol levels) among South Asians. This information, the team says, can aid early identification and development of preventive strategies. While recent epidemiological and clinical studies suggest that around 10% of cardiomyopathy patients coexist with diabetes, the genetic link underlying it is less understood. Findings published in “Science Advances”, an international peer-reviewed journal, by the team led by Dhandapany Perundurai, investigator at the Centre for Cardiovascular Biology and Disease (CCBD) at Bengaluru’s Institute for Stem Cell Science and Regenerative Medicine (DBT-inStem), provide evidence for this. What they foundPerundurai’s lab screened 2,552 cardiomyopathy patients with and without diabetes, and identified novel and ultra-rare variants in a metabolism-related gene called “Adiponectin receptor protein 1 (ADIPO1R)”. “Importantly, these gene variants were absent in South Asian-specific 1,800 healthy individuals. ADIPO1R is a receptor for the hormone adiponectin, which regulates glucose and lipid metabolism in human cells,” the team said. To understand these variants’ role in causing heart disease, researchers used cardiomyocytes — cells involved in heart function — and showed significant dysregulations in glucose metabolism and increased cell size with enhanced expression genetic markers associated with cardiac hypertrophy. “As each of these variants is found to be affecting a unique signalling molecule and its biological process, therapeutic strategies should be tailor-made based on the nature and type of the variant associated with this disease,” Perundurai explained. “A simple genetic test would help spot individuals highly susceptible to cardiac muscle disorder. Early diagnosis of an ‘at-risk’ population will help prescribe appropriate preventive health plans to subdue harmful effects associated with this disease,” Perundurai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/genetic-link-to-heart-disease-diabetes-in-south-asians-found/articleshow/80162586.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Bar Council expresses support for suspended judge who used car of accused||Nainital: The Uttarakhand Bar Council has come out in support of suspended Dehradun district judge Prashant Joshi who was pulled up by the Uttarakhand high court earlier for allegedly using a luxury car owned by a man against whom an FIR has been registered for forgery, cheating and criminal conspiracy.Speaking to TOI, council’s chairman Surendra Pundir said the council would meet newly-appointed Chief Justice RS Chauhan to revoke Joshi’s suspension when he arrives in Nainital.Explaining their decision to support Joshi, Pundir said, “Generally, before any adverse action is taken, a show-cause notice is issued. However, in this case, Prashant Joshi was not even heard, which goes against the law.”.Pundir added that Prashant Joshi is an “honourable and incorruptible judge” and claimed that a conspiracy was being hatched against the judge.”“We will ask the Chief Justice for his time to discuss the issue and five of our members, including myself and the vice-chairman, will meet the Justice Chauhan very soon,” Pundir said.As reported by TOI earlier, judge Joshi used the car of an accused man for travelling to Mussoorie to attend the two-day camp court.According to the office memo published by the HC registrar general Hira Singh Bonal, the vehicle was owned by Kewal Krishan Soin against whom an FIR has been registered at Doon’s Rajpur police station.The memo said that fitting his official board in the car of an accused might be intended to protect the owner and occupants of the car from “nefarious activities”.The memo further said the conduct of Joshi touches upon his integrity and “amounts to grave misconduct”. It added that such conduct is “unbecoming of a judicial officer".Joshi was then attached with the district judgeship in Rudraprayag and has been prevented from leaving the station without prior permission of the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-bar-council-expresses-support-for-suspended-judge-who-used-car-of-accused/articleshow/80158527.cms||Prashant Jha
January 8, 2021||Surat||Duplicate ghee making unit busted in Rander||Surat: The prevention of crime branch (PCB) sleuths busted a duplicate ghee and oil making racket in Rander and seized over 358 kg products. Police arrested three persons from the raided warehouse while two others involved in manufacturing are yet to get caught. They were making duplicate ghee and oil using sunflower oil, vegetable ghee, ghee flavour and yellow colour. The ghee and oil were sold using names of top brands and packed in original looking packets of Sumul, Amul, Sagar ghee and Fortune oil. The raid at a warehouse in Mashal Chawk of Palanpur Patiya was carried out following specific information and complaints received from Fortune Oil officials. On being nabbed from the spot, the two persons - Janak Bhajiwala and Sanjeev Nadkarni - told police that they supplied the duplicate products to Diva Traders owned by one Jayendra Lakhani. Police raided Lakhani’s warehouse nearby and seized the products. Lakhani too was nabbed.Two other accused, Shankar Marwadi and Mangal Marwadi, who are suspected to be involved in manufacturing the duplicate product, are yet to get arrested.The accused were booked under various sections of IPC and Prevention of Food Adulteration Act, The Trade Marks Act and The Copyright Act, said Sanjay Bhatia, police inspector, PCB. “They mixed sunflower oil, colour, ghee flavour and vegetable ghee and put it to boil. After a while, it turned liquid that looked and tasted exactly like ghee,” said Bhati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/duplicate-ghee-making-unit-busted-in-rander/articleshow/80158534.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati district vaccine dry run glitch-free||Amravati: The dry run for Covid vaccination at four places in the district was a total success, claimed health machinery here on Friday. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said that the mock drill worked without any flaw. The dry run was conducted at Nursing School campus and PDMC hospital in city, rural hospital at Teosa and PHC at Anjangaon Bari. The vaccination staff reported at their respective centres at 8.15am. Twenty-five beneficiaries were recorded and tested at each centre. A team of six personnel was deputed at each centre having a registration cell, vaccination room and observation cell. At the registration cell, information about the beneficiaries was recorded in Co-WIN app. After the beneficiary received an OTP, concerned team started the vaccination practical. The beneficiaries also received information about the next vaccination date and time on their mobile. After the doses were administered, the ‘vaccine’ recipients were all kept in the observation cell for half an hour. “One of the purposes of conducting the mock drill was to check the time the process takes,” said civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-district-vaccine-dry-run-glitch-free/articleshow/80175226.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Nigerian held as diamond broker loses Rs 1.2 crore in honeytrap||MUMBAI: V P Road police on Wednesday brought a 48-year-old Nigerian from New Delhi and arrested him in connection with a Rs 1.2 crore cheating case. A diamond broker was allegedly honeytrapped by a woman he met on Instagram. She posed as a captain on a ship in London, and claimed she wanted to invest in the gold and diamond business in India. She said she had sent gifts and five lakh US dollars for it. The 42-year-old diamond broker from Girgaum was told to deposit money in bank accounts to get the gifts and dollars cleared from Customs. H later realised he was cheated. Akeredolu Joseph Ojide, originally from Nigeria, was detained by Mumbai Police at Uttam Nagar market in Delhi. He was produced before a court, which remanded him to police custody till January 12. The victim, who is married and stays with wife and child, told police he had received a friend’s request on October 10. She introduced herself as Alex Zendra and they exchanged numbers and chatted on WhatsApp. The broker, who has an office at BKC, told police that Zendra one day told him she wanted to marry him, adding that within a week of friendship, she sent messages and photos of gold chains, watches and branded shoes, claiming she had sent gifts for him. He later got a call from a woman, who said she was from Customs, and that his parcel was seized at the airport. She told him to pay the fees to get it cleared. The broker transferred more than Rs 60 lakh in accounts. He went to Delhi and stayed at a hotel where the arrested accused met him and showed him US dollars, saying it was for business and had been sent by Zendra. The Nigerian told him that since it was huge amount, it would be difficult to get it without paying fees. The broker transferred more than Rs 55 lakh to accounts but did not get any parcel or dollars. He tried contacting Zendra and the Nigerian and when he failed he realised he was cheated. A team comprising Sandhyarani Bhosale, Sopan Kadad, Siddhesh Joshte, Dhanvesh Patil, Sachin Saravade, Kumar Patrud, Prabhakar Ahir, Munna Singh, Vaibhav Girkar and nodal officer Raja Bidkar arrested the Nigerian. “Prima facie, 18 bank accounts were used. We have written to banks for details and are trying to collect more details to establish the money trail. There is no information on Zendra. We are questioning the accused,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nigerian-held-as-diamond-broker-loses-rs1-2cr-in-honeytrap/articleshow/80159724.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Pregnancy gives out mentally ill girl was raped||Bareilly: A 23-year-old mentally challenged girl was found to be pregnant when she was taken to hospital by her family for a medical examination after she complained of stomach ache and vomiting. Taken aback, her family questioned her but she was initially silent, said Sambhal police. After much cajoling, they finally learnt what happened and lodged a complaint at Baniather police station, Sambhal. On Thursday, police registered an FIR against the accused, who is known to the family, and arrested him. Rakesh Kumar, SHO, Baniather police station, told TOI, “Girl’s medical report suggests that she is 20 weeks pregnant. However, a fresh medical examination is being conducted and we are awaiting the medical reports. Further investigation is underway.” In his compliant with police, the girl’s father, a labourer, said initially his daughter was too scared to reveal anything. It took a while to persuade her to speak up. She claimed that one Maniram Gupta, an acquaintance, lured her to an isolated place and raped her. Gupta allegedly told her to remain silent or else her family would beat her up. He gave her Rs 5 to keep quiet, her father said. He said due to her mental condition, his daughter used to roam about near their house. Gupta obviously took advantage of her condition as also the fact that family would be away at work, he alleged. Superintendent of police, Sambhal, Chakresh Mishra said, “The accused, Maniram Gupta, who lives in the neighbourhood, has been booked under IPC section 376(2)(l) (punishment for rape) and sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pregnancy-gives-out-mentally-ill-girl-was-raped/articleshow/80158536.cms||Maria Khan
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Tiger reserve authorities write to Railways objecting move to run trains through Rajaji tiger reserve at speeds of 100 kmph||DEHRADUN: In a decision that is expected to spell trouble for elephants and other wild animals in Shivalik Elephant Reserve (which comprises of parts of Corbett and Rajaji tiger reserves), an approval has been given by the railways to run 18 pairs of trains which were discontinued due to the Covid-19 pandemic. According to forest officials, the problem is that the trains, which earlier ran at a maximum speed of 50 km per hour (kmph) will now be allowed to run at double the speed, that is, at 100 km per hour on the 52-km-long rail line through the reserve between Haridwar and Dehradun. Sources said that of the 52-km stretch, almost 18 km is considered extra vulnerable for wildlife, especially elephants. Two areas within the 18-km patch — Motichur and Doiwala — have seen almost a dozen jumbo deaths in the past two decades. The state has in all lost 18 jumbos to train accidents since 2000. In 2020, too, two jumbos were mowed down by a speeding train at Doiwala. DK Singh, director of Rajaji, told TOI that they have written to the railways against the decision. “There is an Uttarakhand HC order of 2016 which clearly states that trains need to run at a very low speed of 30 kmph while passing through national parks. The 34th meeting of the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) in 2015 had also laid down that trains can run only at a speed of 35 kmph at night and at 40 kmph during the day while passing through a tiger reserve.” He added that it was all the more important that the speed of trains be regulated since the Covid-19 pandemic had brought about a change in the movement pattern of wild animals. “Since there was scanty movement of trains during the lockdown, the wild animals had increasingly started using rail tracks while wandering. Now, if trains at high speed pass through the reserve, there is a high probability of the animals being hit. Also, during winters, the visibility in many areas of our reserve goes very low which is another reason why such reckless speeds of trains may prove detrimental for all.” Meanwhile, divisional railway manager of Moradabad, Tarun Prakash, told TOI, “Our section capacity to run more trains was severely constrained due to the 50 kmph speed but now we have got sanction to run the train at 100 kmph between Haridwar to Dehradun as well as Haridwar to Rishikesh. For Kumbh, we might require more trains, which is why this approval has been given.” He added that “between 8 pm to 6 am, the trains would stick to their 35 kmph speed in the vulnerable 18-km- patch that has been identified.” However, sources said that of the 36 trains that have been cleared to run at a speed of 100 kmph, barely around a dozen will ply in the time slot of 8pm-6am in the 18 km stretch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-reserve-authorities-write-to-railways-objecting-move-to-run-trains-through-rajaji-tiger-reserve-at-speeds-of-100-kmph/articleshow/80158538.cms||Shivani Azad
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra flip flop on quota in recruitment of constables||MUMBAI: Three days after issuing an order restricting Maratha community candidates from availing SEBC reservation in police recruitment, the state home department on Thursday cancelled it. Home minister Anil Deshmukh clarified the state would issue a fresh order allowing Maratha candidates to avail benefit under the 10% economically weaker section (EWS) quota, instead of 13% socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota. The January 4 order had said since the SC has stayed the SEBC quota, the ongoing recruitment of constables would be done without SEBC reservation and these candidates will have to apply under the open category. However, Deshmukh announced the government resolution stands cancelled. He said SEBC candidates can now avail benefit under the EWS quota. “The department will issue a revised order soon,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-flip-flop-on-quota-in-recruitment-of-constables/articleshow/80160819.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||UK strain: Results of eight fliers awaited||AHMEDABAD: Even as first four persons from Gujarat – who were detected with the new strain of Covid-19 reported in the UK – got discharged from SVP Hospital on Wednesday evening, the result of eight other samples sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) is awaited, said the state health department officials. Experts said the four persons, who had tested positive for Covid-19 upon arrival on December 22 from a flight from the UK, completed 14 days of mandatory hospitalization. They would be kept under observation for the next seven days, they added. “Similarly, the eight, who tested positive but whose strain is not known, will soon complete 14 days. Will they be allowed to go home if their RT-PCR test results are negative?” asked an expert. The four did not develop any major symptoms, said the SVP Hospital authorities. None of them required intensive care, they added. “The protocol doesn’t change for patients. The only difference is the chances of high infectiousness. But all the suspects are currently under hospital observation,” said an official. “Three other passengers who had arrived with Covid-19 positive result but not with the UK strain were also discharged on Wednesday and Thursday,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uk-strain-results-of-8-fliers-awaited/articleshow/80160792.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Adult vaccination levels not optimal even among doctors||AHMEDABAD: Adult vaccination drives have always been dismal, not just in Gujarat but across the country. Just as the medical system gears up for the Covid 19 vaccination drive, a team of doctors, months ago, had asked medical professionals about their willingness to get vaccinated, their knowledge of vaccines and whether they have been vaccinated in their adult lives. The study covered 244 resident doctors at a municipal hospital and the Gujarat Cancer Society Medical College. Nearly 75% of these doctors claimed that they had been vaccinated for Hepatitis B, just 24% of them, all women, said they had been vaccinated for the human papilloma Virus (HPV). When these 244 doctors were asked to reveal their vaccination status, only 20% doctors claimed that they had seasonal influenza shots, 9.4% said they had taken the typhoid vaccine, and just 6% had opted for the diphtheria, pertussis (whooping cough) and tetanus (dPT/dT) vaccine. The study was conducted by a team of doctors — Donald Christian, Kamlesh Jain and Jayshree Tolani of GCS Medical College and Haresh Chandwani of PFHI, Gurugram.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/adult-vaccination-levels-not-optimal-even-among-doctors/articleshow/80160940.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Cops start special drive to make Har-ki-Pauri, surrounding areas ‘beggar-free’ ahead of Kumbh, 103 beggars rescued||Dehradun: The Kumbh Mela police on Thursday launched a special drive to make Har-ki-Pauri and the surrounding areas “beggar-free”. As many as 103 beggars rescued were distributed winter clothes, their hair cut and they were given hot meals. They were also tested for Covid-19 in which noone was found positive. Under the project — mooted by Inspector General (IG) Kumbh Mela Sanjay Gunjyal — efforts are being made by the cops to bring positive changes in the lives of beggars so that they choose a better way of living. The IG said that the plan is to provide skill training to the beggars once they complete their tenure at the rehabilitation home in order to help them become financially independent. Notably, several beggars told the police that they were begging out of compulsion, and if given a choice, they would never go back and beg on the streets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cops-start-special-drive-to-make-har-ki-pauri-surrounding-areas-beggar-free-ahead-of-kumbh-103-beggars-rescued/articleshow/80158552.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kite makers move HC to protect their livelihoods||Ahmedabad: Kite manufacturers and traders have approached the Gujarat high court fearing that the prohibition or regulation on kite flying and sale during the festival of Uttarayan will snatch away their livelihood. The Gujarat Patang Manufacturers and Traders Association has filed an application after a PIL sought HC directions to prohibit kite flying and related activities during the festival next week. The PIL has cited apprehension of further spread of Covid-19, if the festivities of Uttarayan are permitted unregulated. The judges also sought the government’s response on this issue and commented that it must be vigilant and must not lower its guard against the virus and allow the situation to worsen as it happened during Diwali. Alarmed with the development, the kite makers’ association filed the application through advocate K R Koshti and urged the high court to grant them an opportunity of hearing because the livelihood of many poor people is at stake. “They are poor people and they do not have any other alternative sources of income to earn their livelihood. They are into this business of manufacturing kites for decades and hence to earn livelihood from this is their fundamental right under Article 19 of the Constitution,” the application reads. The association has requested the high court to allow it to join the litigation because the PIL directly and adversely affects the fundamental rights to earn livelihood. The hearing on the PIL is expected to take place on Friday. The PIL filed by one Maulik Mankad has also requested the high court to prohibit sale and purchase of kites and threads for the purpose of kite flying so that Covid-19 spread could be curbed. He urged the court to issue guidelines in what manner the festival should be celebrated this year. The PIL is seeking complete prohibition on gathering for festive celebrations between January 9 and January 17. The HC was urged to direct the authorities to regulate the festivities the way done earlier in the cases of Ramzan, Rath Yatra, Navratri and Ganesh Chaturthi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kite-makers-move-hc-to-protect-their-livelihoods/articleshow/80160851.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Rapid response teams formed to track avian flu cases in 15,000 poultry farms of Uttarakhand||Dehradun: To ensure that any incident of bird flu don’t go unnoticed, the animal husbandry department has formed rapid response teams (RRTs) across the state to take care of its 400 big poultry farms and 14,500 backyard poultries. Each RRT has four members, two veterinary doctors and two members of the animal husbandry department. “So far, the state has found eight dead crows from different locations in the past three days. There is no case of mass mortality, and therefore, it is not a concern. Uttarakhand has around 50 lakh poultries according to the estimation exercise of 2019. We are exercising vigilance to ensure that the flu doesn’t go unnoticed,” said KK Joshi, director, animal husbandry department. Dehradun’s chief veterinary officer SB Pandey said, “A control room has been set up in Dehradun and through email, fax or toll-free number (18001208862) people can lodge their concerns regarding any animal-related issues. Around 30 hospitals and 50 sub-centres in Dehradun and other districts are on high alert in the state.” Dehradun has around 5 lakh poultries and nearly 80 big poultry farms. Meanwhile, the department has handed over the samples of the crow to the forest department, Joshi said. According to him, the forest department will ensure that the samples are sent further to Bhopal or Bareilly-based laboratories for testing as their results are still awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rapid-response-teams-formed-to-track-avian-flu-cases-in-15000-poultry-farms-of-uttarakhand/articleshow/80158545.cms||Shivani Azad
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Thousands of farmers hold tractor rally against Centre’s agri laws||Rudrapur: Thousands of farmers from the Terai region held a tractor march across Udham Singh Nagar district on Thursday. The protesting farmer unions pressed for the repealing of three new farm laws and the procurement of crops at the minimum support price (MSP) during the rally. Many women also participated in the rally.In Bazpur, farmers under the banner of Bharatiya Kisan Union, gathered at the grain market. They took out a rally with more than 500 tractors. The tractor march started from the city police station and went through Beriya Daulat village, Mauli and Barhaini before culminating at Bazpur, covering a distance of over 20 km. Farmer leader Jagtar Singh Bajwa told TOI, "This may be seen as a rehearsal of what will happen on January 26 when farmers from various Delhi borders will march into the national capital.” Bajwa said that even though the farmers’ protest entered the 43rd day on Thursday, the Centre has turned a deaf ear to their demands, but the noise of the tractors will wake it up from slumber.In Sitarganj, farmer leader Navtej Pal Singh, said, “The tractor march was held a day ahead of the next round of talks between farmers and the government so that they know that the protest against the agri reform laws is intensifying by the day.” Talking about the other proposed tractor march to Delhi, which is scheduled on January 26, Singh said, "More than 1,000 tractors will leave for Delhi from the Terai region on January 25. We request people from all walks of life to come — at least one from each household — to join the farmers’ protest.”Similar protest rallies were carried out in Kashipur, Gadarpur, Khatima, Jaspur and Rudrapur district headquarters.The seventh round of talks remained inconclusive on Monday over two key demands — repeal of the newly-enacted laws and provision of legal guarantee on the MSP — with the two sides drawing a hard line on their respective positions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/thousands-of-farmers-hold-tractor-rally-against-centres-agri-laws/articleshow/80158539.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Wardha admin tests emergency preparedness during dry run||Wardha: The district administration tested its preparedness during the first vaccination dry run on Friday during which 100 persons, 25 each from four centres, were sent messages, administered ‘vaccine’ and also monitored for emergency response. As part of the mock drill, four centres were set up one each at district general hospital in city, Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, rural hospital at Selu and primary health centre at Kharangana (Morangana). Vaccinators were first asked to wash their hands thoroughly with water. After checking their temperature and pulse rate, proof of identity was sought by giving the registration number. Individuals were then vaccinated and asked to rest for 30 minutes. Four rooms were readied at each centre. The first room was for examination and presentation of identity proof, the second one was the vaccination room, third was used as observation room and the fourth one was readied for treating anyone facing difficulties after the vaccination. After one of the participants complained of dizziness, doctors at the centre immediately checked his blood pressure, pulse rate and administered an injection. As there was no relief to the person, he was shifted to Kasturba Hospital at Sewagram. (Civil surgeon Dr Sachin Tadas himself played the role of the affected person). District health officer Dr Ajay Dawale said, “No issues were faced and the vaccination app functioned perfectly. The only concern, however, remains about the network issues in rural areas because we might have to face Internet problem to receive the one-time password (OTP).” He further said people will have to be made aware about which identity proof they have to carry while visiting the vaccination centre. District collector Vivek Bhimanwar said, “People should not believe rumours about the safety of vaccine. The government has planned the vaccination after weighing safety of the vaccine.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wardha-admin-tests-emergency-preparedness-during-dry-run/articleshow/80174564.cms||Balwant Dhage
January 8, 2021||Pune||Vaccine dispatch from Pune airport awaits govt-SII pact||PUNE/NAGPUR: The Pune airport is all set to dispatch the consignments of the Covishield vaccine, but its manufacturer, Serum Institute of India, is still awaiting an official order from the Union government. The Pune firm manufacturing the (Oxford-AstraZeneca) vaccine has said it is committed to meeting the Indian requirements on a priority before catering to the international demand. SII’s executive director Dr Suresh Jadhav said, “We have been told verbally several times, but no official order has been placed by the government authorities yet. We have 50 million doses ready and can deliver it the day we receive the order.” Dr Jadhav, who hails from Nagpur, said the company already had big orders from seven institutions across the world, but “it had not committed on these yet as SII was committed to fulfilling the Indian order on priority basis”. Another senior officer of the SII, too, confirmed that the vaccine transportation had been held up for the want of an official order. While the first consignment of vaccines was expected to be dispatched from the Pune airport on Thursday, the officials from two airlines and the airport, who refused to be quoted, said they had again been told to be prepared on Friday. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh confirmed that the airport did not receive any consignments of the vaccine on Thursday. “We are all prepared and fully ready for the transportation process,” Singh said, refraining from making any more comments. Earlier on Thursday, the Airports Authority of India said the Pune airport was “fully ready and capable of contributing airport resources for the transportation of the Covid-19 vaccine”. “Everyday, Pune @aaipunairport operates 40 flights to 15 destinations across the country. The airport handles 150-tonne cargo daily. #AAI & @AAICLAS_in are fully ready and capable of contributing airport resources for transportation of #COVID19 vaccine in the national interest,” it said on its official Twitter handle. Airlines officials, who requested anonymity, said the plan to start the transportation from Thursday was postponed on directions of the ministry of civil aviation with reasons not clear. “The transportation process might start on Friday, but we cannot confirm it. The consignments had to go to some destinations on Thursday and now are expecting them to go on Friday; provided the plans don’t change,” an official of an airline said. There was some information coming towards the evening that a consignment of the vaccine had gone on an Air India flight from Pune to Delhi in the afternoon. But the airport director said the information was untrue. Pune MP Girish Bapat, who is also the chairman of the Pune Airport Advisory Committee, said, “In the meeting a couple of days back, the ministry of health had asked the Pune airport about its cargo handling capacity. The airport informed it that while they could handle 500 tonnes of cargo per day, they were only handling 150 tonnes per day and that they were ready to handle the cargo in form of the vaccine. The transportation of the vaccine from the Pune airport will begin at any moment now.” As per official statements of the health department, India plans to vaccinate 30 million healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase of the vaccination for free. The government has said it plans to vaccinate 300 million (30 crore) people on priority by July this year. Dr Jadhav made it clear there was no ban on the export of Covishield. “There was news in a section of media that the government had banned the export of the vaccine made by the SII. We have already clarified that it was misinformation. The SII will produce the vaccine for the entire world. India is on our priority. About 50% of our production is reserved for India, while the other half can be exported,” said Dr Jadhav. (With inputs from Umesh Isalkar from Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vaccine-dispatch-from-pune-airport-awaits-govt-sii-pact/articleshow/80160782.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Tiger killed by speeding car on highway in Kumaon||Nainital: A speeding car mowed down a tiger while it was crossing the Haldwani-Kaladhungi Road in Kumaon on Wednesday night. The tiger was about 12 years old. The accident took place in a forested stretch of the highway. The area falls under Fatehpur range. Preliminary investigation suggests that the tiger died on the spot, KL Arya, ranger, Fatehpur, said. "The tiger was probably trying to cross the road when the car - travelling at high speed - knocked it down. The carcass has been sent for postmortem at our range office in Fatehpur where vets will find out more details,” Arya added. According to forest department officials, the vehicle's driver had initially fled from the spot after the accident. Forest officials immediately sounded an alert in the area and he was soon picked up and taken into custody. “We have seized the vehicle and taken the driver into custody. The damage on the vehicle suggests that it was moving at a high speed when it came in contact with the tiger. We are investigating the matter and speaking to the driver as well. He will be charged based on the probe,” the forest official said. Forest department officials said that this particular highway stretch hasn't witnessed a lot of accidents of late. A year earlier, a tiger was found dead in the same area after a fight with another tiger. A recent report released by the Centre has put the number of tigers in Uttarakhand at 442. At least 16 tigers have lost their lives due to road accidents in the hill state in the past 20 years since the state's inception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-killed-by-speeding-car-on-highway-in-kumaon/articleshow/80158582.cms||Prashant Jha
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Four run over by train in Haridwar during trial run||Haridwar: Four persons were killed after they were run over by a train near Ganesh Vihar colony in Haridwar on Thursday evening. The incident took place during the trial run on a double-track railway line between Haridwar and Laksar region.Even as the enraged locals asked the railway officials to take responsibility for the deaths and sought immediate inquiry, the officials denied accountability over the incident and turned down their request for a probe.“The incident was reported in the evening near Ganesh Vihar colony in Jamalpur Kalan village, which falls under the Jwalapur police station. So far, four causalities have been confirmed. Police have ascertained their identities. They are: Praveen Chauhan (25), Mayur Chauhan (25), Vishal Chauhan (24) and Golu alias Happy (24). All of them are residents of Sitapuar village,” SSP Haridwar, Senthil Avoodai Krishna Raj S told TOI.Meanwhile, divisional railway manager, Moradabad, Tarun Prakash said the victims were at fault for trespassing on the railway track during the trial run.“The railway officials are not at fault here, as the victims were trespassing on the track. We are not going to set up any inquiry. We have completed our trial run successfully and the traffic will be resumed soon,” Prakash told TOI.The locals, on the other hand, claimed that they were not informed about the trial run earlier and sought strict action against “careless officials”.“The railway officials did not inform us about the trial run of the high-speed train. The government should set up an inquiry and take stern action against such careless officers,” said Ajit Kumar, a resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/four-run-over-by-train-in-haridwar-during-trial-run/articleshow/80158570.cms||MS Nawaz
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Nothing illegal in Neelam Gorhe’s election to Maharashtra council: HC||MUMBAI: There is no illegality in Shiv Sena MLC Neelam Gorhe’s  as deputy chairman of Maharashtra Legislative Council, Bombay high court ruled on Thursday. Declining to interfere, a bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav dismissed a petition by BJP MLC Gopichand Padalkar from Sangli. On September 8, 2020, Gorhe was elected unopposed as deputy chairperson. Padalkar, who could not attend the two-day monsoon session on September 7-8 as he was Covid positive, moved HC saying Gorhe’s election should be quashed and set aside and elections reconducted. He said his right to participate or even contest the election was taken away by an illegal and unconstitutional course of action. The judges noted that a general notice was issued on September 4 to allow only those who were certified negative. “Nothing is demonstrated to show the direction of September 4 issued in the interest of members’ health and safety is illegal or unconstitutional,” they added. They said under Article 212 the validity of proceedings inside a state legislature cannot be questioned on the ground of irregularity of procedure. However, it is possible to question validity of proceedings if the procedure adopted is illegal and unconstitutional. “Taking up a subject not on the agenda can at the most be considered an irregularity of procedure,” they added. Padalkar said on September 7 a motion was moved to suspend the rule that requires 48 hours’ notice for the election. The judges pointed out that MLC Rules permit suspension of a rule by moving a motion. Also, while the rules forbid a member from proposing his own name, nothing stopped members from proposing Padalkar’s name.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nothing-illegal-in-gorhe-election-to-maha-council-hc/articleshow/80160826.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit cleric receives ‘death threats’ for publicly praising PM Modi's policies||Pilibhit: An eminent cleric of Pilibhit Maulana Jartab Raza Khan, the present Shahar-e-Qazi and the Sajjadanasheen of Dargah-e-Hashmatiya, urged the district magistrate and the superintendent of police (SP) on Thursday to ensure legal action against other clerics who had allegedly turned against him for his public admiration of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's policies. Khan claimed that he and his family were receiving "death threats''.The complaints were filed by Khan after a Rampur based cleric, Mohammad Ikram Raza Qadri, released a purported video on Youtube in which Khan was warned to stay away from BJP. Qadri reportedly condemned Khan in the video, stating that the political party was against the interests of minorities.Khan further alleged that he was also being threatened by the shahar mufti, Maulana Masoon Raza Khan. However, the son of shahar mufti, Farzan Raza Khan, dismissed the allegations of shahar qazi.On Thursday, the SP, Jai Prakash Yadav, said that he was yet to receive Khan’s complaint. “As soon as I receive it, the matter will be thoroughly probed and stringent legal action will be ensured against those found guilty," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-cleric-receives-death-threats-for-publicly-praising-pm-modis-policies/articleshow/80158571.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Online complaints of gender violence spiked’||Ahmedabad: Women were hit with a double whammy during lockdown months, said Rekha Sharma, chairperson of National Commission for Women (NCW), on Thursday. While battling the Covid-19 pandemic, they also had to face domestic violence and sexual harassment, she said, addressing a webinar on ‘Addressing Sexual and Gender-based Violence in the Post-Covid World’ hosted by GNLU. Realising the gravity of the situation, NCW set up a round-the-clock helpline, said the NCW chief, adding, “Online complaints increased from 200-300 a week to 1,500 a week. While the complaints to NCW rose, there were fewer complaints being recorded at police stations.” She cited an incident when a woman bleeding after domestic violence had approached a police station. However, she was turned away because she was not wearing a mask. “NCW is working with the authorities to develop an SOP on how police should deal with victims of gender-based violence,” said Sharma. “With work-from-home culture induced by the lockdown, instances of online harassment have increased significantly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-complaints-of-gender-violence-spiked/articleshow/80160932.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Govt to issue guidelines for bathing on Makar Sankranti||Dehradun: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday reviewed the ongoing preparations for Kumbh 2021 and directed the authorities to ensure that the projects are completed within the stipulated time frame. For the ‘snan’ (bathing) on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, the CM directed officials to issue proper guidelines that needs to be followed by the devotees."For the success of Kumbh, the CM asked the authorities to focus on providing the best possible facility and arrangement for the pilgrims. He said the preparations and arrangements should be on the lines of the 2010 Kumbh," an official statement said.Kumbh pilgrims would have to register themselves through a portal that is being currently developed. Besides, there would be thermal screening and antigen test facility at the entry points of Haridwar, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-to-issue-guidelines-for-bathing-on-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80158561.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||NCLAT turns down Neesa promoter’s insolvency plea||AHMEDABAD: The National Company Law Appellate Tribunal has turned down the plea of bureaucrat-turned-businessman Sanjay Gupta, to allow bankruptcy proceedings to be initiated for Neesa Infrastructure Ltd. This is a rare instance where the tribunal has disallowed filing for insolvency by the promoter of a corporate debtor under Section 10 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code, 2016. The order, recently posted on its website, upholds the verdict passed by the National Company Law Tribunal, Ahmedabad on the grounds that the applicant Gupta was no longer a director of the company and did not qualify for the filing. This came after the company did not file financials with the ministry of corporate affairs for more than three years as is legally required. As a result, the entire board of directors for Neesa Infra was disqualified in the past. The appellate tribunal is of the view that the applicant did not approach NCLT with bona fide intention and hence the adjudicating authority had rightly rejected the insolvency application. The Small Industries Development Bank of India (SIDBI) and Indian Overseas Bank, the creditors, strenuously opposed the admission of a Section 10 application by filing counter affidavits. “The petition under Section 10 of the IBC for initiation of insolvency proceedings was filed to stop the wheel set in motion by the defendant bank to secure their debts,” said the objection raised by SIDBI at NCLT, Ahmedabad. Some promoters have started using insolvency as a tool to stop recovery by banks and are also avoiding filing of the financial statements with the RoC. “Such malafide initiation of insolvency should be rightly nipped in the bud,” said Vikash G Jain, an insolvency professional and regional council member of ICAI. Gupta had approached NCLAT to challenge the NCLT order dated September 17, 2020, which dismissed his plea for initiation of the corporate insolvency resolution process for the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nclat-turns-down-neesa-promoters-insolvency-plea/articleshow/80160937.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 8, 2021||Business||To keep EPFO viable, officials give House panel radical idea||NEW DELHI: Top labour ministry officials on Thursday told a parliamentary panel on labour that for pension fund like the EPFO to remain viable, it must move from the prevailing system of “defined benefits” to a system of “defined contributions”, where members draw benefits commensurate with their contributions. Sources said officials told the panel that EPFO had over 23 lakh pensioners drawing Rs 1,000 per month even when their contributions to the fund corpus had been less than a fourth of the benefits they were drawing. They also said this would be unviable for the government to support in the long run, unless a system of “defined contributions” was put in place. Last year, the committee had questioned labour ministry on its failure to implement an August 2019 recommendation of the central board of trustees of EPFO to raise minimum monthly pension under the EPF Pension Scheme to Rs 2,000 or Rs 3,000. Sources told TOI the ministry had said raising minimum monthly pension to Rs 2,000 per subscriber would entail an additional financial burden of nearly Rs 4,500 crore, and Rs 14,595 crore, if it were raised to Rs 3,000 per month. In Thursday’s meeting, officials also conceded before the panel that a chunk of EPFO funds invested in the stock markets had turned into bad investments and yielded negative results in the aftermath of the coronavirus-induced upheaval. Quizzed over the “very glaring” negative returns the fund’s investments had earned in March last year, the House panel had last October asked EPFO central commissioner Sunil Barthwal and labour secretary Apurva Chandra to explain why EPFO funds were invested in the stock market in March 2020 when the coronavirus-induced volatility had upended markets and investments could have been avoided. The panel had pointed, in particular, to the exposure of EPFO funds to the debt-laden IL&FS and other housing funds. Sources said officials informed the committee that only Rs 4,600 crore of the total Rs 13.7 lakh crore fund corpus of EPFO — totalling 5% of the corpus — is invested in the markets. Chandra and Barthwal also told the panel that the government is deliberating on ways to ensure that EPFO funds are invested in products and schemes that are “not fraught with risk”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/to-keep-epfo-viable-officials-give-house-panel-radical-idea/articleshow/80162621.cms||Swati Mathur
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Billing scam accused sent to CGST custody||Ahmedabad: A metropolitan court on Thursday granted custodial interrogation of Bharat Soni in what is emerging as one of the biggest fake billing scams with the central goods and services tax (CGST) department telling the court it has till date traced documents showing bogus bills worth Rs 9,750 crore, for the purpose of wrongly availing of input tax credit (ITC). The department told the court that this scam could grow bigger as the probe proceeds. Soni was arrested on January 3 by the CGST’s anti-evasion wing on charges of availing of ITC wrongly and for generating bogus bills. He was produced before the concerned magistrate and sent to judicial custody. On Wednesday, the department approached the court and sought custodial interrogation of Soni for 11 days, citing the investigation results. Officials said they found invoices worth Rs 2,435.96 crore to be fake. Soni was accused of hatching a conspiracy with many others to enable various bullion dealears in the city to fraudulently show purchase of gold, silver and diamond products and to avail of input tax credit on such bogus purchase invoices. The department also claimed that Soni had floated six different trading firms in his name and in the names of his relatives and obtained GST registration.  He also operated bank accounts that were opened in the name of fictitious companies. He was using chequebooks signed in advance by his family members. The fraudulent transfers of ITC were computed to be worth Rs 72.25 crore. During the hearing on Thursday, special prosecutor Sudhir Gupta told the court that further investigation has revealed that the agency had traced bogus invoices worth Rs 9,750 crore, which could lead to ITC payments worth Rs 250 crore. Officials expect this scam to grow to be worth Rs 15,000-16,000 crore. The prosecutor sought remand to enable officials to get more information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/billing-scam-accused-sent-to-cgst-custody/articleshow/80160827.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Trichy||CM will take right call on theatres: Min||Pudukottai: Claiming that the Tamil Nadu government had set an example for everyone in keeping Covid-19 spread under control, health minister C Vijayabaskar has said that chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami would announce the right decision regarding 100% occupancy in cinema theatres. The comment came in the context of Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla expressing his strong disapproval of the TN government’s decision to allow 100% seat occupancy in cinema halls.“We don’t compromise on the standard operating procedures of public health. We passed on information in this regard to the revenue and home department. They will take it to the notice of the CM. He will take the right decision to adhere to the guidelines and announce it,” he told reporters in Pudukottai on Thursday. Vijayabaskar stated that CM’s strategies on RT-PCR testing have brought the state big success. On bird flu, the health minister said steps were being taken to ensure there is no transmission of the disease to the state through birds. “We are in constant touch with Kerala in this regard,” he said. He appealed to the people to boil chicken and egg thoroughly. The minister said Tamil Nadu was far ahead in providing results of RT-PCR test on passengers returning from England in three hours. Earlier in the morning, Vijayabaskar inaugurated a cath lab constructed at a cost of Rs 3.5 crore at government medical college hospital in Pudukottai. He said government hospitals in the state performed angioplasty on 9,031 patients free of cost this year so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cm-will-take-right-call-on-theatres-min/articleshow/80161914.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Udhayanidhi vows to scrap NEET||Trichy: Terming the DMK government led by former chief minister M Karunanidhi a pioneer in ensuring medical education to rural students, DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin reiterated the assurance to abolish NEET in Tamil Nadu on Thursday. He said Karunanidhi enabled rural students to get admitted for MBBS by scrapping the entrance exam. “Kalaignar (Karunanidhi) made Tamil Nadu a medical hub. Even the late CM Jayalalithaa shunned NEET and said education is the right of a state,” he said at Vengaimandalam in Trichy during his Vidiyalai Nokki campaign for the second day.While repeating allegations of corruption against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and local administration minister S P Velumani, he said, “How can the chief minister release the list of corruption committed by DMK ministers when the latter was not in power for the past ten years.” In contrast, he underlined the conviction of the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa in the disproportionate assets case. Udhayanidhi asked if anyone in DMK was convicted in corruption cases ‘foisted’ against them by the AIADMK government. He said no one would believe the advertisement of Tamil Nadu being top among the states in the country. In his campaign in Mannachanallur, Udhayanidhi attempted to take credit for the Rs 2,500 cash dole for Pongal festival of the Tamil Nadu government by claiming that it was DMK president M K Stalin who initiated the demand of Rs 5,000 to the people. “You should get the cash dole and also insist on the rest of the amount,” he said. He also raked up the price hike of cooking LPG during his campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/udhayanidhi-vows-to-scrap-neet/articleshow/80161916.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Treatment of chronic landslide zone on Badrinath road completed||Dehradun: For lakhs of pilgrims going to Badrinath each year, Lambagad on Rishikesh-Badrinath National Highway (NH-54) in Chamoli district is the biggest bottleneck, due to frequent landslides and long traffic holdovers that follow. Besides traffic jams, mishaps have been a common occurrence for over two decades on this crucial stretch of road. Now, with the completion of the Rs 107 crore treatment of the 500m-long chronic slide zone — to be dedicated to the people on January 26 — Badrinath Yatra for lakhs of pilgrims promises to be a smooth ride from this year. After the Dobra Chanti bridge in Tehri — completed after 14 years and inaugurated on November 9 last year — this will be another major infrastructural work done. CM Trivendra Singh Rawat said, “Our government is dedicated towards making the Char Dham Yatra a smooth and positive experience for pilgrims. The treatment of the chronic slide zone at Lambagad is a sincere effort in this regard. The slide zone was a major obstacle for people going to Badrinath. Effective monitoring and implementation helped us complete the project.” Lambagad became a slide zone area after a crack in the mountain near Pandukeshwar, around 26 years ago. Even the slightest rains triggered landslides and brought debris sliding on the road. Each year, Badrinath Yatra was impacted due to the 500m-long landslide zone. Initially, the plan was to dig a tunnel, but the plan could not be implemented and the matter was left hanging for a long time. After a landslide at Lambagad damaged the entire stretch of highway in the June 2013 calamity, the road transport ministry assigned the project to the Public Works Department and National Highways Authority of India. Initially, clearances created hurdles and the project was delayed. But after getting all required clearances, the project gained pace in December 2018. A 40m-high wall has been constructed on the valley side of the slide zone. The check wall will prevent debris falling on the road. After the completion of the project, the width of the road — which was currently 4-5m — has also increased four-fold. Due to the broadening of the road, there would be minimal impact on traffic movement, even if debris fell from the hill side. PWD engineer-in-chief Hari Om Sharma said, “Only few minor works are left, which will be completed within a few days.” When asked about the likely inauguration of the project, he said the officials will take a call on the issue. In 2019, five Char Dham pilgrims died and six others were injured as the bus they were travelling in was hit by a huge boulder at Lambagad. In the past, the national highway that connects Badrinath and Mana Pass had remained blocked for days, leaving the pilgrims stranded on both sides of the slide zone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/treatment-of-chronic-landslide-zone-on-badrinath-road-completed/articleshow/80158597.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 8, 2021||Patna||Upcoming bridges to come as boon for Begusarai residents||BEGUSARAI: With a six-lane road bridge under construction at Simaria and announcement of another new bridge over Ganga connecting Shamho and Matihani in Begusarai, the New Year has ushered in hope of better road connectivity for commuters in the district. Union ministry of road transport and highways has recently already announced that the detailed project report (DPR) for the new bridge is being prepared and the bidding process for the same is expected to be initiated later this year. The new bridge will connect Shamho to Matihani and is expected to reduce a distance of over 50km between the two places. Rajya Sabha member Rakesh Sinha, who is a native of Begusarai, recently said that the proposed bridge will not only facilitate road connectivity to the remote Shamho region but also give access to markets to farmers in the district.Shamho has no direct road link with the district headquarters. People in the block have to take Lakhisarai-Simaria route to come to Begusarai, traversing more than 70km. The two upcoming bridges apart, the bottlenecks in construction of approach roads on both ends of road deck of Munger rail- cum-road bridge is also reported to have been removed. Begusarai DM Arvind Kumar Verma told this newspaper recently that National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has been given possession of the land for construction of the approach roads for the Munger bridge. Locals are hopeful that all these bridges will not only facilitate better and wider network of road communication but also bolster business and economic activities in the region with easy connectivity to Munger and Lakhisarai districts. “I am eagerly waiting for the completion of the ongoing projects as well as start of the new projects as once operational these bridges would give wider accessibility to the markets,” said Diwakar Kumar, a Begusarai- based trader, who runs an authorized workshop for a mobile phone company here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/upcoming-bridges-to-come-as-boon-for-begusarai-residents/articleshow/80158592.cms||Rajiv Kumar
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Over 200 trees face axe for widening NH to Pudukottai||Trichy: More than 200 trees are on the verge of being cut down for widening a portion of the Trichy-Pudukottai national highway passing through Trichy city. While locals and environmental activists pitch for translocating the trees, state highway (national highways wing) authorities are reluctant.The Trichy project implementation unit (PIU) of the state highways recently evicted encroachments for widening the 10km stretch of the highway passing through TVS Tollgate, Subramaniapuram and Kottapattu localities. The Rs 69 crore project covering Trichy International Airport locality will eliminate five blackspots and the civil work is slated to begin shortly.While residents have welcomed the move to widen the road, questions were raised over the fate of the trees on the stretch. The trees, including neem, peepal and Indian beech dotting the highway are aged between 12 and 30 years. Around 75 trees are situated between the TVS Tollgate Junction and Ponmalaipatti Road. “Dense green cover is the identity of the highway. Alternative measures such as translocating the trees on a linear stretch can be considered to serve as a natural road divider,” KC Neelamegam, state advisor, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam said.Citing the recent translocation of over 200 native trees for the construction of a flyover on the Trichy-Thanjavur NH by Bhel management, locals said that the same can be done here. However, state highways sources said that tree translocation is expensive. “We have enumerated the number of trees to be axed. We will plant 10 new saplings for every tree felled for the project,” a source in the NHAI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/over-200-trees-face-axe-for-widening-nh-to-pudukottai/articleshow/80161917.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Sugarcane harvested at Trichy central jail||Trichy:While the state has geared up for Pongal festival, convict prisoners of the central prison in Trichy have given their bit to sweeten the farmers’ festival with the sugarcane cultivated by them. The prisoners on Thursday started harvesting sugarcane they have cultivated on two acres of land on the prison campus. “As a result of the hard work of the convict prisoners, we are reaping the benefits now. We have got orders for 1,000 bunches as of now. The harvest is continuing,” office superintendent of the central prison A Thirumurugan told ToI on Thursday. The prison department has planned to sell sugarcane for Rs 20 for a stick in retail through the prison bazaar set up outside the prison. “The price can be reduced to Rs 18 if the customer buys a minimum 400 bunches,” said Thirumurugan. Each bunch will consist of 10 sugarcanes, of which each stick is measured 7ft to 8 ft in length. The sugarcane was sold for Rs 8 per two feet of chopped sugarcane but the department has decided to sell it for Rs 20 per stick. The cultivation of the sugarcane commenced in March 2020 under the guidance of deputy inspector-general of prisons, Trichy range, R Kanagaraj. The prison department has engaged 12 convict prisoners for the farming activity. The prisoners would spend their time from 7 am to 4.30 pm maintaining sugarcane. Area of the cultivation was extended from 75 cents last year to two acres this year. Sugarcane earned them Rs 2.30 lakh last year. The prison authorities have exuded confidence of realising a good profit this year too. The profit earned through the work by the convict prisoners will be divided among the prisoners, the victims of the prisoners and the welfare of the prison staff. “Our focus is providing a quality product to the people,” said Thirumurugan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sugarcane-harvested-at-trichy-central-jail/articleshow/80161915.cms||Gokul Rajendran
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Drug peddler held with smack worth Rs 10 lakh||Rudrapur: The Udham Singh Nagar Police arrested a drug peddler with 136.6 grams of smack which is worth Rs 10 lakh in the international market. The accused, Mohammad Rizwan alias Hafiz, a resident of Darau village near Kichha was held at Karimganj T-point under Kichha police jurisdiction area. During a patrolling duty, a police team led by Darau police outpost in-charge Ramesh Chand Belwal, after receiving a tip-off, stopped Hafiz who was riding a bike. The accused tried to escape from the spot but the police chased him and was later nabbed. He has been booked under the Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, 1985, and was sent to jail. The police also impounded his motorcycle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/drug-peddler-held-with-smack-worth-rs-10-lakh/articleshow/80158585.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 8, 2021||Patna||One lynched, two thrashed for stealing cattle in Purnia||PATNA: A 36-year-old man died and two others seriously injured after being brutally thrashed by villagers for allegedly stealing cattle in Purnia on Thursday. The lynching took place on Wednesday night at Kadgama village under the Krityanand Nagar police station area. According to the police, the villagers mercilessly thrashed all three and kept them tied for several hours till the cops arrived on Thursday morning. “The villagers kept the trio tied up and thrashed them,” Srinagar police outpost in-charge Santosh Kumar Jha said, adding, the dead man has been identified as Shyamanand Yadav. The two injured persons are Manoj Yadav (40) and Kailash Sah (25). Purnia Sadar hospital superintendent Dr Sunrendra Das said one of the injured has severe injuries in both of his eyes. Villagers caught trio after a hot chaseJha said Manoj is a native of Devinagar village in Srinagar and the other two are from a village in Araria. “Shyamanand was declared dead after being brought to the hospital. The post-mortem is over, and we are waiting for his family to hand over the body,” he said. Jha said one Janki Devi of Oraon Tola in Kadgama village has lodged an FIR against the trio alleging that they were fleeing after taking away her buffalo from the cattle shed around 2 am. “The villagers were alerted after stray dogs in the village started barking. They woke up and caught the trio after a chase,” the in-charge said. “It was the deceased Shaymananad and Manoj who had roped in Kailash. Manoj had informed Shyamanand about the house from where cattle could be stolen,” he said The in-charge said Manoj is an accused in several criminal cases of arms recovery, theft and extortion in Srinagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/1-lynched-2-thrashed-for-stealing-cattle-in-purnia/articleshow/80159284.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress names 13-member panel to prepare list of BJP govt’s ‘failures’||Dehradun: With assembly election scheduled in early part of 2022, Congress has started preparations for the polls.Congress state chief Pritam Singh named party vice-president as in-charge of 13 districts. He also named a 13-member chargesheet committee to prepare the details of failures of the BJP government.During the campaign, the party would target BJP on the basis of the list prepared by the chargesheet committee.Sharing the information, Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana told TOI, “This is part of elaborate exercise to prepare for the 2022 polls.”He pointed out that district in-charge and assembly in-charge would hold monthly meetings to take stock of the situation and present the ground level report to the state leadership.The party has also announced the in-charge of 70 assembly seats. The in-charge of each seat would interact with locals and party members of their respective assembly.The twin responsibility of them would be to target the ruling BJP and “inform people about its failures” and also search for winnable candidates from the constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-congress-names-13-member-panel-to-prepare-list-of-bjp-govts-failures/articleshow/80273516.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Locals protest at Srirangam temple over eviction notice||Trichy:A section of residents at Srirangam staged a protest inside Arulmigu Ranganathaswamy temple on Thursday over the eviction notices sent by the Hindu religious & charitable endowments (HR&CE) department for rent default. While the residents said that the move is a backlash against the complaints they levelled against the temple management, HR&CE clarified that the notices were issued since the residents have been delaying rent that has to be paid for occupying the temple property.The protesting residents said that they had recently submitted a petition with chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami over the deviation in the conduct of rituals as proposed by the Vaishnavite saint Sri Ramanujacharya. As an outcome of the complaint against the management, 13 people residing on the temple property in Uthira and Chithira streets around the temple were served with eviction notices, said the residents. “Those who were asked to vacate the property have been serving the temple for generations. They are targeting only those who raised voice against the mismanagement,” Sethu Aravind, a resident of Srirangam, said. They were told to vacate the property in 30 days. Police asked the protesting residents to go for peace talks with the HR&CE and revenue department to settle the issue amicably. Subsequently, the protest was withdrawn. Meanwhile, an HR&CE official said that notices were sent only because the individuals were defaulting payment of rent amounting to Rs 1.92 lakh to the temple. “We sent the notices as per legal provisions to recover the outstanding rent. We suspect some outsiders were involved in the protest by misguiding the local people,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/locals-protest-at-srirangam-temple-over-eviction-notice/articleshow/80161926.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Poll buzz: Panjappur resurrected as site for bus terminus||Trichy: With assembly election fast approaching, decades-old demand for integrated bus terminus (IBT) in Trichy city has been resurrected by the authorities. Although the location for IBT has not been officially declared yet, sources said that Panjappur may receive the dream project.Sources said that the state government has recently revived the bus stand proposal and the officials were told to identify a suitable site for IBT in the city, preferably on the outskirts. Sources said that Panjappur had come in the limelight again as the site is situated on Trichy-Madurai route and a network of national highways connected through semi-ring road. Over 100 acres of land identified for the bamboo park in Panjappur near Saranathan college of Engineering and Trichy trade centre is in discussion for IBT since the park project is dropped. “ We have not finalized the site but vast land availability is restricted only to Panjappur locality,” a senior official involved in the IBT project said.Although other sites such as Navalapattu, Kottapattu and Mannarpuram were discussed earlier, the status of land and distance from core city, highways have favoured Panjappur the most . However, residents are sceptical over the developments since Panjappur site was first proposed by the DMK government in 2006-2011 tenure. “While relatively small towns are getting new bus stands, Trichy despite being a major city is deprived of a spacious bus stand. Political vendetta will do no good,” V B Jaganath, member, Trichy intra-city development endeavours (TIDES) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/poll-buzz-panjappur-resurrected-as-site-for-bus-terminus/articleshow/80161923.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 8, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Two schools shut as 22 children, principal test Covid positive||PATNA/GAYA: Two government schools in the state were closed on Thursday after 22 students in Munger and the principal of a school in Sariya block of Gaya district tested positive for Covid-19. This comes barely three days after educational institutes were allowed to reopen in the state after over nine months. Of the 69 students of Lal Bahadur Shastri Kisan High School in Munger’s Mamai village who attended the classes on Thursday, 22 tested positive for Covid-19 during a random health check-up by the district authorities. All students have are in home isolation. The Upgraded High School at Khijarsarai in Gaya was shut on Thursday after the principal tested positive for coronavirus on Wednesday evening. DEO: Entire school campus sanitisedThe principal himself informed the district education officer of Gaya on Wednesday evening about his health condition and urged the DEO to shut down the school with immediate effect for the containment of the virus. “I tested positive with Covid-19 and got myself admitted to a private hospital in Patna,” says a part of the message sent by the principal while informing the DEO. He asked all teachers and students, who came in contact with him in the last few days, to get tested. Apprehensive about the transmission of the virus in other eight teachers and the seven students, who had attended the school, when it reopened on Monday after over nine months, the DEO Mustafa Hussain Mansoori ordered the teachers students to get themselves tested. “Test of teachers and the seven students was conducted at the primary health centre (PHC), Khisersarai. The school has been closed till further notice,” the DEO said. As a precautionary measure, the entire school campus was sanitized on Thursday. “Contact tracing has begun to avoid further transmission of the virus in case any of the teachers or the students also test positive. Details of those who came in contact with the principal are being ascertained,” the DEO said. Principal secretary of the education department, Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper on Thursday said, “Altogether 22 kids were found positive as the health team conducted the rapid antigen test on all students and staff. The school, which has seven teachers apart from the principal, has been shut.” He added, “The rapid antigen test was conducted on all teachers and students of the Upgraded High School, Khijarsarai, who came in contact with the principal and all samples tested negative for Covid-19. Altogether seven students and eight teachers attended the classes since the school reopened on January 4.” He further said, “We have asked the district administration of Gaya and Munger and the civil surgeons to conduct the RT-PCR test of all kids and staff of both the schools.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2-schools-shut-as-22-children-principal-test-covid-positive/articleshow/80159307.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 8, 2021||Vadodara||Cop flouting all traffic, Covid rules suspended, probe ordered||Vadodara: This cop violated all possible rules of traffic and Covid. The bike, which he was riding had no vehicle registration number plate, he wasn’t wearing helmet, talking on the mobile phone and not sporting a face mask. City police commissioner Shamsher Singh has suspended the cop Ramesh Govind, who is posted with city police control room, and ordered an inquiry against the him. Video of Ramesh was shot by an alert citizen on Wednesday. The man shooting the video asked Ramesh, who was in police uniform, as to why he wasn’t wearing a face mask and how he could talk on the phone while riding the bike. Ramesh initially got angry and even tried to snatch the citizen’s mobile phone. But later he changed tunes and began pleading that he forgot his face mask at home. Ramesh claimed that he was posted in Bapod police station and asked the citizen to take his mobile number. The man, who shot the video, asked Ramesh to pay Rs 1,000 as fine. He added that police have been relentlessly penalizing citizens for not wearing face masks in the city. Over the last few weeks, many citizens have got into heated arguments with cops who are penalizing people even if their face masks slip below the nose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/cop-flouting-all-traffic-covid-rules-suspended-probe-ordered/articleshow/80158402.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Railways reinstates Tejas special train, to run 6 days/week||Trichy/Madurai: Bowing to the appeals of passengers and people’s representatives, Southern Railway has decided to resume the Chennai-Madurai-Chennai Tejas special train on six days a week (except Thursday) from January 10.An SR statement said train no. 02613 will start from Chennai Egmore at 6 am and reach Madurai at 12.15 pm. In the return direction, train no 02614 will start from Madurai at 3 pm and reach Chennai Egmore at 9.15 pm. They will have stoppages at Trichy for five minutes and Kodai Road for two minutes. The superfast train, flagged off by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on March 1, 2019, was cancelled from January 4 citing poor patronage. Madurai MP Su Venkatesan and Trichy MP Su Thirunavukkarasar wrote to the Union railway minister against cancellation of the services. The issue was also taken up with the railway authorities by various labour unions and rail users as well. Both the MPs and rail fans have thanked railways for reintroducing the train. “It will help commuters on long waiting lists of other trains during the extended holidays for Pongal and Republic Day,” said M Arun Pandian, a frequent traveller on the train. Had the train been cancelled permanently, Trichy passengers would have been more affected than Madurai passengers. “If you look at its total occupancy, Trichy commuters account for more than half of it,” V B Jagannath of Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavors (TIDES) said. “Since the number of stoppages is just two - Trichy and Kodai Road, there is no chance of railways incurring a huge operational cost. You should also consider the fare collected from passengers,” he said. It is a mystery why the railway authorities took the decision to stop the train, Jagannath added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railways-reinstates-tejas-special-train-to-run-6-days/week/articleshow/80161952.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Surat||Cops rescue HIV+ve Class X girl thrown out by mother||Surat: Had it not been for Udhna police, a 17-year-old HIV positive girl would have had to brave more than the chill alone in the streets at around 2.30 am in the wee hours sans food, shelter or even a blanket that Monday night. However, cops responded to her SOS on time and reached out to take her under their care after their efforts to reason with the mother, fell on deaf ears. Mayuri (name changed) had always a rough run with her mother Sunita (name changed) and the situation only worsened after her father, a textile businessman who too was HIV +ve, passed away four months ago. Trouble actually started to escalate soon after the father, who took good care of his daughter, died and the girl first reached out to the cops, a month ago. Mayuri called up the police control room to get help after her mother stopped giving her food. Police constable Hardevsinh Gohil went to her home and also tried to counsel Sunita then. Gohil also shared his number with the teen for future reference, which she dialled on Monday again, seeking help in desperation. “I went there and tried to convince her mother but she refused to take care of her,” said Gohil. Later police sub inspector M K Parmar too reached the spot and started searching for other family members who could take her under their shelter. “We found the an uncle (father’s brother) of the girl, but he too was not ready to keep her with his family. Left with no option, the police then decided to get the girl admitted in a care home for HIV positive children,” said Parmar. With support of coordinator of Friends for Women and Children, Piyush Shah, and secretary of GSNP+, Daksha Patel, police are getting Mayuri admitted in a care home for HIV positive girls at Amboli. “Our team visited the girl’s home and as she has a wound on her body, it is imperative that we shift the girl immediately. We have shifted her to a volunteer’s home on Thursday and she will be taken to the care home on Friday,” said Patel. “Police are trying in all possible ways to help senior citizens and children in need and we will ensure that the girl gets all required support,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI. According to the police, Sunita too is keeping poor health and Mayuri has already lost two siblings to the dreaded disease along with her father.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cops-rescue-hivve-class-x-girl-thrown-out-by-mother/articleshow/80158646.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Bijnor cops 'shame criminals' in their localities by announcing misdeeds over loudspeakers||Bijnor: With an eye on the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh, Bijnor police has launched a ‘Bhopu Abhiyan’ (loudspeaker campaign) under which they visit localities of history-sheeters and do public shaming by announcing their crimes and misdeeds over loudspeakers while cautioning people. According to police officers, the move is aimed at embarrassing criminals in their localities so that they give up criminal activities. The campaign was first launched in Bijnor district, and as it proved productive, it would now be extended to other parts of the state, they said.The officers said all SHOs had been asked to prepare a list of history-sheeters. Under the campaign, policemen go to localities of criminals and announce their crimes and misdeeds to the beat of drums over a loudspeaker and caution people. Besides, they inform locals about criminals sent to jail and those who are absconding. Additional superintendent of police Sanjay Kumar said, “As we launched the campaign, a few history-sheeters approached us with a promise that they would never indulge in criminal activities in the future while a few others said they already had given up the crime. There is a commotion among criminals and history-sheeters after the launch Bhopu Abhiyan. I hope such campaigns prove productive and are launched across the state in the future.” Notably, panchayat polls are round the corner and criminals can flip political equations by striking terror in public, especially in rural areas. Sometimes, they spoil the peace. Police are trying to tighten the noose around criminals through innovative campaigns.ReplyReply to allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bijnor-cops-shame-criminals-in-their-localities-by-announcing-misdeeds-over-loudspeakers/articleshow/80158636.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar court issues non-bailable warrant against against BJP MLA||Muzaffarnagar: A special court here has issued a non-bailable warrant against BJP’s Khatauli MLA Vikram Saini for his failure to appear before it in a case related to defiling a place of worship in February 2013.When contacted, Saini said that he has not received any warrant yet, and accused the former SP government of framing him in the “false cases”. He said, “I was booked in three cases by Muzaffarnagar police in 2013. All cases are false, I did not commit any crime.”Sources in court said, “Special court has issued a non-bailable warrant against Vikram Saini. He was booked in February, days before the Muzaffarnagar riots had erupted". Issuing the warrant against Saini, Special Judge Ram Sudh Singh directed police to arrest and produce him in the court by January 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-court-issues-non-bailable-warrant-against-against-bjp-mla/articleshow/80158648.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 8, 2021||Thane||Thane: Retired cop stabs cousin, kills him, injures another||THANE: A retired policeman allegedly killed his cousin and injured his sister-in-law with a knife, over a property dispute, in their Wagle Estate flat on Wednesday night. The police said Ajay Kardak (28) died on the spot, while Nita Kardak (43) was found bleeding. Nita was taken to a hospital is stable. The accused, Mahendra Kardak, who wanted possession of the Thane flat, was arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/retd-cop-stabs-cousin-kills-him-injures-another/articleshow/80160916.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 8, 2021||Trichy||Helmetless ride still major cause of fatalities in Trichy||Trichy: At the road accident data management system (RADMS) meeting, stakeholders discussed the causes of road accidents in Trichy district and identified helmetless ride by two-wheeler riders and pillions as the common cause behind fatalities reported in November-December 2020. Around 23 people lost their lives in road accidents in a month in the district, all the casualties were two-wheeler riders and pedestrians, RADMS said during a virtual meeting organised on Wednesday.Although the fatalities are down to 23 from 29 reported in October 2020, officials said that helmetless ride is a cause of concern on the rural road. While city roads have not seen casualties, the rural roads including the Karur highways have reported many accidents. “The pillion rider should also wear a helmet to ensure their own safety,” P Vadivel, division engineer, state highways and convenor of RADMS told TOI. The district police officers, who participated in the meeting, said that enforcement is being intensified to penalize helmetless riders.Footage of two-wheeler riders plying without a helmet is recorded and later the vehicle owner is penalized for the offence, officials said. “The road from Poongudi railway station merging with Trichy-Dindigul NH needs refurbishment work. Similarly, lack of signage boards at Mannarpuram junction ,” N Saravanan, a road safety enthusiasts suggested in the meeting. In the previous meeting, the state highways had suggested authorities to place convex mirrors on the service road of Trichy-Chennai to improve road safety, which was done. M Sekaran, member of road safety council urged the state highways authorities not to let the Trichy Corporation collect parking fee from the highways department managed roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/helmetless-ride-still-major-cause-of-fatalities-in-trichy/articleshow/80161951.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Post-Covid future is about creativity’||Ahmedabad: The post-Covid future is going to be about imagination and creativity, about the ideas we generate that machines cannot, said Jay Bernhardt, dean of Moody College of Communication at the University of Texas in Austin. Prof Bernhardt was the keynote speaker at Seventh International Communication Management Conference (ICMC) at MICA, which began on Thursday in virtual mode. “Our ability to think outside the box is uniquely human, and cannot be programmed into a robot. That gives us all hope,” he said. “Humans will focus on what we still do better than AI, and that is imagination, innovation, creativity, art, emotion, and relationships. New industries will crop up around these issues. Content creators will leverage ever-increasing distribution options for sharing stories and products with users.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/post-covid-future-is-about-creativity/articleshow/80160911.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||CM sanctions Rs 100 crore for Kumbh related projects, other works||DEHRADUN: Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Thursday approved Rs 100 crore for projects related to Kumbh and other development projects in the Himalayan state. He also directed officials to ensure that the arrangements for the mega festival were on the lines of the 2010 Mahakumbh held at Haridwar. He said that proper arrangements should be made for online registration of pilgrims coming for the festival. The CM approved Rs 20 lakh to purchase two four-wheelers and seven two-wheelers for the home guards who will be deployed on Kumbh duty. An amount of Rs 1.14 crore was approved for the collection and transportation of solid waste at Muni-ki-Reti municipal council, which is preparing for the Kumbh Mela. Funds were also announced for projects of home department, drinking water, women empowerment and child development and education, agriculture and agricultural welfare, tourism, AYUSH and urban development. For the ambitious ‘13 districts, 13 new destinations’, an amount of Rs 3.52 crore was approved to develop Mukteshwar circuit on “Himalaya Darshan” theme. In the ongoing financial year, a total of Rs 1.41 crore, which is 40% of the approved amount, has been released for the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-sanctions-rs-100-crore-for-kumbh-related-projects-other-works/articleshow/80158674.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Now, construction irregularities found at Hapur crematorium, JE, contractor among 4 booked||MEERUT: A probe into an under construction crematorium in Uttar Pradesh's Hapur - just 35km away from the Ghaziabad’s tragic roof collapse site - found similar gross irregularities in construction with glaring defects and use of sub-standard materials. Taking cognizance, a contractor, junior engineer, village pradhan and panchayat secretary were booked on Thursday. This comes days after a roof collapse at a crematorium in Ghaziabad district claimed at least 25 lives. In the FIR registered by assistant development officer Tribhuvan Kaushik, it is alleged that attempts have been made to embezzle funds and poor quality materials were used in the construction of the crematorium. The FIR was registered against pradhan Deviram, panchayat secretary Ramesh Chand, junior engineer Shauraj Singh and contractor of the firm Chaudhary Construction under sections 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences) of the IPC at Dholana police station. No arrests have been made so far, Hapur police said. The new crematorium had come up in the Dholana area of Hapur district and a complaint was recently made regarding the lapses and defects. Following the complaint, a probe was ordered by Hapur DM Aditi Singh and a team of chief development officer, PWD executive engineer, Dholana SDM and Pilkhuwa circle officer inspected the crematorium's latest construction. The probe team in its findings claimed that there is no drawing or design for the under construction building at the crematorium. The quality of bricks used was also not found satisfactory. "The firm under contract for construction has been blacklisted and a probe will be initiated in their other ongoing projects," a senior administrative official in the district said. Notably, on Sunday, 25 people, most of them attending a funeral, were killed and 15 others injured when the roof of a shelter at a cremation ground in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad district, collapsed. Later, the arrested contractor Ajay Tyagi, in his statement to the police, had claimed to have paid Rs 16 lakh as commission to executive officer and junior engineer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/now-construction-irregularities-found-at-hapur-crematorium-je-contractor-among-4-booked/articleshow/80158651.cms||Piyush Rai
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||ACB to tighten grip against corrupt govt officials in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Conviction rate in corruption cases rose to 53 per cent in 2020 and collective efforts would be made for timely prosecution sanction against tainted public servants, said senior ACB officers on Wednesday. ACB DG BL Soni said, “Our focus is to increase the conviction rate and ensure timely grant of prosecution sanction in various corruption cases. Usually an investigation officer is the one who does all the paper work in getting the prosecution sanction against the trapped officer. But, now all senior officers will also facilitate in getting timely prosecution sanction,” Soni added. He added measures would be taken to help complainants. “There is already a circular by the department of home that a person who comes with a complaint against officer of any department should not be further harassed,” he added. “In order to increase our accessibility, we have started our helpline numbers on WhatsApp,” he added. ACB ADG MN Dinesh said, “In 2020, we had registered 263 cases including 64 cases against gazetted officers and 186 against non–gazetted officers and arrested 351 persons. This included an IAS officer, an IPS officer, three RAS officers and four RPS officers.” “I56 cases 71 accused including 61 public servants and 10 private persons were convicted for corruption,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-to-tighten-grip-against-corrupt-govt-officials/articleshow/80159750.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Meerut dairy owners to pay Rs 20k fine for causing drains to choke with dung||Meerut: In a drive to keep a check on illegal dairies from dumping cow dung and other waste into city drains, causing them to choke, Meerut Municipal Corporation (MMC) has ordered imposition of a fine of Rs 20,000 on the owners for violations. As a part of the drive, a sum of Rs 2.40 lakh as fines has already been imposed. “A drive has been started to impose fine on the owners of illegal dairies who dump cow dung in the drains, choking them. A fine of Rs 20,000 per dairy is being imposed on those flouting norms so that local residents don’t face any issue,” said Manish Bansal, Meerut municipal commissioner. The sanitation and food inspectors have been entrusted with the task of inspection of the dairies and take action wherever necessary. So far, fines totaling Rs 2.40 lakh has been imposed on the dairy owners and a sum of Rs 68,500 has been deposited so far. The drive will continue until the dairies are shifted outside the city limits, said Bansal. The issue of illegal dairies has been hanging fire in the city for long. In 1998, the Allahabad High Court had ordered shifting the dairies out of city limits. However, the order was not complied with. In May 2019, the court directed the district authorities to provide land to the dairy owners and shift them there. Despite efforts to move the dairies out of the city limits, they continue to function as no designated place has been provided to them till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/meerut-dairy-owners-to-pay-rs-20k-fine-for-causing-drains-to-choke-with-dung/articleshow/80158644.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Several farmer leaders allege detention, cops deny charge||Meerut: As hundreds of farmers from several western UP districts took out tractor marches to the national capital to join protests against the three farm laws, police swung in action and allegedly kept several union leaders under house arrest.A video of Bulandshahr circle officer (City) Sangram Singh involved in a heated argument with a farmer leader on a tractor has also surfaced. Policemen at the spot can be seen stopping the tractor in the middle of the road and asking BKU leader Mangeram Tyagi driving the tractor to park it on the side of the road. “Had many tractors reached there (Delhi), it would have created chaos. Many (farmers) were stopped after establishing dialogue. Had we not stopped them, 10-15,000 tractors would have reached there from Bulandshahr alone. No force was used to stop them,” said Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police.Senior officials in the region rejected claims of house arrest of leaders. “We had spoken to all the leaders. We did not keep anyone in house arrest, instead we facilitated their movement,” said Praveen Kumar, inspector general, Meerut range.ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/several-farmer-leaders-allege-detention-cops-deny-charge/articleshow/80158652.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ajmer||Maximum bird deaths reported in Rajasthan are of crows||JAIPUR: Crows continue to die at an alarming rate in the state. Out of the total 375 bird deaths on Thursday, 322 were crows. The number is comparatively higher than Wednesday’s as 297 crows died in 21 districts. A report of animal husbandry said that in the past 12 days, total 1,833 birds have died in the state, out of which 1,157 were crows. An official said, “It was witnessed that bird deaths have reduced on Thursday. On Wednesday, the figure was 410. The mortality till date has been reported in 29 districts.” An official said, two more samples of dead birds will be sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, which were collected on Thursday. Total 158 samples have been sent so far for testing. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from four districts including Kota, Baran and Jaipur. On December 31, for the first time, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds. Meanwhile, following the animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria, the department on Thursday prepared a list of poultry farms owners and created an online group through a mobile application to keep tab on any unusual deaths of domestic poultry birds. As per the animal husbandry records, there are approximately 2,540 poultry farms in all the districts of Rajasthan. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “No deaths in poultry were reported and the department is monitoring the activities closely. Directions were also given to clean the cages of the birds.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all the poultry farm owners to report on the mobile group in case of any death. The district administration officials including veterinary officers are directed to be present in the group. In case any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, the samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators are asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/maximum-bird-deaths-reported-are-of-crows/articleshow/80168795.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Patna||Man abducted, forcibly married off to a girl in Jamui||PATNA: A 21-year-old Army recruit was allegedly kidnapped at gunpoint while he was out for a jog in Lakhisarai on Thursday morning and forcibly married off to a girl in the neighbouring Jamui district. The youth Shivam Kumar was rescued by the police within four hours from the house of the girl’s relative identified as Karo Singh of Majhaus village under Sikandra police station area in Jamui. Shivam is set to join the Army at Danapur in 10 days, police said. The Barahiya SHO, Dhirendra Kumar Pandey, who led the rescue team, said around five armed persons in a car waylaid Shivam while he was jogging with two of his friends around 6 am. “The kidnappers were the girl’s relatives. They took Shivam to the 1200-year-old Simariya Mahadev Temple at Manjhaus and got them married,” Pandey said, adding, he was forcibly married at the temple with the girl at gunpoint. SHO Pandey said the girl’s father Mangal Singh is a transporter while Shivam’s father Manoj Kumar is a middle-class farmer. “Both families belong to the same caste. A kidnapping case has been registered based on Manoj’s written complaint,” he said, adding the youth would be produced before the judicial magistrate on Friday for the recording of his statement. Lakhisarai SP Sushil Kumar told TOI over the phone that it is a case of kidnapping for marriage. “After the preliminary investigation, it surfaced that the girl used to visit a relative’s house near Shivam’s residence and they knew each other. The family members of the girl are evading arrest,” SP said. He said the investigation is on to ascertain if Shivam and the girl were in a relationship or whether there had been any marriage proposal from the girl’s side.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-abducted-forcibly-married-off-to-a-girl-in-jamui/articleshow/80158678.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 8, 2021||Meerut||Speeding car runs over two bike-borne men on Meerut-Karnal highway||Muzaffarnagar: Two bike-borne men died after a speeding car hit their bike on Meerut-Karnal highway in Shamil district on Thursday. Both victims are residents of Muzaffarnagar and were returning home when the accident happened. The bodies have been sent for postmortem and a probe has been ordered.According to sources, Jitender (45) and Ashok (43), residents of a village in Bitawda of Muzaffarnagar, were returning from Shamli after visiting a doctor. A speeding car coming from the opposite side first rammed into the divider, breaking it, and then crushed both men on their bike. Locals soon gathered on spot and alerted police, who rushed to the spot and sent both to the district hospital, where they were declared brought dead. The driver of the car also received injuries and is being treated at the hospital, said police. According to station house officer of Shamli (Sadar) police station Satpal Singh, “The bodies were sent for postmortem. A case was registered against the driver. Further action is being taken in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/speeding-car-runs-over-two-bike-borne-men-on-meerut-karnal-highway/articleshow/80158656.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 8, 2021||Dehradun||Former GM of Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam booked for cheating and causing Rs 9 crore loss||Dehradun: Dehradun police on registered a case of cheating against former general manager (GM) of the Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN). He has been booked under section 420 of Indian Penal Code.The accused official, identified as Rahul Sharma, was suspended in February 2019 on charges of financial irregularities. According to the complaint filed by the department, Sharma caused a loss to the tune of over Rs 9crore to the GMVN.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/former-gm-of-garhwal-mandal-vikas-nigam-booked-for-cheating-and-causing-rs-9-crore-loss/articleshow/80158690.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Surat||Dialysis centre set up for pet dogs in Surat||SURAT: Five years ago, they lost their pet dog to renal failure as it couldn’t get dialysis treatment on time. This doctor family will now ensure that no pet suffering from renal failure in the state suffers. The Chauhan family has decided to set up dialysis facility for pet animals in the city. The facility that will initially treat cats and dogs is expected to become operational by the end of this month. “Pet owners from the state currently have to travel all the way to Mumbai or Chennai for the dialysis facility and they end up spending Rs 10,000 to Rs 20,000 per trip. Now they can treat their pets in the state. Fees will be taken from pet owners who can afford to pay money while stray dogs will be given dialysis for free,” said Dr Mahendra Chauhan, an ophthalmic surgeon who runs Keshvi Charitable Trust. Chauhan, his wife Binodini, a fetal medicine specialist and daughter Keshvi, who is an MBBS, are setting up Leo Dialysis Facility in Bhatar area in the memory of Leo, their 12-year-old Dachshund that died of renal failure in 2016. “We learnt about Leo’s kidney failure at a very later stage and desperately tried to look for a dialysis facility in the state. But it wasn’t available in Gujarat. It was during this period that I learnt how many pets with renal failure need dialysis but are suffering as there is no facility here,” Dr Binodini said. “Leo was like a family member for us and we shared an emotional bonding with it. We decided to set up the facility in his memory so that other pets, who need dialysis, don’t suffer,” Keshvi told TOI. “The facility is being developed at the cost of Rs 10 lakh and it will benefit thousands of pets in the state,” said Dr Ayyub Sama, a veterinarian. Dr Sama will undergo training for dialysis of pets at Chennai before launch of the facility. The center will initially do dialysis of dogs and cats. According to veterinary experts, the dialysis of pets requires the same machine as that for humans. And, many pets have undergone dialysis successfully in Mumbai and Delhi. Experts said that pets suffer from two types of renal failure - acute and chronic. Those with acute renal failure recover after undergoing dialysis for a few times while the ones facing chronic failure need dialysis at regular intervals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/dialysis-centre-set-up-in-memory-of-pet-dog/articleshow/80158695.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||BJP, Cong gear up for municipal poll in Ajmer||Ajmer: Both the BJP and Congress are gearing up to contest the Ajmer Municipal Corporation polls as the mayor’s seat is reserved for SC woman this time. There will be 80 wards instead of last term’s 60. The local leaders from both the parties are aiming at the mayor’s post and almost every local SC leader is trying to manage a ticket for their wives or sisters or any relative so that they can lay claim to the mayor’s post. Ajmer south assembly constituency is being regarded as the hottest turf as this is a reserve seat and most of the wards in this constituency are reserved. The south constituency wards of Ramganj, Dholabhata, Nagara, Nasirabad Road, Shrinagar Road, Madar Gate, Kaserganj and surrounding areas are brimming with banners and posters claiming candidature from a particular party. In BJP, a core committee has been formed to decide about ticket distribution, while in Congress the local unit is split into Gehlot and Pilot camps. In the last term, the mayor’s post was with BJP and this time again BJP wants to retain the seat. Sources said this time the number of independent candidates will increase and the filing of nomination will begin on January 15. Voting will take place on January 28 and the result will be declared on January 31. In a first, Aam Admi Party, too, will contest the elections and the party is looking for right candidates in different wards. Last time, there was a split in BJP at the time of voting for the mayor’s post and the Sachin Pilot camp backed BJP dissident, however then education minister Vasudev Devnani managed to get the BJP mayor Dharmendra Gahlot. This time, too, there are possibilities of a split and therefore both parties are conscious to get the right candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-cong-gear-up-for-municipal-poll-in-ajmer/articleshow/80159759.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Maximum bird deaths reported in Rajasthan are of crows||JAIPUR: Crows continue to die at an alarming rate in the state. Out of the total 375 bird deaths on Thursday, 322 were crows. The number is comparatively higher than Wednesday’s as 297 crows died in 21 districts. A report of animal husbandry said that in the past 12 days, total 1,833 birds have died in the state, out of which 1,157 were crows. An official said, “It was witnessed that bird deaths have reduced on Thursday. On Wednesday, the figure was 410. The mortality till date has been reported in 29 districts.” An official said, two more samples of dead birds will be sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, which were collected on Thursday. Total 158 samples have been sent so far for testing. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from four districts including Kota, Baran and Jaipur. On December 31, for the first time, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds. Meanwhile, following the animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria, the department on Thursday prepared a list of poultry farms owners and created an online group through a mobile application to keep tab on any unusual deaths of domestic poultry birds. As per the animal husbandry records, there are approximately 2,540 poultry farms in all the districts of Rajasthan. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “No deaths in poultry were reported and the department is monitoring the activities closely. Directions were also given to clean the cages of the birds.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all the poultry farm owners to report on the mobile group in case of any death. The district administration officials including veterinary officers are directed to be present in the group. In case any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, the samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators are asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/maximum-bird-deaths-reported-are-of-crows/articleshow/80168793.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Maximum bird deaths reported in Rajasthan are of crows||JAIPUR: Crows continue to die at an alarming rate in the state. Out of the total 375 bird deaths on Thursday, 322 were crows. The number is comparatively higher than Wednesday’s as 297 crows died in 21 districts. A report of animal husbandry said that in the past 12 days, total 1,833 birds have died in the state, out of which 1,157 were crows. An official said, “It was witnessed that bird deaths have reduced on Thursday. On Wednesday, the figure was 410. The mortality till date has been reported in 29 districts.” An official said, two more samples of dead birds will be sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, which were collected on Thursday. Total 158 samples have been sent so far for testing. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from four districts including Kota, Baran and Jaipur. On December 31, for the first time, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds. Meanwhile, following the animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria, the department on Thursday prepared a list of poultry farms owners and created an online group through a mobile application to keep tab on any unusual deaths of domestic poultry birds. As per the animal husbandry records, there are approximately 2,540 poultry farms in all the districts of Rajasthan. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “No deaths in poultry were reported and the department is monitoring the activities closely. Directions were also given to clean the cages of the birds.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all the poultry farm owners to report on the mobile group in case of any death. The district administration officials including veterinary officers are directed to be present in the group. In case any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, the samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators are asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/maximum-bird-deaths-reported-are-of-crows/articleshow/80159757.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Udaipur||Maximum bird deaths reported in Rajasthan are of crows||JAIPUR: Crows continue to die at an alarming rate in the state. Out of the total 375 bird deaths on Thursday, 322 were crows. The number is comparatively higher than Wednesday’s as 297 crows died in 21 districts. A report of animal husbandry said that in the past 12 days, total 1,833 birds have died in the state, out of which 1,157 were crows. An official said, “It was witnessed that bird deaths have reduced on Thursday. On Wednesday, the figure was 410. The mortality till date has been reported in 29 districts.” An official said, two more samples of dead birds will be sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, which were collected on Thursday. Total 158 samples have been sent so far for testing. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from four districts including Kota, Baran and Jaipur. On December 31, for the first time, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds. Meanwhile, following the animal husbandry minister Lal Chand Kataria, the department on Thursday prepared a list of poultry farms owners and created an online group through a mobile application to keep tab on any unusual deaths of domestic poultry birds. As per the animal husbandry records, there are approximately 2,540 poultry farms in all the districts of Rajasthan. Director, animal husbandry, Virendra Singh said, “No deaths in poultry were reported and the department is monitoring the activities closely. Directions were also given to clean the cages of the birds.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all the poultry farm owners to report on the mobile group in case of any death. The district administration officials including veterinary officers are directed to be present in the group. In case any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, the samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators are asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/maximum-bird-deaths-reported-are-of-crows/articleshow/80168791.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Bareilly authority demolishes mosque built illegally on graveyard land||Bareilly: The Bareilly Development Authority (BDA) on Thursday demolished a mosque that had been illegally constructed on land measuring around 100 sqm, registered as a graveyard in revenue department records, said officials. According to BDA officials, the plot of land in Chandpur Bijpuri village near BDA’s Ramganga Nagar Awas Yojana, was illegally occupied by some local residents. Some illegally constructed shops adjacent to a temple opposite the mosque were also demolished by BDA. Speaking to TOI, BDA superintending engineer Rajiv Dixit said, “It came to light that a mosque was illegally constructed on the land of the graveyard near Ramganga Nagar Awas Yojana. Inspections were conducted and it was found that the plot is registered as a graveyard in revenue department records. As per guidelines of the Supreme Court, no construction can come up on land registered as a graveyard. It was illegal and therefore, the illegally built mosque was demolished.” Dixit added, “A couple of shops adjacent to the temple located opposite to the mosque, which were also found to have been illegally built, were also demolished by the development authority.” Officials said locals tried to resist the enforcement activity, but the drive was carried out successfully.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bareilly-authority-demolishes-mosque-built-illegally-on-graveyard-land/articleshow/80158670.cms||Maria Khan
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Pkl holds successful Covid-19 vaccine dry run||Panchkula: Dry run of Covid-19 vaccine was held at three health centres each in urban as well as the rural areas of the Panchkula district on Thursday. While providing information, chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Jasjeet Kaur said health centre of sectors 16, 21 and 26 were chosen for the dry run in the urban areas and Kalka, Pinjore and Barwala health centres were chosen in the rural area. The CMO said necessary information regarding the safe delivery and use of vaccine have been told to the staff working in this regard. A proper training to them is also given to make it successful without any hindrance. The CMO said the first-phase of the vaccine will be given to the health care workers, frontline workers and persons above 50 years of age. While sharing details, the CMO said there are a total of 130 hospitals in Panchkula, including 35 government and 95 private hospitals, having 5,710 medical staff. Out of the total staff, data of 5,250 health workers have been uploaded on the Covin portal and the rest of the data will be uploaded soon. As per the record, 16 cold chain points have been identified in the Panchkula district and a special cold chain point has been installed at the Sector 20 dispensary to keep the Covid-19 vaccination. Besides this, training to the medical staff to handle the Inflation Pressure Loss Rate (IPLR), deep freezer, cold chain handler, vaccinator will be given. District immunisation officer Dr Meenu Sasan said on the patterns of polling booths, medical booths will be made in the district and a five-member team will give the first dose to a person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pkl-holds-successful-covid-19-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80158683.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Army officer feared drowned during exercise in Jodhpur lake||JODHPUR: An officer from 10 Para was feared drowned in a lake during an exercise in Jodhpur on Thursday. Captain Ankit Gupta jumped into water from a helicopter along with some other personnel as part of a drill to save drowning persons but was not seen again. A rescue operation was carried out by police, SDRF and civil defence along with army divers but he could not be traced till late at night. SHO (Rajiv Gandhi Nagar) Jai Kishan Soni said a team of 10 Para had undertaken an exercise in Kailana lake on the outskirts of Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. As part of the exercise, some jawans jumped into the lake from a helicopter to practice a rescue operation. They were supposed to hold the drowning persons and rescue him safely back to the helicopter. “While all showed up after jumping into the water, Captain Ankit Gupta did not emerge,” Soni said. They tried to search him on their own first, but when they failed, informed their seniors, who rushed to the spot and began a search operation. On information, police also rushed to the spot and called in SDRF, civil defence team and some private divers. According to sources, Captain Gupta had come out and had been holding the hands of rescuers during the exercise, but slipped and fell back into the water. The search operation was on till late night, but the officer could not be found till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-officer-feared-drowned-during-exercise-in-jodhpur-lake/articleshow/80159762.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Army officer feared drowned during exercise in Jodhpur lake||JODHPUR: An officer from 10 Para was feared drowned in a lake during an exercise in Jodhpur on Thursday. Captain Ankit Gupta jumped into water from a helicopter along with some other personnel as part of a drill to save drowning persons but was not seen again. A rescue operation was carried out by police, SDRF and civil defence along with army divers but he could not be traced till late at night. SHO (Rajiv Gandhi Nagar) Jai Kishan Soni said a team of 10 Para had undertaken an exercise in Kailana lake on the outskirts of Jodhpur on Thursday afternoon. As part of the exercise, some jawans jumped into the lake from a helicopter to practice a rescue operation. They were supposed to hold the drowning persons and rescue him safely back to the helicopter. “While all showed up after jumping into the water, Captain Ankit Gupta did not emerge,” Soni said. They tried to search him on their own first, but when they failed, informed their seniors, who rushed to the spot and began a search operation. On information, police also rushed to the spot and called in SDRF, civil defence team and some private divers. According to sources, Captain Gupta had come out and had been holding the hands of rescuers during the exercise, but slipped and fell back into the water. The search operation was on till late night, but the officer could not be found till then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/army-officer-feared-drowned-during-exercise-in-jodhpur-lake/articleshow/80165676.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab BJP leaders meet top brass||BATHINDA: Punjab BJP leaders are reaching out to key leaders in the Union government ahead of the next round of talks, scheduled for January 8, on central agriculture marketing laws. A day after meeting PM Narendra Modi, Punjab BJP leaders Sujit Kumar Jyani and Harjit Singh Grewal on Wednesday late night met defence minister Rajnath Singh. Former Union minister Vijay Sampla also attended that meeting. Both Jyani and Grewal are expected to meet home minister Amit Shah late in the evening. “As the Union government is very serious about finding a solution to this impasse, we are working to find any workable solution and for it we had met the worthy PM and Rajnath on Wednesday night. Now we are going to meet the home minister. Right from the PM to other senior most ministers, all are for helping the farmers and want us to prevail upon them (farmers) but the certain forces, including political parties and ultra left forces, are coming in the way of the solution. The government is ready to bring any number of amendments in the laws as per the demands of farm leaders but they are adamant on repeal, which is not right. Despite all this, we are trying our best to reach to some solution,” said Jyani said. Sampla said, “Though I had gone to Rajnath for some other thing, as Jayani and Grewal were going to meet the defence minister, we met him together and discussed the farm laws. The ministers are very serious (about finding a solution), but problem is from the farm leaders’ end. Despite government’s readiness to go to any length to solve the issue, the farm leaders are adamant on repeal of laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-bjp-leaders-meet-top-brass/articleshow/80160946.cms||Neel Kamal
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Trial run held at 7 places in Ambala||Ambala: The Ambala district administration has set-up 1,054 centres for Covid-19 vaccine and dry run was completed successfully at seven places on Thursday. Ambala deputy commissioner (DC) Ashok Kumar Sharma, accompanied by district civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh, started the dry run at a centre in Panjokhra Sahib village and inspected all the preparations. They also visited the Poly Clinic in Sector 10. Seven places, where the dry run has been done, include civil hospital Ambala Cantt, Poly Clinic Ambala City, Mullana, Barara, Shahzadpur, Panjokhra Sahib and Chourmastpur. DC Ashok Kumar said, “The doctors and the staff seemed fully motivated and it was visible from the preparations. A total of 1,054 centres have been set up for Covid-19 vaccination. Along with all the basic facilities, the teams of doctors are fully alert. As soon as the vaccine comes, the process of vaccination will be started as per the criteria of the government.” He said a meeting of the officials concerned was called on January 5, in which necessary instructions were given. Dr Kuldeep Singh said, “The name, identity number and message of the beneficiary concerned have been uploaded on the portal and will be checked at the entry by on-duty police personnel or staff.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/trial-run-held-at-7-places-in-ambala/articleshow/80158699.cms||JK Singh
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Elante store fined for charging for carry-bag||Chandigarh: The district consumer disputes redressal forum directed Miniso, a store at Elante Mall, to pay Rs 1,600 for charging Rs 10 for a carry bag. Ashima Dutt, a resident of Sector 21, Chandigarh, said she purchased goods worth Rs 670 from the store. It was averred that when she was handed over the invoice, it came to her notice that she was charged Rs 10 in addition to Rs 670 for a carry bag. She objected to the amount charged for the carry bag as it should be provided free of cost. It was further averred that she asked the store to refund the amount of the paper bag. Claiming that the store has committed deficiency in service and also indulged into unfair trade practice by charging for the carry bag, she approached the consumer forum. In its written statement, the store admitted that the complainant purchased goods worth Rs 670 on July 17, 2019. It was further pleaded that the complainant had bought carry bag on her own wish and was not forced or pressured to buy the same. Not impressed by the argument of the store authorities, the forum  directed them to pay up. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elante-store-fined-for-charging-for-carry-bag/articleshow/80158713.cms||Kamini Mehta
January 8, 2021||Amritsar||‘Resolve to see agri laws repealed firmed up with tractor marches’||BATHINDA: A day ahead of eighth round of talks with Union ministers, thousands of tractors marched all around Delhi on Thursday. Farmers from Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and other states took out four different tractor marches, wherein a score of senior farm leaders of farm organisations participated. Two marches each were taken out on stretches between Singhu and Tikri borders and Palwal-Gazipur-Shahjahanpur. One march started from Tikri border towards Singhu and other from Singhu towards Tikri, a distance of nearly 60km. The marches met midway and turned back. Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait, BKU Rajewal president Babir Singh Rajewal and leaders of almost all the farmer organisations from Punjab participated in the marches, which they described as a trailer of the proposed tractor parade on January 26, if no solution to contentious agriculture laws was found by then. Youngsters were present in a large numbers. Some of the tractors carried as many as 10 persons. For some, the event was was a sort of festival. Farmer organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told TOI, “Over a thousand tractors from our organisation were put into the marches with thousands of activists riding the machines. We are determined to make the central government repeal the laws.” Farm organisation BKU Ekta Dakonda general secretary Jagmohan Singh, who accompanied Rajewal, said, “The resolve of our enthusiastic activists further firmed up today with the tractor marches as activists put up their full might to show to the government that the farmers are here to stay.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/resolve-to-see-agri-laws-repealed-firmed-up-with-tractor-marches/articleshow/80160934.cms||Neel Kamal
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||After three decades, Rawdon Square gets a facelift; KMC to inaugurate park tomorrow||KOLKATA: A sprawling water body with a park in the city’s prime Park Street locality, which had been padlocked, forgotten and rotted for three decades after an attempt to construct a cultural complex there by the Jyoti Basu government was foiled by a strident opposition, has been restored at last. Officials at Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) that undertook the revival project two years ago said Rawdon Square would be thrown open to citizens on Saturday. Work on the unique restoration project began in September 2018 after the National Green Tribunal ordered the reopening of the square that had been padlocked since the early 1990s. The NGT order followed a petition by NGO Public against an attempt by Kolkata Police to convert a portion of the square into a parking lot for a school in the neighbourhood. “We have been calling for the reopening of the park for years and had even organised petitions by nature club students and locals. But they were ignored till the NGT issued an order and we pressed for it to be executed. Mercifully, there were officials in KMC who felt the demand for returning a park to the neighbourhood made sense and took up the project,” recounted Bonani Kakkar of Public. More than 100 trucks of construction debris that had been dumped in the disused park from neighbouring construction sites had to be cleared first. Piles that have been driven along the edge of the 2.5-acre water body to prevent soil erosion had to be removed. But a concrete wall that had been constructed in the middle, splitting the water body into two, was difficult to demolish and allowed to stay. “Now there are two water bodies instead of one. All the trees like kadam, simul, champa, deodar and a clump of banana trees, which were there in the square, have been retained. In addition, fruit-bearing trees like mango and black berry have been planted to attract birds. A wild variety of Indian grass has been planted on the undulating landscape around the water bodies. A jogging and walking track has been created around the waterbody and wooden benches have been installed next to it,” said a KMC parks and squares department official. Tall grass along the bund that splits the waterbody has been retained to attract birds. Attempts are also underway to introduce plants that attract dragonflies in a bid to revive the square’s biodiversity. Kakkar, who visits the square at least two-three times a week, has already spotted several species of birds including Wagtail, Common kingfisher, Cormorants, Black-naped Oriole and sparrows. Though the pandemic had stalled the restoration work, Kakkar began to follow it up with KMC’s project management unit (PMU) entrusted with the project execution immediately after unlock was announced. It resumed once mayor Firhad Hakim and former municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed, too, took interest in it. Hakim is set to inaugurate the square on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/after-three-decades-rawdon-square-gets-a-facelift-kmc-to-inaugurate-park-tomorrow/articleshow/80159769.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Agra||Shahi Idgah committee raises objections over plea seeking removal of Mathura mosque||Agra: The Management Trust Committee of Shahi Idgah in Mathura moved an application in the district court on Thursday objecting to the admission of an appeal filed against the dismissal of a civil suit seeking ownership of 13.37-acre land near the Krishna Janmasthan temple and removal of Shahi Idgah mosque. The suit, filed by Lucknow resident Ranjana Agnihotri and five others, including a Delhi resident, claims that the mosque is exactly where Krishna was born and they have sought the ownership of the entire 13.37-acre land. It also sought cancellation of a compromise decree between the governing body of the temple complex and the management trust of the mosque in 1968.In its plea, the committee stated that the appeal was non- maintainable. After hearing both the parties, the court has fixed the next hearing on January 11, district government counsel Shivram Singh said. Three suits have been filed in the case. While, two pleas were filed, one each by a priests’ body and a social organisation, pleading that the sensitivity of the matter needs to be understood since the issue can disrupt the “communal harmony of Mathura town”, the third plea was filed by one lesser-known organization called Hindu Army, seeking removal of the mosque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/shahi-idgah-committee-raises-objections-over-plea-seeking-removal-of-mathura-mosque/articleshow/80158708.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Sacked computer teachers struggle to support families||Chandigarh: Savings drained, the sacked 163 computer instructors rely on private moneylenders for paying their utility bills, children’s education fee, and medical expenses of the elderly parents. They went last eight months of their service without pay, four since the change of contractor. They were sacked in September without any notice after the contractor was changed. Some of them were single-earning hands of their families and teaching for almost a decade. Even the Chandigarh administrative tribunal (CAT) had asked the UT education department to pay them their due salaries. The department promises to clear the dues. School education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said: “My office has approved the payment and the file is with the district education officer (DEO).” On September 30, the department had relieved these senior and junior computer instructors working in various government schools of Chandigarh since 2008. The decision stunned them and invited criticism from the entire school fraternity. Many complaints reached the Prime Ministers’ Office (PMO). The salaries were held back over a dispute with the contractor hired four months ago before their sacking. Some of the teachers rejoined after paying a certain fee to the contractor, while the others moved CAT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sacked-computer-teachers-struggle-to-support-families/articleshow/80158702.cms||Kamini Mehta
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Birds continue to die in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Nine birds died in the district on Thursday, a significant dip from Wednesday’s 14. The latest reports of bird deaths have come from Jaisalmer’s Lathi and Dholia areas. In the last four days, 68 dead birds have been recovered. Animal husbandry joint director Vinod Kalra said of the 9 birds that died on Thursday, six were in Dholia and two in Lathi and one in Pokhran. On Wednesday, 14 birds had died including 10 in Devikot, 2 in Dholia, one in a forest area in Sam and one in municipal council in Jaisalmer. He said the dead birds have been sent to Bhopal laboratory for tests. Hens were checked at poultry markets in the district and were found disease-free. Collector Ashish Modi has convened a meeting on the unnatural death of birds. Dr Umersh Warangatiyar has been made the district-level nodal officer of the control room that has been set up to monitor bird deaths. He said the control room will work in three shifts for which department personnel have been deployed. Dr Manoj Mathur has been made the nodal officer for Jaisalmer tehsil, Dr Surendra Singh Tanwar for Pokaran tehsil, Dr. Hansa Ram for Bhaniyan and livestock assistant Yaduveer for Fatehgarh tehsil. Kalra said that nodal officers have been directed to make an entry of the number of dead birds found every day and the action taken on information received. He said the forest department and the animal husbandry department have been directed to dispose the dead birds under biosecurity measures and disinfection. Ponds and other waterbodies in many areas of Jaisalmer, Barmer and Jodhpur see thousands of migratory birds from countries every year. Rare birds including demoiselle crane, Houbara, Scopwell, Merlin, sociable lapwing, Dalmatian Pelican, Egyptian vulture and other rare species flock to the state every winter. Looking at the bird flu menace, officials fear that these birds can also get infected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/birds-continue-to-die-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80159760.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Agra||UP STF closes one case against 4 alleged PFI men||AGRA: The UP’s Special Task Force (STF), probing the alleged conspiracy by four PFI men to “incite caste riots” in the state, on Thursday moved a local court to scrap a case registered against them at Hathras’s Chandpa police station, leaving the probe agency with just one case to deal with and giving the accused some hope of bail in near future. The other FIR with the same sections-- including the stringent sedition and Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) -- is registered at Mathura police station and the probe in that case will continue. On Thursday, the STF moved an application before Chief Judicial Magistrate of Hathras, Shiv Kumari, informing that it wants to close the FIR filed at Hathras’s Chandpa police station. The agency also asked the court to cancel the judicial remand of the accused in the case, defence lawyer Madhuvan Dutt Chaturvedi told TOI. Accepting the STF plea, the court ordered the cancellation of judicial remand of the accused in the Chandpa case and directed the district jail authorities to mention it in their records. The accused are now technically released in one of the two cases filed against them. So, now, the four accused will have to file for bail in just one case, and not in two. In its application, the STF stated the FIR registered at Chandpa police station has been merged with the FIR registered at Mathura’s Maant police station. The four alleged PFI activists, Siddiqui Kappan, 41, a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site in Delhi, Atikur Rahman, 28 of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad, 28, from Bahraich and Aalam, 37, from Rampur, were booked on October 5 by Mathura police while they were on way to Hathras to meet the family of the 19-year-old Dalit rape-murder victim. Their names were later included in the case registered at Chandpa police station in Hathras on October 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/up-stf-closes-one-case-against-4-alleged-pfi-men/articleshow/80158725.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Kota: Temple priest’s son held for ganja trade||KOTA: Jhalawar district special team and Kamkheda and Manhorethana station jointly police busted ganja cultivation under the cover of garlic and wheat crops in a 1-bigha plot registered in the name of a temple at Suliya Jangir village of the district on Wednesday and booked the priest and his son under sections of NDPS Act. While police arrested the son from the spot, the priest fled. According to Jhalawar SP Kiran Kang Siddhu, police recovered 2,200 ganja plants weighing around 942 kg and arrested Mukesh Bairagi (26). She added that a kilogram of the narcotics having a market value of Rs 75 lakh was separately recovered from his possession. The youth revealed that his father is priest in a village temple that owns few bighas of agriculture land near Parvan river. He admitted of secretly cultivating ganja and selling it among customers at a price below the market rate, Kamkheda SHO Prembihari Nagar said. The accused also admitted the involvement of his father Ramswroop Bairagi following which he was also booked under sections of the NDPS Act. The accused was on Thursday produced before a court and efforts are underway to nab his father, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/temple-priests-son-held-for-ganja-trade/articleshow/80159765.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Deaths in state rise even as fresh cases keep dropping||Mumbai: For the third day in a row, Maharashtra recorded a rise in Covid-19 deaths despite registering a dip in fresh cases. A total of 3,729 cases and 72 deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the total tally of cases to 19,58,282. The total fatalities reached 49,897, inching close to the 50,000 mark. From registering as few as 35 and 29 deaths on January 3 and January 4 respectively, the state has seen a steady rise in deaths. The toll rose to 64 on January 5, 66 on January 6 and 72 on Thursday. A state official, however, said that of the 72 deaths, 38 occurred in the last 48 hours and 14 in the past week. The remaining 20 deaths are from previous weeks and have been added to the tally now. The state’s Covid case fatality rate is now 2.55% and that of Mumbai is 3.79%. Mumbai continued to report a decline in cases and deaths on Thursday. A total of 665 cases and seven deaths were reported on Thursday, taking the case tally to 2,96,985 and total fatalities to 11,162. Of the seven deceased, all had comorbidities while five were above the age of 60, said a civic official. She added that deaths are now seen in the elderly or those with comorbidities after a week or two of hospitalisation. In the light of 11 cases of the UK variant being found in the state, public health minister Rajesh Tope said there was no need to panic. “If we continue to follow the Covid-19 appropriate behaviour then there should not be any further spread,” he said, adding that the state is also prepared for a smooth rollout of the vaccine once it has been received from the Centre. Suresh Kakani, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner, said that the health systems were all geared up for the vaccination drive that is likely to start next week. However, he cautioned that people shouldn’t drop their guard but continue to wear masks and maintain social distance. As per civic statistics, the city’s case growth rate between December 31 and January 6 has dropped to 0.21%. The current doubling rate of Mumbai is 366 days. The city is also nearing 25 lakh Covid tests. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region has touched 6,71,833 cases and 19,200 deaths. There were 63 fresh cases from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas, taking the total Covid-19 count there to 51,523. Two deaths were reported, taking the toll there to 1,066. The PCMC areas reported 59 fresh cases on Thursday. Thane city reported 124 new cases and one Covid death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deaths-in-state-rise-even-as-fresh-cases-keep-dropping/articleshow/80169131.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Amid protest, PUTA releases calender||Chandigarh: On the 49th day of the ongoing protest, PUTA executive members held a dharna at the vice-cancellor’s office and raised slogans against the VC and also condemned his autocratic way of functioning and leaving the university and teachers in a lurch. Later, PUTA executive held the calendar releasing ceremony at the PUTA office. The members shared that since the university authorities have not got the calendar printed this year due to austerity measures, PUTA took the initiative on itself for the convenience of teachers and other functionaries and staff. Mritunjay Kumar, president of PUTA, welcomed Professor Dinesh Gupta, UBS, currently the senior most teacher in the university and thanked him for releasing the calendar. Later, a calendar was presented to the vice-chancellor at his office by the office-bearers of PUTA executive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amid-protest-puta-releases-calender/articleshow/80158722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Contrary to claims only 5 speak on behalf of farmers’||Bathinda: The claims of former minister of Punjab, Surjit Kumar Jyani — that no fruitful talks were possible with large number of farm leaders attending the meetings with central ministers — were made to deflect attention from the main issue, said the farm groups. They claimed that even though representatives of 40 farm groups participate in the meetings, only five farm leaders speak on behalf of all the organisations. The five leaders who speak on behalf of farm organisations are Balbir Singh Rajewal of BKU (Rajewal), Darshan Pal of Krantikari Kisan Union, Joginder Singh Ugrahan of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), Jagjit Singh Dallewal of BKU (Ekta Sidhupur) and Kulwant Singh Sandhu of Jamhoori Kisan Sabha. Apart from them, if anything out of Punjab has to be shared either from farmers or the government side, it is Shiv Kumar Sharma Kakka from Madhya Pradesh and Hanan Mohllah from West Bengal who speak, claimed the farmer leaders on Thursday. Darshan Pal, who had been mainly receiving or writing to the government, told TOI that “Forty leaders may attend the meetings with central ministers, but only five speak. Before the meeting with central ministers, farmers discuss among themselves about the issues that needed to be highlighted in that particular meeting. Apart from the five, if anyone else in the meeting has to raise a point, he either writes it down on a piece of paper or tells the appointed leaders directly. We respect the protocol of the meeting.” According to Joginder Singh Ugrahan, “It is absurd that the farmers are leaderless. The farmers attend the meetings in dignified manner. We do not raise unnecessary issues and most of the farm leaders come to check how government is behaving towards demands of the farmers and in this way they maintain transparency as well”. Balbir Singh Rajewal said farm leaders do not go to meetings uninvited. “They go to meetings if ministers call to discuss the future of farmers,” he added. Jyani on Tuesday evening had said farmers’ protest is leaderless. No solution is coming as large number of farm leaders appear for meetings. Jyani was of the view that if a small group of three to four persons come for meetings, solution could be easily found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/contrary-to-claims-only-5-speak-on-behalf-of-farmers/articleshow/80160981.cms||Neel Kamal
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||No entrance test for IAS batch at PU centre||Chandigarh: In view of the pandemic, the centre for IAS and other competitive examinations, Panjab University, Chandigarh, has scrapped the entrance examination for IAS (preliminary) batch beginning February 2, 2021, informed Dr Sonal Chawla, honorary director. She said, “The centre imparts guidance and coaching to IAS aspirants. This batch particularly focusses on IAS prelims and shall be of four months’ duration. The admission for this batch will be on first come first serve basis.” The centre charges a nominal fee from IAS aspirants of SC/ST category and a subsidized concessional fee from students of other categories. The details regarding admission fee and application forms are available at www.iasc.puchd.ac.in under the tab ‘admission notices’. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-entrance-test-for-ias-batch-at-pu-centre/articleshow/80158716.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Health officials in fix as requests pile for vaccine||Hyderabad: Health authorities at the Directorate of Public Health, King Koti, have been getting requests from people wanting to get vaccinated in the first phase of the rollout of covid vaccination programme. In recent days, over 100 such people including teachers, lawyers and even registered medical practitioners (RMPs) have reached out to officials seeking to be included in the vulnerable beneficiaries list. Health authorities have asked these people to submit representations to the District Medical Health Officers (DMHOs), which will be forwarded to the Centre. As per official estimates, there are nearly 40,000 RMPs in the state, around 20,000 lawyers and over two lakh teachers in the state. The plan for the rollout of the vaccine currently is to cover the vulnerable population in the first phase of the vaccination programme. While lawyers have approached the high court over the issue, teachers have also threatened health authorities that they will approach the court. "We have asked the institutions to submitted their representations. Individuals and groups have been asked to submit their representations to the DMHOs. There are a lot of people approaching us but now it is too late to include them in the first phase. We will forward representations to Centre," said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. A health official said, “The Centre’s plan is to vaccinate the most vulnerable people as they are the ones who need to be protected from the virus. These are the categories where maximum deaths have been seen. However, there are a lot of people turning up with requests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-officials-in-fix-as-requests-pile-for-vaccine/articleshow/80159819.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 8, 2021||Udaipur||Uttarakhand railway trainee commits suicide in Udaipur lake||UDAIPUR: A 27-year-old man from Uttarakhand, who had come to Udaipur on a month’s training, ended his life by jumping into the Swaroop Sagar lake here on Thursday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Heem Singh Khati, son of Rajendra Singh from Udhampur, Uttarakhand. He had come to Udaipur on January 4 at the railway training centre at Sukhadia Circle and was supposed to participate in the training programme till February 4, sources said. According to eyewitnesses, the man arrived in an autorickshaw around 12.30pm at Swaroop Sagar and started walking slowly by the lake. Before people could sense his intentions, he suddenly dived into the water and drowned. Some people tried to save him, but in vain. The body was recovered when police arrived and launched a search. Later, the doctors at emergency declared him dead and the body was shifted to MB hospital mortuary. Hathipole police has registered a suicide case and informed the deceased’s family back in Udhampur. Cops said the reason behind the suicide is not known. Autopsy would be conducted after his relatives reach Udaipur, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/uttarakhand-railway-trainee-commits-suicide-in-udaipur-lake/articleshow/80168924.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Leopard mauls four-year-old boy in Gujarat||RAJKOT: A four-year-old boy was mauled to death by a leopard in front of his parents in Una Ugala village in Gir-Gadhada taluka of Gir-Somnath district on Thursday evening. The deceased was identified as Hashmukh Makwana. The incident took place at around 4.30 pm on Thursday when Hashmukh was playing on the farm where his parents worked as agricultural labourers. The wild cat attacked the boy from behind and dragged him. His parents and others working in the farm saw this and started shouting. The frightened leopard fled from the spot but left the boy severely injured. The villagers called up the 108 ambulance and took Hasmukh to the hospital in Gir-Gadhada town. However, the attending doctors declared him dead on admission. Forest department has initiated a process to place cages in the village to nab the leopard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/leopard-mauls-four-year-old-boy/articleshow/80158755.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta high court raises Ganga Sagar mela concern||KOLKATA: Asking the Bengal government to give it “clear suggestions” on how the Ganga Sagar mela can be “regulated, controlled or if necessary, even dropped for the current year” by 2 pm on Friday, the Calcutta High Court on Thursday said primacy should be given to “right to life”. The HC says “right to life” weighs over all other rights especially during a pandemic. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee directed the Bengal government to place a report by a senior medical officer specifying steps for “preventive management” if Ganga Sagar Mela is permitted to be held this year. The HC said, “The measures indicated should take care of congestion on the banks, in the water bodies, in the roads and other available places including the places where public are provided eateries, toilets and other facilities.” The HC said that issues relating to health, safety, and welfare of the pilgrims in the Ganga Sagar Mela held in Sagar Islands on Pous Sankranti had prompted the Bengal government even back in 1976 to enact the Ganga Sagar Mela Act. The HC said even children below 12 years, women, sanyasis attend this mela. The HC said that the health concerns involved in this pandemic now are far worse than what it was back in 1976. “A grimmer situation should necessarily prompt the State to make more rigorous provisions having in mind the duties of the State. It is in consonance with the fundamental right to life guaranteed under Article 21 of the Constitution. The pandemic situation which has visited us now is not something on which there could be any roll back through human intervention, without protective measures being in place,” the four-page order said. The annual Ganga Sagar Mela, which is attended by lakhs of pilgrims from across the country and from neighbouring Nepal, will be held from January 12 to January 16. The Bengal government plans to set up a 600-bed Covid hospital, six wellness centres, eight safe homes, 11 quarantine centres and five isolation centres at Ganga Sagar mela site. Another temporary hospital on the mela ground will have 75 beds, including 10 SARI Beds, 10 safe home beds and five critical care unit (CCU) beds. There will be two air ambulances, three water ambulances, 100 ambulances, 1,050 CCTV cameras, 20 drones, 6,000 volunteers from 140 NGOs and 10,000 toilets in the fair area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/high-court-raises-sagar-concern/articleshow/80159804.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: CCTV footage of attack on cops surfaces, probe on||NEW DELHI: Three mobile videos and a CCTV footage have surfaced of an attack on police personnel in west Delhi’s Tilak Nagar on Wednesday night. A Delhi Police constable was critically injured in the attack by an alleged criminal, Sagar. A woman, the criminal’s mother, is seen in one of the videos trying to stop the attack, which took place in a crowded marketplace. Police are probing the incident. “On Wednesday, constables Mukesh and Deepak had gone to serve a summon to a tenant residing on the third floor of the building where the criminal, Sagar, also stayed. When the constables were walking back, he started questioning them. Soon an argument ensued and within seconds, Sagar stabbed Mukesh on his hand and abdomen. Mukesh then fired two rounds in the air. Sagar tried to catch his pistol, and in the scuffle, another round was fired that hit the criminal on his chest,” said a senior police officer. Both the cop and the criminal are out of danger. The accused was out on bail in a dacoity case. The CCTV footage shows a brief interaction between the cops and the criminal soon after which the latter stabs the constables and runs away. The confrontation continues in a lane where the criminals’ mother steps in between. The injured criminal can be seen lying on the side even as the cops struggle to take him to hospital. After some minutes, the cops lift the accused to take him to a hospital. Watch On cam: Goon attacks cops with knife in Delhi’s Tilak Nagar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cctv-footage-of-attack-on-cops-surfaces-probe-on/articleshow/80161981.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Community biogas plants to be set up at 73 Gaushalas across state||Jaipur: The state’s rural and panchayati raj department, in collaboration with private firms, will be setting up large community biogas plants at 73 Gaushalas - with each housing more than 2,000 cattle - at a budget of Rs 1 crore each across the state, said ACS rural development department Rohit Kumar Singh. “We have one such biogas plant in Ganganagar which is doing very well and is generating a lot of revenue. It generates power which can sustain itself and its activities, and produces stuff that is sold as organic fertiliser,” Singh told TOI. “Hence, this project will also be implemented based on a revenue-generation model through investments by the private sector. During a presentation by the entrepreneurs, it was shown that, depending on the volume, each biogas plant will be built at a budget of Rs 1-1.25 crore. These plants will help convert wastes to energy, generate power and revenue will be given back to the village,” he added. The cow-dung residue, which is a non-chemical fertiliser and has a lot of demand in the market, will be sold in the market to ensure revenue generation and economic benefits for the Gaushalas. “The private investors will be selected through a bidding process, whoever gives us the best return,” Singh added. Meanwhile, ACS (rural development and panchayati raj department) Rohit Kumar Singh on Thursday directed the officials to ensure conducting all training under various sections in the department through Indira Gandhi Panchayati Raj and Gramin Vikas Sansthan. He also instructed that experts from different fields should be invited during the training period. He further instructed the officials to prepare a proposal for inclusion of the institute in the Jal Jeevan Mission panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/community-biogas-plants-to-be-set-up-at-73-gaushalas-across-state/articleshow/80159791.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Uttarakhand railway trainee commits suicide in Udaipur lake||UDAIPUR: A 27-year-old man from Uttarakhand, who had come to Udaipur on a month’s training, ended his life by jumping into the Swaroop Sagar lake here on Thursday afternoon. The deceased was identified as Heem Singh Khati, son of Rajendra Singh from Udhampur, Uttarakhand. He had come to Udaipur on January 4 at the railway training centre at Sukhadia Circle and was supposed to participate in the training programme till February 4, sources said. According to eyewitnesses, the man arrived in an autorickshaw around 12.30pm at Swaroop Sagar and started walking slowly by the lake. Before people could sense his intentions, he suddenly dived into the water and drowned. Some people tried to save him, but in vain. The body was recovered when police arrived and launched a search. Later, the doctors at emergency declared him dead and the body was shifted to MB hospital mortuary. Hathipole police has registered a suicide case and informed the deceased’s family back in Udhampur. Cops said the reason behind the suicide is not known. Autopsy would be conducted after his relatives reach Udaipur, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uttarakhand-railway-trainee-commits-suicide-in-udaipur-lake/articleshow/80159808.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Varanasi||CM Yogi Adityanath to be chief guest of Gorakhpur Mahotsav closing||GORAKHPUR: The district administration is immersed in preparations for the two-day Gorakhpur Mahotsav 2021 to be held on January 12 and 13 and has decided to promote local artists this year and has not invited any film stars due to the Covid pandemic outbreak. Gorakhpur divisional commissioner Jayant Narlikar said, “In view of Covid19 pandemic outbreak, Bollywood artists have not been invited this year and we have decided to promote local artists.” Chief minister Yogi Adityanath would be the chief guest of the closing ceremony while tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari will be Mahotsav inauguration chief guest, he added. This year, the Mahotsav is being organized at Champa Devi Park instead of DDU Gorakhpur University campus. All Covid protocols would be strictly followed at the Mahotsav, which would showcase Purvanchal culture, said Narlikar. MP Ravi Kishan would recite poems at Kavi Sammelan while singer Maithili Thakur would also perform, said tourism officer Ravindra Mishra. A play on Chauri Chaura incident would be staged and a Khadi fashion show would also be organized. A mobile exhibition on Swami Vivekanand and Baba Gorakhnath will be a key attraction along with a hot air balloon and science exhibition at Mahant Digvijaynath Park, the commissioner said. On the second day of Mahotsav, a bird watching and wildlife photo exhibition would be organized in the wetland of Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan zoo from 6.30am. MP Ravi Kishan would be the chief guest of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-to-be-chief-guest-ofgorakhpur-mahotsav-closing/articleshow/80139774.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Telecom tower set on fire in Jind||Jind: Police have booked unidentified persons for setting on fire a mobile signal tower of Jio company in Jalalpur Kalan village of Jind district on Wednesday night. The unknown miscreants threw stubble round the tower and set it on fire. Local residents noticed the fire and fire brigade, which doused the flames. Manjit Singh, a technician in Jio, told the police in his complaint lodged with sadar police station: “I got a call from the company’s higher officials that tower has lost its connectivity, after that I rushed to the spot to check. When I reached the tower, which has been set up the outskirts of the village in a open plot, found it burnt. A ODC machine which is installed at tower to make it functional, batteries and cables were burnt.” Sadar SHO Dinesh Kumar said, “We have booked the unidentified miscreants under 436 (mischief by fire) of IPC and started investigation.” The company had recently moved the Punjab and Haryana high court demanding protection of its towers after over 1,500 of them were made dysfunctional in Punjab by farm activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/telecom-tower-set-on-fire-in-jind/articleshow/80161030.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Agra||Two die as car plunges into drain on Delhi-Mathura highway||Agra: Two persons were killed when their car went out of control and fell into a drain on the Delhi-Mathura national highway late on Wednesday night. According to Mathua police, Deepak Gupta (30), who hailed from Haryana’s Hodal, worked as a manager in a Mathura-based car service centre. He was travelling to Delhi with another employee, Parvati (22), when the accident took place. On hearing the loud screeching sound of the vehicle, local residents rushed to the spot and pulled the two out of the drain. They were shifted to a hospital where they were declared brought dead. In another incident, 30-year-old Subhash Chauhan of Mathura’s Ambakhar area allegedly hanged himself in his room on Wednesday a day after his elder brother, Manoj, died in a road accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/two-die-as-car-plunges-into-drain-on-delhi-mathura-highway/articleshow/80158762.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Wanted bootlegger escapes within hours of arrest||Palanpur: A notorious bootlegger wanted for several offences in in Gandhinagar, Sabarkantha and Aravalli district escaped from the police station barely four hours after his arrest on Wednesday night.Sandeep alias Montu Chawda, 27, a resident of Bhat village ner Gandhinagar was arrested by Bhiloda police at around 4.35pm on Wednesday. However, he escaped from the police station at around 8:30pm. Surprisingly, he fled during interrogation.“We have formed four teams to trace the bootlegger” said Aravalli superintendent of police (SP) Sanjay Kharat.Chawda was caught during vehicle checking at Veerpur crossroads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/wanted-bootlegger-escapes-within-hours-of-arrest/articleshow/80158766.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man poses as doctor, govt official to dupe scores||NEW DELHI: Before being nabbed for swindling people while masquerading as a doctor or an important government official, Devender Mishra used to live an ordinary life in a small town in Rewa, Madhya Pradesh. A pathologist by profession, Mishra would collect blood samples by the day and then return home to his wife and two children. However, Mishra soon got bored of this dull life and came to Delhi to make it big. In 2008, he opened a sample collection centre in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar, said additional commissioner (crime) Shibesh Singh. But his business failed and he had to shut shop. Refusing to accept the fact that he might have to go home, Mishra decided to take to crime. Police said that his first target was a friend, who had approached him to help him acquire an arms licence. The accused claimed that he called up the office of district magistrate of Aligarh and got it done. He then took to duping people full time. “He started off by posing as a doctor and opened a clinic at Lakhimpur Kheri, UP in 2016 in the name of ‘Shraddha Mother & Child’ where he posed as assistant professor, paediatrics, AIIMS,” said DCP (crime) Bhisham Singh. He also claimed to be a MD in Paediatrics and Cardiology and a visiting faculty at Army Hospital, Delhi Cantonment, the DCP added. In the last four years, Mishra donned many roles,police say. When he was not playing a doctor, he was posing as an advisor at Niti Aayog or a joint secretary at the health ministry who helped his acquaintances by pretending to call government officials to get a job done. With all his avatars, police said that the accused duped many but his life of crime ended after the Crime Branch got a tip-off about his activities. On January 5, the cops laid a trap in central Delhi and arrested Mishra after an informer spotted and identified him. His mobile phones and his collection of fake ID cards describing his various roles were seized. Police raided his hideout in Dasna, Ghaziabad and also seized Rs 68,000 in cash. He was booked for impersonation and forgery, etc under the IPC and produced before the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-poses-as-doc-govt-official-to-dupe-scores/articleshow/80162007.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Fugitive nabbed from hospital||Jaipur: A notorious fugitive wanted in at least six cases of murder in different states including Delhi, Punjab and Haryana was nabbed the district special team of Jaipur police (West) on Thursday while he was undergoing treatment after a bullet injury. A reward of Rs 5 lakh was on the fugitive in different cases in different states. Jaipur police have intimated the police in various states about the detention of the accused. According to police, members of the special team were intimated that a person with bullet injury was undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city. “It was informed that he was little suspicious and had a bullet injury. Thus our special team rushed to the spot and questioned him. Initially, he claimed that he is a resident of Bikaner, but when we asked sternly he told that he is known as Bhola shooter and is a resident of Jhilani village under Jhajjar district of Haryana,” said Hari Shankar Sharma, assistant commissioner of police, Jhotwara. Thereafter police found that Bhola Shooter is a notorious gangster who is wanted in various states in the cases of murder and setting three persons on fire. “He is wanted in two cases of murder in Jhajjar(Haryana), one murder case in Punjab, in a case of setting three persons on fire at Sirsa and in facilitating a gangster Naresh Sethi from Safrdarjang area,” said Sharma. Police have taken him in custody and is kept at SMS hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fugitive-nabbed-from-hosp/articleshow/80159837.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||First come, first served rounds back for FYJC as 42% seats still unfilled||Pune/Mumbai: The education department will soon declare first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions on a first come, first served basis in Mumbai, Pune, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik. The second special round will end on January 9. By the end of the first special round, out of a total intake of 5.6 lakh, as many as 3.2 lakh students had confirmed their admissions; 2.4 lakh seats were still vacant. Last year, the education department decided to do away with the first come, first served (FCFS) rounds and instead host additional merit-based admission rounds after three regular ones. A government resolution to the effect was issued on June 24, 2020. The government had introduced FCFS rounds in 2018 and students with a score above 80%, 60% and the rest were assigned a day to claim a seat, like one would book a tatkal train ticket. Activists had raised concerns, though, that these allotments were not merit based and were against Bombay high court directions. Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education for the state, said the education department had sought a special permission to conduct FCFS round this year. “Five online CAP (centralised admission process) rounds are over and a number of seats are lying vacant. Hence, we have now decided to conduct an FCFS round. We received permission from the education ministry and after the end of the current CAP round, FCFS round will be declared,” said Jagtap. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region, while over 58,318 students were not admitted according to the data shared by the education minister’s office, only 32,268 participated in the second special round, 21,835 of whom were allotted a seat. They have until January 9 to secure admission. While the second special round was scheduled to conclude on Friday, it has been extended till 6pm on Saturday. “For ease of admissions, the time for confirmation of admissions in junior colleges is extended till 09th January 2021. Rest schedule will remain the same as published before,” read a ticker on the admission site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/first-come-first-served-rounds-back-for-fyjc-as-42-seats-still-unfilled/articleshow/80173252.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Eatala: Facing glitches in CoWin enrolments||Hyderabad: At a high-level meeting held to discuss arrangements for the covid vaccine dry run on Friday, state health minister Eatala Rajender informed the Union health minister that there were problems faced in the use of the CoWin software in Telangana. The dry run of the vaccination process is to be held across all districts on Friday. The health minister also requested the Centre for allocating more vaccine doses to the state. Problems have been noticed in enrolling vaccine beneficiaries in 14 districts in the state through CoWin. The minister was assured of relevant action by the Union minister. During the meeting, a lengthy discussion on how the software works, the cold storage required to store the vaccine, the cold chain required to transport it, and beneficiary enrolment was held. States were informed that an approval for Rs 480 crore for operational costs of Covid-19 vaccination has been received from the Ministry of Finance. The same will be disbursed to states according to beneficiary load. For the dry run, the Centre has asked states to utilise the experience of elections (booth strategy) and Universal Immunization Program. The states have also been asked to make no compromise of existing healthcare services, especially national programs and primary health care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/eatala-facing-glitches-in-cowin-enrolments/articleshow/80159841.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Two patients with UK strain test negative||Hyderabad: The two known cases of the mutated strain of Covid-19 in the state – a UK returnee and a contact of the returnee — have both recovered and have been discharged from hospital. They tested negative for Covid-19 in two consecutive tests. At present, Telangana has no case of the UK strain of the virus (B.1.1.7) which is spreading in many parts of the world. The state health authorities have meanwhile completed identifying and testing 1,216 UK returnees and found no new positive cases. The state health authorities had hit a roadblock with many of the returnees being uncooperative and giving wrong numbers and addresses.  Speaking about the development, Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana said, “The two patients have completely recovered and have already tested negative. They have been discharged from hospital. We have completed tracing and testing all the returnees and there is no new positive case.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-patients-with-uk-strain-test-negative/articleshow/80159835.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Field engineer of power co in ACB net over bribe of Rs 1 lakh||JAIPUR: A unit of Bikaner Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Thursday arrested a field engineer of Bikaner Electricity Supply Limited (BKESL) and a banker for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh for charging less in vigilance complaint registration (VCR) for a business establishment. B L Soni, DG, ACB, stated that following a complaint that Naryan Vyas, field engineer, BKESL and a private person Kanhaiya Lal were demanding a bribe of Rs 1.20 lakh for under billing the VCR (a kind of penalty for electricity thefts). Thereafter, on the directions of Soni, a team led by Additional SP, ACB, Bikaner Rajnish Punia, the complaint was verified. “Based on the complaint, a trap was laid through which the field engineer was arrested for accepting bribe of Rs 1 lakh while Kanhiya Lal was arrested as co-accused. The bribe money was recovered from the pocket of Lal,” said Soni. A senior officer of ACB stated that raids started at various places belonging to the engineer and the private banker. A case under appropriate sections of Prevention of Corruption Act was lodged against the accused while sleuths of ACB initiated raids at the house and other premises belonging to the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/field-engineer-of-power-co-in-acb-net-over-bribe-of-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/80159834.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccine drive to include Lucknow’s Covid survivors too||LUCKNOW: People who have recovered from Covid-19 will also get vaccine shots during the mass drive likely to begin in the third week of January. CMO Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “Health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. We will also vaccinate those health workers who have battled Covid-19. A similar policy will be followed in subsequent phases.” As it takes at least 14 days to completely recover from the virus, a patient should wait for two weeks before taking the shot as there is a possibility of such people infecting others at the immunisation centre. Dr Virendra Atam, head of KGMU’s medicine department said, “Since natural antibodies remain in the body for 3 to 4 months and there is a risk of reinfection, vaccination of recovered patients is also important.” According to estimates, about 1,500 health workers, including doctors, contracted the infection in the line of duty in the city since the outbreak. These workers include about 700 in KGMU, 140 in RMLIMS, 46 in SPM Civil, 11 each at CMO office and Balrampur Hospital, among others. Nearly 400 cops, 135 employees of 108 and 102 Call Centre for ambulance service and 50 staffers of LMC, also got infected during this period. The virus also claimed the lives of eight health and frontline workers, including a doctor at Avantibai hospital, two KGMU employees, four LMC staffers and a lab technician at Chinhat community health centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccine-drive-to-include-citys-covid-survivors-too/articleshow/80161028.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||379 fresh Covid cases, 3 deaths in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Thursday recorded 379 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, taking the total caseload in the state to 2,88,789 and the toll to 1,559. There are 2,700 patients currently undergoing treatment. Of the tests conducted on Thursday, 66 percent were samples of primary and secondary contacts of patients who have tested positive in recent days. The GHMC recorded 71 new cases, Medchal Malkajgiri recorded 37 cases, Ranga Reddy recorded 36 cases and Karimnagar recorded 19 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/370-fresh-covid-cases-3-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80159858.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Couple dies, eight hurt as auto-rickshaw rams into car near Jamnagar||Rajkot: A couple from Modpar village in Jamnagar died and eight persons suffered injuries in a head-on collision between an auto-rickshaw and a car near Theba Chowdi in Jamnagar on Thursday morning.The auto-rickshaw was on its way to Jamnagar city from Kalavad when it rammed into the car coming from the opposite direction around 8.30am. The auto-rickshaw driver lost control over the vehicle due to which it went off-road and fell in a pit. A couple going to meet their son in Jamnagar died on the spot while eight persons were injured. Three injured persons suffered grievous injuries and are believed to be critical. The deceased couple has been identified as Premji Parmar (55) and Savita Parmar (50). Sarju Salim Malek, Nasrin Malek and Shehnaz Bagda, all resident of Vijrakhi village of Jamnagar, were critically injured. All injured persons were taken to GG Hospital for treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/couple-dies-eight-hurt-as-auto-rickshaw-rams-into-car-near-jamnagar/articleshow/80158787.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Health officials gear up for Covid-19 vaccination dry run in districts today||HYDERABAD: Health officials in the districts are geared up for a dry run to be conducted for vaccination against Covid-19 at primary health centres. In some districts, Covid-19 tests have been conducted for all the health staff who will participate. Security arrangements are being made at cold chain points. In Kamareddy, collector A Sharath informed health workers about the procedure that was to be adopted. In the video conference, superintendent of police N Swetha said all necessary security arrangements will be made. There should be a vehicle kept ready at every vaccination centre with the vehicle number and driver’s telephone number given to everyone concerned. In Nagarkurnool, the dry run will be conducted at 32 centres. In each centre, 100 people would be ‘administered the vaccine’. Collector Sharman said the programme would begin at 10am The dry run will be conducted in 18 primary health centres in Jangaon, district medical and health officer A Mahendar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-officials-gear-up-for-covid-19-vaccination-dry-run-in-districts-today/articleshow/80159854.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||75-year-old pvt hosp to add over 100 beds||Kolkata: More than a hundred beds are set to be added to the city’s private healthcare sector pool by 2023 with Woodlands Hospital announcing an expansion of its existing Alipore facility to a 310-bed one. One of the oldest private hospitals in Kolkata, Woodlands, which completes 75 years today, is ready to add a new building behind the existing one with state-of-the-art facilities, at least three new departments and the latest diagnostic facilities. Last month, Belle Vue Clinic, too, had announced the launch of two new units at New Town. The expansion that could cost Rs 250-300 crore has been finalized and includes modernization of Woodlands’ existing 200-bed unit, according to Sanjeev Goenka, chairman of RP-Sanjeev Goenka Group that owns Woodlands. “We have just received necessary clearances and this is a momentous day for us. Woodlands is one of the oldest private facilities in Kolkata and had started as the East India Clinic with just 50 beds. The treatment we provide and facilities that we offer have created a legacy that we must live up to. This is a huge responsibility and we plan to upgrade the hospital, equipping it with the most modern facilities at an affordable cost. The modernization will be done in phases and we expect the expansion to be completed in two years,” said Goenka. The new unit will have radiology, oncology and a modern cathlab facility apart from state-of-the-art operation theatres. While the hospital now has around 200 beds, the restructuring will lead to a loss of some beds at the existing unit. “But it will be compensated by the additional beds at the new building. We will have more equipment, more mechanization and a greater use of technology to take treatment to the next level. We will invest heavily in diagnostics, operation theatres and our nurses’ academy,” added Goenka. Woodlands has so far treated 6 million patients, conducted over 3 lakh surgeries and more than 50,000 child births and heart procedures. Last month, Belle Vue Clinic announced the launch of a 164-bed general hospital and a 400-bed multispecialty unit at New Town. Both may be functional by 2022. Its existing Loudon Street unit, too, will be expanded to a 372-bed facility. Healthcare facilities in Kolkata have improved over the past decade helping to stop the flight of patients to other states, felt Goenka. “. My family has a 200-year-old link with Kolkata and the new hospital is a way of giving something back to the city,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/75-year-old-pvt-hosp-to-add-over-100-beds/articleshow/80159855.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Women take out tractor march in Patiala village before heading to Delhi||Patiala: A group of women of Daun Kalan village in Patiala district took out a tractor march on Wednesday before heading towards Delhi to participate in the agitation. Harjit Kaur, 51, of Daun Kalan village said she has been a farmer for the last 30 years and her father taught her how to drive a tractor before she got married. During the last one month, Harjit taught two women in her village to drive a tractor. On Wednesday, all three of them participated in the tractor rally held in their village. On Thursday, Harjit Kaur participated in the tractor rally held on Delhi border. Harjit, along with many other women from her village, is joining the protest for the second time. “We took out a tractor march in our village on Wednesday in protest against the three agricultural laws enacted by the Centre. After taking out a march, we boarded the bus provided by a farmer’s union and moved towards Delhi for the agitation. After reaching Singhu border, I participated in the tractor rally and drove the tractor again. I am the daughter of a farmer and have been driving a tractor for around four decades,” she said, adding that her husband runs a school bus while she tends to the field with her son and brothers. “We are doing farming on around 18 acres of land, of which we own five acres of agricultural land. We will not end the agitation till the government repeals the agricultural laws, which will reduce farmers to labourers in their own land,” she said. Hardev Kaur, a 48-year-old women from the same village, was also trained to drive a tractor by Harjit Kaur. “I learnt how to drive the tractor from Harjit Kaur and now, she will also train us in farming. This will help us improve our income as we used to do farming on lease or contractual basis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-take-out-tractor-march-in-patiala-village-before-heading-to-delhi/articleshow/80161058.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Leaders of Congress-NCP-Shiv Sena will resolve Aurangabad row: Ajit Pawar||MUMBAI: A day after state Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat expressed his strong displeasure over the mention of the Shiv Sena’s name for Aurangabad on the CMO’s Twitter handle, deputy chief minister and NCP leader Ajit Pawar said that since it’s a three-party government, senior leaders of the Congress, NCP and Shiv Sena will deliberate and resolve the dispute amicably. “It’s a three-party government, and we have drafted a common minimum programme for the Maha Vikas Aghadi. Under such circumstances, it is possible an unexpected subject may come up for discussion. Senior leaders of the three parties will sit together and resolve the dispute,” Pawar said while referring to the ongoing row. Ajit Pawar also spoke on the Metro car shed issue issue. “There is a dispute over the Kanjurmarg land (identified by the MVA government for the Metro 3 car shed in place of Aarey). I am sure that since chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has stepped in, he will take a decision and resolve the dispute,” Pawar said. NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik ruled out the possibility of the MVA government renaming Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. “There is no such subject on the agenda of the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. We have drafted a common minimum programme, and changing the names of cities does not form a part of the agenda. The NCP will not support any move to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar,” Malik told TOI. A week ago, the Aurangabad district administration had submitted a proposal to the state to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, the name the Shiv Sena has been using for the city for over two decades. The Congress has strongly opposed the move. When Aurangabad was referred to as Sambhajinagar on the Maharashtra CMO’s Twitter handle on Wednesday, Thorat had said, “We do not approve of such a proposal, and it was wrong on the part of a government agency to approve it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/leaders-of-congress-ncp-sena-will-resolve-aurangabad-row-ajit-pawar/articleshow/80161093.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Amarinder using cops to pressure farm leaders: AAP||Chandigarh: The AAP on Thursday claimed that Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was “putting various kinds of pressures” on farmers to crush their movement against the farm laws. “According to media reports, Amarinder Singh had assigned two IPS officers from Punjab at Singhu border to engage with the farmer leaders to persuade them to accept the Centre’s offer and to prepare them to bow down to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah in any way possible,” claimed Punjab AAP president Bhagwant Mann. “To save his son from ED cases, the CM bargained the interests of farmers. It is under this policy that he was working with the intention of suppressing the voice of the farmers,” he added. Mann said that Amarinder had taken various steps to bring an end to the farmers’ agitation with the intention of “following the orders of Amit Shah after their meeting.” BOX Cong rejects AAP charge Reacting to AAP’s accusation that Punjab Congress was attempting to bring the farmers’ agitation to an end, Congress Amritsar (West) MLA Raj Kumar Verka said it was the AAP government in Delhi that had issued the notification to implement the controversial farm laws. “If there is anyone who wants that the farmers’ agitation should fail, it is AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal. Contrary to the claims, Congress-ruled states have passed bills to counter the Centre’s farm laws,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/amarinder-using-cops-to-pressure-farm-leaders-aap/articleshow/80161116.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Pune||Asymptomatic UK returnees bolster low virulence theory||PUNE: The fact that none of the 11 UK returnees found to be infected with the UK strain of coronavirus developed any illness indicates that the new variant might spread faster but “causes less severe disease”. Underlining that mutation was a part of the evolutionary process of every virus, state Covid-19 surveillance officer Pradip Awate said, “The theory that the more they (viruses) transmit, the less they cause disease seems to be very relevant in the context of the UK strain as well. Our UK returnees, who have remained symptom-free despite being infected, reinforces this theory.” Of the 11 found with the UK strain and have remained disease-free, five are from Mumbai, and one each from Pune, Thane and Meera Bhayander. Three from Pimpri Chinchwad were diagnosed with the strain on Thursday. Experts stressed high transmissibility did not necessarily mean high virulence. A virus could be called a smart or a fit virus when it is capable of getting transmitted easily from one host to another, they underlined. “The same mutant virus also requires its host to remain alive to survive, and more specifically, the living cells of its host that the virus attaches to and enters,” said Samiran Panda, head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases at Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). A balanced symbiotic relationship evolves over a period of time, in which a virus goes from an epidemic existence to an endemic one with less virulence potential. “I do not yet see the reason why SARS-CoV-2 will follow a different path when its cousins have done the same time and again. The history of recorded human civilisations supports the viruses’ more transmissibility and less virulence theory,” Panda said. Nagpur-based All India Institute of Medical Sciences’ senior preventive and community medicine expert Arvind Singh Kushwaha also dismissed the scare over the UK strain as “unwanted and unscientific”. “Any virus causing epidemic or pandemic undergoes mutation as an evolutionary tactic. It is mostly towards reduced virulence,” he said. Kushwaha pointed out that the UK strain had caused fewer fatalities in the UK and Europe. “The positivity rate increases but the fatality rate either went down or remained static. This indicates that the new variant spreads faster but causes less severe disease. This is a reason to cheer, not get anxious. The new strain will only add to infecting more and reaching herd immunity faster,” he said. “Reinfection, if any, with the new strain would be milder. So, the scare is not only unwanted but unscientific too,” Kushwaha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/asymptomatic-uk-returnees-bolster-low-virulence-theory/articleshow/80159865.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Police issue advisory on caregivers after thefts||Kolkata: Two alleged thefts in south suburban and north Kolkata by caregivers enrolled from agencies have led cops to warn people to employ caregivers only after careful background check of the agency. In the first case reported from the Aurobindo Road in Santoshpur, victim Prarthana Roy alleged that the caregiver who rendered service to her grandmother — between Christmas Eve and January 4, the day the thefts were discovered — had committed theft of several electronic items in the house. “The ayah who rendered service for complainant’s grandmother, committed theft in respect of one costly laptop, one camera and one watch of the complainant from his room,” the FIR stated, adding that there was loss of money, too. In the second case, Arnab Das, a resident of Amherst Street, had claimed that the caregiver whom he had recruited through a North 24 Parganas-based agency had fled with valuables, including some cash and two mobile phones, within two days of joining work in the first week of January. The police have registered a theft case based on a written complaint. In both the cases, the police verification was due given that the victims were satisfied that they had hired through a verified agency. The police said that ever since the lockdown was lifted, several houses had to let go of their old caregivers and depend on new ones due to a host of reasons — ranging from refusal of caregivers to stay 24 X 7 or the fear of contracting the disease from those travelling a long distance each day. “A few fly-by-the night agencies and individuals are involved. The caregivers — just like a few maid servants — are getting involved in crime and are mostly first-timers,” said a senior officer in the south suburban division. Lalbazar has now issued an advisory saying one is vulnerable to thefts even when inside the house as much as when the house is under lock and key. “A few simple steps need to be followed to stop chances of becoming victims of such crimes. This includes locking the almirahs, getting the servants verified and avoiding financial discussions in front of them,” said a senior officer from the anti-burglary section at Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-issue-advisory-on-caregivers-after-thefts/articleshow/80159864.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin meets 25.8k volunteer target for its Phase 3 trials||Hyderabad: Less than two months after Phase III human clinical trials of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin commenced, it has achieved the targeted enrolment of 25,800 volunteers, its developer Bharat Biotech said on Thursday. The double blinded and randomised trials, touted as India’s largest efficacy trials ever for any vaccine, began in mid-November 2019 and are slated to be completed only after March this year. Tweeting about the completion of enrolment, Covaxin’s developer Bharat Biotech said: ‘Covaxin successfully completes Phase 3 clinical trials enrolment of 25,800 volunteers.” “We sincerely express our gratitude to clinical trial sites, Principal Investigators & healthcare workers for their relentless support and trust in our Public-Private Partnership vaccine discovery. My greatest appreciation to all the volunteers for reposing trust and expressing Pro Vaccine Health Volunteerism in the Phase-3 Clinical Trials of India’s 1st fully indigenous COVID-19 vaccine,” the tweet said, quoting Bharat Biotech joint managing director Suchitra Ella. The full enrolment for the trials, being conducted across 25 sites, comes less than a week after Covaxin received the Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA) approval from the Indian drug regulator. Covaxin, which was tested on over 750 volunteers in Phase I and II, showed long-term antibody and T-cell memory responses three months after vaccination in Phase I volunteers and can generate antibodies that persist for 6-12 months, Bharat Biotech had said. The vaccine is being manufactured using Vero cell platform, which has a safety track record of over 30 years, at the firm’s BSL-3 facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-meets-25-8k-volunteer-target-for-its-phase-3-trials/articleshow/80159861.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 8, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Stop outsourcing garbage collection’||Aurangabad: Political outfit Prahar Janshakti front, joined by a group of citizens, staged an agitation on Thursday demanding that the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) must carry out the work of garbage collection in the city on its own instead of outsourcing it. In a memorandum submitted to the local civic body, outfit leader Raju Misal said that the existing process of garbage collection was flawed and plagued with corruption. “There is discrepancy in actual garbage collected from the city areas and the one that is shown on paper. In the past, incidents have been surfaced wherein the weight of garbage was inflated by mixing it with rubble, bricks and soil. The inquiries ordered into such malpractices have failed to reach any logical end,” he said. Misal also said that the firm which has been entrusted with the work of garbage collection is outsourced and was allegedly not paying salaries to staff on a regular basis. “The local civic body is already suffering from a weak financial condition and the existing practice of garbage collection is burning holes in the pocket of the civic administration. It is the need of the hour that the civic authorities must stop outsourcing garbage collection process,” Misal said. As per official estimates, Aurangabad generates around 400 tonne municipal solid waste on a daily basis. Nandkishor Bhombe, in-charge of solid waste management department of the AMC, could not be reached for comments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/stop-outsourcing-garbage-collection/articleshow/80157844.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Man gets 18 months jail in 22-year-old dud cheques case||AURANGABAD: Judicial magistrate first class UK Gangane in Latur has convicted and sentenced a man from Samsapur village in Renapur taluka to 18 month rigorous imprisonment along with a fine of Rs 30,000 for issuing two dud cheques, totally worth Rs 15,000, to a friend towards repayment of hand loan taken in 1997. Post-sentencing, the magistrate granted bail to the convict, Shankar Chawan, against a PR bond of Rs 20,000 as his lawyers moved a bail plea to enable him file an appeal in the sessions court against the conviction. The case took all these years to reach a final verdict as Chawan had ignored bailable and non-bailable warrants (NBWs) and was also absconding for nine years. He appeared suo motu in 2019 seeking cancellation of the NBWs following which the case was heard. Magistrate Gangane, in her judgment, observed: “The accused absconded for years despite issuing non bailable warrant and the matter has been kept as a Dormant file.” “Since last 22 years the accused used the said amount for himself by causing economic damage to the complainant. The complainant is legally entitled to recover amount in question Rs 15,000 from the accused, said amount in question is outstanding since time, cheques have bounced in June 1998 which is more than 22 years. The accused has committed an economic offence against the complainant,” the magistrate said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-gets-18-months-jail-in-22-yr-old-dud-cheques-case/articleshow/80157849.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 8, 2021||Pune||3 test positive for SARS-CoV-2 new strain in Pimpri Chinchwad||Pimpri Chinchwad: Three UK returnees from the same family in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits were found infected by the new strain of SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. The returnees comprise a man (42), a woman (33) and a two-year-old child, said Pavan Salve, the additional health chief of the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The asymptomatic family members have been isolated at the civic body’s New Bhosari hospital. The trio were tested for the contagion and were found positive on December 28, following which their swab samples were sent to the National Institute of Virology (NIV) for genome sequencing. Their six close contacts were identified during the contact tracing. Of them, three tested positive and were isolated at the same hospital. “They are also asymptomatic,” said Varsha Dange, the assistant medical officer of the PCMC.Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar told TOI that the swabs of the close contacts would not be sent to the NIV for testing as it was being assumed that they were also carrying the same UK strain. “The high-risk contacts have been traced and are being taken care of, while the identification of low-risk contacts is under way,” Hardikar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-test-positive-for-sars-cov-2-new-strain-in-pimpri-chinchwad/articleshow/80159867.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Special development authority sought for Gunthewari area||Aurangabad: Even as the state government has decided to extend the date for regularization of the Gunthewari areas across Maharashtra, civic activists have stressed on setting up of a special development authority for these areas. Highlighting that the Gunthewari areas are densely populated and peculiar in geography due to poor town planning in the past, civic activist Rajendra Datey-Patil said that more funding is needed for the development of basic civic amenities in these localities through a centralized channel. “Merely regularizing the Gunthewari areas and issuing property cards to residents from these areas is not sufficient. The government must take onus on its own to ensure development of these areas on the line of other areas of the city,” he said. As per official records, Aurangabad has around 118 Gunthewari areas spread over considerable portion of the city housing around four lakh citizens. Suhas Wadke, a resident from the Gunthewari area in Pundalik Nagar said that Aurangabad Municipal Corporation does not have sufficient funds to develop Gunthewari areas. “Our localities are dense in population and local residents often struggle for drainage lines and roads and least to talk of public gardens and vehicle parking lots. The ward-level funding that keeps coming in instalments is inadequate for creating necessary infrastructure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/special-development-authority-sought-for-gunthewari-area/articleshow/80157853.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Med tests on KCR, docs say routine||Hyderabad: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao underwent regular medical tests at Yashoda Hospital in Secunderabad on Thursday. Doctors said that there was nothing alarming in his reports. The tests were suggested by the CM’s team of doctors and were completed in about an hour. Speaking to TOI after the tests, the chief minister’s personal physician Dr MV Rao said “These are regular tests like liver functioning, kidney functioning and ECG. His CT Scan is clear and he does not have any symptoms of Covid-19.” Dr Rao said that he visited the chief minister on Wednesday as he has nasal allergies that cause some difficulties in breathing. “Every year in January we conduct these tests for the CM and he does not have burning sensation in the lungs,” he added. The doctors decided that there was no need to conduct MRI tests. KCR was accompanied by TRS working president KTR, MLC K Kavitha and MP Santosh Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/med-tests-on-kcr-docs-say-routine/articleshow/80159870.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Illicit liquor worth Rs 18 lakh seized in Junagadh||Rajkot: The local crime branch (LCB) of Junagadh seized Indian Made Foreign Liquor worth Rs 18.6 lakh in two separate raids in the district on Wednesday night.Based on information, cops were on a watch at Gandhigram road when they seized a car carrying liquor stock worth Rs 6 lakh. The car’s driver and two bootleggers identified as Vira Lakha Kodiyatar and Raju Shamda managed to escape. Later, LCB sleuths raided a plot in Vanthli village where the liquor stock was about to be distributed. Police said that when they reached, nobody was present there. However, 270 boxes of liquor were found from a pick-up van over there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/illicit-liquor-worth-rs-18-lakh-seized-in-junagadh/articleshow/80158804.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||2nd trial run for Dakshineswar Metro stretch||Kolkata: The second trial run for north-south Metro’s 4-km Dakshineswar extension was conducted on Thursday, a fortnight after the first one was successfully completed. The rake started from Noapara at 11.19am and reached Dakshineswar station at 11.56am. Even though the Up journey took around 40 minutes, the return was much shorter — the rake started at 12.32pm and reached Noapara at 12.58pm. Officials of Metro Railway and Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) were present during the trial run. RVNL is the implementing agency of most of the Metro projects in the city, but it is the Metro Railway that runs the city’s rapid transit system — Line 1 or the north-south corridor and Line 2 or the East-West Metro. Once the new elevated section is added, commuters can travel from Dakshineswar on the northern fringes to Kavi Subhas (New Garia) in the south. On board the rake 1214, the officials on Thursday inspected the entire stretch from Noapara to Dakshineswar via Baranagar. All the arrangements like signalling, third rail power supply, platforms, concourse, entry and exit gates, circulating area and other passenger amenities of Baranagar and Dakshineshwar stations were checked. On December 23, the first trial was led by Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi, who had watched the train chug through the tracks from the motorman’s cabin. The GM, in a press conference on Wednesday, said that services along the new section were likely in February-end. The authorities applied for Commissioner of Railway Safety’ (CRS) inspection. CRS gives safety nod to a new Metro line. Preliminary nod from the CRS is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2nd-trial-run-for-dakshineswar-metro-stretch/articleshow/80159895.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Harsimrat condemns Punjab BJP trying to ‘defame farmers’ movement’||Bathinda: Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) functionary Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Thursday condemned the Punjab BJP for trying to “defame” the farmer agitation by accusing farmers of indulging in politics instead of putting their genuine demands before the Prime Minister and getting them addressed. Talking to mediapersosn at Bathinda AIIMS, after flagging off a bus for doctors to visit the civil hospital in Badal village, the former Union minister said it was extremely unfortunate that senior BJP leader Surjit Kumar Jyani had made intemperate comments about the agitation. The state BJP unit was being misused by the party’s central leadership to defame farmers, she alleged. “Attempts are also being made by the Punjab BJP unit to malign the farmer agitation by stating that farmers are not protesting for their rights but creating a movement to enter electoral politics. Such provocative statements will not serve the interests of the BJP as such crude attempts to divide farmers will only unite them further to seek repeal of the hated agricultural laws,” said claimed. Badal alleged the central government was holding sham talks with them since one-and-a-half months with the sole purpose of tiring them out. “The same tactic was used with the SAD also. Even I was kept in the dark about the real intentions of the Centre for two-and-a-half months. I was repeatedly assured that all concerns of farmers would be addressed. I only realized the SAD had been betrayed when the government moved to seek approval for the agricultural ordinances in Parliament and refused to listen to the Akali Dal,” she claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/harsimrat-condemns-punjab-bjp-trying-to-defame-farmers-movement/articleshow/80161142.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Can’t substitute for decision-making body: Supreme Court||NEW DELHI: Constitutional courts cannot expand their judicial review powers to become decision-making authorities, the Supreme Court said on Thursday, while giving vent to its disenchantment over PILs trying to overstretch its constitutionally demarcated jurisdiction. The SC’s strong remarks against the trend of PILs exhorting courts to become supervisors of all kinds of policy decisions came on a PIL filed by some citizens seeking the apex court’s intervention in getting a stalled housing project, ‘Premia Corporate City-2’, in Noida restarted or ensure refund of their money with interest. The reluctance to entertain the PIL probably also stemmed from the considerable time, energy and effort put in by the SC in its attempt to get back on track several stalled housing projects by real estate giants Unitech and Amrapali. A bench of Justices D Y Chandrachud, Indira Banerjee and Sanjiv Khanna rebuffed a determined effort from advocate Shikhil Suri to convince the court to intervene and said, “Article 32 (using which anyone can directly move the Supreme Court for violation of fundamental rights) is a precious right, but we cannot revive and supervise construction projects, in which we have no expertise. “Should the Supreme Court start monitoring and supervising hundreds of housing or real estate projects across the country? If we do so, then why not textile and other industries? The purpose behind creation of PIL jurisdiction is different. We are constitutionally tasked to adjudicate. We cannot take over policy issues without having any expertise. If we do so, the people after a few years will question our wisdom for undertaking this path. We must understand the limitations of our jurisdiction.” The bench further said, “Essentially, the writ petition requires the SC to step into the construction project and to ensure that it is duly completed. This would be beyond the remit and competence of the court under Article 32. "Managing a construction project is not within the jurisdiction of the court. Several provisions of law confer statutory rights on purchasers of real estate and invest them with remedies enforceable at law. These include the Consumer Protection Act, 1986, the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016, and the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016." Disposing of the PIL, Justices Chandrachud, Banerjee and Khanna added, “Parliament has enacted a statutory regime to protect the rights of purchasers of real estate and created forums which are entrusted with decision-making authority. A decision of a public authority which is entrusted with a public duty is amenable to judicial review. But it is quite another hypothesis to postulate that the decision-making authority should be taken over by the court. The latter is impermissible. For full report, visit ww.toi.in"It would be inappropriate for this court to assume the jurisdiction to supervise the due completion of a construction project, especially in facts such as those presented in the present case. This will inevitably draw the court into day to day supervision of the project, including financing, permissions and execution – something which lies beyond the ken of judicial review and the competence of the court. The court must confine itself to its core competencies which consist in adjudication of disputes amenable to the application of legal standards.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sc-cant-substitute-for-decision-making-body/articleshow/80162037.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Petrol and diesel rates hit new high||Hyderabad: Fuel prices hit an all-time high in the first week of January. Till January 5, there was no hike in fuel prices in the city, however, the price escalated on January 6 to Rs 87.34 per litre from Rs 87.06 per litre. The price further rose by Rs 0.25 paise on Thursday and the petrol price was hiked to Rs 87.59 per litre. Sources said that diesel was being sold at Rs 80.88 per litre on Wednesday, but rose further by 0.29 paise on Thursday, raising the price to Rs 81.17 per litre. Owners of fuel outlets said that due to the rise in global crude prices, the fuel prices are fluctuating, in turn resulting in the revision of petrol and diesel prices almost daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/petrol-and-diesel-rates-hit-new-high/articleshow/80159904.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Light rains over past two days pull down Hyderabad pollution levels drastically||HYDERABAD: Light rains in the city over the last two days significantly dispersed pollutants resulting in the air quality index (AQI) improving from 188 a week ago to 86 on Thursday. The AQI which hovered in the moderate category for almost a month broke into the satisfactory category following sporadic rains. Track the pollution level in your cityAQI of 0-100 is considered ‘good’, 101-200 ‘moderate’, 201-300 ‘poor’. The AQI remained in moderate category through December with isolated spikes on a few days. It touched 192 on January 3, inching closer to the poor category. However, light rains triggered by a cyclonic circulation over Tamil Nadu improved the air quality. “Reduced air pollution levels can be attributed to better precipitation. Increased wind speed have also led to faster dispersion of pollutants. However, we cannot expect the AQI levels to sustain once it stops raining as there are continuous emissions through different sources,” said Prasad Dasari, senior scientist, Telangana State Pollution Control Board. The last week of December was severely polluted with all six locations where automated monitoring stations are installed recording AQI of between 221 and 295. With India Meteorological Department (IMD), Hyderabad, forecasting more rains in parts of Telangana, further improvement in pollution levels can be expected. “Under the influence of a cyclonic circulation over Tamil Nadu, rains are likely to continue over southern and central parts of Telangana for the next few days. Subsequently, dry conditions will prevail resulting in drop in minimum temperature below normal,” said Naga Ratna, director in-charge, IMD, Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/light-rains-over-past-two-days-pull-down-city-pollution-levels-drastically/articleshow/80159897.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 8, 2021||Bareilly||Badaun victim shouldn’t have gone out alone: NCW official||BAREILLY: “Women should avoid going out after dark,” a senior member of the National Commission for Women (NCW) suggested on Thursday afternoon in the village in UP’s Badaun where a 50-year-old anganwadi worker was allegedly gang-raped in a temple, brutalised and killed on Sunday night. NCW’s Chandramukhi Devi was there to meet family members of the dead woman. Soon after the meeting, she said, “If women do (venture out), they should be accompanied by someone. I think if she (the victim) had not gone out in the evening, or had a child of the family accompanied her, it would not have happened.” She, however, also added, “There is clear negligence on the part of the police. They could have saved the woman’s life. The autopsy report suggests the extent of brutality.” Devi’s comments drew sharp criticism from all quarters, prompting the NCW chief to issue a clarification. “I don’t know how and why the member (Chandramukhi Devi) said this but women have all the right to move as per their will whenever and wherever they want to. It’s society and state’s duty to make places safe for women,” Rekha Sharma said in a tweet. Sharma herself was involved in a row in October last year when she tweeted that she had discussed a “rise in love jihad cases” with Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari. Meanwhile, there was no trace of the main accused, Satyanarayan, the priest of the village temple where the alleged crime took place. Several teams of UP police and a unit of the STF have been carrying out raids to arrest him. Two other accused are already in police net. Senior superintendent of police (SSP), Budaun, Sankalp Sharma, said, “We are hopeful we will be able to arrest the priest soon. We have also gathered evidence from the incident spot.” The anganwadi worker had left home on Sunday evening to offer prayers at the village temple that she frequented. Some in the village said she was called there by the accused. A few hours later she was brought home, profusely bleeding, without clothes and in a serious condition, by three men in a car. The accused had then told the family that the victim had met with an accident. They sped away after leaving her there. The woman died barely a few moments later, giving no time to the shocked family to react or ask her questions. Local police took another three days to file a rape case. The SHO was later suspended for the alleged laxity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/baduan-horror-victim-should-not-have-gone-out-alone-in-the-evening-says-ncw-member-draws-flak/articleshow/80157129.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 8, 2021||Thane||Initial report on dead birds negative for avian flu in Thane, Mumbai; government sure poultry not infected||THANE/MUMBAI: The preliminary test done on the dead birds that were found in Thane and Mumbai on Wednesday returned a negative result for bird flu. The animal husbandry department is now conducting a second test for confirmation. The tests were done on 13 carcasses, of which eight were of pond herons, three of crows and two of parrots. The pond herons and parrots were found dead in Thane, while the crows were found dead in Mumbai. Commissioner of animal husbandry department Sachindra Pratap Singh said” “The ELISA test that was done on the specimens was negative. We will now conduct RT-PCR test and only then can it be concluded if the birds had bird flu or not.” A team from the municipal veterinary department on Thursday evening came across a carcass of an egret at the same stretch near Vijay Garden where the pond herons had been found dead. State minister for animal husbandry Sunil Kedar said people in the poultry business and people who consumed chicken or eggs should have no fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/report-on-dead-birds-negative-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80166947.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 8, 2021||Nashik||‘Ensure zero pendency in power connections’||Nashik: Joint Managing Director of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL), Kokan Region, Govind Bodke has asked the authorities to provide connections to prospective consumers at a fast pace so that there is zero pendency and, thus, improve the services of the company. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ensure-zero-pendency-in-power-connections/articleshow/80157876.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 8, 2021||Pune||Fewer hospitalised patients in rural Pune than urban areas||Pune: The rural areas of Pune now have fewer hospitalised Covid-19 patients than Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits. On January 6, the district health office (DHO) had stated that there were 415 patients undergoing Covid-19 treatment in hospitals in the rural parts as against 942 in Pune municipal limits and 686 in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. The report stated that the number of home isolation cases were higher (571) in Pune rural than those in hospital.For the past three months, the number of hospitalised cases were higher in the rural area. On November 26 last year, the number of hospitalised cases in Pune rural were 1,772. The number went down to 765 on December 28.According to the DHO’s daily Covid-19 report, an average of 1,500 samples were being tested every day in the rural parts since the past few weeks. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer, Pune ZP, told TOI, “When the number of Covid-19 cases was higher, we were focussing more on the hospitalisation of the patients to speed up contact tracing and best treatment. That is why the number of cases have reduced considerably. Now that most of the patients being identified are asymptomatic, we have allowed them to opt for home isolation.”Prasad said voluntary testing in the urban areas was high, while in the rural areas, they were focussing more on the patients and their high-risk contacts. The DHO is focussing more on RT-PCR tests.He said the administration, however,dhas not become complacent and would continue to monitor the situation.Health activist, Abhijit More, said the drop in the number of cases in the rural parts and the rise in the urban areas was baffling. “The administration must closely monitor this pattern. There is a possibility of a temporary drop or rise in the cases, which needs proper monitoring,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fewer-hospitalised-patients-in-rural-pune-than-urban-areas/articleshow/80159923.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 8, 2021||Pune||PMR recovery rate rises to 9-month high, almost matches India average||PUNE: The Covid-19 recovery rate in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has surpassed 96%, its highest in the past nine months, with the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas taking the lead at 96.48%, followed by the rural parts (95.95%) and the Pune civic localities (95.92%). The PMR’s recovery rate of 96.08% is close behind the national average of 96.36% and higher than the state’s discharge rate of 94.79%. More than 3.52 lakh Covid-19 patients have successfully recovered in PMR so far as compared to over 3.66 lakh positive cases. The region’s recoveries had reached above 95% in the third week of December last year. The rate further increased beyond 96% in less than a month since then, suggesting that more Covid-19 patients were recovering than those getting contracting the infection. More than 1.72 lakh patients have recovered in the Pune municipal limits so far as against its total caseload of 1.80 lakh. In the case of the PCMC limits, over 93,900 patients have recovered so far as against over 97,300 infections. The maximum improvement in recovery rate has come from rural Pune. The rate in the rural areas was around 82% in mid-October and increased to 92% around mid-November and further to 94.5% around mid-December. Data released by the district health office has pointed out that for the last 17 days, the region has recorded more daily recoveries then new cases. Health department officials said increase in recoveries had also reduced active cases in the region, which were around 11,500 at the beginning of December, but dropped to 5,500 on Wednesday. The recoveries in PMR were around 90% in October 2020, which rose by 5% in the last two-and-a-half months. Sanjeev Wavre, assistant medical chief of PMC, said the situation looked under control as daily cases had stayed around 300 in the city limits. “The active cases have dropped below 3,000 and many patients have preferred home isolation,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-recovery-rate-rises-to-9-month-high-almost-matches-india-average/articleshow/80159898.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Initial report on dead birds negative for avian flu in Thane, Mumbai; government sure poultry not infected||THANE/MUMBAI: The preliminary test done on the dead birds that were found in Thane and Mumbai on Wednesday returned a negative result for bird flu. The animal husbandry department is now conducting a second test for confirmation. The tests were done on 13 carcasses, of which eight were of pond herons, three of crows and two of parrots. The pond herons and parrots were found dead in Thane, while the crows were found dead in Mumbai. Commissioner of animal husbandry department Sachindra Pratap Singh said” “The ELISA test that was done on the specimens was negative. We will now conduct RT-PCR test and only then can it be concluded if the birds had bird flu or not.” A team from the municipal veterinary department on Thursday evening came across a carcass of an egret at the same stretch near Vijay Garden where the pond herons had been found dead. State minister for animal husbandry Sunil Kedar said people in the poultry business and people who consumed chicken or eggs should have no fear.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/report-on-dead-birds-negative-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80161156.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Leopard rescued near Trimbakeshwar||Nashik: A three-year-old male leopard got trapped in a cage installed by the forest department in Dudgaon village near Mahiravani in Trimbakeshwar taluka of the district on Thursday morning. This is the second instance since Tuesday where a big cat was trapped inside the cage. In the latets case, the forest department had installed the cage in a farm following complaints from the villagers about leopard spotting. Two dogs and a horse were killed in attacks by the leopard during the last few days and this had created panic among the villagers who asked the forest department for installing the cage. Accordingly, the forest department installed a cage at a farm around two days ago. “We have rescued the leopard and a medical check-up was carried out by a veterinary doctor. The health of the leopard is good and it is to be released following the official procedure and as per the instructions by the seniors,” Vivek Bhadane, range forest officer of the state forest department, said. On Tuesday, the forest department rescued a one-and-a-half-year-old female leopard from a house in Igatpuri taluka of the district. There have been several incidents of leopards being spotted in Niphad, Sinnar, Trimbakeshwar and other parts of the district. Over a dozen leopards have been rescued in the district during the last three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/leopard-rescued-near-trimbakeshwar/articleshow/80157869.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Customs officer booked for blackmailing||Rajkot: A customs officer at Kandla was booked at Adipur police station on Wednesday for blackmailing and extorting money from his family friend and wife.Police said that the accused officer Ajit Yadav had been blackmailing the couple using the photographs of their private moments between May 2019 and September last year. Yadav owed some money to this family friend which he did not want to pay. The family friend’s 44-year-old wife told police that Yadav either by hacking or through some other means managed to get the photographs from her husband’s phone. She alleged that Yadav asked them to forget the money he owed otherwise he would defame them and also asked for Rs 25 lakh for deleting these photos. Based on the woman’s complaint, an offence of criminal intimidation and under the Information Technology Act was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/customs-officer-booked-for-blackmailing/articleshow/80158833.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||PMC gears upto take stock of infra, plan for storage||Pune: A reduction in the number of coronavirus cases and temporary closure of Covid centres have prompted the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to take stock of infrastructure, material and equipment used at these facilities and appoint officers to look after the storage of items no longer in use. The administration has told the key departments such as health, electrical, estate and storage, and the deputy commissioners appointed at the zonal and ward offices to prepare a list of material purchased by the PMC and received through corporate social responsibility initiative. These departments and officials have been told to appoint officers or staff to look after storage of materials. “We have told the heads of the departments concerned to submit details of material and infrastructure by January 12,” Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, PMC, said. Deepali Dhumal, NCP leader in PMC, said the administration should provide details of purchases and the existing stock to the corporators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-gears-upto-take-stock-of-infra-plan-for-storage/articleshow/80159936.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||11 drunk drivers sentenced to jail||Hyderabad: Eleven motorists, who were found driving under the influence of alcohol, in Cyberabad police jurisdiction were sentenced to undergo imprisonment ranging from two to four days. Of the 11, three persons were sentenced to two days imprisonment, eight were awarded four days in jail. A fine of Rs 5,000 was also imposed on each of the offenders, who were caught at various locations. The police have also filed chargesheets of 30 persons for drunk driving. Hearing these cases, a local court on Thursday cancelled the driving licences of all of them. A total of 105 persons were caught during the special drive carried out on Wednesday at locations include Miyapur, Kukatpally, RGI Airport, Rajendranagar and Shadnagar, the traffic police said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/11-drunk-drivers-sentenced-to-jail/articleshow/80159935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai beats Delhi’s AQI, light rain likely today||MUMBAI: The city’s overall air quality index (AQI) on Thursday was higher compared to Delhi, according to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR) real-time monitoring. This came as Indian Meteorological Department has forecast light rain or thunders showers in the city on Friday and Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityMumbai recorded an overall AQI of 313, the worst this year, compared to Delhi’s 239 on Thursday. While Delhi’s was lower than usual due to rain, Mumbai’s air quality was in the very poor category for the second day due to weather. “Due to colder temperature and shallow boundary layer height, pollutants are not dispersing faster and getting accumulated. AQI is predicted to remain very poor for Mumbai for two days,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR. Last year, overall AQI breached the 300-mark on December 31. An AQI of 301-400 is considered very poor and could pose a health risk to everyone. Among 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, BKC, Andheri, Mazgaon, Malad, Chembur, Navi Mumbai, Colaba and Borivli recorded an AQI of over 300. “Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast in lower tropospheric levels, isolated to scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places very likely over Maharashtra,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Parts of Thane district received light rain on Thursday. Santacruz and Colaba on Thursday recorded a minimum temperature of 20C and 21C and maximum of 30.7C and 28C respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-beats-delhis-aqi-light-rain-likely-today/articleshow/80161206.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Despite Unesco tag, Jaipur not in ‘pink’ of health: Diya Kumari||JAIPUR: Fearing the fortified city of Jaipur is no more in ‘pink’ of health and may lose the Unesco world heritage site title, MP Diya Kumari wrote a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday and asked him to formulate an effective action plan for conservation. Kumari urged CM to act timely as the country’s first planned city is losing its form and character due to administrative negligence. The letter said, “To maintain and preserve the world heritage status of Jaipur, the Chief Minister should constitute a committee of enlightened citizens under his chairmanship and make a definite action plan and get it implemented in a time-bound manner.” The letter also highlighted the perennial problems of stray cattle, illegal parking and construction prevalent in the Walled City. The Walled City was listed as a Unesco site in 2019 with the commitment to preserve its cultural and architectural heritage. However, heritage city continues to crumble despite getting the coveted tag. An official said, the world heritage committee outlines six points including, constitution of heritage committee to monitor activities, heritage assessment before every project, preparation of detailed list of heritage structures and buildings, safeguard city from developmental pressures, declaration of area as ‘no construction’ and to prepare Special Area Heritage Plan by 2021. A senior official at town planning wing said, “We have devised the policies considering all points mentioned by the committee. But implementing agencies are in deep slumber. The Unesco team review was scheduled in December; however, it was postponed due to the pandemic. If encroachment continues, there would be a threat to the Unesco tag, in a similar way like Ahmedabad is facing.” An official source, who put efforts to bag the title at 43rd session of the World Heritage Committee (WHC) at Azerbaijan’s Baku says, “Due to encroachment and poor management, the International Council on Monuments and Sites (Icomos), inclusion of city in Unesco list was deferred. Commitments were made to meet all the standards. The civic agencies should take the tag seriously and work on the lines of conservation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-unesco-tag-jaipur-not-in-pink-of-health-diya-kumari/articleshow/80159937.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||UDH amends rules to boost investment||Jaipur: The Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department made amendments in existing Rajasthan Municipalities (Disposal of Urban Land) Rules, 1974 to promote investment in urban areas and strengthen the financial condition of local bodies in the state. For the same, the UDH department also issued two separate notifications of amended rules. As per the new rules, the owners can deposit the land conversion fee in one year instead of six months. Earlier, if the amount was not deposited for six months, the process of land conversion was automatically cancelled. The department has also decided not to impose lease amount on land conversion cases proceedings for warehouses and cold storage of agricultural products. An official said, “For warehouse and cold storage of agricultural products, the civic bodies will allot land at 50% of the reserved price, but allottees will have to construct in two years.” The department has also given nod to issue freehold lease to the plot owners who will deposit 10-year lease amount collectively. The landholders who have taken the lease deed (patta) from the civic body after depositing one-time lease amount of eight years will be contacted by the authorities. The official said, “The civic bodies will offer these owners to procure the freehold lease after depositing additional two years’ lease money. The amount for remaining two years can be deposited online.” In order to procure freehold lease deed on commercial plots, the owner has to deposit a one-time lease of 10 years instead of 12 years. The department has also increased the fee on selling the allotted plot before 10 years. The official said, “Reserve price’s 10% will be charged for selling the plot within five years of allotment. Similarly, if an owner sells the plot after five years, 5% of the reserved price will be taken,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-amends-rules-to-boost-investment/articleshow/80159968.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Massage therapists in Pune see spike in business as residents shrug off worries of 2020||PUNE: Massage therapists in the city are witnessing a demand for their services in the New Year with people all eager to shrug off the ennui of the past year and make a fresh start with vim and vigour. “Though celebrations this year were toned down, it has been a hectic time since Diwali. The cleaning and the cooking had left me exhausted. My husband and I decided to get a massage after New Year to relieve ourselves of all the tension. We booked a couple massage at home and felt rejuvenated afterwards,” said Maithili Baug, a resident of Magarpatta. “On January 1, I had four bookings, all in the NIBM area. My clients said they wanted to start the New Year on a relaxed note. Last year was tough for most. Usually the booking is done online, and we are assigned the sessions, but a few clients called me directly to book the sessions because they could not find an open slot on the portal and I obliged. It was a good start to the New Year as I was able to make some extra money,” said a massage therapist from NIBM area. “My wife and I are massage therapists and we specialise in couple massages. Both of us were booked throughout the day of January 1, and we have had consistent bookings since. Every day, we have 3-4 couples massage sessions apart from individual clients. There was a spike in bookings when the lockdown was lifted in August and we were allowed to resume service. After a few months, we are again seeing a demand for our services,” said a massage therapist from Shastrinagar. Sessions range from focussing on the neck and head, to back and shoulders, and full body massage. Safety measures are still a priority for these professionals, even though some clients ask them to forego some protocols. “Many clients have asked me to remove gloves while giving the massage, but I refuse. It is for their own safety as much as it is for mine. We visit so many homes and come in contact with many people. It is vital for us to maintain strict safety protocols,” said a massage therapist from Undri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/massage-therapists-see-spike-in-biz-as-residents-shrug-off-worries-of-2020/articleshow/80159979.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan govt announces rules for reopening of schools||JAIPUR: Guidelines for reopening of schools were issued on Thursday by the Directorate of Secondary Education, Bikaner. Both government and private schools will reopen on January 18, 2020 for students living outside containment zones. According to the guidelines issued by the department, permission of parents is mandatory for allowing any student to attend school. If any parent is not interested in sending his ward, no pressure should be exerted on them by the schgool. For such students, online classes will continue, the order said. The guidelines mentioned the academic session will continue till May 15. Highlights of the guidelines include that sanitisation of school buildings will be done every day, only 50% of the classrooms will be filled, no morning prayers or group activities will be allowed, students will be encouraged to bring their own waterbottles and lunch boxes from home. To complete the syllabus, schools will work on Saturdays as well. The department has also decided on the time schedule for start and end of classes from IX to XII. A 30-minute gap has been introduced between each class to avoid any gathering in the school. One of the major decisions was prohibition on cooking of midday meal on the school premises. Since March 2020, the government has been distributing dry ration to students which will continue. This step has been taken to maintain hygiene on the school premises. Many parents have reacted positively to the decision of reopening, but many are still apprehensive. However, schools are seeing it as a positive sign and have started preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-announces-rules-for-reopening-of-schools/articleshow/80159956.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Daily cases highest in 20 days, surpass discharges||Pune: The daily Covid-19 case tally increased to 20-day high of 737 in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Thursday, surpassing recoveries (689) after a gap of 18 days. With this, the recoveries in the region have climbed above 3.53 lakh, while cases have increased to more than 3.67 lakh. While the Pune municipal limits and the rural areas continued to report more recoveries, the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal areas recorded more infections (146) than discharges (91). The rise in cases can also be attributed to rise in daily testing, which has stayed above 10,000 for teh last two days. On Thursday, 10,494 samples were tested in the region, which included 5,043 tests from the PMC limits, 3,595 from the PCMC limits and 1,856 from the rural areas. The region recorded seven more deaths due to Covid-19 on Thursday, which took PMR’s death toll to 8,880. While three patients succumbed to the infection in the PMC limits, three died in the rural areas and one in the PCMC limits. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that the tally of active patients in the region increased to 5,680 on Thursday night. As many as 3,605 patients were in home isolation and 2,075 in hospitals for treatment in the region till Thursday night. The PMC limits had 917 patients in hospitals and 1,761 in home quarantine, while in the PCMC limits, as many as 639 patients were in hospitals and 1,039 in home quarantine. In the rural areas, as many as 519 patients were undergoing treatment in hospitals, while 805 were in home quarantine. A report released by the PMC’s health department stated that as many as 202 patients were at critical stage, while 288 on oxygen support in the municipal limits. Health officials have urged citizens to abide by the Covid-appropriate behaviour to keep the infection at bay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/daily-cases-highest-in-20-days-surpass-discharges/articleshow/80159966.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 8, 2021||Ludhiana||‘City to have overall devp, anti-carry bag drive from Jan 15’||Leaving behind the criticism for poor condition of roads, rising stray dog menace, improper disposal of garbage and other civic issues, Ludhiana mayor Balkar Sandhu claims that 2021 will witness overall development of the city, without any favouritism to any specific ward or constituency. Claiming that there will be no scarcity of funds for development works, he, however, reiterated that the residents will have to help the municipal corporation in providing the best facilities by fulfilling their duties. The mayor has also given an ultimatum to residents to shun usage of plastic carry bags as from January 15, they will kick-off a special drive against plastic carry bags in the city. This time, there will be direct challaning because awareness drives had already been run in the past several times. Here are a few excerpts from a conversation between the mayor and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Q-- What will be main agenda for you in this year? A- Development works of all kinds will remain top priority for me and focus will not be shifted from those. Last year, due to coronavirus, most of the time was spent in saving the residents from spread of this disease, and so in this year we will fulfil last year’s demands as well. There will be construction of roads, work on water supply, sewage, static compactors and streetlights. The remaining projects under the Smart City Mission will also come on the floor and the ongoing projects will see completion. Q- You are talking about overall development, but to achieve that target from where the MC will arrange funds as money is a major concern for the civic body? A- There will be no scarcity of funds for the development works. The already going on loan worth Rs 200 crore is about to end and we have arranged loan amount totalling Rs 100 crore this time. Apart from this, the employees are putting every possible effort to recover pending dues from the defaulters. We are hopeful of bringing enough money for the development works of the city. Q- You are saying that there will be no pick and choose policy in development works, but the opposition has been raising a hue and cry about no development in their wards. How will you maintain a balance? A- It is opposition’s role to always raise a hue and cry even when all works are being approved in their areas. Neither in the past, nor in the future any development work within the quota of any councillor will be stopped by me. As far as the pick and choose policy is concerned, almost everyday councillors or even MLAs, whether in the ruling party or in opposition, are busy in inaugurating the projects. If there had been any denial to their works, then it was not possible to inaugurate the same. Q-- What about quality work of roads, as in the past too many of these had been constructed, but quality was poor? A-We have already started checking the quality of roads and the work is going on so that we can take action if quality is not up to the mark. For the new roads, we have decided that we will ensure that contractors provide proper road infrastructure, along with better construction of the same, so that there should be improvement in the overall work. The sewage manholes will be raised at the time of construction and if any other kind of utility is to be provided, it will be done on the spot, so that roads should not get damaged for anything after its completion. And there will be conditions laid out to maintain road for a few years. There will be action against the contractor as well as the officer if any road fails the quality test or gets damaged before time. But for this we require support from public as well. If they find any poor work is going on in their areas, they should highlight that. Q- Recently, the government had asked the MC to recover excess payment totalling Rs 45 lakh from the contractor who had constructed the Jagraon bridge, but what about the officials who allowed this? A- First of all, this issue was taken up by me and after that further inquiries took place. We had served show-cause notices to the officials concerned as well. The recovery will be done from the contractor and as far as officials are concerned, action will be taken against them as well. Nobody will be spared. Q- People are troubled with stray canine and cattle menace. What is the MC going to do about this problem? A- No doubt, the problem of stray dogs and cattle is rising with each passing day, but we are in the process of increasing the capacity of stray dogs sterilization project, so that their population could be controlled. I have asked the officials to hire expert companies this time for solving this problem in a quick way. As far as stray cattle are concerned, one shed is ready at Burj Pawat and shifting of cattle will take place shortly and for the construction of one cow shed at Noorpur Bet, I have given permission recently. Q- The A2Z waste management company has served a notice on the MC for leaving the work from February 4. How the MC will manage solid waste after that? A-- The company has served the final notice and now we are discussing things with the staff concerned and all legal angles are also being checked. It is not that we will not be able to lift the garbage from the city. We have sufficient staff to take care of garbage lifting from the dumps. For the processing plant, we can hire some other agency as there is no shortage of firms dealing in these things. There is nothing to worry. Q- The MC was supposed to start a drive against plastic carry bags. What is the plan to execute the ban again in the city? A- From January 15, most probably we will kick-off a drive against plastic carry bags and one time use plastic products. I being the mayor of Ludhiana will appeal to public that stop using plastic bags. We are giving time till January 15 for the people to change their habits and after that strict action will be taken against the violators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-to-have-overall-devp-anti-carry-bag-drive-from-jan-15/articleshow/80158852.cms||Nidhi Bhardwaj
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ORR set for facelift, safety plan to curb accidents||HYDERABAD: The 168-km-long Outer Ring Road (ORR) is all set for a facelift. As part of an exclusive road safety plan being executed by the Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA), the ORR will soon be fitted with CCTV cameras and a host of other amenities — developed by the Hyderabad Growth Corridor Limited (HGCL) — like multi-fuel stations (CNG and battery charging apart from regular fuel stations), parking facilities, washrooms, food courts, local handicrafts outlet, among others. These facilities will dot the 19 interchanges (road junctions) along the stretch. “Tenders have been floated and we expect the work to start soon,” said a senior official of HMDA. In 2020, as many as 34 fatal accidents were recorded along the ORR. According to commuters. “HMDA along with the roads and buildings department and police are working on measures that need to be taken to ensure safety of commuters. An app to store all the date pertaining to accidents will also be developed,” the official said adding, “Our focus is on fencing, crossings, signages, illumination. These are immediate measures that will be taken up.” While these are short-term goals, officials said that in the long-run they will set up trauma centres and also train volunteers for Active Bleeding Control (ABC) in case of accidents along the ORR. Speaking about the safety plan, HMDA officials said that speed guns, enforcement measures and an unified ambulance network will also be included in the project apart from beautification of junctions and interchanges at multiple locations. As on date, theme based development of junction at ORR near Gachibowli and Narsingi have been completed. Speaking about the wayside amenities, officials said that they will first come up in Shameerpet, Patancheruvu, Narsingi, Medchal, Ghatkesar, Pedda Amberpet and Bongulur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/orr-set-for-facelift-safety-plan-to-curb-accidents/articleshow/80159981.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Duped of Rs 5.7 crore by Dilip Chhabria, says comedian Kapil Sharma||MUMBAI: In fresh trouble for Dilip Chhabria, a case of cheating and misappropriation of funds will be registered against the car designer and his company for allegedly duping comedian Kapil Sharma of nearly Rs 5.7 crore. Chhabria, who was arrested on December 29 in connection with a car finance and dual registration racket, was remanded to judicial custody on Thursday. Police said after the FIR is lodged, they will seek court permission and take Chhabria’s custody in the cheating case. In September 2020, Sharma filed a complaint with the economic offences wing (EOW) alleging that he had ordered a customised vanity van in 2017 and paid Chhabria a total of Rs 5.7 crore, but it was never delivered. In fact, Chhabria was demanding more money and even parking charges, Sharma alleged. “Preliminary inquiry shows that it is a fit case of cheating and misappropriation of funds. We are in the process of registering the FIR,” said Milind Bharambe, joint commissioner of police (crime). Police recorded Sharma’s statement on Thursday. Sharma said that after learning about Chhabria’s arrest last week, he had called up police commissioner Parambir Singh and had reminded him about his EOW complaint. Assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze said in March 2017, Sharma had ordered the vanity van and initially paid Chhabria Rs 5.3 crore. “In 2018, when VAT and GST came into existence, Chhabria’s company demanded Rs 40 lakh more, which Sharma paid. But the van was still not delivered,” Bharambe said. “In 2019, Sharma approached the National Company Law Tribunal which froze Chhabria’s bank account. The accused then asked Sharma to pay another Rs 60 lakh. Sharma paid the amount, but there was still no sign of the van.” Sharma alleged that in 2020, Chhabria sent him an invoice bill of Rs 12-13 lakh for parking the yet-to-be finished van in his garage for two years. This irked him and he approached the EOW.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duped-of-rs-5-7cr-by-chhabria-says-kapil/articleshow/80159970.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Soirees on sound pollution radar||Kolkata: Cops have received multiple complaints of sound pollution from local soirees across Lake Road, Rajdanga and Naktala in south Kolkata on its official Twitter account in the past 24 hours. The headquarters asked all local police stations to act on these complaints. “If required, we will involve the West Bengal Pollution Control Board. We request everyone to dial 100 for a complaint,” said an officer. A Twitter user, Ankita, complained: “Speakers blaring loud noise at Gachtala junction. Making it impossible to work and manage children and toddlers. I called Regent Park and Netaji Nagar police stations but they did not pick up. Attached sound clip from inside shut window.” Some other people took to the social media and complained of sound pollution in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/soirees-on-sound-pollution-radar/articleshow/80159967.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 8, 2021||Pune||Pune civic body set to conduct Covid vaccination dry run today||PUNE: The civic body will conduct a dry run of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital, where aspects like security, data entry, and preparedness of paramedical staffers and doctors would be checked. Pune Municipal Corporation officials stated that three floors of the hospital would be used for the trials. “We have given instructions for conducting the dry run and measures have been taken accordingly. Civic staffers, along with the health department officials, will participate in it,” said Vaishali Jadhav, a senior official of the PMC’s health department. She said the civic body would deploy 25 staffers for the dry run and that the process would be the same as in other vaccination drives. Around 1.5 lakh people, comprising doctors, paramedical staffers, nurses and frontline workers, are to be vaccinated on priority. The PMC has planned to use the Covid-19 jumbo hospitals at CoEP and in Baner in the second and subsequent phases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-set-to-conduct-vaccination-dry-run-today/articleshow/80159969.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ludhiana||Bldg branch officials say no to matching records of new power connections||Ludhiana: While giving the excuse of shortage of staff, building branch officials have refused to match the records of new power connections with the building plans approved by them in the past few years. Additional commissioner Rishipal Singh had asked assistant town planners of all four branches to give details against how many defaulters they took action who had not got approval for the building plans. While replying to the letter, assistant town planners refused handling this job and rather advised the authorities concerned to get it done by a private firm. All this information has been revealed under an RTI query. It was after a complaint filed by city-based activist Rohit Sabharwal that civic body officials were told to check the difference between new electricity connections released and building plans approved. The officials also brought data from powercom, according to which, around 86,573 new connections were issued in three years. The officials claimed that they were already short of technical staff, and that too was overburdened. They cited that so many court cases were going on and they had to fulfil their office duties as well, so it was difficult for them to look after this additional burden as well. They suggested that some private firm should be hired for this task so that the work could be done properly and their office task would also not get affected. They said if the existing staff would be deputed on this work, then the MC might have to face problems in court cases or other works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bldg-branch-officials-say-no-to-matching-records-of-new-power-connections/articleshow/80158859.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Choutuppal CI, SI suspended||Hyderabad: Rachakonda CP Mahesh Bhagwat suspended station house officer and sub-inspector of Choutuppal PS. SHO Venkanna and SI Narsaiah involved in the settlement of a land dispute case at Thallasingaram village, in spite of a court order for status quo. A charge memo was issued to ACP Sattaiah for lapses in supervision. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/choutuppal-ci-si-suspended/articleshow/80159995.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Hemant Nagrale takes additional role of Maharashtra DGP||MUMBAI: Director general (legal and technical) Hemant Nagrale (58) on Thursday took over as Director General of Police from Subodh Jaiswal, who is all set to take over as the DG of the Central Industrial Security Force. An IPS officer of the 1987 batch, Nagrale will hold additional charge till a regular DGP is appointed. Home minister Anil Deshmukh said a regular DGP will be appointed soon after following the due process prescribed by Supreme Court. “We will submit the list of the 3 seniormost DGs to the Centre,” he said. On the seniority list, Jaiswal is followed by Sanjay Pande (1986 batch, in charge of Home Guards), Bipin Bihari (Police Housing Corporation), Surendra Pandey (prisons) and Nagrale (legal and technical), all belonging to the 1987 batch and Mumbai CP Parambir Singh (1988 batch). According to reports, the state will submit the names of Sanjay Pandey, Nagrale and Parambir Singh to the Union home ministry as Bihari is set to retire on January 31 and Pandey on February 28. As per SC norms, only officers who have more than six months left for retirement are considered for appointment as DGP. If a senior cabinet member is to be believed, Nagrale appears to be the frontrunner for the DGP’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nagrale-takes-additional-role-of-maha-dgp/articleshow/80161276.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Covid fatalities dip, 31 persons lost lives in first week||JAIPUR: Number of Covid deaths have been reducing every week. In the first week of January, 31 people lost their lives to the virus in comparison to 46 in the last week of December. Though deaths in first week of January was fewer than fatalities in the previous week, mortality rate was slightly higher at 0.91% compared to 0.83% in gthe last week of December. The health department is taking measures to prevent deaths. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The state is alert on Covid and due to which the graph of the cases has been going down rapidly. The recovery rate has touched 96.6% and mortality rate is much lesser in comparion to other states. Active cases are also going down.” With 735 more persons recovering from the virus, the state’s tally of persons cured of Covid rose to 3,01,425. Besides, active cases have gone below the 7,500 mark. Health department figures showed the state was currently accommodating 7,468 active cases. In the last 24 hours, four persons died and 509 others tested positive taking the fatalities to 2,727 and infections to 3,11,620. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (43), Ajmer (40), Bhilwara (34), Kota (31), Rajsamand (31), Udaipur (31), Nagaur (25), Chittorgarh (22), Alwar (21), Dungarpur (19), Jhalawar (18), Pali (12), Banswara (9), Baran (9), Bundi (8), Barmer (7), Sirohi (6), Bharatpur (4), Sriganganagar (4), Hanumangarh (4), Bikaner (4), Dholpur (4), Sikar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Karauli (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Dausa (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported its 507th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 294th, Tonk 36th and Sirohi reported its 29th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/covid-fatalities-dip-31-persons-lost-lives-in-first-week/articleshow/80164459.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Covid fatalities dip, 31 persons lost lives in first week||JAIPUR: Number of Covid deaths have been reducing every week. In the first week of January, 31 people lost their lives to the virus in comparison to 46 in the last week of December. Though deaths in first week of January was fewer than fatalities in the previous week, mortality rate was slightly higher at 0.91% compared to 0.83% in gthe last week of December. The health department is taking measures to prevent deaths. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The state is alert on Covid and due to which the graph of the cases has been going down rapidly. The recovery rate has touched 96.6% and mortality rate is much lesser in comparion to other states. Active cases are also going down.” With 735 more persons recovering from the virus, the state’s tally of persons cured of Covid rose to 3,01,425. Besides, active cases have gone below the 7,500 mark. Health department figures showed the state was currently accommodating 7,468 active cases. In the last 24 hours, four persons died and 509 others tested positive taking the fatalities to 2,727 and infections to 3,11,620. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (43), Ajmer (40), Bhilwara (34), Kota (31), Rajsamand (31), Udaipur (31), Nagaur (25), Chittorgarh (22), Alwar (21), Dungarpur (19), Jhalawar (18), Pali (12), Banswara (9), Baran (9), Bundi (8), Barmer (7), Sirohi (6), Bharatpur (4), Sriganganagar (4), Hanumangarh (4), Bikaner (4), Dholpur (4), Sikar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Karauli (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Dausa (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported its 507th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 294th, Tonk 36th and Sirohi reported its 29th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/covid-fatalities-dip-31-persons-lost-lives-in-first-week/articleshow/80164462.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ajmer||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks rail project linking Jaisalmer-Barmer to Gujarat ports||JAIPUR/AJMER: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor to the nation. Modi termed it as a ‘game changer’ Now, the goods train on this route could travel at a speed of 100km per hour. He flagged off the ‘world’s first’ double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train pulled by electric traction from New Ateli in Haryana to New Kishangarh in Rajasthan. This track is prepared under DFC (Dedicated Freight Corridor) and is completely electronic for double decker trains. Governor Kalraj Mishra, Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya, chief ministers of Rajasthan and Haryana Ashok Gehlot and Manohar Lal Khattar, respectively, and railway minister Piyush Goyal and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. Governor Kalraj Mishra said the opening of the western and eastern freight corridor will not only enhance connectivity, but will lead to rapid industrial development in Rajasthan and transport of agricultural products to new markets. Addressing the virtual event, Gehlot demanded a dedicated freight corridor at Salarpur Industrial area at Bhiwadi. He pointed out that the first country-specific Japanese investment zone is in Neemrana, Alwar and about 6,521 industrial units are set up in Alwar-Bhiwadi region. Just like the DFC railway station at New Dharuhera, Haryana, a similar DFC station be set up near Salarpur Industrial Area, Bhiwadi on DFC alignment to the benefit of the industry there. The CM demanded new rail project connecting Jaisalmer-Barmer with Kandla and Mundra in view of the petro chemical complex being developed in Barmer. He said about 20% of the crude oil production in the country comes out of western Rajasthan. If Jaisalmer-Barmer is connected to Kandla and Mundra ports, it would be a big boost to industry there, he said. He raised the demand for revival of the rail projects approved by the railways in the state and whose work has been halted by it. Gehlot demanded to resume the work of Sarmathura-Gangapur via Karauli railway line, Chauth ka Barwara to Ajmer via Tonk, Ratlam to Dungarpur via Banswara railway line, Pushkar-Merta road railway line, Mumu rail coach factory Bhilwara. There was also a demand to gauge conversion on Loharu-Sikar-Ringas railway line and connect it to the metros and big cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/cm-seeks-rail-project-linking-jaisalmer-barmer-to-guj-ports/articleshow/80169107.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||BJP’s afraid of Rahul Gandhi, says Saamana||MUMBAI: Days after criticising Congress, Shiv Sena on Thursday applauded Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, stating that he was a warrior and BJP was afraid of him. Sena also said Congress had no other option. Sena mouthpiece ‘Saamana’ editorial referred to BJP as “rulers in Delhi” and said they were afraid of Rahul, else they would not have started a government-run drive to malign the Gandhi family. “As soon as Rahul Gandhi agreed to take over as party president, income-tax department raided Robert Vadra’s house, which is definitely no coincidence. Though there is a controversy related to him, it’s not fair to harass the Gandhi family by misusing central agencies,” it stated. “A dictator is afraid even if one man is against him...,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjps-afraid-of-rahul-gandhi-says-saamana/articleshow/80159562.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||CM Ashok Gehlot seeks rail project linking Jaisalmer-Barmer to Gujarat ports||JAIPUR/AJMER: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday dedicated 306-km New Rewari-New Madar section of the Western Dedicated Freight Corridor to the nation. Modi termed it as a ‘game changer’ Now, the goods train on this route could travel at a speed of 100km per hour. He flagged off the ‘world’s first’ double-stack long-haul 1.5-km-long container train pulled by electric traction from New Ateli in Haryana to New Kishangarh in Rajasthan. This track is prepared under DFC (Dedicated Freight Corridor) and is completely electronic for double decker trains. Governor Kalraj Mishra, Haryana governor Satyadev Narayan Arya, chief ministers of Rajasthan and Haryana Ashok Gehlot and Manohar Lal Khattar, respectively, and railway minister Piyush Goyal and other dignitaries were present on the occasion. Governor Kalraj Mishra said the opening of the western and eastern freight corridor will not only enhance connectivity, but will lead to rapid industrial development in Rajasthan and transport of agricultural products to new markets. Addressing the virtual event, Gehlot demanded a dedicated freight corridor at Salarpur Industrial area at Bhiwadi. He pointed out that the first country-specific Japanese investment zone is in Neemrana, Alwar and about 6,521 industrial units are set up in Alwar-Bhiwadi region. Just like the DFC railway station at New Dharuhera, Haryana, a similar DFC station be set up near Salarpur Industrial Area, Bhiwadi on DFC alignment to the benefit of the industry there. The CM demanded new rail project connecting Jaisalmer-Barmer with Kandla and Mundra in view of the petro chemical complex being developed in Barmer. He said about 20% of the crude oil production in the country comes out of western Rajasthan. If Jaisalmer-Barmer is connected to Kandla and Mundra ports, it would be a big boost to industry there, he said. He raised the demand for revival of the rail projects approved by the railways in the state and whose work has been halted by it. Gehlot demanded to resume the work of Sarmathura-Gangapur via Karauli railway line, Chauth ka Barwara to Ajmer via Tonk, Ratlam to Dungarpur via Banswara railway line, Pushkar-Merta road railway line, Mumu rail coach factory Bhilwara. There was also a demand to gauge conversion on Loharu-Sikar-Ringas railway line and connect it to the metros and big cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-seeks-rail-project-linking-jaisalmer-barmer-to-guj-ports/articleshow/80159982.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Authorities modify CCRC’s design to augment facilities||Kochi: The design of Cochin Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) is being modified so as to provide enhanced facilities for patients. There will be separate clinics for each of the specialties so that all the treatments, consultations and other facilities will be provided to the patients at a single clinic. One of the most important advantage of the new design is that a patient who seeks treatment for a particular type of cancer will not have to go to each specialist. Instead, the specialists will come over to the patient. “A cancer patient would be facing many other health complications and so the patient will have to consult different specialists. Moving all around the hospital complex for the purpose will be difficult for the patient. That’s why we decided to set up separate clinics for each type of cancer,” a top official associated with the project told TOI. “Even colours and other facilities should provide a soothing touch for the patients. For giving them utmost privacy, each area will be set up in such a fashion,” the official said. Beds and other amenities will also be designed in a patient-friendly manner. The KIIFB which met a few days ago has agreed to provide additional funds, if required, for setting up these facilities. KIIFB also gave approval for appointing a hospital architect for designing the facilities in the CCRC in a systematic manner. “An agency having expertise in hospital architecture visited the construction site and conducted preliminary studies regarding the features which will have to be provided in the CCRC buildings. It is in the interior of the structure where the design change and additional facilities are to come up. Officials with the agency are expected to make a detailed presentation on the interior design,” sources said. “It is learnt that there may not be much cost escalation,” sources said. Measures will also be taken to incorporate the features which will help CCRC secure certifications of National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH) and other quality certifying agencies in the health sector. “It will be much easier to secure such accreditations if we build the hospital as per their standards. Otherwise, we will have to incorporate changes in the future so as to secure such accreditations,” an official associated with the project said. Meanwhile, Inkel, the nodal agency for the project, has issued notice to the contractor asking the firm to show the cause for the delay in completing the construction works. The work, which was started in August, 2017, should have been completed by August 2019 as per the original schedule. But the contractor could make less than 40% progress in the construction. Though the Inkel issued notice to the contractor on December 26, 2020, the private firm is yet to give reply. The tender for carrying out mechanical, electrical and plumping (MEP) has not been invited so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/authorities-modify-ccrcs-design-to-augment-facilities/articleshow/80158881.cms||M K Sunil Kumar
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Zoo sets up team to monitor birds||Hyderabad: Nehru Zoological Park has set up a rapid action force team to monitor birds daily in view of bird flu outbreak in some parts of the country. Zoo curator N Kshitija said deputy director (veterinary) Dr M A Hakeem will head the team. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/zoo-sets-up-team-to-monitor-birds/articleshow/80159987.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Covid fatalities dip, 31 persons lost lives in first week||JAIPUR: Number of Covid deaths have been reducing every week. In the first week of January, 31 people lost their lives to the virus in comparison to 46 in the last week of December. Though deaths in first week of January was fewer than fatalities in the previous week, mortality rate was slightly higher at 0.91% compared to 0.83% in gthe last week of December. The health department is taking measures to prevent deaths. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The state is alert on Covid and due to which the graph of the cases has been going down rapidly. The recovery rate has touched 96.6% and mortality rate is much lesser in comparion to other states. Active cases are also going down.” With 735 more persons recovering from the virus, the state’s tally of persons cured of Covid rose to 3,01,425. Besides, active cases have gone below the 7,500 mark. Health department figures showed the state was currently accommodating 7,468 active cases. In the last 24 hours, four persons died and 509 others tested positive taking the fatalities to 2,727 and infections to 3,11,620. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (43), Ajmer (40), Bhilwara (34), Kota (31), Rajsamand (31), Udaipur (31), Nagaur (25), Chittorgarh (22), Alwar (21), Dungarpur (19), Jhalawar (18), Pali (12), Banswara (9), Baran (9), Bundi (8), Barmer (7), Sirohi (6), Bharatpur (4), Sriganganagar (4), Hanumangarh (4), Bikaner (4), Dholpur (4), Sikar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Karauli (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Dausa (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported its 507th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 294th, Tonk 36th and Sirohi reported its 29th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/covid-fatalities-dip-31-persons-lost-lives-in-first-week/articleshow/80164464.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid fatalities dip, 31 persons lost lives in first week||JAIPUR: Number of Covid deaths have been reducing every week. In the first week of January, 31 people lost their lives to the virus in comparison to 46 in the last week of December. Though deaths in first week of January was fewer than fatalities in the previous week, mortality rate was slightly higher at 0.91% compared to 0.83% in gthe last week of December. The health department is taking measures to prevent deaths. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The state is alert on Covid and due to which the graph of the cases has been going down rapidly. The recovery rate has touched 96.6% and mortality rate is much lesser in comparion to other states. Active cases are also going down.” With 735 more persons recovering from the virus, the state’s tally of persons cured of Covid rose to 3,01,425. Besides, active cases have gone below the 7,500 mark. Health department figures showed the state was currently accommodating 7,468 active cases. In the last 24 hours, four persons died and 509 others tested positive taking the fatalities to 2,727 and infections to 3,11,620. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (100), Jodhpur (43), Ajmer (40), Bhilwara (34), Kota (31), Rajsamand (31), Udaipur (31), Nagaur (25), Chittorgarh (22), Alwar (21), Dungarpur (19), Jhalawar (18), Pali (12), Banswara (9), Baran (9), Bundi (8), Barmer (7), Sirohi (6), Bharatpur (4), Sriganganagar (4), Hanumangarh (4), Bikaner (4), Dholpur (4), Sikar (4), Pratapgarh (4), Karauli (3), Jhunjhunu (3), Tonk (3), Sawai Madhopur (3), Dausa (2) and Jalore (1). Jaipur reported its 507th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 294th, Tonk 36th and Sirohi reported its 29th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-fatalities-dip-31-persons-lost-lives-in-first-week/articleshow/80159988.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan tops in chronic lung diseases among elderly: Survey||JAIPUR: More than one among 10 in the age group of 60 years and above have been diagnosed with chronic lung diseases in Rajasthan, the highest in the country, shows the first part (2017-18) of the world’s largest study on the aged — the Longitudinal Aging Study in India (LASI) — released by the health ministry on Wednesday. The report says Rajasthan is at the top of the list of states having highest prevalence of vector-borne diseases. Nationally among elderly aged 60 and above, self-reported prevalence of diagnosed asthma is 5.9%, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 2.8%, bronchitis 1.6% and 8% chronic lung diseases. Any chronic lung disease is more prevalent in the state/UTs of Rajasthan (15%), Puduchery (13%), Kerala (12%), West Bengal (11%), and Karnataka (10%), the report says. Across the states/UTs, self-reported prevalence of any diagnosed chronic lung disease among older adults aged 45 and above ranges from 11% in Puducherry to less than 1% in Nagaland and Meghalaya. “Among people aged 60 and above, self-reported prevalence of bronchitis and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is highest in Karnataka (6.2% and 7.6% respectively) followed by Puducherry (4.1% and 7.1% respectively). Self-reported prevalence of diagnosed asthma is highest in Rajasthan (12%) followed by Dadra & Nagar Haveli (8.9%), Kerala (8.2%) and West Bengal (8.2%),” said the report that aims to provide a base for national and state-level programmes and policies for the elderly population. In vector-borne diseases, Rajasthan is at the top of the list of states having highest prevalence. The report says, “Vector-borne diseases are more prevalent in Rajasthan (29%), Madhya Pradesh (23%), Gujarat (21%), Chhattisgarh (20%) and Haryana (20%).” In water-borne diseases, Rajasthan is among the top six states/UTs. “Water-borne diseases are more common in demographically less advanced states/UTs of Dadra & Nagar Haveli (44%), Chhattisgarh (37%), Mizoram (35%), Madhya Pradesh (34%), Bihar (34%), Rajasthan (33%) and Uttar Pradesh (32%) besides Haryana (34%),” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-tops-in-chronic-lung-diseases-among-elderly-survey/articleshow/80160004.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 8, 2021||Surat||One held with 73 kg ganja||Surat: Special operation group of city police seized 73 kg ganja worth Rs 7.36 lakh from a house in Udhna area on Thursday and arrested Chandrashekhar Rao (48). Police recovered Rs 39,050 cash from the accused. Rao, a native of Ganjam in Odisha, informed police that he brought the contraband from Odisha. Police are further investigating the case to find out who supplied the ganja to Rao and who used to purchase it from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/one-held-with-73-kg-ganja/articleshow/80158870.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Companies calling each other’s vaccine ‘water’ hurts people’s trust: State to Centre||JAIPUR: Health minister Raghu Sharma on Thursday raised the issue of companies calling each other’s vaccine nothing but just ‘water’ hurting the confidence of people on the vaccines that have already got approval from the Drugs Controller General of India for emergency use. Besides, the state has completed preparations for the dry run of the vaccine in the state on Friday. “I was watching television wherein the vaccine companies were calling each other’s vaccine nothing but just ‘water’. It weakens the confidence of people (on the vaccine). Such activities should be stopped. Such statements calling each other’s vaccine ‘water’ are being watched by people in the entire country,” Sharma told Union health minister Harsh Vardhan through video conferencing. The video conference was held for reviewing the preparation of the states for Covid vaccine. “Vaccine companies are at war and are calling each other’s vaccine ‘water’ publicly. We have brought it to the notice of the Centre to stop all this,” said Sharma, after the video conference. Sharma also demanded from the Centre to provide a date on which the vaccine would arrive. “We are ready for vaccination upto block level. But the question arises as to when the vaccine will come and every person is asking this question. We are unable to reply to them. If you could give some date (for vaccine launch),” Sharma asked the Union health minister. The state informed the Centre through the video conference that the preparations for first phase are afoot. The physical verification of 3,000 vaccination sites has been done. A steering committee under chief secretary has been constituted. All kinds of training has been imparted to the staff for the vaccination. Vaccination will be done in four phases. The preparation for the first phase is in progress. The state has 2,444 cold chain points and arrangements have been made to maintain the temperature from 2 degrees to 8 degrees for storage of the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cos-calling-each-others-vaccine-water-hurts-peoples-trust-state-to-centre/articleshow/80159999.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ludhiana||School served notice for wrong property tax return||Ludhiana: The municipal corporation has served notice on Sacred Heart Convent School in Sarabha Nagar on Thursday for filing wrong property tax return. The MC has imposed 100% penalty on the property tax amount. The action has been taken after a complaint was filed by city-based activist Rohit Sabharwal and he had requested the civic body officials to check the property tax record of the school while alleging that the school authorities were showing their school land as rented property, whereas the land for this school had been allotted by Ludhiana Improvement Trust in 1965. The civic body officials in the notice mentioned that the school authorities did not file the property tax properly. They estimated that Rs 57.59 lakh tax was still standing as balance and they imposed 100% penalty on this amount and the school authorities were told to pay Rs 1.15 crore to the civic body, otherwise action would be taken against them. The superintendent of MC, Harvinder Bindra, said, “The school authorities had filed tax under the wrong category, which came to light, so we have served the recovery notice to them. The schools get 50% exemption in tax amount and this recovery amount has been calculated after giving exemption as well.” The principal of Sacred Heart Convent School sister Reshmi said, “We have paid all taxes and we have all receipts with us.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/school-served-notice-for-wrong-property-tax-return/articleshow/80158873.cms||---
January 8, 2021||India||Sushant looked innocent and sober, observes HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday reserved its judgment on a quashing petition filed by two sisters of Sushant Singh Rajput, but not before airing a few words of praise for the late actor. “From his face one can make out that he was innocent and sober and a very good human being...,” said the bench. The sisters, Priyanka and Meetu, were seeking orders to quash an FIR lodged by actor and Rajput’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty against them and a doctor for allegedly procuring a fake prescription of anti-depressants for their brother and accusing them of abetting his suicide in June 2020. Senior counsel Vikas Singh said Rhea’s FIR was a “counter case’’ as she was being probed by CBI. He said she had given three different versions and she had admitted to blocking his calls in his last days and could be responsible for his depression.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sushant-looked-innocent-and-sober-observes-hc/articleshow/80162623.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 8, 2021||Vijayawada||HC asks govt to prevent cock fights in state||Vijayawada: The AP high court on Thursday directed the government to follow and implement its earlier order in preventing cock fights in the state. The high court said it will hear the petition along with the contempt petition filed against officials for failing to comply with its 2016 judgement on the matter.  Shaik Saleem, a native of Pedapudi in East Godavari district, moved a PIL seeking directions to officials to prevent cock fights and betting activities during the upcoming Sankranti festival season. He sought interim directions to the government to form action teams, which can seal potential grounds used for cock fight bouts in East Godavari district. The petitioner also sought action against officials and public representatives who abet cock fights during the festival season in violation of court orders. The high court bench comprising Justice Joymalya Bagchi and Justice A V Sesha Sai, after hearing the petition, directed the government that it should comply with the earlier order of the high court given in 2016 to prevent unlawful activities. The court said its earlier order is still in force and it will hear the present petition along with the contempt petition pending before it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-asks-govt-to-prevent-cock-fights-in-state/articleshow/80161236.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 8, 2021||Amaravati||AP signs MoU with Centre, NDB for mega road projects||AMARAVATI: In what could be a big boon for the development of road infrastructure in the state, the government has signed an MoU with the Centre and New Development Bank (NDB). The NDB has agreed to extend loan under External Aided Project (EAP) component. The state government is taking up two mega road projects with an estimated cost of Rs 6,400 crore to improve rural and mandal connectivity. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the Roads and Buildings department to take up the road projects with the highest quality standards. At a review held at the camp office on Thursday, the chief minister congratulated the R&B department for getting the clearances from the Centre and NDB for the big-ticket project. “These two mega projects would play a key role in the development of the state as they help enhancing the connectivity between industrial hubs and rural areas,” the CM said and added the development of road infrastructure would also help create employment in huge numbers. He asked R&B officials to plan more projects with the assistance of NDB. R&B minister Sankara Narayana and principal secretary MT Krishnababu told the chief minister that they have got green signal for the first phase of the project to be taken up with Rs 3,200 crore. They explained that they were also readying the Detailed Project Reports (DPR) for the second phase which would also be cleared shortly. The minister said that all existing roads from district headquarters town would be converted into two-lane under AP Roads and Bridges Reconstruction Project (APRBRP). Similarly, all roads from one mandal headquarters to another mandal headquarters would also be widened into two-lane roads under AP Mandal and Rural Connectivity Improvement Project (APMCRCIP). He said highways would be widened to four-lane to a total length of 3,104 km in addition to construction of 479 bridges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ap-signs-mou-with-centre-ndb-for-mega-road-projects/articleshow/80161120.cms||Samdani MN
January 8, 2021||Vijayawada||AP police lauded for initiatives over last 18 months||TIRUPATI: State police personnel vowed to dedicate themselves in pursuit of professionalism and serve the people on the final day of the state’s first police meet which concluded on a grand note in the temple city of Tirupati on Thursday. Andhra Pradesh home minister Mekathota Sucharita and TTD Chairman YV Subba Reddy who took part in the event as special guests hailed the numerous initiatives launched by the state police department over the last year-and-a-half, aimed at transforming the state into one of the safest in the country. TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy noted that the Andhra Pradesh police winning 108 awards at the national level over the last year-and-a-half itself is a testimony to the enhanced performance and delivery levels of police force. “Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy has given a clear mandate to the police to enforce laws of the land without any prejudice or bias. Even in connection with the disturbing acts of vandalism reported at places of worship across the state in the last few months, the chief minister has directed the police to book the culprits responsible for such offences irrespective of their political affiliations,” he said Meanwhile, home minister Mekathota Sucharita hailed the services of police personnel in rendering selfless service during the lockdown in the wake of Covid-19. “The government launched many women’s safety and welfare measures under the leadership of CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. The Disha Act introduced by AP is a role model for the rest of the country which several states are now replicating,” she said. The home minister, TTD chairman, along with Rajahmundry MP M Bharat, and AR Anuradha IPS later awarded trophies and gold medals to meritorious police personnel for their performances in various competitions held during the four-day meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ap-police-lauded-for-initiatives-over-last-18-mths/articleshow/80161263.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 8, 2021||Vadodara||Labour contractor kills painter for harassing his daughter||Vadodara: A labour contractor was detained on Thursday for allegedly killing a paint labourer near New VIP Road on Wednesday.The accused, Brijlal Tiwari, was nabbed near his house in Khodiyarnagar on Thursday. Tiwari told police that he killed painter Anil Yadav because he used to ogle at his daugther and harass her. Yadav’s body was found at an open ground behind Brahmanagar slums near New VIP Road. A couple of days before the crime, Yadav had even gone to Tiwari’s house and created a ruckus over the same issue. He had hurled abuses at Tiwari and threatened to kidnap his daughter. On the night of January 5, when Tiwari learnt that Yadav was sitting alone on the ground, he went there with an iron pipe and hit him behind his right ear. Yadav collapsed on the ground and since he did not receive any medical assistance, Yadav died. Tiwari had left his home immediately after killing Yadav, which raised suspicion. “We have kept the accused under quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is awaited. Once we formally arrest him, more evidence including the murder weapon will be recovered,” said inspector R S Baria of Harni police station. Yadav was a native of Uttar Pradesh and had been working in Vadodara for the past three years as a painter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/labour-contractor-kills-painter-for-harassing-his-daughter/articleshow/80158487.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Vijayawada||TDP team meets guv, calls for President’s rule in state||Vijayawada: A delegation of TDP functionaries on Thursday met with governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan and submitted a representation citing recent incidents of temple desecration in the state. The delegation demanded president’s rule in the state citing the alleged failure of law and order to curb such incidents. Later while addressing media outside Raj Bhavan, TDP functionaries — Varla Ramaiah, T Sravan Kumar, D Narendra Kumar and Buddha Venkanna — accused the state government of failing to handle the incidents and said that chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had turned a blind eye to such incidents. They also blamed the police and state administration for their alleged inaction. Varla Ramaiah said that the state had seen 145 incidents where temples were vandalised and idols were desecrated in the state. The delegation claimed that the government had failed to take stern action against perpetrators of such crimes and protect the temples. Ramaiah alleged that the government was fabricating cases against opposition leaders for questioning its inaction. Ramaiah further said that they have requested the governor to recommend CBI probes into the series of incidents. “Such incidents of desecration of idols in the temples never happened in the past and the government should bring the culprits to book,” Ramaiah demanded. The TDP leaders also sought action against police officials for their alleged negligence to the series of incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tdp-team-meets-guv-calls-for-presidents-rule-in-state/articleshow/80161201.cms||Gopi Dara
January 8, 2021||Amaravati||Centre likely to give nod on jurisdiction of KRMB in a week||AMARAVATI: Almost seven years after the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh, the Centre has readied the working manual to notify the jurisdiction of Krishna River Management Board (KRMB). Sources said that Union Jal Shakti ministry is most likely to stamp its final nod to the manual in a week. The notification would fully empower the Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) to oversee water release from all the projects in AP and Telangana. Although separate river management boards have been constituted for Krishna and Godavari following the bifurcation of the state, the absence of the notification to declare the jurisdiction of the boards is often leading to tension between both the states on sharing of river waters. The river management boards have more or less confined to issuing release orders whenever a state seeks release of water from the major projects. Making the river management board a supreme authority with regard to release of water is expected to bring down tension between the neighbouring states as the board would take care of the complete management of water distribution from the available resources. Telemetris have already been intalled at vital points of key projects to gauge the actual receipt of water. Chief ministers K Chandrasekhara Rao and YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had agreed to the idea of Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhwat to empower the river management boards during the apex council meeting held in last October. He directed both the CMs to submit the details of all the projects to the river management boards. Both the states have to take prior permission from the river management board for taking up any new project before taking other clearances from the Centre after the issuance of the jurisdiction notification. Sources said that KRMB authorities have sent the draft manual to the Centre to issue the final notification last month. The KRMB which has been studying the water releases from Krishna for the past six years had brought almost all the projects into its purview. For instance, Pulichintala project is a balancing reservoir constructed to save flood waters from Nagarjuna Sagar and utilize the water to supplement the needs of the Krishna delta when there were no reserves in Srisailam or Sagar to feed Krishna delta. Although there is no ayucut in Telangana to feed from Pulichintala, KRMB is said to be bringing this project too under its belt posing a threat to the interests of AP. As per the Krishna Water Disputes Tribunal (KWDT), which is the foundation for sharing of waters between Andhra Pradesh and Telangana, KRMB should oversee releases from Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/centre-likely-to-give-nod-on-jurisdiction-of-krmb-in-a-wk/articleshow/80161152.cms||Samdani MN
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Will Puthenvelikkara turn into another Kathikudam?||KOCHI: Puthenvelikkara panchayat, which was submerged in 2018 floods, may soon witness a rerun of Kathikudam as the state government has issued an order to conduct feasibility study to lay a pipeline to carry waste water from Nitta Gelatin Plant in Koratty to the marine waterfront in the panchayat limit. The order issued last month seeks permission to conduct a feasibility study in Kuzhur in Thrissur and Puthenvelikkara in Ernakulam to lay a treated water pipeline to the marine water front despite strong objection from local bodies. Nitta Gelatin, which has been facing strong protest from local residents and environmentalists for allegedly polluting Chalakkudy river in Kathikudam, has been looking into the possibility of discharging waste water in the downstream of Kannankadavu regulator-cum-bridge since 2018. But Puthenvelikkara panchayat has repeatedly denied permission. “The foundation of the regulator-cum-bridge is in a bad shape. Discharging waste water of Nitta Gelatin will pollute the drinking water source in the upstream during high tide. The agriculture in the local body will also get affetced. The livelihood of fishermen will also be affected as the water will pollute downstream. Even if the shutters and foundation of the bridge is repaired, people in other panchayats, through which the Periyar River passes before reaching the sea at Munambam estuary, will face pollution issues,” said former panchayat president of Puthenvelikkara P V Laju. However, Nitta officials said they have been discharging waste water from the plant after treatment. “The treated wastewater, which contains chloride in low concentration, cannot be used inside the plant. There is no viable technology to remove chloride from water. We have been releasing waste water into Chalakkudy river following all specifications set by authorities concerned. Still we have been facing objections. A suggestion for a long term solution to the issue was raised at a meeting convened by the chief minister. The solution is to discharge the water downstream of the bridge in Puthenvelikkara. We have entrusted a private agency to do a feasibility study . The pipeline passes through five panchayats, three of which have given NOCs,” said Sajeev K Menon, MD of Nitta Gelatin. Environmentalists say shifting of waste water discharge from Kathikudam to Puthevelikkara is like robbing peter to pay Paul, but the problem persists. “The decision of the company to shift wastewater discharge from Kathikudam to Puthevelikkara is itself a self-admission that the company has been polluting Chalakkudy river,” said S P Ravi of the Chalakkudy river protection forum. Meanwhile, Puthenvelikkara has sought legal opinion whether the panchayat can overcome the government order. They also asked how the government can issue an order when a case filed by Kathikudam residents against the company is sub judice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/will-puthenvelikkara-turn-into-another-kathikudam/articleshow/80158914.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||5% cashback with FASTag on eway toll soon||Mumbai: To encourage more motorists to use FASTag for toll payment, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation has decided to offer 5% cashback on toll paid at Bandra-Worli seal link and Pune eway from January 11. The system is to reduce long queues at toll booths, resulting in delays, fuel consumption, pollution and thus carbon emission, bringing in transparency in collection. The offer will be for a limited period to attract more vehicles to go for it, said MSRDC joint MD Vijay Waghmare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-cashback-with-fastag-on-eway-toll-soon/articleshow/80161450.cms||Chittaranjan Tembhekar
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: I-T department searches at Kaleshwaram contractor firm||HYDERABAD: Income-tax department on Thursday conducted searches on promoters of city-based C5 Infra Private Limited which had executed the Kaleshwaram project earth works. IT sleuths are investigating into possible tax evasion in irrigation project contract works as well as real estate deals of the construction company. C5 Infra had done excavation works for the Annaram lift system of the Kaleshwaram project. Searches were conducted at C5 Infra office in Madhupala Towers at Greenlands in Begumpet and also on the residences of directors Juvvadi Madan Mohan Rao and Nishanth Chennadi.  The infra company was incorporated in April 2013 and carries out civil contracts of irrigation projects. The I-T department also conducted searches on Poulomi Estates Private Limited, which is also promoted by Madan Mohan. Poulomi Estates is a real estate company incorporated in 2003 and has done projects like Indus Crest in Tellapur, residential villas in Madinaguda, Ridge Towers in Balanagar, residential towers in Madhapur, commercial spaces in Begumpet, office spaces at Aerospace SEZ, Maddox Cinema and Shopping Mall in Warangal and eco park in Lucknow. The company is currently executing Aristos project in Kokapet. Income-tax search also covered two other companies — Brindavan Spirits LLP and Brindavan Spirits I Private Ltd — located in Madhupala Towers and promoted by Juvvadi family. As part of city-wide searches, the sleuths also inspected an apartment in Rainbow Vistas Rock Garden near Kukatpally.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-t-dept-searches-at-kaleshwaram-contractor-firm/articleshow/80160115.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Library council book expo at Cusat ends tomorrow||Kochi: A four-day exhibition and sale of books organized by the Ernakulam district unit of the State Library Council, which began at the Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) campus here on Wednesday, will conclude on Saturday. The annual exhibition is of great help for small book publishers in the state because it is the time when libraries spend their yearly grant on books, which help them survive. Office-bearers of Ernakulam district library council said the expo was delayed over eight months due to the Covid-19 situation. There are 62 publishers and 102 stalls at the exhibition at the open air auditorium on the campus. An amount of Rs 1.3 crore has been disbursed to libraries in the district and they would be utilising the amount to purchase the books from the fair. “A real attraction of the event is the huge discount on books. If a library spends Rs 100, they would be able to buy books worth Rs 150,” said a member of the district library council. The expo has stalls by major publishers including DC Books, Chintha, National Book Stall, Kerala Bhasha Institute, Sahitya Pravarthaka Sahakarana Sangham and Kerala Sahitya Akademi. The exhibition is also helping out authors who self-publish books. Prem Chengannur, who runs an English language training institute at Chengannur, has opened a stall at the fair to promote a book titled ‘Prem’s English’ authored by him. “The book has 420 equations which will help people learn the language. It follows a unique teaching strategy for which I have obtained copyright,” said Prem. The state grant, which is divided among libraries as per grades, ranges from Rs 12 crore to Rs 15 crore. While A Plus libraries get Rs 50,000 every year, the one in the bottom would get a maximum of Rs 14,000. Libraries have to spend 75% of the amount on books.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/library-council-book-expo-at-cusat-ends-tomorrow/articleshow/80158920.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Cusat to hold admissionin marinebiotechnology||Kochi: The national centre for aquatic animal health (NCAAH) of Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat) is conducting spot admission to the vacant seats under various categories including general in M Tech marine biotechnology course sponsored by department of biotechnology, government of India. Candidates with minimum 60% marks or equivalent CGPA for B Tech or BE in biotechnology/M Sc in any branch of life sciences, including marine biology, from a recognised university can attend the admission drive. The cut-off marks of Graduate Aptitude Test of Biotechnology (GAT-B) score for various categories are general-123.5; OBC- 100.5; SC/ST-60; DA-60; EWS-123.5. Candidates may send the application available at www.ncaah.ac.in along with copies of all relevant certificates including reservation to ncaahm.tech@gmail.com and valsamma@cusat.ac .in before 5pm on January 11. For details, contact course coordinator at 98460 47433/94476 31101/99460 99408/94477 19804. Guest lecturer vacancy at BMC: Bharat Mata College, Thrikkakara, has invited applications from eligible candidates to the post of guest lectures in aided courses M.Sc computer science (artificial intelligence and machine learning) and M.Sc space science. Candidates having the eligibility as per the UGC norms can apply before January 11 through the college website www.bharatamatacollege.in. For details, contact 82813 037 21 Sanskrit varsity invites application for guest lecturers: Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit (SSUS) has invited applications from eligible candidates, as per the UGC norms, to guest lecturer vacancies in english and sociology departments. Those applying to english guest lecturer post must reach the english department at the varsity at 11am on January 12 along with requisite certificates and CV. Those applying to the post of guest lecturer in sociology should email the application along with self-attested copies of certificates and CV in PDF format to hodsociology@ssus.ac.in before January 12. For more details visit www.ssus.ac.in. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cusat-to-hold-admissionin-marinebiotechnology/articleshow/80158925.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Stiff oppn from corp unions delays ICCC project initiation||Thiruvananthapuram: Smart City Thiruvananthapuram Limited (SCTL) has stumbled upon a hurdle in initiating works on integrated command and control centre (ICCC), a key component under smart city scheme. Although the work was tendered and work order was issued, SCTL has not been able to hand over the site to the contractor due to opposition from corporation staff regarding the demolition of facilitation centre. SCTL had received NoC from city corporation to establish ICCC at the site where facilitation centre is presently located. However, staff unions oppose the move saying it would cause inconvenience to public. Some of the major wings of departments and related services are now made available at the facilitation centre and changing the location of the centre would not go down well with the public, say corporation staff. When the contractor who won the bid reached the spot to demolish the facilitation centre, there was stiff opposition due to which contractor had to back out. SCTL now plans to take up the issue with the mayor. It will be the first challenge for mayor Arya Rajendran to balance the developmental priorities and interests of staff union while dealing with the issue. Finalization of a site for ICCC was crucial in avoiding time-delay as there had been different recommendations over the location. In a review meeting convened by LSG minister A C Moideen last year, it was suggested that capital investment using smart city funds shall not be used for constructing a new building to accommodate ICCC. SCTL is now having trouble over the location at a time when police have offered all facilities at alternate site for the same project. It was the former ruling council which was keen on establishing ICCC on corporation premises. The officials eventually decided to convert the facilitation centre at city corporation to ICCC. It would still require to have a new building to accommodate the video wall and it has been pointed out that having a new building with customised facilities for video wall will be the ideal choice.  In case SCTL fails to find a consensus, it may be forced to shift the location to Thampanoor close to multi-level parking facility. However, the detailed project report for which administrative sanction and technical sanction were given were based on the site on corporation main office compound.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/stiff-oppn-from-corp-unions-delays-iccc-project-initiation/articleshow/80158927.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Close to IT corridor, property prices in Hafeezpet skyrocket||HYDERABAD: Owing to its proximity to the IT corridor -- six km from Hi Tec City — Hafeezpet has seen significant rise in demand, especially over the last seven-eight years. Predictably, this mid-segment residential pocket, located off the Old Mumbai Highway, is home to a large group of migrant and local populace working in Hyderabad's western region. It's other USPs: a flyover that makes the Miyapur-Gachibowli commute smoother and it's MMTS connectivity. While this has led to a steady influx of residents, it’s also pushed land prices in Hafeezpet upwards. Current rates: anywhere between Rs 60, 000 and Rs 90,000 per square yard. “Though there aren't many organised players in this market and there isn't too much land available, the mid-range segment is fairly popular here. Depending on location, property prices range from Rs 4,500 per sft to Rs 6,000 per sft,” said Veera Babu, managing director, Cushman & Wakefield, Hyderabad. Mapping this growth, industry observers say that it is all thanks to the tech industry that Hafeezpet started drawing buyers. “Prior to the IT growth, those with land in here didn't bother to much about it. It's only over the last decade or so that people have started showing interest,” said P Ramakrishna, president of Credai- Hyderabad. But the rise of Hafeezpet hasn’t been on expected lines. Despite its strategic location -- it sits right between Hi Tec City andKukatpally -- the area has failed to attract any commercial development. “That’s because the IT investments moved towards Gachibowli and areas closer to that gained more prominence,” said architect Srinivas Murthy adding that the failure to beef up the MMTS network also worked as a disadvantage. The rise of Hafeezpet hasn’t been on expected lines. Despite its strategic location— it sits between Hi Tec City and Kukatpally -- the area has failed to attract any commercial development||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-to-it-corridor-property-prices-in-hafeezpet-skyrocket/articleshow/80160131.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Akhila Priya named prime accused in kidnap case||HYDERABAD: A day after former Andhra Pradesh minister Akhila Priya was arrested for her alleged role in abducting three businessmen, who are chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s PA’s relatives, the 32-year-old has been named main accused in the case. In the remand report, it was stated that Akhila Priya’s henchmen hit the victims with sticks at a farm house on the outskirts of the city and abandoned them as police intensified the search. “The victims said the accused blindfolded them and bound them while abducting them. They were kept in captivity at an undisclosed farm house where the accused beat them with sticks and forcibly took signatures on some documents,” Bowenpally inpector K Ravi Kumar mentioned in the report. The victims told police, while in captivity, they overheard “the accused conversing with Akhila madam, Bhargav sir and Subba Reddy” and as the abduction news had become sensational, the accused had to abandon them. Police apprehended Akhila Priya at her house at Lodha Apartments, Kukatpally. “On interrogation, Akhila admitted she along with her husband Bhargav Ram and AV Subba Reddy organised the offence to extort money as they are not satisfied with previous settlement of Hafeezpet land dispute,” the inspector mentioned in the report. A local court posted Akhila’s bail petition to Friday. Police are planning to seek her custody. She is lodged at Chanchalguda prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/akhila-named-prime-accused-in-kidnap-case/articleshow/80160123.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||We are not land-grabbers: Sister||Hyderabad: Akhila Priya’s sister Mounika Reddy has said “all that is being said against her sister are mere allegations”. “It is an accusation that my sister is involved in kidnapping... is not yet proven in court. My sister also said we are open to any inquiry,” Mounika Reddy said. Talking to TOI, Mounika said police sat at her sister’s home throughout the night and took her to the police station in the morning. “There were no woman cops. My sister was going through a gynaec process and she even suffered an epileptic fit. Despite that, she has been arrested and made accused number one (A1) overnight,” Mounika alleged. However, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar clarified that woman cops were present when Akhila Priya was arrested and she was produced before a magistrate only after medical check up at Gandhi Hospital. “We have followed proper procedure. At the time of registration of the case, Subba Reddy was A1 based on the complaint of the victim’s family. Based on subsequent investigation, Akhila Priya has been named A1,” the commissioner clarified. Mounika also said she and Akhila Priya knew Praveen and his family members since childhood and differences had cropped up between them recently due to certain civil matters. “Don’t brand us as factionists because we are from Allagadda and please don’t give a message to the public as if we came here to grab land. I am asking for a fair investigation,” Mounika said. We have followed proper procedure. At the time of registration of the case, Subba Reddy was A1 based on the complaint of the victim’s family. Based on subsequent investigation, Akhila Priya has been named A1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/we-are-not-land-grabbers-sister/articleshow/80160139.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram: Tourism minister to launch Arteria phase III today||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When they launched Arteria, the city beautification project of adorning walls of important institutions in the city with paintings and graffiti of artists, the district administration did not expect those art works to survive more than three years. However, with the overwhelming support of city residents, the art works have managed to last five years, said social justice department secretary Biju Prabhakar. He was addressing the reporters here on Thursday to announce the commencement of third phase of Arteria project on Friday, which would be launched by tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran. The third phase of Arteria, which involves renovation of the city walls with fresh art works is being sponsored by Steel Industrials Kerala Limited. Artieria project was launched in 2015 under the initiative of Prabhakar, who was the collector then. The project was launched in association with the tourism department to prevent people from defiling the city walls with posters and unauthorized graffiti. The project came to fruition when the art fraternity in the city came forward lending their support. Thus, the walls of University Stadium, city corporation office and museum became canvas to famous as well as budding artists in two phases, first in 2015 and the second in 2016. In the third phase, the government intends to renovate these walls with fresh art works. Green signal was given to the third phase after tourism department authorities accepted the proposal submitted by Prabhakar in this regard as paintings had started to fade. A committee was formed with MLA V K Prasanth as chairman and Prabhakar as patron for implementation of the third phase. Renowned artists like Kanayi Kunhiraman, Kattoor Narayana Pillai, B D Dattan, N N Rinson, Tensing Joseph, Dr G Ajith Kumar are also members of the renovation committee. Dr G Ajith Kumar is the curator of the project. The entire project will be completed in a budget of Rs12.5 lakh. The fund includes Rs 2.5 lakh that is balance of the fund released for the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/tourism-min-to-launcharteria-phase-iii-today/articleshow/80158934.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Members of SFI, KSU clash in Kochi||KOCHI: Central police have received two separate complaints after SFI and KSU workers of Maharaja’s College clashed near the DCC office in the city on Thursday. Police said that both sides have complained that their workers have sustained injuries, including fractures. KSU has alleged that one among the students sustained a fracture near the ear after being hit with a stone. “In protest against the delay in issuing a college magazine, our students had come out with an alternate magazine in which activities going on in the campus were detailed. SFI workers attacked our members in retaliation to this,” said a KSU leader. SFI has also alleged that their members have sustained injuries and claimed that the clash was in connection with a previous issue. Police said they will collect statements from both parties and launch an investigation. Man held for theft: The Erna- kulam North police on Thursday arrested a 36-year-old man for breaking into a house at Pachalam and decamping with gold ornaments weighing around 18 sovereigns. The owner of the house and his family had gone to a relative’s house on January for a wedding when the accused Jojo alias Abdul Manaf of Vaduthala broke into the house. Jojo was nabbed when the owner a jewellery shop where the accused was trying to sell the ornaments alerted police. Fake sanitizer-making unit busted: Kerala state drugs control department busted a fake sanitizer manufacturing unit operating out of a rented house near Nedumbassery post office on Thursday. Sleuths, sources said, found a chemical suspected to be isopropyl alcohol, a major ingredient in the making of sanitizers, stocked in the house in bulk quantities. Sources said a sanitizer-making company had complained that their product which was not distributed in Ernakulam was found to be sold in the district leading to the investigation. Official sources added that though there was no requirement of a license to sell sanitizer, a license was a must for manufacturing the same and the unit didn’t have one. Officials said that the unit is suspected to have been forging labels of various brands as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/members-of-sfi-ksu-clash-in-city/articleshow/80158933.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Kochi: Four more arrested for‘opening’ Vyttila flyover||Kochi: City police on Thursday arrested four more persons for allegedly trespassing onto the yet-to-be inaugurated Vyttila flyover on Tuesday night. All the arrested — Shakeer Ali, Sajan Aziz, Antony Abin and Isaac Chacko — belonged to V4Kochi, an outfit which contested in recently-concluded local body election to the Kochi corporation. Abin and Chacko were candidates in the local body polls. Chacko was arrested under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance and was released on bail from the police station while the rest were booked under non-bailable charges. As many as eight persons have so far been arrested for the unauthorised opening of the flyover set to be inaugurated by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday. Earlier on Tuesday night four persons including the organisation’s campaign controller Nipun Cherian were arrested hours after the unauthorised opening of the flyover. Cherian continues to be in remand while the other three were granted bail by a court here on Thursday. V4Kochi, which has been conducting demonstrations and were running social media campaigns for the immediate opening of the flyover, however, had claimed that they had nothing to do with the Tuesday night’s incident. Police, meanwhile, are likely to arraign more persons who were associated with the accused for conspiracy. The case was registered by police invoking sections including provision of the Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act and sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 336 (endangering life or personal safety of others), 447 (criminal trespass), 143 (unlawful assembly) 147 (rioting), and 149 (unlawful assembly guilty of the offense committed in prosecution of common object) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/four-more-arrested-foropening-vyttila-flyover/articleshow/80158968.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Justice Hima Kohli sworn in as CJ of Telangana high court||HYDERABAD: Justice Hima Kohli was sworn in as Chief Justice of Telangana high court on Thursday. Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan administered the oath of office to her at an official function held at Raj Bhavan. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao welcomed the first woman CJ of the high court with a floral bouquet. The swearing-in ceremony was attended by ministers, judges, law officers and others. Most of the dignitaries came along with families to witness the event. With the premises decorated with flowers, Raj Bhavan lawns wore a festive look. Justice Hima was a senior judge at Deli high court before she was elevated and sent as CJ here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/justice-kohli-sworn-in-as-cj-of-t-hc/articleshow/80160170.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Seven arrested for killing fruit vendor in Telangana||HYDERABAD: KPHB police arrested seven persons in the murder case of a 34-year-old fruit vendor on Thursday. The accused killed the fruit vendor during an argument over non-payment of Rs 10. On January 1, the accused Md Naseem along with a juvenile offender, purchased pineapple and grapes from the victim, Md Shakiv Ali, 34, at Pragathi Nagar. While Ali asked for Rs 30 for the fruits, Naseem and the juvenile offender paid Rs 20 and tried to leave the place. As the victim insisted for the remaining amount, an argument broke out between them and Naseem called six of his friends to the spot. They all punched Ali brutally. “Ali succumbed while undergoing treatment at OGH on January 3,” KPHB inspector S Laxminarayana said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/seven-arrested-for-killing-fruit-vendor/articleshow/80160164.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||A sliver lining in anti-Covid fight||RAJKOT: With its broad-spectrum of antimicrobial activity, silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) have proven to be effective in minimizing the risk of transmission of infectious agents, especially airborne viruses including Covid-19, in confined or crowded places like hospitals, public transport, schools, offices, malls and markets, among many others. Along with several international studies on silver metal coating on disposable facial masks displaying virucidal effect vis-a-vis regular cloth masks, Saurashtra University’s department of physics has also utilized the antibacterial and antifungal behaviour of silver ions and nanoparticles to create a material suitable to combat the coronavirus through face masks. In its first application, SU made 50,000 masks with silver nanoparticle coating and claims AgNPs can kill 365 pathogens after conducting two successful laboratory tests. Silver nanoparticles penetrate bacterial cell walls and alter the structure of cell membranes and even resulting in death of the cell. The silver ions interrupt cell replication of deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and thereby arrests the contagion. Many tests have shown that silver ions (Ag⁺) have killed all bacteria, fungi (molds and yeasts) and deactivated all viruses. The varsity will send its project to the department of science and technology (DST) of the central government for more funding and proceed to register a patent and also work to test this material for killing novel coronavirus. Davit Dhruv, assistant professor of this project said, “It’s proved that silver nanoparticle protects from the attack of bacteria and has anti-viral properties too. The silver coated surface kills 365 kinds of bacteria and these masks can protect people from getting exposed to coronavirus.” After its success with the silver-coated masks, SU researchers have now started using it in refrigerators and air conditioners (AC) to make these essential machines pathogen free. These machines circulate cold air by processing water, which is the most conducive medium pathogens. Professor Nikesh Shah under whose guidance the project was completed said, “Humidity level remains high in refrigerators as it works round-the-clock, therefore requiring antibacterial cleansing once in a month. However, that’s not possible for every household. Thus, bacteria gets stuck on to stored food items and vegetables in the fridge thereby leading to many diseases. Based on our study, we suggest that if we coat silver nanoparticles inside the refrigerator this will suck up all the bacteria.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/a-sliver-lining-in-anti-covid-fight/articleshow/80158973.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Four blackbucks die after attack by five stray dogs at Katraj zoo||PUNE: A pack of five stray dogs sneaked into a deer enclosure of the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park in Katraj through a broken fence and killed four blackbucks on Wednesday morning. One blackbuck was injured in the attack by the dogs. Blackbucks are listed as endangered species under the Indian Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972. TimesViewOne can understand the need to undertake civic works on the zoo premises, but leaving the work site without adequate safety measures is unpardonable. There have been instances when people have fallen in trenches dug up on roads because the contractors concerned had neglected to put up barricades or warning lights. Such carelessness should not go unpunished. Officers responsible for monitoring ongoing works must also be held accountable.The zoological park was home to 34 blackbucks. Two male and two female blackbacks were killed in the attack by the dogs. The male blackbuck injured in the attack was recovering, a zoo official said. An inquiry by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) revealed that the dogs had possibly entered the zoo through a dismantled fence along its boundary wall. The zoo is currently under renovation. “The ongoing development work allows an opening for the stray dogs to enter the zoo premises. This was the first time they entered an animal enclosure from outside. When these animals are in a pack, their attitude alters. They are more aggressive. This might have led them to attack the blackbucks. We have to put up a temporary fix to keep the stray dogs out of the zoo premises,” Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park director Rajkumar Jadhav said. “The broken fence will be repaired to prevent any such incident in future,” PMC additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar said. Khemnar said the inquiry report would be sent to the Central Zoo Authority. “The future course of action will be decided after the zoo authority’s response. For now, an order has been issued for increasing the depth of the trenches near the animal enclosures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-blackbucks-die-after-attack-by-5-stray-dogs-at-katraj-zoo/articleshow/80160180.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Road projects left out from NMC budget of next fiscal||Nashik: The cash-strapped civic administration, whose financial health has already taken a toll following the Covid-19 outbreak, has decided not to propose any new road project in the budget for the financial year 2021-22. Sanjay Ghuge, city engineer of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), said, “Our focus would be on completing the road and flyover works worth Rs 500 crore that were proposed during the current fiscal in the upcoming financial year. Most of these works are either in different stages of the tendering process or the process was delayed due to the Covid-19 outbreak.” The civic body has already floated tenders for various road projects worth Rs 250 crore that will be constructed across the six divisions of the city and most of them are in the tender process.However, one of the contractors has moved the Bombay high court challenging certain conditions in the tender process of the road works. The high court has directed the NMC not to open the bid for tenders till February 9.The contractor has raised objections to condition that the tarring plant of bidders participating in the tender process for the road works should be in a radius of 30km from Nashik city. Ghuge said that they were seeking legal opinion on the issue and were going to urge the court to allow them to carry out the road works. Apart from the road works, the NMC has decided to construct two bridges at a total cost of Rs 250 crore at two locations — near Mico circle on Trimbak Road and from City centre mall towards Untawadi. The civic administration has already floated tenders for the construction of the two flyovers. The tender process is expected to be completed soon and the work orders will issued by March end. The works will be carried out in the next financial year. The revenue collection of NMC through property, water, town planning and other taxes has been hit following the Covid-19 outbreak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/road-projects-left-out-from-nmc-budget-of-next-fiscal/articleshow/80157997.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 8, 2021||Pune||Techie held for defaming woman||Pune: A 25-year-old software engineer from Vimannagar has been arrested on the charge of creating a fake account on social media and posting defamatory matter and objectionable photographs of a woman after she turned down his proposal. The man had also tagged her friends on the post. Inspector Manisha Zende of the Vishrantwadi police station told TOI, “The two techies knew each other as they studied in the same college and were also connected through a social media website. However, they are working for different software companies in the city. The 27-year-old woman, also a techie, was continuously receiving obscene calls from unknown persons and one of the callers told her that her photographs and number had been shared on the social networking site.” Zende added, “The man has confessed to committing the crime. We have invoked charges of outraging the modesty of a woman under the Indian Penal Code and under relevant sections of Information Technology Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-held-for-defaming-woman/articleshow/80160201.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||GST fraud: Three directors of fake firms held in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Officers of anti-evasion team of Rangareddy commissionerate booked a case for Rs 32.5 crore fake invoices and fraudulent claim of GST refunds against three directors who floated fictitious firms. The accused — Mukesh Kumar Goel, S Sanjay Joshi and Rahul Aggarwal — created non-existent firms, issued invoices without supplying goods or services and facilitated fraudulent availment of input tax credit. The three accused have been arrested. They claimed refunds on account of inverted tax structure. The accused floated many firms either directly by them or with the help of known persons. The firms claimed input tax credit based on bogus invoices. Firms like Pritam Footwear Corporation, Rajesh Footwear and Yogesh Footwear issued fake GST invoices and e-way bills and facilitated passing of ineligible input tax credit to the tune of Rs 32.5 crore. The accused fraudulently claimed refund to the tune of Rs 19 crore. Investigations carried out so far have revealed that conspiracy is aimed at duping the exchequer by way of creation of a complex web of inter-connected firms engaged in fraudulent issuance of tax invoices without supply of goods and services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gst-fraud-3-directors-of-fake-firms-held/articleshow/80160187.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Aurangabad||Cloudy sky and spells of rain leave mango, grape growers in Maharashtra in a spot||PUNE: The constant clouding, lack of sunshine and the intermittent spells of rainfall this winter have left mango and grape growers in Maharashtra in trouble. Cloudy skies have reduced mango flowering by 30% affected mango flowering in parts of Konkan. Cracks have developed in grapes that are in the process of being harvested in Nashik region. Mango growers said rain was expected during the next two to three days in parts of Maharashtra, which may further hamper flowering. The result would be a delay in arrival of mangoes into the markets, with the mango season being pushed to April-May 2021 instead of February-March. Konkan Mango Growers and Sellers Association chairman Vivek Bhide told TOI, “The mango season has been delayed as the last year’s monsoon prolonged till mid-November. The ongoing winter has not seen much cold that is suitable for flowering. Add to it cloudy skies, high humidity and lack of sunshine. There is less flowering on mango trees. The cloudy weather is likely to make the flowers susceptible to pests and insects. Flowering is currently just 10% as against over 40% in January during usual years.” Vidyadhar Joshi, director of Devgad Taluka Mango Growers’ Association, said, “The weather since the past three days has been very bad for the flowering process, with cloudy conditions and no sunshine. This can cause fungal infection in fruits and flowers. The trees are also seeing vegetative flush, which delays flowering.” Joshi said with 10-15 % flowering on mango trees currently, the upcoming rain spell as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast could bring major trouble for the growers. “Mangoes start trickling into the markets by February every year. But this time, the mangoes may reach the market by late April-May,” he said . Spells of rain and clouding have caused grapes in harvesting stages to develop cracks in many vineyards of Nashik, Satana-Malegaon, Baramati, said Kailash Bhosale, treasurer, Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh, Pune. Grape harvesting picks up in February and March and has already started in Nashik, Baramati among other locations. “There seems to be a 20% drop in marketable grape harvests after instances of cracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/cloudy-sky-spells-of-rain-leave-mango-grape-growers-in-a-spot/articleshow/80169098.cms||Neha Madaan
January 8, 2021||Kolhapur||Cloudy sky and spells of rain leave mango, grape growers in Maharashtra in a spot||PUNE: The constant clouding, lack of sunshine and the intermittent spells of rainfall this winter have left mango and grape growers in Maharashtra in trouble. Cloudy skies have reduced mango flowering by 30% affected mango flowering in parts of Konkan. Cracks have developed in grapes that are in the process of being harvested in Nashik region. Mango growers said rain was expected during the next two to three days in parts of Maharashtra, which may further hamper flowering. The result would be a delay in arrival of mangoes into the markets, with the mango season being pushed to April-May 2021 instead of February-March. Konkan Mango Growers and Sellers Association chairman Vivek Bhide told TOI, “The mango season has been delayed as the last year’s monsoon prolonged till mid-November. The ongoing winter has not seen much cold that is suitable for flowering. Add to it cloudy skies, high humidity and lack of sunshine. There is less flowering on mango trees. The cloudy weather is likely to make the flowers susceptible to pests and insects. Flowering is currently just 10% as against over 40% in January during usual years.” Vidyadhar Joshi, director of Devgad Taluka Mango Growers’ Association, said, “The weather since the past three days has been very bad for the flowering process, with cloudy conditions and no sunshine. This can cause fungal infection in fruits and flowers. The trees are also seeing vegetative flush, which delays flowering.” Joshi said with 10-15 % flowering on mango trees currently, the upcoming rain spell as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast could bring major trouble for the growers. “Mangoes start trickling into the markets by February every year. But this time, the mangoes may reach the market by late April-May,” he said . Spells of rain and clouding have caused grapes in harvesting stages to develop cracks in many vineyards of Nashik, Satana-Malegaon, Baramati, said Kailash Bhosale, treasurer, Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh, Pune. Grape harvesting picks up in February and March and has already started in Nashik, Baramati among other locations. “There seems to be a 20% drop in marketable grape harvests after instances of cracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/cloudy-sky-spells-of-rain-leave-mango-grape-growers-in-a-spot/articleshow/80169095.cms||Neha Madaan
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||HC refuses to stay Sukesh Gupta’s arrest by ED||Hyderabad: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has named Hyderabad-based businessman Sukesh Gupta as an accused in a money laundering case following a criminal case filed by Mumbai police against a realty firm and men who have alleged association with him. Following a stout refusal from a division bench of Telangana high court to grant him protection from the arrest, the businessman and his two men withdrew the petitions they filed against the ED’s case. Appearing for the ED, additional solicitor general Suryakaran Reddy informed a bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao that the ED filed the case after Mumbai police booked an FIR against Sukesh and others based on a complaint from Mumbai-based Neeharika Infrastructure Private Ltd. Sukesh and a few others along with their Aashi Developers Pvt Ltd cheated Neeharika and Kashmir-based Iris Hospitality company by selling Nizam-era King Koti palace, known as Nazri Bagh Palace in Hyderabad, to them for Rs 48 crore. “The accused used fraudulent documents and backdated sale deeds to achieve their goal,” ED counsel Anjali Agarwal said. Irish Hospitality paid Rs 16 crore to the accused during the lockdown period. Appearing for Sukesh, senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi said that while the FIR was booked by Mumbai police, the ED booked its case in Hyderabad. He claimed that it is a property dispute between two private parties and the entry of ED is nwarranted because the government suffered no revenue loss. Rohatgi said the ED had issued summons to them and there is every likelihood of his client being arrested and sought interim protection. The bench, however, made it clear that it is not inclined to grant any such protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-refuses-to-stay-sukesh-guptas-arrest-by-ed/articleshow/80160195.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||KUHS denies medical students’ allegations||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There seems to be no end to the ordeal of students who had secured admission at SR Medical College, Varkala, as they have been allegedly denied permission to attend examination. However, the Kerala University of health sciences has denied the allegation as ‘baseless’. The students were shifted to another medical college after the recognition of SR Medical College was withdrawn. However, now the students have alleged that they have not been given permission to write the fifth semester examination even in the new college. “The students will be allowed to write the examination in the same semester in which they have joined the new college. The examination date which was earlier fixed as January 5 has now been postponed to February. All the students will be permitted to write the examination,’’ said Dr K Mohanan, vice chancellor of KUHS. The students alleged that they had passed the first year in 2018 and now for the second year examination they have to appear in the new college. They also alleged that they have received a raw deal while getting the admission in the new college as 11 students were asked to sit again in the fifth semester even though they had completed the fifth semester in the SR Medical College. The reason cited was lack of attendance. But with no other go they joined the fifth semester when others from the same batch joined the sixth semester batch. The students who have joined the fifth semester have now come out with a complaint that they have been denied permission to write the fifth semester examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kuhs-denies-med-students-allegations/articleshow/80158980.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Cloudy sky and spells of rain leave mango, grape growers in Maharashtra in a spot||PUNE: The constant clouding, lack of sunshine and the intermittent spells of rainfall this winter have left mango and grape growers in Maharashtra in trouble. Cloudy skies have reduced mango flowering by 30% affected mango flowering in parts of Konkan. Cracks have developed in grapes that are in the process of being harvested in Nashik region. Mango growers said rain was expected during the next two to three days in parts of Maharashtra, which may further hamper flowering. The result would be a delay in arrival of mangoes into the markets, with the mango season being pushed to April-May 2021 instead of February-March. Konkan Mango Growers and Sellers Association chairman Vivek Bhide told TOI, “The mango season has been delayed as the last year’s monsoon prolonged till mid-November. The ongoing winter has not seen much cold that is suitable for flowering. Add to it cloudy skies, high humidity and lack of sunshine. There is less flowering on mango trees. The cloudy weather is likely to make the flowers susceptible to pests and insects. Flowering is currently just 10% as against over 40% in January during usual years.” Vidyadhar Joshi, director of Devgad Taluka Mango Growers’ Association, said, “The weather since the past three days has been very bad for the flowering process, with cloudy conditions and no sunshine. This can cause fungal infection in fruits and flowers. The trees are also seeing vegetative flush, which delays flowering.” Joshi said with 10-15 % flowering on mango trees currently, the upcoming rain spell as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast could bring major trouble for the growers. “Mangoes start trickling into the markets by February every year. But this time, the mangoes may reach the market by late April-May,” he said . Spells of rain and clouding have caused grapes in harvesting stages to develop cracks in many vineyards of Nashik, Satana-Malegaon, Baramati, said Kailash Bhosale, treasurer, Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh, Pune. Grape harvesting picks up in February and March and has already started in Nashik, Baramati among other locations. “There seems to be a 20% drop in marketable grape harvests after instances of cracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cloudy-sky-spells-of-rain-leave-mango-grape-growers-in-a-spot/articleshow/80169092.cms||Neha Madaan
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Cloudy sky and spells of rain leave mango, grape growers in Maharashtra in a spot||PUNE: The constant clouding, lack of sunshine and the intermittent spells of rainfall this winter have left mango and grape growers in Maharashtra in trouble. Cloudy skies have reduced mango flowering by 30% affected mango flowering in parts of Konkan. Cracks have developed in grapes that are in the process of being harvested in Nashik region. Mango growers said rain was expected during the next two to three days in parts of Maharashtra, which may further hamper flowering. The result would be a delay in arrival of mangoes into the markets, with the mango season being pushed to April-May 2021 instead of February-March. Konkan Mango Growers and Sellers Association chairman Vivek Bhide told TOI, “The mango season has been delayed as the last year’s monsoon prolonged till mid-November. The ongoing winter has not seen much cold that is suitable for flowering. Add to it cloudy skies, high humidity and lack of sunshine. There is less flowering on mango trees. The cloudy weather is likely to make the flowers susceptible to pests and insects. Flowering is currently just 10% as against over 40% in January during usual years.” Vidyadhar Joshi, director of Devgad Taluka Mango Growers’ Association, said, “The weather since the past three days has been very bad for the flowering process, with cloudy conditions and no sunshine. This can cause fungal infection in fruits and flowers. The trees are also seeing vegetative flush, which delays flowering.” Joshi said with 10-15 % flowering on mango trees currently, the upcoming rain spell as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast could bring major trouble for the growers. “Mangoes start trickling into the markets by February every year. But this time, the mangoes may reach the market by late April-May,” he said . Spells of rain and clouding have caused grapes in harvesting stages to develop cracks in many vineyards of Nashik, Satana-Malegaon, Baramati, said Kailash Bhosale, treasurer, Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh, Pune. Grape harvesting picks up in February and March and has already started in Nashik, Baramati among other locations. “There seems to be a 20% drop in marketable grape harvests after instances of cracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cloudy-sky-spells-of-rain-leave-mango-grape-growers-in-a-spot/articleshow/80169097.cms||Neha Madaan
January 8, 2021||Pune||Cloudy sky and spells of rain leave mango, grape growers in Maharashtra in a spot||PUNE: The constant clouding, lack of sunshine and the intermittent spells of rainfall this winter have left mango and grape growers in Maharashtra in trouble. Cloudy skies have reduced mango flowering by 30% affected mango flowering in parts of Konkan. Cracks have developed in grapes that are in the process of being harvested in Nashik region. Mango growers said rain was expected during the next two to three days in parts of Maharashtra, which may further hamper flowering. The result would be a delay in arrival of mangoes into the markets, with the mango season being pushed to April-May 2021 instead of February-March. Konkan Mango Growers and Sellers Association chairman Vivek Bhide told TOI, “The mango season has been delayed as the last year’s monsoon prolonged till mid-November. The ongoing winter has not seen much cold that is suitable for flowering. Add to it cloudy skies, high humidity and lack of sunshine. There is less flowering on mango trees. The cloudy weather is likely to make the flowers susceptible to pests and insects. Flowering is currently just 10% as against over 40% in January during usual years.” Vidyadhar Joshi, director of Devgad Taluka Mango Growers’ Association, said, “The weather since the past three days has been very bad for the flowering process, with cloudy conditions and no sunshine. This can cause fungal infection in fruits and flowers. The trees are also seeing vegetative flush, which delays flowering.” Joshi said with 10-15 % flowering on mango trees currently, the upcoming rain spell as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast could bring major trouble for the growers. “Mangoes start trickling into the markets by February every year. But this time, the mangoes may reach the market by late April-May,” he said . Spells of rain and clouding have caused grapes in harvesting stages to develop cracks in many vineyards of Nashik, Satana-Malegaon, Baramati, said Kailash Bhosale, treasurer, Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagaitdar Sangh, Pune. Grape harvesting picks up in February and March and has already started in Nashik, Baramati among other locations. “There seems to be a 20% drop in marketable grape harvests after instances of cracking,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cloudy-sky-spells-of-rain-leave-mango-grape-growers-in-a-spot/articleshow/80160193.cms||Neha Madaan
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Thiruvananthapuram: History museum opens to public after renovation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The revamped Natural History Museum is now open for public. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the museum through video conference here on Thursday. He said that the museum has undergone a facelift in tune with the present times. “The upgrade is expected to attract tourists from all over the globe. The government is committed to conserve museums of historical importance in the state,” said Vijayan. The museum is now equipped with attractive and informative display systems and the project has been completed at a cost of Rs 6 crore. The museum underwent a complete renovation for the first time after it started functioning in 1964. Exhibits related to 4,000 animal species have been arranged in two floors spread over 30,000 sq ft. As many as 1,800 exhibits have been readied in eight different galleries. 3D models of 19 extinct animals, galleries distinguishing animals based on species and geographic location are key attractions at the new museum. Skeletons of elephant, blue whale, stuffed birds have also been arranged at the museum. A repository containing study specimens of 2,226 birds and other creatures are available in the museum. This includes 600 birds stuffed by famous ornithologist Salim Ali. Complete information on exhibits is available on touch screen kiosks. The entry fee is Rs 30 for elders and Rs 10 for kids aged 5-12. Tickets with fare relaxations for family and student groups will also be available at the museum. Minister for ports and museum Kadannappally Ramachandran said that the renovation works have been undertaken in a way that would elevate the museum to one of the best at the international level. V K Prasanth MLA, councillor Palayam Rajan and museum director S Abu were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/history-museum-opens-to-public-after-renovation/articleshow/80158996.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Farmers, transporters upset as petrol, diesel prices hit the roof||Nashik: Farmers and transporters are upset with the steep rise in petrol and diesel prices as the fuels were sold at record rates on Thursday. Diesel was sold at Rs 80.19 per litre on Thursday, an all time high. Prior to this, diesel was sold at Rs 79.84 per litre recorded on December 7. The petrol price was recorded at Rs 91.42 per litre on Thursday, which is highest in two years. All-time high price of petrol was recorded at Rs 91.79 per litre on October 4, 2018. “Almost all the farming activities are done through tractor-mounted equipment and farmers need diesel to use the tractor. Moreover, tractors are also used for transporting agricultural goods to the agriculture produce market committees . Hence, the rise in fuel prices have led to rise in production cost of the agricultural goods,” said Kuber Jadhav, a farmer. The Nashik Transporters’ Association (NTA) has indicated that the constant rise in diesel prices may force them to increase the transporting cost by 15-20%. “The transport business was badly affected since March last year due to Covid 19 pandemic. But rising prices of diesel are a cause of worry. It is very difficult to run transport business at the present transporting rates, said Rajendra Phad, president, NTA. Phad added that they had recently urged both, the state and Centre, to reduce the fuel prices. “We are again going to urge both the governments to reduce the fuel prices at the earliest. We will resort to agitation if the governments do not take it seriously,” said Phad. “The crude oil prices are stable, but the state and centre has levied higher taxes. This is the reason the fuel prices are at the higher side now. We want both state and centre to reduce the taxes on fuel prices,” said an office-bearer of Nashik petrol dealers’ association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmers-transporters-upset-as-petrol-diesel-prices-hit-the-roof/articleshow/80158002.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Schools conduct meet with parents in batches||Madurai: Schools across Madurai district held consultation meetings with parents on Wednesday and Thursday over reopening for Class X and XII students post Pongal holidays so as to submit feedback to the school education department. “This time, more parents were willing to allow their children to return to school. Clearly, over the weeks, the number of Covid-19 cases reported in the district and across the state has greatly declined and so parents are more positive. Also, with board exams approaching, parents are worried about their children’s studies,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school. Consultation meetings were held by various schools following Covid-19 safety protocols with parents coming in batches over the past two days. Parents could register their opinion orally or in writing. R Latha, mother of a Class XII student, said that both children and adults have now more or less learned to live with Covid-19. “As long as safety measures are followed, we can stay safe. That is how it is everywhere in any public place. We don’t have to preach this to the children any more. They know they have to wear masks when they go outside, maintain distance from others and sanitise their hands regularly. It won’t be easy for them but it is not impossible,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-conduct-meet-with-parents-in-batches/articleshow/80162142.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Girl alleges sexual assault by father||Pune: A 34-year-old woman on Thursday lodged a complaint with the Pimpri police accusing her husband (39) of sexually assaulting their minor daughter for the past seven years. According to the complaint, the incident came to light last month when the couple and their 13-year-old daughter had gone to their hometown in Ahmednagar district. “The minor narrated the ordeal to her mother while they were in their hometown, following which the woman approached us. We have booked the father under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act,” senior inspector of the Pimpri police Milind Waghmare said. An officer from the Pimpri police said the man was sexually assaulting the girl since she was six-year-old. “The girl remained silent for years as her father used to threaten her,” the officer said, adding, “We are yet to arrest the man.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/girl-alleges-sexual-assault-by-father/articleshow/80160213.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Most final year students prefer classes on campus||Madurai: With the new semester beginning this week for UG and PG students across colleges in the city, most final year students can be seen returning to the campuses for classes compared to December. However, for the rest of the students, online classes will be held. Safety precautions are being strictly enforced to prevent any possible spread of Covid-19 among students. “We have reopened the campus for final year students and currently more than 90% are attending classes on campus. All Covid-19 safety measures like wearing masks, using hand sanitisers and physical distancing are being strictly enforced on the campus. Our hostel is also functioning with one room allotted for one student. So far, there has been no issue,” said Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College. He added that online classes are also underway for other students while first year students are having online semester examinations. At Thiagarajar College of Arts and Science, more than 90% of final year students were back on campus while the hostel is housing around 70 students. “We are very careful regarding Covid-19 safety and so far there has been nothing of concern. Students are preferring to come to the campus despite having the option of online classes. If Covid-19 cases continue to decline, hopefully other students, especially first years who are missing out on campus experience, will be allowed to come to college,” said D Pandiaraja, college principal. However, at Lady Doak College, one of the prominent women’s colleges in the city, most students prefer online classes. “We have allowed final year students to come to the campus for physical classes. However, only around 20-30 students are turning up. Faculty are all working at the campus and online classes are also happening side by side. But, those who are coming to campus will have the advantage of interacting directly with faculty,” said Dr Christianna Singh, principal, Lady Doak College. The principal added that students have become really comfortable with online learning and that unless mandated by the government, students will be free to choose whether to come to the campus or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/most-final-year-students-prefer-classes-on-campus/articleshow/80162143.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 8, 2021||Pune||Molestation slur on motorcyclist||Pune: A motorcyclist entered into a housing society in Ambegaon Budruk around 6.30pm on Wednesday and allegedly molested a 12-year-old girl waiting in front of the building lift before fleeing the spot. The Bharati Vidyapeeth police are examining CCTV footage from the society and an adjoining residential building to identify the suspect. The girl’s father (39) lodged a complaint in this regard on Wednesday night. The police said the CCTV footage had captured the suspect, who was dressed in a pant and shirt, and was also wearing a face mask. “Due to evening hours, his face could not be clearly seen teh footage,” a police officer said, adding that even the motorcycle’s registration number was not clear. Police said the girl was waiting in front of the lift around 6.30pm when the intruder approached and touched her inappropriately. The police have invoked sections 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the IPC and POCSO Act provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/molestation-slur-on-motorcyclist/articleshow/80160212.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Fascinating internal movement of tigers within TATR recorded||Nagpur: Tadoba seems to be the first choice for dispersing males from the Kolsa range. In the last two years, there have been four recorded dispersals of young males from Kolsa with fifth one also trying make the park his home.Two months ago, tourists recorded the presence of a new male in Pandharpaoni. Since then it is vying to get a territory of its own. Two days ago the tiger was sighted near Tadoba lake.Young naturalist Jignesh Patel, who confirmed the identity of the tiger from its stripe pattern, claimed it was a young male from the third litter of Kuwani tigress (T-14). The tourist-friendly tigress was regularly sighted with two females and a male cub in 2018.Patel’s earlier claims of three male tigers dispersing from Kolsa and settling down in Tadoba have been ratified by forest officials. The three tigers include two male cubs of Shivanzari tigress (T-6) nicknamed Rudra (T-103) and Tala (T-100), and Mowgli, a male cub of Kuwani. These cubs were from the 2016 litter of both Shivanzari and Kuwani tigresses.The 2016 litter of Shivanzari tigress included one female and three males. The female was radio-collared and had reached Umred-Karhandla-Paoni wildlife sanctuary in 2018. Two males – Rudra and Tala — moved out through Karwa and later parted ways.Patel claims while Rudra reached Junona in the buffer zone and later moved to Kolara after competing with other males and seems to have settled in the Tadoba range now. Similarly, Tala had reached the Mohurli range from where it was pushed out by strong male Bajrang.Now it too is settled in Tadoba range. One more male of Kuwani tigress Mowgli from the 2016 litter settled in the Tadoba buffer zone.“The new male is the fourth one trying to claim a part of Tadoba range. It must be continuously moving to find a suitable territory,” said Patel.Patel’s identification in the past has been found correct by the department. Working as a naturalist since 2012, he has developed a database of pictures from tourists and direct sightings. In June 2019, his book ‘Tigers of Tadoba’ was also published. TATR officials, who did not wish to be quoted, said, “Most of the dominant males in Tadoba have come from Kolsa only. This is nothing new. They try to settle in Mohurli and Tadoba considering the competition.”On the new incumbent, they added, “Two tigers were sighted Tadoba lake round in last few days. We identified one as T-103 while the identity of other tiger is yet to be established.”Conservation biologist with Wildlife Institute of India (WII) Bilal Habib said, “Migration and interbreeding holds key to saving the species. This is a good sign. The new male tigers seize the opportunity to get a mate and territory by pushing out older ones.”“This is going on for a long time in every park with tigers but it has now become more exciting due to large-scale awareness and use of scientific techniques. More the genetic diversity, higher the chances of species survival,” Habib added.TATR is connected to other tiger populations in surrounding forests such as that of Indravati Tiger Reserve through the forests of Chandrapur-Bramhapuri-Gadchiroli districts but young dispersing tigers are preferring Tadoba before moving out of the park. Habib said, “Tigers move where they sense opportunity. TATR as a whole is good habitat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/fascinating-internal-movement-of-tigers-within-tatr-recorded/articleshow/80159000.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 8, 2021||Pune||Man booked for posting wife’s photos||Pune: A 34-year-old woman on Wednesday lodged an FIR against her husband, accusing him of uploading her private photographs on a social networking website. The woman stated in her complaint that on January 3, when they were at home, her husband uploaded her photographs on her old profile on a social networking website. “The incident came to light when an acquaintance of the complainant informed her about it,” said an officer from the Sangvi police station. The officer said that when the woman tried to open her profile to delete the photographs, she found that the password had been changed. “She lodged the complainant against her husband as only he knew the password of her profile,” the officer said. The man has been booked under Section 354 (assault or criminal force to a woman with intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Information Technology Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-posting-wifes-photos/articleshow/80160211.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Doctors remove fishing hook from girl’s eye, restore vision||Madurai: Doctors in Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai successfully performed an emergency surgical procedure to remove a fishing hook that penetrated the left eye of a four-year-old girl, and restored her vision. In a statement, the hospital said that the patient, who was referred from the Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital to the department of ophthalmology in GRH, had sustained injury on her left eye while playing with a fish rod. The fishing hook penetrated the eye causing a sudden drop in vision. The girl's left eye was swollen and severely injured with the fish hook dangling from the torn ocular tissues. An emergency surgery was immediately conducted under the team of anaesthetists led by Dr Selvakumar and Dr U Vijayashanmugam, head, department of ophthalmology. The hook was removed completely from the eye and the damaged ocular tissues were carefully repaired to save the child’s eye. After surgery, the girl recovered her normal vision much to the relief and joy of parents. GRH dean Dr J Sangumani lauded the efforts of the doctors for their quick and timely intervention. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/doctors-remove-fishing-hook-from-girls-eye-restore-vision/articleshow/80162145.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||CBD launches citizen centric project||Nashik: The Cantonment Board, Deolali, (CBD) has introduced ‘e-Chhawani project, a transformative citizen centric service for residents of the area. The Directorate General Defence Estate (DGDE), working under the Ministry of Defence (MoD), has launched the project in partnership with Bharat Electronics Ltd. for cantonment boards in the country. CEO of CBD Ajay Kumar said that under this new initiative, local residents can apply and avail trade licences, apply for renewal/extension of leases and lodge civic related grievances and make miscellaneous payments using the m-collect module. These services can be accessed at deolali.cantt.gov.in. “The new initiative will further enhance the ease of doing business with CBD,” said Kumar.According to him, with the introduction of this project, one will not have to visit the CDB office to get the work done related to the services offered under ‘e-Chhawani project.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cbd-launches-citizen-centric-project/articleshow/80158008.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Pune||Realty premium cut call sparks cautious optimism, doubts||Pune: The state government’s decision to reduce construction premiums by half till the end of 2021 has triggered praise as well as doubts among real estate players, with consumers being skeptical about any benefit reaching them. The decision to reduce the construction premiums has come with riders for realty firms, including a condition to absorb the stamp duty charges for the consumer, ostensibly to provide lower rates to the buyers. Officials said the move would further spur home sales, which already grew in the last quarter of 2020 largely due to a 3% cut in stamp duty, and cheaper loans. Vineet Goyal, joint managing director of Kohinoor Group, “This is a very positive move from the state government. In effect, they are helping provide a concession for the players in the industry, as well as the buyers. The stamp duty will now be paid by the builders. This will definitely result in a further rise in sales and effect the cashflow for firms,” Real estate players such as Rohit Gera from Gera Developments, however, appeared “more cautious in their optimism”. Gera said, “The move to reduce the premiums is extremely welcome. It will provide respite to the cost burdens for developers. The result will be more supply at lower prices. It is, however, important to realize that the amoounts paid for approvals include development and other charges under ‘other’ heads. Effectively, this means the total benefits will be much less than 50%.” The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (Credai), Pune Metro, has expressed doubts about the benefit of working in the city due to the fewer premium heads the builders have to pay. “This will be of benefit to people in places where the cost of land is very high, such as the Mumbai metropolitan region, and premiums are collected there under more than 20 heads. In the Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal areas, if we assume that premiums are paid under premium FSI, ancillary FSI, and fire premiums (as per the unified development control rules), the benefits are very marginal,” said Suhas Merchant, president of Credai-Pune Metro. Vivek Velankar, president of consumers’ group Sajag Nagarik Manch, “There is no control over how builders will price their inventory. We think that the builders will end up increasing prices, and directly or indirectly, it is the consumer who will have to pay up for the stamp duty that is supposed to be absorbed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/realty-premium-cut-call-sparks-cautious-optimism-doubts/articleshow/80160215.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Pro-jallikattu protesters want cases withdrawn||Madurai: A conference to demand that the cases filed against those who participated in the pro-jallikattu protests in 2017, will be held in Madurai on January 10. Organisers Kambu K Selvaraj and Kumaran said that the game today was being conducted with pride in villages because lakhs of people had taken to the streets demanding that the game be conducted. But, in reality instead of being hailed as the ‘heroes of jallikattu’, other people were being given the honour while, and were spending their time making court appearances. People protested in Sellur, Tamukkam and Alaganallur. After the ordinance was passed, then Chief Minister O Panneerselvam had assured that all the cases filed against the protesters would be withdrawn. However, the cases were transferred to CB-CID. Cases were filed against 179 people including 64 in Alanganallur, 54 in Sellur, 34 in Perungudi, among others. Apart from these, hundreds of people in Coimbatore, Salem, Chennai and Palani were also booked. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/pro-jallikattu-protesters-want-cases-withdrawn/articleshow/80162144.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Dumper runs over senior citizen||Pune: A 63-year-old woman was run over by a dumper while she was crossing Paud Road in Bhusari colony around 6pm on Thursday. The victim, Sharda Kamble, worked as a domestic help in Right Bhusari colony. She was knocked down and run over by the dumper on hey way back home to Dattanagari in Katraj after her day’s work was done, police said. The Kothrud police have since detained the dumper driver. Kamble was going to the PMPML depot to catch a bus to Katraj, when an empty dumper coming from Chandni Chowk hit her while she was crossing the road, police said. “Kamble came under the rear wheels of the dumper and died on spot,” Rajesh Mane, a witness, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dumper-runs-over-senior-citizen/articleshow/80160216.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Pune is the happiest city in Maharashtra: Report||PUNE: Pune has emerged the happiest city in Maharashtra in the India Cities Happiness Report 2020 compiled by Rajesh K Pillania, a professor of strategic management at Management Development Institute, Gurugram. The city ranked 12th across India and has been classified a ‘new metro’. The study covered 13,000 people across 34 major cities of the country during October-November 2020. Insights on factors to determine happiness were gathered from global thought leaders such as John F Hellwell, co-editor, the World Happiness Report, Richard Florida, leading urbanist, Padma Bhushan awardee M.B Athreya, known as the founder of the Indian management movement, Jamie Lerner, world renowned architect and urban planner, among others. As happiness is a subjective concept, six components were identified-- work and related issues such as earning and growth, relationships, including family and friends, health, including physical and mental, philanthropy, including social concerns, religious or/and spiritual orientation, and the impact of Covid-19 on happiness -- in the regression analysis across 36 states and Union territories to determine the results. Amit Nagarkar, a marketing professional residing at Rasta Peth, said, “I feel that I am lucky to be born and brought up here. The quality of life here is better than other cities. Life in Mumbai is too fast, I prefer the pace of Pune.” Mahesh Patil, an IT employee from Kalevadi, said, “The way the authorities handled the Covid situation in Pune is commendable. Though cases were high, we did manage to get it under control. In other cities, the administration is not as tech savvy as in Pune, which makes it easier for citizens to connect with them to voice complains or grievances. This makes citizens feel empowered, which evidently makes them happy.” “I moved to Pune from Kolkata in 2012. The first thing I noticed after moving here is that the city is relatively clean. Not just the posh areas like Koregaon Park, Camp or Baner, but even the streets in Peth areas are properly maintained, which is a sign of a smart city,” said BPO employee Sharmila Ghosh, a resident of Aundh. Sudhir Puri, a retired businessman from Salunke Vihar, said, “I think there’s something for everyone here, and probably that’s why it is the happiest city. The infrastructure has developed marvelously, but we are still waiting for the Metro.” Professor Gauri Doshi, resident of Kharadi, said, “The weather makes all the difference. It is mostly pleasant, which makes people happy.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-is-the-happiest-city-in-maharashtra-report/articleshow/80160225.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Unidentified tiger kills 40-year-old shepherd in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve||JAIPUR: In yet another attack on humans in Ranthambore Tiger Reserve (RTR), a 40-year-old man was allegedly killed by a tiger in Baler range on Thursday. The victim, identified as Papu Gujjar, a resident of Kanedi village, situated on the periphery of the reserve, had gone into the core forest area to graze cattle and was attacked by the tiger. A senior official said, “We received information from our patrolling team that a tiger has mauled a man in Kanedi village along RTR. We had warned the villagers of tiger movement where the incident occurred. The tiger, which killed the man, has not been identified by the forest staff." “A tiger had charged our monitoring team and a warning was issued to the villagers not to go inside,” a source said. “This is the sixth time in the past three years that a person has been attacked by a wild animal,” he added. The forest department will provide a compensation of Rs 4 lakh to the aggrieved family of the deceased. Increased human activity and shrinking forest spaces have led to an increase in man-animal conflict at RTR. However, the relocation programme continues to move at a snail’s pace in the absence of funds. Sources claimed that the villagers who had been relocated have returned to their original villages. The department cannot relocate villagers using force and they have to vacate houses voluntarily. Successive governments too have not taken much interest as it requires a huge amount of funds. The department further claimed that the relocation of villages on the periphery has been affected, currently, as there were not many takers for the present compensation package of Rs 10 lakh per family. As per the package, the forest department will offer 6.25 bigha agriculture land, a plot, Rs 2.50 lakh in cash. However, many villagers are not willing to shift due to the sentimental value attached to their land and for other reasons, claimed sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/unidentified-tigerkills-40-year-oldshepherd-in-rbore-reserve/articleshow/80161572.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||One dead, three hurt in partial building collapse in Sarita Vihar||NEW DELHI: A 35-year-old welder died while three others were injured when a residential building in Sarita Vihar collapsed partially on Thursday afternoon while they were trying to fix a crack that had developed during a recent tremor. The injured included the owner of the house. The dead man has been identified as Dharmbir, a resident of Greater Noida who is survived by his wife and 5-year-old twin children. The injured are Harish Rotella, the 57-year-old owner of the house; Shivam, Dharmbir’s 22-year-old nephew; and Khalil (55). According to police, Sarita Vihar police station received a call around 12.05pm and a team that went to the spot in southeast Delhi came to know that welding work was being carried out on the terrace of the third-floor during which a portion of the terrace collapsed. As the cops shifted the injured to AIIMS Trauma Centre, they got to know that another person, who was doing the welding, was still stuck under the debris. Police and five teams of firefighters tried to rescue him. But when they couldn’t succeed, a team of National Disaster Response Force, led by assistant commandant Vikash Saini, stepped in and pulled Dharmbir out, said deputy commissioner of police (southeast) R P Meena. Dharmbir was also taken to AIIMS Trauma Centre in a CATS ambulance in a critical condition, but he died during treatment, Meena added. The condition of the others is stable. “A case for causing death due to negligence and under other relevant sections has been registered at Sarita Vihar police station. A team of forensic experts was also called at the spot for inspection. Dharmbir’s body has been preserved in the AIIMS mortuary for postmortem and the investigation is still on,” Meena said. A member of the local residents welfare association said, “This was an unauthorised construction and we have stopped complaining as no one listens to us.” Although the work was completed around two-three months ago, he said, the structure wasn’t probably holding properly and didn’t fully dry especially with the winter and rain. “Some repair work was going on when the collapse happened,” the RWA member added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1-dead-3-hurt-in-partial-building-collapse-in-sarita-vihar/articleshow/80160228.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||No govt permission, yet several schools in Telangana reopen for classes 9 & 10||HYDERABAD: Even as the state government ponders over the decision to reopen schools, several schools in Telangana, especially those in Karimnagar, Nirmal and Hyderabad, are conducting physical classes for ninth and tenth standard students. Full-day classes from 8.30 am to 3.30 pm are being conducted to facilitate the teaching of all subjects. “Students are encouraged not to come in uniform. The classes are conducted as per the regular timetable. Even if someone comes for inspection, both staff and students are asked to inform them that they are here to clear doubts,” said a maths teacher, working in a private school, which has several branches in the Telugu states. Teachers said that the management is taking written consent from parents before allowing students in physical classrooms and are taking all necessary precautions. “As far as we know, no one got infected with Covid-19 after they started attending classes in-person,” said a teacher. While teachers said that managements are pushing parents to send their wards to schools to collect fee dues, the managements, meanwhile, said that they had to start physical classes as parents are worried about their children’s future as they are unable to understand the subjects online. “We had to start classes as students are not learning much through online classes. Many schools in Telangana had started physical classes in November-end or first week of December. Now, the majority of them are running full-fledged classes as they have to prepare students for exams,” said Shekar Rao Y, president, Telangana Recognised Schools Managements Association, adding that even a few government schools are conducting physical classes for students. A few parents also said that as long as schools are taking precautions and children are following safety guidelines, they should be allowed to take classes. “Either we have to send them to tuition or school. It’s better if children get to learn from their teachers. We can’t let them think or believe that they will be promoted without exams,” said Sivaramakrishna G, a parent, whose daughter is in Class 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-govt-permission-yet-several-schools-reopen-for-classes-9-10/articleshow/80160219.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Haze over keeping shops open 24x7||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to continue with the current shop timings and no decision has yet been taken on the state government’s guidelines on keeping commercial establishments open 24x7. “The civic administration is yet to receive any directives regarding keeping the commercial establishments open 24x7. We will discuss the state’s orders once we receive them and take a call accordingly,” said Sunil Indalkar, a senior PMC official. Raghunath Kuchik, chairman of minimum wages advisory committee, had demanded that commercial establishments be kept open 24x7. The state labour department has allowed shops not serving liquor to remain open without any restriction. “If the timing is increased, the shops will be able to work in shifts. It will help in better management of human resources and following physical distancing norms,” said Kuchik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/haze-over-keeping-shops-open-24x7/articleshow/80160220.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Home’s no more a safe place for nestlings||Nashik: Nylon manja is not only harmful for birds during their flight but also poses a serious threat to their eggs and young ones as the feathered creatures use the thread to build their nests. “The nylon manja, which is used by birds while making nests, often gets entangled with twigs and straws. The sharp manja damages the eggs and creates for the nestlings,” Pankaj Garg, deputy conservator of forest (Nashik West), told TOI . “The NGOs have given us feedback on how they have found nylon manja in nests and the impact it made on eggs and young ones. We appeal to people to refrain from using nylon manja for flying kites,” he said. According to Garg, in the last two years, around 66 birds have died and more than 300 injured in Nashik due to nylon manja. “There were many cases where wings or legs of birds got entangled in nylon manja and when they tried to fly, they got injured. In one case, the wings of a vulture, which is an endangered species, had to be removed because of life-threatening injuries,” said Garg. The Nashik forest department has written to the district administration and police seeking stringent action against those involved in clandestine sale of nylon manja and kite-flyers using it. “On our part, we have started an awareness drive through NGOs to educate people about the harmful effect of nylon manja. We are also involved in intelligence gathering about the places from where vendors procure the manja and those selling it. We would share our feedback with the authorities concerned soon,” added Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/homes-no-more-a-safe-place-for-nestlings/articleshow/80158030.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||CBSE board exam 2021: Hold practicals in school, parents||HYDERABAD: Hardly two months are left for practical exams to begin for Class 12 students of CBSE schools in the state, but students in many schools are still waiting for practical classes to be conducted physically. Although practical classes are being conducted online in a few schools, parents said that unless students get to do experiments physically, it will be hard for them to take practical exams. “My son’s schools said that they will start practical classes by the end of January. I am not sure if a month would be sufficient to do all the practical work,” said Prashanth P, whose son is studying in a private school in the city. Some of the teachers working in CBSE- affiliated schools said that instead of teaching all experiments, they will be concentrating on a few important ones so that students are prepared to appear for the exams. “Apart from a few top schools, others are not equipped to teach all the practical work to students in a month. So, we are asked to select a few important ones and ensure that all students know how to do those experiments,” said a teacher, who takes classes for science stream students. Principals, meanwhile, said that physical practical classes will begin after Sankranthi vacation in most schools and the syllabus will be completed in a week or two after classes start. “Students have already submitted their records and have seen teachers and a few of their peers doing experiments in live classes. So, it would not take more than a week for us to complete teaching all the practical classes in batches,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School, Alwal, adding that schools that have not completed the record work might not be able to complete teaching the entire syllabus in time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hold-practicals-in-school-parents/articleshow/80164549.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Populous Malad administrative ward to be split into two||MUMBAI: The most populous ward in the city, P-North, will be split into two, said the state urban development department on Thursday. No time-frame was specified for the division of ward, which has 9.7 lakh people living in Malad and the parts of Goregaon and Kandivli that constitute the municipal administrative ward, reports Vijay V Singh. The division will not affect the boundaries of the 18 municipal electoral wards in P-North. The railway tracks will be the dividing line for the proposed P-East and P-West wards. The government mentioned the division in reply to Kandivli MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar of the BJP, who had raised the question with the urban development department. A portion of his assembly constituency falls in P-North. In their reply, officials of the urban development department said the decision to divide the ward had been taken but the BMC was still working out the split. Around 70% of the 9.7 lakh population of the ward lives in slums. P-North has some of the biggest slum pockets of the city: Malvani in Malad (west) and Kurar village and Appa Pada in Malad (east). Municipal officials said it is easier to handle smaller wards. “Every ward has many departments within, each of them headed by a senior officer,” an officer said. “Each ward has a dedicated medical health officer who supervises all the health-related work in the ward. Big wards mean it is difficult for the MHO to maintain the required efficiency.” During thick of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Appa Pada slum pocket was among the worst-affected areas in the city and municipal commissioner I S Chahal visited its congested bylanes and cheek-by-jowl structures for a ground review of the situation. Bhatkhalkar said people had long been demanding the division of P-North ward. “It is difficult for a person living in a corner of Dindoshi to travel to Malad (west) for any civic complaint or work. Because of the bigger geographical size, it is difficult for the department heads to reach out to all areas,” he said. Congress corporator and opposition leader in the BMC Ravi Raja said the division would be a very long process and would not take place before the BMC election next year. “Around two years ago, the municipal administration had brought up a proposal to restructure the bigger administrative wards like P-North, L (Kurla), F-North (Wadala-Sion), F-South (Parel) and some others, but nothing was heard about it later,” Raja said. “Once the administration finalises its plan for P-North, it needs to take the mandatory permission from the general body of the BMC before its implementation.” Congress cabinet member and guardian minister of the island city Aslam Shaikh said that 12 years ago, when he was in the BMC, he had made the demand to divide P-North into two because it is difficult for a ward office to keep tabs on all activities in such a big ward. “Other bigger wards also need to be divided,” he said. “I am also pursuing the old pending issue that the island city and suburbs should have two separate municipal commissioners for better administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/populous-malad-admin-ward-to-be-split-into-two/articleshow/80162162.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Harassed by moneylender, Jaipur man kills family of 3, hangs self||JAIPUR: In a gruesome incident, a 32-year-old man killed his wife, infant son and daughter by slitting their throats and later committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling of his one-room rented place in Bunkar colony, situated at Khatipura under Vaishali Nagar police station area, on Thursday. He was allegedly being harassed by a moneylender. Police have ruled out any foul play and lodged a case of abetment based on the suicide note left by the deceased, identified as Giriraj Rana, who earned his living by selling vegetables. Late in the evening, police arrested the moneylender, Dinesh Yadav, for abetment and started interrogating him. “We have arrested him on charges of abetment and are questioning him,” said a senior officer. Police collect evidences from the spot.The incident came to light after the landlady, Sunita Kumawat, saw the room of the deceased man locked from inside with television playing loudly inside. She alerted her husband, Roop Narayan Kumawat, and later called the police at 1.15pm. Police reached the spot and found the bodies of the woman, identified as Shimla (28), lying under a pool of blood on the single-storey building with four rooms. The body of two-year-old Kanu was found near his mother. “It seems that Rana first overpowered his wife and later slit her throat. Thereafter, he killed his daughter Anushka (4) and son in a similar manner and hanged himself to death. To ensure that the screams of his family were not heard, the television in the room was kept loud,” said Bajrang Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police (west), to TOI after visiting the spot. Police recovered a suicide note and a knife used for slitting the throats. In the suicide note, Rana has stated that he had taken a loan of Rs 70,000 from Dinesh Yadav and purchased a vehicle to transport vegetables. “He also stated that Yadav took away his vehicle forcibly and was demanding Rs 1.56 lakh, including interest on the principal amount, from him,” Singh said. When contacted, Anand Srivastav, commissioner of police, said, “It is a clear case of abetment of suicide." A large number of people gathered in the colony while the police took out the bodies. When TOI spoke to Rasal, the sister of deceased Rana over the phone, she said, “He was disturbed when he came to the village last month. He told us that a person had taken away his vehicle and was demanding money."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/harassed-by-moneylender-city-man-kills-family-of-3-hangs-self/articleshow/80161616.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Vetal Tekdi debris removal work will restore spur to original state||Pune: The debris removal work on survey number 123 on Vetal Tekdi’s slope on Paud Road is nearing completion, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said TOI on Thursday.A civil court had recently rejected Maharashtra Academy of Engineering and Educational Research’s (MAEER) application to maintain a status quo against the civic body’s work of removal of road debris , which had resulted in restarting the work. A PMC official told TOI, “As of now the work is going on smoothly, and MAEER’s Maharashtra Institute of Technology (MIT) is helping us remove the debris by employing bigger earth movers. We expect the debris removal work to be completed in two to three days. Almost 60% of the work has already been done.”Officials said that the slope is also likely to be restored to its original condition as debris removal work nears completion.Meanwhile, the PMC has also filed a caveat in the district court before MIT files a plea seeking injunction orders on the debris removal work.Manjusha Idhate, the PMC’s chief law officer, told TOI, “The caveat was filed by us under section 148A of Civil Procedure Code (CPC) as a precautionary measure. The caveat petition will ensure that the honourable court will give due notice to PMC beforehand and does not pass an ex-parte interim injunction or ex-parte interim status quo order without hearing our side, in the event of the opposite party appealing to the court.”Another PMC official said, “After the civil court order, the caveat was filed in the district court as a precautionary measure in case MIT approaches the upper court against that order and appeals for a stay or status quo etc.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vetal-tekdi-debris-removal-work-will-restore-spur-to-original-state/articleshow/80160244.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Farmer suicide cases in Nashik district go down in 2020||Nashik: The number of farmer suicides in Nashik district went down in 2020 with only 44 deaths being reported as compared to 69 in the previous year.The highest number of farmer suicide cases was reported in Niphad taluka (13 cases), while Surgana, Igatpuri and Devla talukas registered zero cases.District collector Suraj Mandhare said that efforts are being taken to bring down the number to the minimal. “Convergence of all the schemes, actions taken by the task force along with Information, Education and Communication (IEC) measures taken have yielded results,” he added.Of the 44 cases reported in 2020, the district panel headed by district collector has cleared 22 cases following which the kin of the farmers have received the state government aid of Rs 1 lakh. The farmers, however, said that the situation was not better than earlier, yet the only thing was that the farmers were braving the situation. “We are going through a difficult time. We want the government to pay attention towards our issues that include better markets and better inputs for crops and crop loans. The farmers need better price for their produce and assured income at the end of the harvest besides timely help in case of unseasonal rain. This is not happening and due to this the farmers take the extreme step,” Keshav Godse, a farmer from Nashik, said. As many as 11 cases have been rejected and 11 cases are being discussed by the district panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/farmer-suicide-cases-in-nashik-district-go-down-in-2020/articleshow/80158069.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Rain damages ready to harvest grapes, onions||Nashik: The unseasonal rain on Thursday affected the grapes and onions, which are in the stages of harvest in parts of Nashik district. Apart from Nashik city, the unseasonal rain was reported from Niphad, Chandvad, Sinnar, Deola, Yeola and Trimbakeshwar talukas of the district. “Around 5% of the total 1.5 lakh hectares of vineyards are now ready for the grape harvest. Such vineyards are likely to be affected due to rains. The grape fruits in Niphad and other areas may develop cracks due to the rain,” said Kailas Bhosle, an office-bearer of the state association of grape growers. “But it is difficult right now to assess the actual extent of damage due to the rain. The losses may increase if it continues to rain for next two-three days,” said Bhosle. Bharat Dighole, president, Maharashtra state onion farmers association, said that onions were also about to be harvested during the next three four days. “Farmers had already stopped giving water for the past few days to prepare for harvest. Onion crop has been affected in parts of Sinnar, Chandvad, Yeola and Deola talukas,” he said. There have been cloudy weather conditions for the past three four days and the minimum temperature is hovering at around 17 degrees Celsius. Parts of Nashik city suddenly witnessed heavy rains on Thursday afternoon. The city also witnessed waterlogging in some areas, particularly where the work of flyover is going on. The water-logging was reported on the highways near K K Wagh College, Kannamwar bridge and Dwarka Circle. It led to traffic jam in the areas. The weatherman has forecast thunderstorms accompanied with lightning in isolated places of Nashik, Dhule and Ahmednagar district on Friday and Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rain-damages-ready-to-harvest-grapes-onions/articleshow/80158088.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Delay in dissolution of SCB body raises members’ hopes for extension of term||Secunderabad: The elected members of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) are on tenterhooks as they anticipate another extension of their term. With their term coming to an end next month and the Ministry of Defence yet to dissolve the body, the members are expecting a third extension. The delay in the dissolution of the existing elected body raised the hopes of the members. As per the norms, the election notification is issued 45 days before the expiry of the term of the existing body. However, so far, no notification has been issued, even though the six-month extension comes to an end on February 10. The notification was to be issued by December 28. Elections to SCB were held in January 2015 and the first extension was given on February 5, 2020, followed by the second extension on August 10. Former vice-president Jampana Pratap said that the present body would be dissolved soon. “There were no instances of an elected body getting a third extension. So this body will also get dissolved,” Pratap told TOI. If the body gets dissolved, the MoD will appoint officials as the nominated members, and they will run the administration till a new body gets elected. However, SCB vice-president J Maheshwar Reddy told TOI that dissolution of the elected body may not be possible. Meanwhile, in the wake of poor turnout during the GHMC elections, the SCB election wing launched a campaign to educate people about the significance of their right to vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/delay-in-dissolution-of-scb-body-raises-members-hopes-for-extension-of-term/articleshow/80160272.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 8, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Hiring gets aggressive as digital shift drives staff demand in IT||AHMEDABAD: Growing demand for information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITES) fuelled by increased digital adoption by companies, led to aggressive recruitment by IT and ITES sector, so much so that hiring has resumed to pre-Covid levels in Gujarat. Estimates by IT industry experts suggest that technology and IT-ITES companies are looking to increase their workforce by at least 10% over the next four months. “Since the past two months, companies have been hiring aggressively and the recruitment is stronger than pre-Covid levels across companies in Gujarat. With customers increasingly adopting the digital shift, a number of offshore centres which are outsourcing work for tech companies abroad have multiple projects at hand. As a consequence, the hiring has picked up,” said Tejinder Oberoi, chairman, GESIA IT Association. Industry sources said that a requirement of at least 30,000 persons will be seen in Gujarat’s IT and ITES sector alone over the next two months. The state’s IT-ITES sector employs some 2 lakh persons as on date and the workforce, given the aggressive hiring trend, is slated to grow. Companies are looking to recruit professionals who come with a minimum of two to three years of experience. Sectors such as business intelligence, cybersecurity, cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have a greater demand for people. In times of the pandemic, as remote working is here to stay, companies are also eyeing tier-II and tier-III markets to hire. “We are looking to hire talent from smaller cities as most part of our team is working remotely. By now, managers have learnt managing teams remotely and there are no issues related to productivity. This way, we get to choose better talent from a larger talent pool,” said Neha Sheth, CEO, Musikaar – a software services company. Recruitment industry experts also said that companies are also extending handsome pay packages to their new recruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/hiring-gets-aggressive-as-digital-shift-drives-staff-demand-in-it/articleshow/80169468.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 8, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Hiring gets aggressive as digital shift drives staff demand in IT||AHMEDABAD: Growing demand for information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITES) fuelled by increased digital adoption by companies, led to aggressive recruitment by IT and ITES sector, so much so that hiring has resumed to pre-Covid levels in Gujarat. Estimates by IT industry experts suggest that technology and IT-ITES companies are looking to increase their workforce by at least 10% over the next four months. “Since the past two months, companies have been hiring aggressively and the recruitment is stronger than pre-Covid levels across companies in Gujarat. With customers increasingly adopting the digital shift, a number of offshore centres which are outsourcing work for tech companies abroad have multiple projects at hand. As a consequence, the hiring has picked up,” said Tejinder Oberoi, chairman, GESIA IT Association. Industry sources said that a requirement of at least 30,000 persons will be seen in Gujarat’s IT and ITES sector alone over the next two months. The state’s IT-ITES sector employs some 2 lakh persons as on date and the workforce, given the aggressive hiring trend, is slated to grow. Companies are looking to recruit professionals who come with a minimum of two to three years of experience. Sectors such as business intelligence, cybersecurity, cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have a greater demand for people. In times of the pandemic, as remote working is here to stay, companies are also eyeing tier-II and tier-III markets to hire. “We are looking to hire talent from smaller cities as most part of our team is working remotely. By now, managers have learnt managing teams remotely and there are no issues related to productivity. This way, we get to choose better talent from a larger talent pool,” said Neha Sheth, CEO, Musikaar – a software services company. Recruitment industry experts also said that companies are also extending handsome pay packages to their new recruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/hiring-gets-aggressive-as-digital-shift-drives-staff-demand-in-it/articleshow/80169469.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Hiring gets aggressive as digital shift drives staff demand in IT||AHMEDABAD: Growing demand for information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITES) fuelled by increased digital adoption by companies, led to aggressive recruitment by IT and ITES sector, so much so that hiring has resumed to pre-Covid levels in Gujarat. Estimates by IT industry experts suggest that technology and IT-ITES companies are looking to increase their workforce by at least 10% over the next four months. “Since the past two months, companies have been hiring aggressively and the recruitment is stronger than pre-Covid levels across companies in Gujarat. With customers increasingly adopting the digital shift, a number of offshore centres which are outsourcing work for tech companies abroad have multiple projects at hand. As a consequence, the hiring has picked up,” said Tejinder Oberoi, chairman, GESIA IT Association. Industry sources said that a requirement of at least 30,000 persons will be seen in Gujarat’s IT and ITES sector alone over the next two months. The state’s IT-ITES sector employs some 2 lakh persons as on date and the workforce, given the aggressive hiring trend, is slated to grow. Companies are looking to recruit professionals who come with a minimum of two to three years of experience. Sectors such as business intelligence, cybersecurity, cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have a greater demand for people. In times of the pandemic, as remote working is here to stay, companies are also eyeing tier-II and tier-III markets to hire. “We are looking to hire talent from smaller cities as most part of our team is working remotely. By now, managers have learnt managing teams remotely and there are no issues related to productivity. This way, we get to choose better talent from a larger talent pool,” said Neha Sheth, CEO, Musikaar – a software services company. Recruitment industry experts also said that companies are also extending handsome pay packages to their new recruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hiring-gets-aggressive-as-digital-shift-drives-staff-demand-in-it/articleshow/80159106.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 8, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Hiring gets aggressive as digital shift drives staff demand in IT||AHMEDABAD: Growing demand for information technology (IT) and IT-enabled services (ITES) fuelled by increased digital adoption by companies, led to aggressive recruitment by IT and ITES sector, so much so that hiring has resumed to pre-Covid levels in Gujarat. Estimates by IT industry experts suggest that technology and IT-ITES companies are looking to increase their workforce by at least 10% over the next four months. “Since the past two months, companies have been hiring aggressively and the recruitment is stronger than pre-Covid levels across companies in Gujarat. With customers increasingly adopting the digital shift, a number of offshore centres which are outsourcing work for tech companies abroad have multiple projects at hand. As a consequence, the hiring has picked up,” said Tejinder Oberoi, chairman, GESIA IT Association. Industry sources said that a requirement of at least 30,000 persons will be seen in Gujarat’s IT and ITES sector alone over the next two months. The state’s IT-ITES sector employs some 2 lakh persons as on date and the workforce, given the aggressive hiring trend, is slated to grow. Companies are looking to recruit professionals who come with a minimum of two to three years of experience. Sectors such as business intelligence, cybersecurity, cloud computing and Artificial Intelligence (AI) have a greater demand for people. In times of the pandemic, as remote working is here to stay, companies are also eyeing tier-II and tier-III markets to hire. “We are looking to hire talent from smaller cities as most part of our team is working remotely. By now, managers have learnt managing teams remotely and there are no issues related to productivity. This way, we get to choose better talent from a larger talent pool,” said Neha Sheth, CEO, Musikaar – a software services company. Recruitment industry experts also said that companies are also extending handsome pay packages to their new recruits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hiring-gets-aggressive-as-digital-shift-drives-staff-demand-in-it/articleshow/80169467.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||SC to rule on six Raj BSP MLAs’ Congress ‘merger’||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to decide the plea of Mayawati-led Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) challenging merger of its Rajasthan legislature wing with the Congress party when all of its six MLAs switched their allegiance to the ruling party. A bench of Justices S Abdul Nazeer and K M Joseph issued notice to Rajasthan Assembly Speaker and the MLAs seeking their response on a petition filed by BSP which alleged that a state unit of national political party cannot merge with other political party without approval from the central leadership. The political party alleged that the Speaker's decision to allow merger was illegal, invalid and contrary to the apex court's Constitution bench verdict. It moved the court against the order of the Rajasthan HC whose single judge bench asked the Speaker to decide within three months a disqualification petition against all the six BSP MLAs ''merging'' with the Congress party. Though the bench suggested BSP to challenge the single bench order before a division bench of HC, it agreed to adjudicate the issue after senior advocate S C Mishra pleaded that court should decide on the controversy once and for all. The court also issued notice for a separate petition filed by BJP MLA Madan Dilawar against the merger. On August 24, the HC had asked the Speaker to decide within three months the disqualification petition filed by Dilawar. Allowing the plea partially, the high court had set aside the July 22 order of the Speaker rejecting the disqualification petition filed by him in March last year. It also dismissed a writ petition filed by BSP in the matter, while giving the party liberty to file a disqualification petition with the Speaker. Dilawar had filed the petition in the HC challenging the merger of six BSP MLAs - Sandeep Yadav, Wajib Ali, Deepchand Kheria, Lakhan Meena, Jogendra Awana and Rajendra Gudha - with Congress and demanded a stay on the execution of the order passed by the Speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-to-rule-on-six-raj-bsp-mlas-cong-merger/articleshow/80161651.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Srikantha Chary statue unveiled||Hyderabad: A statue of Telangana martyr Kasoju Srikantha Chary was unveiled in Gollapalli village of Devuruppala mandal in Jangaon by panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Thursday. He also launched developmental works worth Rs 10 crore. Chary’s mother Kasoju Shankaramma was present. It may be mentioned here that on November 29, 2009, Chary had doused himself in kerosene and set himself ablaze at LB Nagar in Hyderabad demanding that a separate Telangana state be formed. The 24-year-old died later on December 3 at a hospital while undergoing treatment. Launching various programmes, Dayakar Rao said that Chary’s dreams are becoming a reality with the development that is taking place in Telangana. A mini textile park at Kodakandla would also come up, he said. A double-lane road from Devaruppala to Palakurthi has also been sanctioned for which Rs 10 crore would be spent. Jangaon collector K Nikhila said water and power facility and CC roads are being provided where 2BHK houses are being built for poor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/srikantha-chary-statue-unveiled/articleshow/80160273.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 8, 2021||Nashik||M’wada gets light rain, more in store||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city, along with parts of Marathwada, continues to receive occasional spells of light rain amid overcast skies, leading to abnormalities during the existing winter season. As per the forecast issued by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), more such inclement weather is in store for Aurangabad and other parts of the region for the next 48 hours. The mercury level also remains above normal due to partly cloudy skies over majority parts of Marathwada. At 19.2 degrees Celsius, the minimum temperature was recorded above normal by whopping seven units on Thursday. Similarly, the city recorded maximum of 30.5 degrees Celsius temperature which was also above normal by two units, IMD data shows. Weather expert Kirankumar Johare said that the humidity level has increased in the air due to change in weather conditions. “The existing abrasion in climatic conditions could last minimum up to one week. Thereafter, cloudy skies may be noticed occasionally,” he said. Aurangabad reported relative humidity of 55% by Wednesday evening. Johare said that the relative humidity ideally ranges between 30% and 50% during winter season. Meanwhile, students going to schools and colleges during morning hours have been currently spared from cold conditions that are normally observed during winter. “The schools have been reopened after a long gap and the absence of winter chill is giving no trouble with waking up early and getting prepared for school,” said Class X student Kailas Sonawane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mwada-gets-light-rain-more-in-store/articleshow/80158106.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||T gets Centre’s nod to borrow Rs 2.5k cr more||Hyderabad: The Centre has granted Telangana an additional borrowing limit of Rs 2,508 crore though open market. Telangana has become the third state in the country in implementing urban local body (ULB) reforms as sought by the Union finance ministry. The latest nod to borrow is equivalent to 0.25% of the gross state domestic product. The other two states that completed the ULB reforms are Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh. The three states are now eligible for Rs 7,406 crore additional borrowing. Four citizen-centric areas identified for reforms are implementation of ‘one nation, one ration card’ system, ease of doing business (EoDB), ULB/utility reforms and power sector reforms. The reforms are aimed at achieving objectives like e-notification of floor rates of property tax in ULBs, which are in consonance with the prevailing circle rates and floor rates of user-charges in respect of provision of water supply, drainage and sewerage, which reflect current costs and past inflation. Due to the Covid-19-induced economic slowdown, the central government had on May 17, 2020, enhanced the borrowing limits of states by 2% of their GSDP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-centres-nod-to-borrow-rs-2-5k-cr-more/articleshow/80160277.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cloth trader from Ahmedabad hangs self after GST notice||AHMEDABAD: A 50-year-old cloth trader from Isanpur, Bharat Chandel, committed suicide on Wednesday afternoon at his house by hanging himself. Isanpur police which is probing the case said Chandel had no work for about three years and due to the lockdown, the money he had invested in a cloth business also was not giving returns. Assistant sub-inspector Idrish Malek of Isanpur police station said Chandel, who is survived by his wife and two children, had set up a warehouse for his cloth business three years ago at Balaji Estate in Isanpur. “On December 24, he received a notice to pay Rs 2.44 lakh in goods and services tax (GST). He was stressed about how he would be able to pay the tax,” a police source said. Police officials said that on Wednesday, when his wife and children were on the ground floor of the house, Chandel went to a room on the first floor and hanged himself with a saree. “When his wife went up to wake him for tea, she discovered him hanging from a ceiling fan. On hearing her screams, neighbours’ rushed in and took Chandel to LG Hospital but he was declared brought dead,” said a police source. Inspector J V Rana of Isanpur police station said they registered a case of accidental death and are probing the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cloth-trader-hangs-self-after-gst-notice/articleshow/80159137.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Dry run of Covid vaccine at 17 health centres in 4 dists of Nashik divn today||Nashik: The ‘dry run’ for vaccination against Covid-19 will be conducted at 17 locations in Dhule, Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Nashik districts on Friday. Nandurbar district has been left out the programme as a drive of a similar nature was conducted here on January 2. “Preparations are on for the dummy exercise across the four districts of Nashik division. The developments will be observed minutely to ensure there is no issue with the vaccination programme,” said Mallikarjun Pattanshetty, deputy director of health, Nashik. As per norms, each district will have to select three centres where the exercise will be conducted. Every municipal corporation will decide on one of its urban primary health centre (UPHC) where the dry run of the vaccination will be carried out.As many as 25 ‘beneficiaries’ have been shortlisted for each centre and will be given a time slot to arrive at the centre. Five persons will be called at one time. There are five municipal corporations – Nashik, Malegaon (in Nashik district), Ahmednagar, Jalgaon and Dhule — which will be conducting the dry run in their UPHC.The Nashik Municipal Corporation has decided to conduct the activity at New Bytco Hospital. The Malegaon Municipal Corporation will conduct the same at its UPHC at Madni Nagar. The state health body will conduct the activity through the civil surgeon at the civil hospital and the sub-district hospital (SDH) at Trimbakeshwar. The district health office (DHO) will conduct the dry run at Sayyad Pimpri primary health centre. The Dhule Municipal Corporation will conduct the dry run at Prabhat Nagar UPHC. In Jalgaon, the dry run will be held by the civil surgeon at the civil cospital and the sub-district hospital in Jamner. The Jalgaon Municipal Corporation has selected Shivaji Nagar UPHC for the dry run. In Ahmednagar district, the civil surgeon will conduct the dry run at the district hospital and the sub-district hospital in Pathardi. The Ahemnednagar Municipal Corporation will conduct the dry run at the UPHC Topkhana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dry-run-of-covid-vaccine-at-17-health-centres-in-4-dists-of-nashik-divn-today/articleshow/80158118.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||No money left, man kills self||A 44-year-old man from Meghaninagar, Naran Marwadi, committed suicide by ingesting acid at his house on December 14, reportedly because he had no money. He was taken to Civil Hospital, a private hospital and then to Shardaben Hospital but breathed his last on Tuesday night at about 9.30pm. Police sources said that according to the deceased’s wife Mani, her husband made a living as a labourer. “According to his wife, for the last one month, he had no work,” said a police official. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-money-left-man-kills-self/articleshow/80159154.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC seals store over rotten dates||Hyderabad: A departmental store located in Kapra circle was sealed by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials following a complaint by a customer. “The customer who purchased dates from the store lodged a complaint. He said that as soon as he opened the packet he found many insects in it. He added that the dates smelled rotten,” said Mythreyi, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, assistant medical officer for health, Kapra circle. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ghmc-seals-store-over-rotten-dates/articleshow/80160278.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Chennai||276 engineering seats in Anna University colleges wasted||CHENNAI: As many as 276 students have discontinued BE and BTech courses this year in top TN colleges including Anna University’s College of Engineering, Guindy (CEG) and Madras Institute of Technology (MIT), Chromepet, to study medicine and other courses. These seats meant for top rankers will lie vacant. While CEG has 77 such seats, MIT and ACT have 67 and 55, while School of Architecture and Planning has two. In the university’s constituent colleges, 75 seats are vacant. Unlike for medical courses, there is no second round counselling for engineering. Experts said more seats have fallen vacant during online counselling compared to single-window counselling. Professors from Anna University said such huge vacancies began appearing after the Supreme Court fixed August 15 as admission deadline for BE, BTech courses. It was later extended to August 31. “Engineering counselling should be conducted only after medical counselling to reduce vacancies in premier colleges,” said former vice-chancellor E Balagurusamy, adding that medical and engineering counseling under one roof may not be possible. “TNEA (Tamil Nadu Engineering Admission) committee can have its own deadline for admissions keeping in mind the huge vacancies. It can also represent to the regulatory authority and university for seeking extension,” he said. Career consultant Jayaprakash Gandhi said it was a huge waste of seats. “Many, who otherwise would have studied in Anna University colleges, are spending huge money to study in self-financing colleges.” Anna University vice-chancellor M K Surappa said the government should delay engineering counselling until counselling for IITs and NITs starts. “It should conduct a second round to fill vacant engineering seats after medical counselling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/276-engg-seats-in-au-colleges-wasted/articleshow/80160658.cms||A Ragu Raman
January 8, 2021||Nashik||Nashik city witnesses 13% drop in fresh Covid cases||Nashik: The number of Covid cases reported per day has reduced by 13% as the city recorded 156 per day on an average between January 1 and 6, compared to 181 cases recorded per day in December.“We are expecting the number of Covid cases to reduce further in the next few days,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC).There was a spike in Covid-19 cases during September as the city reported 867 cases per day, but the number of cases started reducing in October. The city reported 338 new cases per day on an average in October, which further reduced to 157 cases in November.But the city again witnessed a spike in the number of daily cases in December as the city reported 181 new cases of Covid-19 per day.Meanwhile, the civic body has reserved a total of 4,572 beds for Covid patients in civic and private hospitals in the city, including 2,501 general beds, 1,295 beds with oxygen, 503 ICU and 259 ventilators.Of which, around 85% of the total beds are vacant in the city. At present, 1,006 patients are currently undergoing treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-city-witnesses-13-drop-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/80158127.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Khar murder accused to be in police custody till January 12||MUMBAI: The police custody of Shree Jogdhankar and Diya Padalkar, who were arrested on January 1 for the alleged murder of Jhanvi Kukreja, has been extended till January 12. While Padalkar was produced before the Bandra court on Thursday, Jogdhankar could not be present as he is in Cooper Hospital for injuries. The remand hearing was held behind closed doors with only the accused, Khar police and lawyers allowed inside. The court has granted the intervention application filed by the Kukrejas’ lawyer, Trivankumar Karnani. Karnani said the intervention application was granted as the magistrate found merit in their submissions and, hence, police custody of the accused was extended. Kukreja’s body was found on the ground floor of Khar’s Bhagwati Heights building where she had been attending a New Year’s Eve party with the two accused. The victim’s mother Niddhi told TOI they met home minister Anil Deshmukh on Wednesday and he assured them the case would be fast-tracked. She said she will use the money saved for her daughter’s education to fight the case. “It is a pre-planned murder. My daughter returned from the party and was forced at 12.15 am by Padalkar and Jogdhankar to re-visit the party and an hour later they killed her,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khar-murder-accused-to-be-in-police-custody-till-january-12/articleshow/80160311.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Wait over, GHMC mayor election to be held on February 11||HYDERABAD: The State Election Commission (SEC) on Thursday announced that the election for mayor and deputy mayor will be held on February 11. The first meeting of the newly-elected council will be held on February 11, where election for the mayor and deputy mayor will be held. The term of the newly-elected corporation would be five years from the date of the first meeting of the corporation. “SEC will shortly publish the names of elected ward members in the Telangana State Gazette,” GHMC said in a statement issued on Thursday. For instance, if the names of elected members are published in the gazette before January 11, then the first meeting would be held before February 11. The SEC also announced that candidates who contested in the GHMC polls should submit election expenditure details before January 17. Candidates who do not submit the expenditure would not be eligible to contest elections in future. The SEC would hold a meeting with 30 election observers on January 8 to take stock of the situation and table the number of candidates who are yet to submit the poll expenditure. The observers would serve notices on the candidates who have not submitted the expenditure. As per the rules, the candidates were supposed to submit their election expenditure within 45 days from the date of declaration of results.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/wait-over-ghmc-mayor-election-to-be-held-on-feb-11/articleshow/80160280.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Timeless art delivered by technology||AHMEDABAD: For aspiring rasikas in the Saptak audience, Shubha Mudgal’s opening notes perhaps sound like urgent notifications from spiritual media. The young and the curious put away their phones; for many of them, Mudgal’s alaap will be the most durable installation of a classical memory in their systems. On Thursday, Mudgal and tabla notable Aneesh Pradhan were featured at e-Saptak. Covid has made the annual Ahmedabad festival go online. But as always, Mudgal and Pradhan were generous in annotating their presentation. “For this year’s online edition of Saptak, we presented khayal compositions in Bageshree,” Mudgal told TOI. “They were followed by Kamod, a bol banao thumri in Mishra Khamaj and a dadra in Bhairavi.” Pradhan suggested that technology, though handy, cannot offer uniform service to culture. “Technology has been hugely empowering, naturally for those who have access to it,” Pradhan told TOI. “That leaves out a majority of folk musicians in far-flung areas.” It is fitting that musings about life unfolded like a raga — after all, humans in their existence and in music seek beautiful resolutions of complexities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/timeless-art-delivered-by-technology/articleshow/80159186.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Fatal mishap: Minors sent to state home||Hyderabad: Three minor boys, who were involved in a fatal road accident leading to the death of a pedestrian at Bachupally in September last year, were sent to Juvenile Observation Home by the Juvenile Justice Board, police said on Thursday. The three were proceeding from Bachupally to Nizampet on September 24 last year when the accident took place. According to police, the minors were triple riding on a scooter, when they hit A Venkata Babji, 55, a security guard at a courier service office, while he was crossing the road at Bachupally. Babji suffered grievous head injuries and died while being shifted to hospital. A case of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and under the Motor Vehicle Act was booked by the Bachupally police. It was also found during the investigation that the three minors were riding the two-wheeler at high speed without a valid driving licence. On December 30, the Cyberabad police produced the minors before the Juvenile Justice Board with a request to take necessary action. The JJB sent the boys to the Government Juvenile Observation Home for Boys. “The owner of the scooter, the mother of the boy who drove it, will also be prosecuted for allowing unauthorised persons to drive her vehicle. In this incident, the victim, who had come from a far-off place to Hyderabad for livelihood, has left behind a wife and two children, who are now struggling to live,” Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (Traffic) SM Vijay Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/fatal-mishap-minors-sent-to-state-home/articleshow/80160287.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||96.7% candidates qualify in CPGET||Hyderabad: A total of 96.7% candidates who appeared for the Telangana common post graduate entrance test (CPGET) qualified in the exam, results of which were declared by the Telangana State Council of Higher Education (TSCHE) on Thursday. Online registration and online certificate verification will commence from January 12. The web options for online counselling will commence from January 18. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/96-7-candidates-qualify-in-cpget/articleshow/80160312.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab urban body elections likely on February 20||CHANDIGARH: Elections to 118 civil bodies, including nine municipal corporations, in Punjab are likely to be held on February 20, even though the state election commission had conveyed February 13 as the date of completion of the exercise. A formal announcement, however, is still awaited. The elections are likely to be pushed to the next month-end even as the Congress hopes to take advantage of the farmers’ agitation to corner BJP, which has been citing deteriorating law and order situation in the state. When contacted, Congress president Sunil Jakhar said his party was ready to go to polls and the process had already been set in motion by inviting applications from candidates by January 12. Meanwhile, there have been reports of disputes over reservation of certain wards and also with the delimitation process in some cities. “However, this happens during every election and it is not a hurdle to holding the polls in time,” said an official. The state government will write to the state election commission about the new schedule before a final announcement is made. Box: Cong planning to rig the elections: AAPAam Aadmi Party (AAP) accused Congress state president Sunil Jakhar of interfering in the civic bodies elections in the state. Leader of opposition (LoP) in Punjab legislative assembly Harpal Singh Cheema said Jakhar was trying to interfere in next month’s municipal elections in Punjab. He alleged chief minister Amarinder Singh and Jakhar were planning to rig the elections and were not deterred by adopting any government manipulation to win the election. Cheema said Jakhar was neither an MLA, nor an MP or minister of any department, so in what capacity he was attending the government meetings. “Why does he interfere in government schemes and policy making?” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-ulb-polls-likely-on-feb-20/articleshow/80160315.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Three sites in Kolkata, 69 in West Bengal gear up for Covid vaccination dry run today||KOLKATA: From sanitization of vaccination sites to putting up awareness posters and selecting manpower who would be involved in the dry run on Friday, the two state-run hospitals in the city saw a flurry of preparatory activities on Thursday.  The Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research (IPGMER), NRS Medical College and Hospital and Kolkata Municipal Corporation-run Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC) will be part of the Covid-19 dry run in the city. Altogether, 69 vaccination sites across the state will undergo the dry run process on Friday. At IPGMER (SSKM), the trial will be held at the institute’s spacious auditorium. The auditorium and its surrounding underwent a thorough sanitization on Thursday. Segregation and putting up posters for places like the waiting room, vaccination room and observation rooms had be done for easy identification of those places by dummy beneficiaries who will turn up for the drill on Friday. “We have also identified the people who will play the vaccinator officer. They are trained and qualified to administer injection. Then there will be vaccination officers for the dry run in our facility. It is actually a dress rehearsal before the actual vaccination so that loopholes are checked and correctional measures taken,” said Raghunath Misra, medical superintendent and vice-principal of IPGMER. The Union health minister, during a video conference with health ministers and officials of all states that would carry out the dry run, on Thursday stressed on the mandatory observation of each beneficiary for half an hour after the vaccination. In the meeting presided over by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, the Centre told the state representatives to ensure electricity and internet connectivity at all dry run sites. During Thursday’s meet, Harsh Vardhan also emphasised on deploying trained healthcare workers who have the legal licence to administer an injection. These personnel will be the vaccinator officers. State health officials said all vaccinator officers who will be involved in the dry run are trained nurses adept at administering injections. “This is an exercise to familiarize all those who will be involved in the actual vaccination programmes, right from verification of beneficiaries, the vaccination, cold chain management, logistic support and transportation on vaccines from the nearest cold chain point, biomedical waste management and looking out for side-effects to uploading of data in the Co-WIN software,” said a senior health official. “We are ready for the dry run in the community medicine department. Hope all will go smoothly. There could be challenges and the dry runs are meant look for those challenges for ironing them out,” said Saibal Mukherjee, principal of NRS Medical College and Hospital. The UPHC in Ward 31 near Maniktala Municipal Market will be the third site in the city for Friday’s final dry run before the rollout of the vaccination programme. "We are prepared for a foolproof dry run with the experts in the field ready to train civic doctors and paramedics on this sensitive subject," ward co-ordinator Sunanda Guha said. All 23 districts of the state will carry out the dry run at three sites, with 25 dummy beneficiaries at each site. In North 24 Parganas, the sites will be at the district hospital in Barasat, Monirampur UPHC and Nanna Rural Hospital. In South 24 Parganas, apart from Diamond Harbour Medical College and Sarisha Block Primary Health Centre, Swaraghat Nursing Home, a private health unit, has been roped in for the dry run. (With inputs from Saikat Ray)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/3-sites-in-city-69-in-state-gear-up-for-covid-vaccination-dry-run-today/articleshow/80159201.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||New TPCC chief after civic elections: Tagore||Hyderabad: Telangana Congress affairs incharge Manickam Tagore announced that there will not be any change in the Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president’s post and present committee till the completion of Nargarjuna Sagar bypoll and Warangal and Khammam civic polls. At a press conference here on Thursday, Manickam Tagore said that N Uttam Kumar Reddy will continue as TPCC president and Revanth Reddy and Kusum Kumar will continue as working presidents. He said that party veteran Jana Reddy suggested to the Congress leadership that the TPCC chief should be finalised only after the elections. He said that Congress president Sonia Gandhi has agreed to Jana Reddy’s plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-tpcc-chief-after-civic-elections-tagore/articleshow/80160322.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Discoms crack the whip on bill defaulters in Telangana's Nizamabad||HYDERABAD: Several government offices in Nizamabad are struggling for electricity as power supply in the offices has been disconnected due to non-payment of dues. Although the officials are approaching the electricity staff to restore power supply, they are being told that the power will be restored only after they clear the dues. Some offices, including gram panchayats, have to clear lakhs of rupees as dues. The Bodhan Revenue Divisional Office in Nizamabad also lost power due to pending dues. A tahsildar had to plead with an assistant engineer to restore power supply in his office as they had some land registrations to complete. It is learnt that the power supply was given through an alternative electricity meter, but officials were informed that the rules were clear that unless pending dues were cleared power supply will not be restored. The tahsildar’s office has pending dues of Rs 3.61 lakh. An MPDO’s office has Rs 1.8 lakh dues and several government schools are also said to owe power dues. A Telangana State Northern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSNPDCL) official said that because of power supply being disconnected, pending dues were getting cleared from various offices. Sometimes government offices cite delay in release of budget for being unable to pay the bills in time. There are, however, some technical issues because of which government officials have had to go without power. An assistant engineer of Renjal, E Kishan, said the pre-paid electricity meters had to be recharged by the offices when there is no balance left. “If this is not done, power supply goes off automatically. However, if the amount is deposited again, power supply is restored,” he said. Electricity officials had categorised government offices into emergency and non-emergency services. The collector’s office, police stations, government hostels, fire stations and government hospitals were put in emergency category and were exempt from penal action. However, other offices would have to pay the bills.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/discoms-crack-the-whip-on-bill-defaulters-in-nzb/articleshow/80160310.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||Last-min volunteer surge a shot in arm for vax trial||Kolkata: Though the response was lukewarm initially, there has been a late rush of volunteers for the third phase of Covaxin’s clinical trial. By Friday, all 1,000 volunteers are expected to get the first shot at ICMR-NICED (National Institute of Cholera and Enteric Diseases), Kolkata. The trial team has already started giving the second shot to volunteers who have completed the mandatory 27-day waiting period after the first jab. The institute expects to wrap up the second shot of all 1,000 volunteers by the first week of February. “There has been an overwhelming response from volunteers who are from different walks of life, making it possible for us to proceed with the trial smoothly. We are thankful to them for coming forward,” said ICMR-NICED director Shanta Dutta. The Phase-III trial of the home-grown vaccine was launched on December 2, with state urban development minister Firhad Hakim being the foremost to get the first jab on the institute’s Beliaghata premises. Hakim had taken the second shot on December 30. Till Thursday, at least 950 volunteers had been administered their first dose, making the trial team confident that they will be able to cover the rest by Friday. Each volunteer is being given the second dose on the 28th day after the first shot. No volunteer has reported any adverse reaction so far. “We would be able to complete the second dose to all volunteers on the 28th day after the 1,000th volunteer is administered the first dose, which is likely to be in a day,” added the NICED director. The Phase-III clinical trial in Kolkata is part of the pan-India multi-centric study by manufacturer Bharat Biotech with support from ICMR, involving 25,800 volunteers across the country. In Kolkata, 500 volunteers out of 1,000 are being administered the actual vaccine while the rest are being given the placebo. As the trial is a randomised double-blinded-placebo-controlled trial, neither the investigator nor the volunteers are supposed to know who is getting the vaccine and who is getting the placebo. The information will unfold only after the trial comes to an end and the data is unfolded. “Though I really hope I have received the actual vaccine, I wouldn’t mind if I got the placebo. I went ahead to volunteer for the trial as a responsible citizen in the hope that a vaccine will put to an end to the pandemic,” said a volunteer who got the second dose a week ago. Covaxin and Covishield are the two vaccines that have been granted emergency use authorization in India. Both or any one of these vaccines are expected to arrive in the city soon for the country-wide rollout likely soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/last-min-volunteer-surge-a-shot-in-arm-for-vax-trial/articleshow/80159219.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 8, 2021||Nashik||‘Sena will go all out to wrest control of NMC’||Nashik: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut said that his party would go all out to wrest control of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) during the civic elections in 2022. Raut, who came to Nashik on a two-day tour, addressed a meeting of Shiv Sena functionaries and also inaugurated several developmental works in the Nashik Road area on Wednesday. Recalling the fact that Balasaheb Thackeray had opened first Shakha (branch) outside Mumbai and Thane at Deolaligaon in Nashik city, Raut exhorted the functionaries to ensure the ‘saffron’ unfurled on the NMC’s headquarter this time. “This will be the biggest tribute to the supremo (Balasaheb) of the party,” said Raut. He also pointed out that the there were critics who would say that the Shiv Sena does had no hold beyond Mumbai and Thane and that the party would never survive outside the region. “Today, the party is in power at the state and Uddhav Thackeray is the chief minister. It is a befitting reply to all the critics,” he said .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sena-will-go-all-out-to-wrest-control-of-nmc/articleshow/80158140.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||No contempt if order can’t be followed: Punjab and Haryana HC||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has held that the implementing party cannot be subject to contempt of court for non-compliance of a judicial order on account of practical difficulties. The was hearing a review plea in a case where the authorities had failed to provide CCTV footage related to an incident in Faridabad to the victim despite HC’s directions on account of the footage being erased automatically after 20-days. Justice Augustine George Masih passed these orders on Wednesday,"…it is clarified that in case the said information is not available with the respondents and there is an automatic provision of erasing of the CCTV Footage leading to no-retrieval thereof, the factum of non-compliance of the order passed by this court would in itself not render the respondents liable for proceedings under the Contempt of Court Act…. an order, which cannot be complied with, practically would not amount to contempt." In this case, Ashish, a resident of Chandigarh, was reportedly assaulted on November 20, 2015, at district and sessions court Faridabad and a DDR was recorded by the local police on his complaint. According to him, his wife was posted at the district and sessions court Faridabad, and he was assaulted at her instance so that he may not come again to pursue the face filed against her. The incident was stated to have been captured on CCTV and it was alleged in the complaint that the involvement of local staff among the assailants at the instance of his wife was highly probable. On December 26, 2015, he had sought information under RTI from the public information officer of the sessions court Faridabad to provide CCTV footage. However, the information was denied to him on the plea that the requisite information is exempted from disclosure under Section 8 (1) (g) of the Right to Information Act 2005. First appeal as well as the second appeal of the petitioner was dismissed after which he had approached the high court for relief. Hearing his plea, the HC on May 22, 2019, had observed that it is not clear as to how the said disclosure could endanger the life or physical safety of any person. The HC had also ordered the authorities to provide CCTV footage to Ashish. As the authorities failed to retrieve the footage on account of lapse of time, they had moved a review petition before the HC expressing inability to provide information.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/no-contempt-of-court-if-judicial-order-cant-be-followed-due-to-practical-difficulties-hc/articleshow/80160304.cms||Ajay Sura
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Unable to prove his innocence, man gets life sentence for wife’s murder||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Friday awarded life imprisonment to a man for killing his wife in 2015, observing only he could explain the cause of his wife’s death for it was only within his specific knowledge. Khem Chand, 32, was accused of killing his wife Reena, who was 24-year-old at the time of her death. The couple had two minor children. The postmortem concluded the cause of death to be asphyxiation due to strangulation. According to the judgment, in April, 2015, Reena’s mother received a call from her home that she was unwell. The mother was told to come to the matrimonial home, where she saw her daughter’s lifeless body lying in a room and fainted. When she regained consciousness she was informed by the accused’s family members that though Reena was rushed to a hospital, she was declared dead on arrival. The woman had later denied to have accused her son-in-law of killing her daughter. The court noted that the case had no witness and wholly rested on circumstantial evidence. It was observed that before the court, the mother had backtracked from her earlier statement where she had accused Chand of cruelty and dowry demand. A crucial aspect about the accused’s conduct was seen from his statement where he had informed the hospital doctor that he was taking his wife to some other hospital. The court highlighted that instead of taking her to another medical facility, Chand and his family members took the victim back home. An independent witness, a neighbour, had testified about the presence of the husband in the house when the wife had reportedly fallen unconscious. Form his testimony, the court carved out a finding that only the accused and the victim were present in the room at the relevant period of time. Therefore, legally, the burden was put on Chand to prove his innocence for only he knew as to what had happened to his wife following which she died. Coupled with medical evidence brought on record by the prosecution in the form of the doctor, who conducted Reena’s postmortem, it was proved in court that her death was homicidal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/unable-to-prove-his-innocence-man-gets-life-sentence-for-wifes-murder/articleshow/80178529.cms||Aamir Khan
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||State spent more funds than what Centre gave: Warangal mayor||Warangal: Refuting the allegations of BJP state president Bandi Sanjay that smart city funds were diverted, Warangal mayor Gunda Prakasa Rao said that the funds were utilised to provide civic amenities. “The state government had spent more funds than those allocated by the Centre under the smart city programme. Thanks to the state government the city is free from drinking water scarcity. The Greater Warangal Municipal Corporation (GWMC) now has 126 reservoirs and 40 water purifying centres,” Rao said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-spent-more-funds-than-what-centre-gave-warangal-mayor/articleshow/80160339.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kolkata||CM Mamata Banerjee’s applaud letter for health workers||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday wrote to over 6 lakh healthcare professionals in Bengal, both in government and private sectors, applauding their battle against Covid-19. Nearly 90 healthcare professionals in the state have died due to Covid while many have fallen ill. The CM’s personal note said their battles for society and people at large is inspiring. The letter comes a day ahead of the first lot of vaccines, approved for emergency use authorisation, reaches Bengal. Healthcare workers will be the first to be vaccinated. “Your role in this fight is undeniable,” she wrote, saying “You have stood by people during Covid, some of you have even suffered due to it.” She said that healthcare workers have shouldered a bigger role. “You have battled Covid yourself and after recovery, who have helped people recover too,” she said. “I will hope that after battling Covid, you will be mentally stronger and continue serving society and people,” she said. Health department sources said these letters will be given to all healthcare workers across Bengal. The health department has also prepared a detailed list of healthcare workers who will be handed over the personal appreciation letter by Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cms-applaud-letter-for-health-workers/articleshow/80159222.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Accident victim gives life to three||Ahmedabad: Death of Shailesh Patel, 48, a resident of Bapunagar, gave a new lease of life to three at Civil Hospital on Wednesday. Patel, who had sustained severe injuries in a road accident near Naroda on January 2, was declared brain dead on January 5. His two kidneys have been transplanted to a 10-year-old child and a 22-year-old youth, whereas his liver was transplanted to a 52-year-old man, said the state organ and tissues transplant authority (SOTTO) officials. His corneas have also been retrieved to transplant, they added. “When we were told about the possibility of organ donation and the chance of his memory living in others, it was an opportunity we did not want to lose,” said his wife Rekha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/accident-victim-gives-life-to-three/articleshow/80159225.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||97% of Shegaon shrine devpt work completed: Amicus to HC||Nagpur: In some good news for Gajanan Maharaj devotees, the ongoing development work of Shegaon shrine is 97% completed and the remaining would be done as per stipulated dates. Even the much-awaited skywalk connecting Balapur Road from the temple is completed.This was informed through a detailed note by amicus curiae Firdos Mirza to the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday, after which the plea was adjourned. The HC was hearing a plea by Anandilal Bhutada and Suresh Jaipuriya demanding development of Shegaon shrine.While informing about the recent meeting of shrines’ development committee under divisional commissioner, Mirza informed the HC had granted status quo on a 20 metres road on February 11, 2019, which is part of remaining work. He suggested that for better uplift of the beautiful skywalk that would pass from Anand Vihar, its maintenance should be handed over to the Shegaon Sansthan which is very efficiently managing the popular temple affairs. A proposal in this regard was already forwarded by the divisional commissioner to Maharashtra government for approval.According to him, the skywalk was constructed after spending a huge amount and it would help in reducing vehicular traffic of the temple town. “It would require regular maintenance and security along with proper crowd management. Currently, it is lying unattended and hence there is a threat from miscreants to damage it,” Mirza said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/97-of-shegaon-shrine-devpt-work-completed-amicus-to-hc/articleshow/80159229.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||One suspected patient ‘tests –ve’ for UK mutated variant of Covid-19||Nagpur: One of the five suspected patients admitted in the special ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has reportedly tested negative in genome sequencing for UK mutated variant of Covid-19. Result of another suspected patient is reportedly inconclusive.One of the top officials of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) told TOI, “National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, sent reports of two suspected patients on Thursday. Genome sequencing of one patient has been done and reports are negative for the new strain of novel coronavirus that had emerged in UK. The NIV gave inconclusive report of another patient. The GMCH has sought clarification on the inconclusive report from the NIV,” he said.The patient who tested negative is probably a 38-year-old man from Vitthalwadi. GMCH dean Dr Sajal Mitra did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages.If the NMC official is to be believed, genome sequencing has been conducted for the first time on swab samples of the city’s suspected patient.On Monday, the GMCH had discharged three suspected patients — a youth from Nandanvan, a man from Narendra Nagar and a woman from Wardhaman Nagar. Genome sequencing of these patients could not happen as RT-PCR tests of their swab samples were negative at NIV. Genome sequencing cannot be conducted if swab samples are negative as they lack virus.Sources from the NMC said, “Result of one patient is inconclusive. GMCH did not sent sufficient quantity of swab samples of the patient to the NIV. Therefore, the NIV stated that the quantity of swab samples was insufficient for genome sequencing.”If the information given by the NMC sources turns out to be true, the GMCH will have to again send positive swab samples of the patient to the NIV.The patient whose test was reportedly negative was not discharged on Thursday as the results arrived late evening. The patient is likely to be discharged on Friday.Reports of remaining three suspected patients are awaited from the NIV despite passing of 11-14 days. Also, results of three family members of a man from Nandanvan are also pending with the NIV for the last 14 days.--------------------------------Urban task force to decide on discharge of 4 patients todayMunicipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B will hold a meeting of Urban Task Force at 1pm on Friday to decide on discharge of four suspected patients of UK mutated variant.The officials from the NMC, GMCH and IGGMCH will be present in the meeting. Among the five suspected patients, mother-daughter duo from Deendayal Nagar have completed 14 days since testing positive. Their reports are awaited from the NIV.As per decision taken by district task force a couple of days ago, RT-PCR test of the two patients was supposed to be done on 14th and 15th day. They should be discharged if their report is negative even if their reports are not received from NIV. But the GMCH reportedly not conduct RT-PCR test of the two women on Thursday.Remaining two patients are a man from Mahal and his son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-suspected-patient-tests-ve-for-uk-mutated-variant-of-covid-19/articleshow/80159246.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Unable to finish encroacher rehab process: Sanjay Gandhi National Park to Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Twenty-three years after the Bombay high court first ordered the removal of all encroachers on Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) land, the park authorities have expressed their helplessness and inability to complete the rehabilitation process. In an affidavit filed before the HC on Wednesday, Sachin Repal, divisional forest officer (Wildlife 1), said that they have been able to “only partially rehabilitate the eligible encroachers”. The affidavit was submitted in response to a petition filed by the families rendered homeless by a wall collapse at Kurar village in Malad (E) in 2019 owing to heavy rain. The families had been residing on forest land and irrespective of their eligibility, the government had released 100 tenements for their rehabilitation. Of these, 82 families were rehabilitated at Kandivli (W). The remaining 23 were to be rehabilitated at Mahul, but an HC stay order on shifting people there did not allow this. Repal, in his affidavit, stated that for various reasons ranging from the scale of rehabilitation (25,144 families), funding required, unwillingness of eligible encroachers to be rehabilitated at Shirdon in Kalyan to the objections raised by the Director General of Civil Aviation that the rehabilitation buildings at Chandivli were in the flight funnel zone of Mumbai international airport, the directions for removal of encroac-hments and rehabilitation of eligible encroachers has only been partially complied with. He further said that because of these developments, it was apparent that rehabilitation at Chandivli was not possible in the immediate future. Repal said that SGNP authorities approached various agencies, including the collectors of Suburban Mumbai and Thane, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, Thane Municipal Corporation, Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority, Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) and Slum Rehabilitation Authority for land and tenements, but so far has not received any assistance. The affidavit said that in 2018, a state-appointed high-powered committee to resolve the rehabilitation issue had decided that of the 190 ac-res handed over to SGNP for developing a zoo, 90 acres be used for rehabilitation of eligible families—47 acres to build high-rises for encroachers and 47 acres to rehouse tribals. “Mhada even floated tenders, but received no bids. Now, 100 acres of this area has been earmarked as reserved forest,” said the affidavit. Repal also pointed out that forest officials were qualified only for management and conservation of forest areas and the park was understaffed. The rehabilitation on the orders of the court was an additional responsibility. As for the victims of the wall collapse, Repal said that they would be rehabilitated as and when the requisite tenements are available. He also asked for the petition to be dismissed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unable-to-finish-encroacher-rehab-process-sgnp-to-hc/articleshow/80160379.cms||Clara Lewis
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||We knew he would be one soon: DGP Nagrale’s father||Nagpur/Mumbai: As Namdeo Nagrale, 90, stepped out of his room to inquire the reason behind this reporter visiting their 56, Ramakrishna Colony residence at Dev Nagar, his daughter-in-law Devyani explained the nonagenarian that it was for collecting information about the formative years of his younger son Hemant who has just became Maharashtra’s director general of police (DGP), the highest post for the state’s cops, on Thursday.“Tumcha Munna (Hemant Nagrale’s nickname) ata DGP zhala’ (Your Munna has now become the DGP),” Devyani told her father-in-law whose face lit up just at the mention of it. Nodding his head in affirmative, Namdeo gently walked up to the sofa in their drawing room. “We knew he would be one soon,” said Namdeo. He was an executive engineer in the irrigation department in Madhya Pradesh and retired in 1988. Nagrale on Thursday took over as DGP from Subodh Jaiswal, who is all set to take over as the DG (Central Industrial Security Force). An IPS officer of the 1987 batch, Nagrale will hold additional charge till a regular DGP is appointed. He is currently serving as DGP (legal and technical). Home minister Anil Deshmukh expects that a regular DGP appointed very soon after following the due process prescribed by the Supreme Court. “We will submit the list of three senior most DGs to the central government and then a new DGP will be appointed as soon as possible,’’ said Deshmukh. In the seniority list, Jaiswal is followed by Sanjay Pande (1986 batch, in charge of home guards), Bipin Bihari (police housing corporation), Surendra Pandey (prisons) and Nagrale, all belong to 1987 batch, and Mumbai CP Parambir Singh, 1988 batch. Nagrale spent his early life in Bhadravati in Chandrapur district. In 1973, Nagrale senior and his wife Pramila decided to build a house in Nagpur and shift with their children, Dilip, Hemant and Kirti for their education. The IPS officer learnt Judo from former cop Puroshattam Choudhury in 1978 and earned black belt. “He had even excelled in the national police games in Judo,” said Choudhury. Devyani, who extolled Hemant for his determined approach, said he went to Morris College for coaching but largely studied on his own. “Sometimes, he (Hemant) would study from 8pm to 4am at a stretch. He would take part in sports, social activities and had various interests but was dedicated towards his goal,” she said. Her husband Dilip, a retired NMC engineer, said the family was overwhelmed when TV channels started beaming the news. The family wished Hemant luck.According to reports, government will submit the names of Sanjay Pandey, Nagrale and Parambir Singh for DGP’s post to the MHA, since Bipin Bihari is retiring on January 31, while Surendra Pandey retired on February 28. As per the norms prescribed by the apex court, those officers, who have more than six months service for retirement are only considered for appointment as DGP. If a senior cabinet member is to be believed, then Nagrale appears to be a front-runner for the DGP’s post. BOXHead: Many feathers in his cap- Spent early life in Bhadravati in Chandrapur district where he studied till Std VI at a ZP school - In Std VII, admitted at Patwardhan School in Sitabuldi, later completed BE (mechanical) from VNIT before qualifying for IPS - Did Master of Finance Management from Jamnalal Bajaj Institute of Management Studies. - Won president’s police medal and several national awards- After passing out of the police academy, his first assignment was in Naxal infested Chandrapur district. - As SP Ratnagiri, successfully handed the row over acquisition of land for the Enron power project - As CP (CID) he probed into the much publicized MPSC paper scam, which resulted in a capital punishment by the apex court - Worked in CBI in different capacities, as SP and DIG and supervised Ketan Parekh scam, Harshad Mehta cases and Madhaopura Coop bank scam - From May 2016 to July 2018, he was commissioner of police, Navi-Mumbai, before his appointment as DG (legal and technical)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/we-knew-he-would-be-one-soon-dgp-nagrales-father/articleshow/80159252.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||In 11 months, 2,270 farmer suicides in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: Maharashtra reported 2,270 cases of farmer suicides in the 11 months between January and November 2020. This is marginally lower than the 2,566 cases reported during the same time period in 2019. Of the 2,270 cases, only 920 or 40.5% were declared eligible for compensation, according to revenue department data collected by RTI activist Jeetendra Ghadge. The government awards compensation only in cases which it concludes are linked to indebtedness. Their kin receive compensation worth Rs1 lakh. According to the data, more than half the farmer suicides are from the cotton belt of Vidarbha which reported 1,230 farmer suicides. The arid belt of Marathwada reported 693 cases of farmer suicides, while North Maharashtra had 322 cases. The sugar belt of Western Maharashtra had 25 cases, while Konkan reported none. Although agriculture was considered the silver lining for the economy during the lockdown, farmers found it difficult to get good prices for their produce, says Ajit Navale from the Kisan Sabha. “Government procurement was higher than earlier years but many were not able to avail of it. As a result, they sold at lower prices to local traders,” he said. He said many farmers did not got the benefit of the Centre’s Krishi Samman Yojana and the state’s loan waiver scheme. The availability of spurious seeds had also caused problems, he said. “Both these schemes would have been helpful for farmers during the outbreak. For the loan waiver, the state should re-examine cases of farmers who were declared ineligible,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-11-months-2270-farmer-suicides/articleshow/80161775.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||New sugar mills to come up in Gurdaspur, Batala||Chandigarh: The Punjab cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa said on Thursday that two new sugar mills would soon be set up at Batala and Gurdaspur and the detailed project reports for these projects have been prepared. The minister also made it clear that the state cooperative sugar mills would soon clear the outstanding dues of cane growers, amounting to nearly Rs 150 crore. He said the state government was expecting the release of Rs 60.31 crore pertaining to the cooperative sugar mills of Punjab by the central government and the payment of cane growers will be released by January 13. He also said the state government was also focusing on increasing the area under sugarcane production. He added that the department would soon be providing complex fertilizer to farmers through Markfed and its tender has already been floated. The cabinet minister also shared that consequent to the Markfed manufactured Sohna brand honey clearing all quality parameters of the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE), its demand has witnessed 10-fold increase. Randhawa said the process pertaining to the merger of the District Central Coopertaive Banks (DCCBs) with the Punjab State Cooperative Banks (PSCBs) was in the final stages and this initiative would result in the strengthening of the cooperative sector banks. The minister said another flagship project of Milkfed in the form of Verka mega dairy at Bassi Pathana having two lakh litres per day capacity was expected to be completed by June 30. He also added that due to the high standard being followed while manufacturing the products, the Milkfed sales have been up by 32%. Randhawa also shared that a demand survey was underway for floating a housing scheme for providing flats in Mohali to the employees of cooperative departments and institutions besides journalists in the state through Housefed. Recounting various achievements of his department in the past one year, Randhawa said the capacity of Bhogpur cooperative sugar mills witnessed expansion from 1,000 TCD to 3,000 TCD with 15 MW co-generation plant by shifting of plant and machinery of closed sugar mill at Faridkot and addition of new boiler, power turbine and other equipments having latest technology at an estimated project cost of Rs 109.07 crore. The project work was completed in November 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/new-sugar-mills-to-come-up-in-gurdaspur-batala/articleshow/80160355.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: BJP to rope in national leaders, including Amit Shah, for MLC polls||HYDERABAD: With its experiment to rope in national leaders paying dividends in the GHMC elections, the BJP is once again deploying top leaders, including Union home minister Amit Shah, to campaign in the ensuing MLC graduates constituency elections. The party on Thursday held a review meeting on the preparation for the MLC elections. “We have already extended invitation to the national leaders, including Shah. Once the election dates are finalised, campaigning will begin in the third week of January,” party MLC N Ramchander Rao told TOI after the meeting. BJP Telangana affairs in-charge Tarun Chug attended the meeting. During the GHMC elections, apart from Shah, UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, BJP national president JP Nadda and other leaders addressed rallies. This time, Union ministers — Nirmala Sitharaman, Piyush Goyal, Prakash Javadekar and Sadananda Gowda — are being invited to campaign. During the review meeting on Thursday, it was decided that focus will be on employment issues instead of Hindutva agenda during the door-to-door and digital campaign. “All the top leaders have been told to spare more time for the campaign during the MLC elections. The party leadership is keen to retain the Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat,” a party leader said. For the Hyderabad-RR-Mahbubnagar graduates constituency, nearly four lakh people have enrolled and BJP has decided to enrol more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-to-rope-in-natl-leaders-including-shah-for-mlc-polls/articleshow/80160356.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||SCR to run addl special trains this month||Hyderabad: South Central Railway (SCR) is running several regular special trains and in addition to these trains, has planned to run additional services of festival specials during the month of January to cater to the needs of passengers during festival season. SCR is running these special trains in various destinations like Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Kakinada, Chennai, Trivandrum, Kollam, Bhubaneswar, Howrah, Mumbai, New Delhi, Guwahati, Danapur, Jaipur, Nagpur, Nanded, Parbhani, Aurangabad and Sirpur Kaghaznagar. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-run-addl-special-trains-this-month/articleshow/80160353.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||100 laptops donated to poor students||Hyderabad: The National Institute of Technology (NIT), Warangal on Thursday distributed laptops to over 100 economically backward students of the institute.The laptops are distributed by the NIT Warangal Alumni association and the teaching faculty of the NIT, Warangal on the campus. “In the current scenario, a laptop is more necessary than a book and pen to gain knowledge. Students are requested to utilise the laptops in a proper way. If the students make use of this opportunity and work hard, the results would be fruitful,” said NV Ramana Rao, director, NIT Warangal and appreciated the NITW Alumni association and teaching faculty for coming forward to help poor students in this pandemic situation. Murali K Gungi, secretary, NITW alumni association, said that they have responded to the appeal made by the director of the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-laptops-donated-to-poor-students/articleshow/80160386.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai businessman loses Rs 3 lakh to cyber fraudster||MUMBAI: A 66-year-old Malabar Hill resident, who has electronics material business, lost Rs 3 lakh to a cyber fraudster. The fraudster called him posing as a bank manager, and under the pretext of helping the senior citizen to update his ‘know your customer’ details, duped him. Jayprakash Mundada received a call from a man who identified himself as the bank manager of the branch where the victim has an account. To ‘update KYC details’, the caller sent him a link on his mobile and asked him to open it. He wheedled out other details including the OTP sent by the bank. The man realised he had been cheated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bizman-loses-3l-to-cyber-fraudster/articleshow/80161777.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu: With negligible duck numbers, Telangana can breathe easy||HYDERABAD: Amid fears over bird flu in ducks in states like Kerala, Telangana can breathe easy as the duck population is very low here. As per the bird census, there are only 53,181 ducks in the state — negligible when compared to the total poultry population of 7.9 crore. The commercial poultry accounts for major part of the population with 6.2 crore birds grown in various poultry farms. Officials say there is no immediate concern. But in view of 2015 experience during when lakhs of birds were culled, several steps are being initiated in the poultry farms. “The risk of infection is very less in Telangana as we do not depend on meat imports from other states,” animal husbandry department director V Lakshma Reddy said. However, as a precautionary measure, nearly 2,000 poultry farms have barred visitors now. With commercial poultry taken up on a large scale in the state, the animal husbandry department has asked the poultry farms, which are mostly located in districts surrounding Hyderabad, to take precautionary steps. Of the 2,000-odd poultry farms in the state, 400 are owned by big poultry farmers. The rest are run by smaller players. “Poultry farms contribute to the economic activity. Infection can lead to economic loss and we are taking utmost care,” an official said. “If any bird is detected with infection, we will send samples to Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bhopal. And then take recourse to culling of birds,” the official said. But regular samples are tested in Hyderabad only. In Thorrur village of Hayatnagar mandal, 20,000 birds were infected with bird flu in one particular poultry farm five years ago. The authorities destroyed 1.5 lakh birds within 1km vicinity of the farm irrespective of whether the birds were infected or not. A compensation of Rs 2 crore was also paid to the farmers then.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-with-negligible-duck-numbers-t-can-breathe-easy/articleshow/80160417.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: ‘Rural unemployment rose 11-fold, urban 4-fold’||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat, which had the lowest unemployment rate of just three people out 1,000 in rural areas in 2011-12 now has 33 persons of 1,000 unemployed in 2018-19. In urban areas, the unemployment rate of eight persons in 1,000 in 2011-12 has increased to 32 in 1,000 persons in 2018-19. A senior government official said the state government has been organizing job fairs, but there are instances where the youths offered jobs were removed from service after a year. This figure is not reflected in the report data, as there is no mechanism to count unemployed youths in the private sector. The data ‘state-wise unemployment rate’ released by the Reserve Bank of India reveals that unemployment in Gujarat was on the rise in rural areas over the last seven years. However, as compared to 2017-18, the unemployment rate in Gujarat has gone down. In 2017-18, the unemployment rate was 52 (out of 1,000 persons) in rural areas and 43 in urban areas. The data reveals that Gujarat was among the bottom three states in 2011-12 with a rate of eight persons unemployed in every thousand in urban areas, and in 2018-19 the state was in the second lowest rung with an urban unemployment rate of 32 per 1,000. A senior officer from the state government said that the overall unemployment rate in the country has also increased over the same period. In 2011-12 the national unemployment rate was 34 which has increased to 77 in 2018-19. Unemployment rate among urban men in Gujarat was 34 while the same among women was 25. Similarly, in rural areas the rate was 18 in rural women and 38 among rural men. Compared to Gujarat, the urban unemployment rate in Karnataka was 52 per 1,000, followed by Maharashtra at 64, Tamil Nadu 67, Andhra Pradesh 73, Haryana 87 and Kerala 97.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rural-unemployment-rose-11-fold-urban-4-fold/articleshow/80159264.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 8, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Cancer survivor fined for allegations against doctor||SURAT: A consumer court in Navsari district penalised a petitioner for making false allegations against a doctor who treated him for mouth cancer and the pathology laboratory which conducted the biopsy that led to the detection of the deadly disease. The Navsari Consumer Dispute Redressal Commission directed the complainant Rakesh Trivedi (37), a resident of Mandvi town of Surat district, to pay Rs 20,000 to Pooja Laboratory for dragging it into the case as a party and damaging its reputation. The court also rejected Trivedi’s claim against Dr Parimal Lad owner of Yesha Super Speciality Hospital, for charging more for his surgery and hospitalisation. According to case details, Trivedi had approached Dr Lad in June 2016 following swelling on his tongue. The doctor took a sample from tongue and sent it for biopsy to Pooja Laboratory which confirmed the presence of cancerous cells. Dr Lad advised immediate surgery, but Trivedi needed time to arrange for the money of the surgery. However, Dr Lad told Trivedi to pay money later and explained him the expenditure for surgery and hospitalisation. Trivedi agreed and got admitted to the hospital where the surgery was performed. The doctors also found cancerous cells in some portion of Trivedi’s neck, which was also removed along with those on the tongue. At the time of discharge, the hospital issued a bill of Rs 1.14 lakh for the treatment and also charged Rs 18,795 for the medicines. Trivedi claimed that he was being overcharged and alleged that he had given consent for surgery on his tongue, but the doctor removed a portion from his neck as well. He then approached the consumer court and claimed that he had suffered permanent disability on his right hand after the surgery. Trivedi also claimed that despite paying Rs 1,000 for biopsy, Pooja Laboratory did not give him the report and made Dr Narayani Bhatt, owner of the laboratory, a party to the litigation. Trivedi demanded Rs 3 lakh from hospital claiming medical negligence and Rs 1 lakh for his permanent disability. He demanded Rs 25,000 from Pooja Laboratory for not providing him with the biopsy report. Dr Lad’s advocated argued that the cancerous portion from the neck was removed to save Trivedi’s life. “The complainant had taken advantage of the doctor’s humanity and also has failed to prove that his permanent disability was caused because of surgery,” the court observed while rejecting Trivedi’s claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/cancer-survivor-fined-for-allegations-against-doctor/articleshow/80158181.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 8, 2021||Surat||Surat staring at thirsty days: Study||Surat: The Diamond City Surat also known as the hub of man-made fibre (MMF) in the country could be staring at chronic water shortage and food security issue in the near future owing to increasing population, decreasing water availability along the climatically sensitive Tapi river basin. This was the conclusion of a study done by researchers of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Institute of Technology (SVNIT), Surat and Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mumbai. The researchers who investigated the long-term changes in the flow of Tapi river and its and socio-environmental implications detected abrupt and gradual changes in the river’s flow between 1973 and 2013 The study — Impact of rainfall variability and anthropogenic activities on streamflow changes and water stress conditions across Tapi Basin in India — was recently published in the journal ‘Science of the Total Environment’. The authors of the study include Priyank Sharma, P L Patel of SVNIT and V Jyothiprakash from the Department of Civil Engineering, IIT Mumbai. For the purpose of the study the Tapi basin has been divided into three parts — the upper Tapi basin (UTB) consisting of regions of river’s origin in Multai in Madhya Pradesh to Hathnur Dam; middle Tapi basin (MTB) which included the region between Hathnur Dam to Ukai Dam and the lower Tapi basin (LTB) which mainly consists of the region between Ukai Dam and the Arabian sea, that is, the Surat city area. “The flow of Tapi river exhibited predominantly decreasing trends across the basin, except in the upper reaches. The decreasing flow of the river is largely attributed to anthropogenic activities such as changes in the land use patterns, increase in agriculture area, construction of minor and medium hydraulic structures, decrease in forest cover, rapid urbanization, excessive groundwater extraction and streamflow regulations,” Patel, who is also deputy director of SVNIT told TOI. He said that urbanization and rapid industrialization, which warrant more water requirement has exacerbated stress on the existing surface water systems and led to the extraction of excessive groundwater in LTB (Surat city area). This is is clearly evident from the falling trends of pre-monsoon and post-monsoon groundwater levels, Patel added. Sharma, who took up the study as part of his PhD thesis said that the per capita water availability in the Tapi basin had alarmingly decreased over the period of time. “Wherein, (there was a) substantial rise in the percentage of population living in the basin with chronic water shortage from 34% in the year 1981 to 63.2% in the year 2011, has been observed,” he added. “The excessive groundwater extraction, particularly in coastal regions of Tapi basin near Surat would aggravate the salt water intrusion into the inland aquifers, thus, may render the groundwater unfit for use,” the study states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-staring-at-thirsty-days-study/articleshow/80158216.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Former Maharashtra CM meets RBI governor over housing society redevelopment loans||MUMBAI: Opposition leader Devendra Fadnavis has demanded that the Reserve Bank of India allow district cooperative banks to fund self-redevelopment of old housing societies. Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, chairman of the Mumbai District Co-operative Bank met RBI governor Shaktikanta Das on Thursday, asking him to withdraw the circular disallowing district co-operative banks to do so. “There are over 5,800 redevelopment projects pending in Mumbai and the residents of such societies... have been rendered homeless,” said Fadnavis in his note to the RBI governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-cm-meets-rbi-guv-over-hsg-soc-redevpt-loans/articleshow/80161786.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Bill collector, assistant held for taking bribe||Coimbatore: The directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) arrested a bill collector of the city corporation and his assistant while accepting a bribe of Rs 18,000. The arrested people were identified as A Gouse Mohideen, 54 and C Dhanabal, 32, of Kavundampalayam. Mohideen, a bill collector deployed in the 97th ward, used to pay Dhanabal Rs 13,000 per month for assisting him in the work. The duo visited the house of Senthilkumar of Sundarapuram and found out that he had made an additional construction without getting approval from the corporation. Mohideen demanded Rs 30,000 for not imposing fine and later brought it down to Rs 18,000. Meanwhile, Senthilkumar approached DVAC deputy superintendent T H Ganesh and told him about the duo. DVAC inspector Vijayalakhsmi laid a trap to catch them. When Senthilkumar handed over Rs 18,000 to Mohideen and Dhanabal at the tax collection centre on the Madukkarai Market Road, DVAC sleuths in plain clothes caught them red-handed. The duo was booked under sections 7 (a) and 12 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and remanded in judicial custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bill-collector-assistant-held-for-taking-bribe/articleshow/80160449.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: No online classes, attendance doubles in rural schools||BHOPAL: After reopening of schools for classes 9 to 12, students in rural areas have registered higher attendance than those living in urban areas. As per the school education department records, around 60% students have made their presence in the rural part of Bhopal district compared to 30% in the urban part of the state capital. Officials said absence of online classes had forced students to attend classes in rural areas. The state government had allowed schools to open regular classes since December 18. Since then, the biggest challenge for schools has been to attract students towards campuses. However, the situation in schools in rural areas is completely different where students are voluntarily attending classes. Students’ attendance in rural areas has been rising regularly. DEO Bhopal, Nitin Saxena, said, “Even I was surprised when I checked the data of attendance. We analyze govt school data on a daily basis. Even on the first day, around 40% students made it to the schools. Now, the strength is between 60% and 70%. In Bhopal, attendance is still hovering around 30%.” Asked about the reason behind the good attendance in rural area schools, the DEO said, “We are analysing it.” On the condition of anonymity, a senior official of the school education department told TOI that the absence of online classes for rural students has forced them to attend classes in large numbers ever since the campuses were opened. “A majority of the students in rural areas could not attend online classes due to various reasons. Several students did not have proper phones and data while others were not able to afford the necessary gadgets to attend online classes. This was not the case with the urban students. In such a situation, it was obvious why students of rural areas have started attending classes regularly,” said the official, not wishing to be named. Officials claimed that in a few schools, attendance has even touched 70%. “Students still have ample time to complete their course by attending the regular classes as exams may take place in April end,” said the official. Even rural students said that they can't afford to miss classes. “This is a big opportunity for us. I am a class 12 student and there would be no other way to complete the syllabus. I am not going to miss classes on any condition,” said Satish Singh, a student from Phanda block.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/attendance-double-in-rural-schools-officials-cite-lack-of-online-classes/articleshow/80159305.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||CM confusing people: Bandi||BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao was trying to confuse people by giving misleading signals that the BJP and the TRS are on the same page. “But, people will not believe this. The CM does not have confidence in his ministers and leaders and hence, is restoring to such tricks,” Sanjay alleged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cm-confusing-people-bandi/articleshow/80160453.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Surat||Bird flu: Four crows drop dead in Gujarat's Modhera||AHMEDABAD/SURAT: With hundreds of birds dead due to bird flu across the country, the discovery of four dead crows near the famous Sun Temple in Modhera, Mehsana, sent locals in a tizzy. They called the animal husbandry department that sent the carcasses to a Bhopal-based laboratory to check if the death occurred due to avian flu.  The department has also taken 54 samples of migratory birds from Thol Bird Sanctuary and sent them to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal. Mehsana animal husbandry officer Bharat Desai said, “In case of avian flu, a large number of birds die suddenly. In this case, only four have died due to unknown reasons. Even though it does not look like a case of avian influenza, we have sent the carcasses to a laboratory in Bhopal for a detailed analysis.” Dr Desai added, “As a precautionary measure, the animal husbandry department collected samples, including bird droppings and blood, of 50 migratory birds from Thol and sent them to Bhopal for analysis." Meanwhile, two more lapwings who were found sick near Bantva dam in Manavadar, died during treatment. Their samples have also been sent to Bhopal. As many as 53 birds, including six migratory species were found dead in Manavadar on January 2, raising suspicion of bird flu. However, the animal husbandry department and forest department concluded that these birds had died of eating wheat heavily laced with pesticides. Meanwhile, in Tapi, the animal husbandry department swung into action after reports that a large number of poultry birds have died in villages of Uchhal taluka over the past few days. “With bird flu cases being reported from other states, the department took samples and sent them to Bhopal for investigation,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bird-flu-four-crows-drop-dead-in-modhera/articleshow/80163947.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bird flu: Four crows drop dead in Gujarat's Modhera||AHMEDABAD/SURAT: With hundreds of birds dead due to bird flu across the country, the discovery of four dead crows near the famous Sun Temple in Modhera, Mehsana, sent locals in a tizzy. They called the animal husbandry department that sent the carcasses to a Bhopal-based laboratory to check if the death occurred due to avian flu.  The department has also taken 54 samples of migratory birds from Thol Bird Sanctuary and sent them to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal. Mehsana animal husbandry officer Bharat Desai said, “In case of avian flu, a large number of birds die suddenly. In this case, only four have died due to unknown reasons. Even though it does not look like a case of avian influenza, we have sent the carcasses to a laboratory in Bhopal for a detailed analysis.” Dr Desai added, “As a precautionary measure, the animal husbandry department collected samples, including bird droppings and blood, of 50 migratory birds from Thol and sent them to Bhopal for analysis." Meanwhile, two more lapwings who were found sick near Bantva dam in Manavadar, died during treatment. Their samples have also been sent to Bhopal. As many as 53 birds, including six migratory species were found dead in Manavadar on January 2, raising suspicion of bird flu. However, the animal husbandry department and forest department concluded that these birds had died of eating wheat heavily laced with pesticides. Meanwhile, in Tapi, the animal husbandry department swung into action after reports that a large number of poultry birds have died in villages of Uchhal taluka over the past few days. “With bird flu cases being reported from other states, the department took samples and sent them to Bhopal for investigation,” said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bird-flu-four-crows-drop-dead-in-modhera/articleshow/80160456.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Call taxi driver, 29-yr-old man held for raping Class XI girl||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore city (west) all-woman police on Thursday arrested a call taxi driver and a boyfriend of a 17-year-old girl on charges of raping the Class XI student under the Pocso Act. The arrested were identified as V Shanmugam, 39, from Saravanampatti, and G Ezhumalai, 29, from Lalpuram in Cuddalore. Police said Shanmugam, a call taxi driver, hailed from Tirupur district. He was staying along with his wife and two children in a rental house at Saravanampatti in the city. Ezhumalai was working in a motorcycle manufacturing unit at Oragadam in Chennai. On December 30, the minor girl’s mother lodged a missing complaint with Selvapuram (law & order) police. She told in her complaint that she was working as a housemaid and her husband was a cook. The couple has a 17-year-old daughter and an 11-year-old son. The girl is studying in Class XI in a private school. She went missing from home around 5am on December 30. Police registered a girl missing case. Preliminary inquiry revealed the girl befriended Ezhumalai on Facebook and shared her mobile phone number with him. Both decided to meet in Trichy. On December 29, the girl approached Shanmugam to take her to Trichy in his call taxi. The girl had earlier shared her mobile number with Shanmugam while taking a ride in his call taxi from a temple to her house during Diwali time. The next morning, Shanmugam picked her up from her house and took the girl to Ooty where he raped her repeatedly for three days. Later, he took the girl to Trichy and handed her over to Ezhumalai. Ezhumalai also raped her for three days. Later, the girl was abandoned by Ezhumalai. She managed to reach Velankanni from where she contacted her family over the phone. Police traced her in Velankanni and inquired with her. Based on her statement, the Selvapuram police arrested Shanmugam and Ezhumalai on Thursday and handed them over to the city (west) all-woman police. The girl missing case was altered to section 366 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 5 (l) (penetrative sexual assault) and 6 (punishment for penetrative sexual assault) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCOS) act. The duo was produced before the special court for POCSO cases and later, they were remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/call-taxi-driver-29-yr-old-man-held-for-raping-class-xi-girl/articleshow/80160455.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||774 new cases take state Covid tally to 2,46,822||Bhopal: As many as 774 new cases of fresh Covid-19 were diagnosed across Madhya Pradesh on Thursday. With the new infections, the count of corona cases has touched 2,46,822, according to health department reporting. The overall death toll rose to 3,682 with 12 more people succumbing to the viral infection. A total 750 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery count to 2,34,612. Five persons died of Covid-19 in Indore and one each in Bhopal, Gwalior, Khargone, Sagar, Ratlam, Vidisha and Morena. Of the 774 new cases, Bhopal accounted for 213 and Indore 190. With this, the number of cases in Indore rose to 56,106, including 900 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 40,398 with 587 fatalities. Indore now has 2,563 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal is 2,048. With 27,025 new COVID-19 tests conducted in the state in the last 24 hours, the overall number of tests rose to 48,27,887.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/774-new-cases-take-state-covid-tally-to-246822/articleshow/80159315.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 11 rapid response teams to keep vigil for bird flu cases, Manish Sisodia takes stock||NEW DELHI: Delhi government has set up 11 rapid response teams for monitoring and surveillance of the city’s potential hotspots for bird flu. In a meeting of the animal husbandry unit of development department, deputy CM Manish Sisodia on Thursday reviewed the preparedness and directed officials to ensure strict precautionary measures to prevent the infection. In a statement, the government said that not a single case of bird flu had been reported in Delhi so far. Avian Influenza (H5N1) is a viral disease that can spread from one bird to other birds and animals. Currently, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala are facing a bird flu scare. Directing for intensive monitoring across Delhi, Sisodia stated that guidelines and dos and don’ts should be strictly implemented immediately across the city’s poultry marketplaces. He also asked officials to carry out large-scale sample collection and ensure frequent reporting of the same. On October 28, 2020, Delhi government had issued an alert to all doctors and passed a directive to monitor bird flu. On January 4, guidelines were issued to all doctors to continue their regular sample collection and strict monitoring. Apart from this, health check-up and monitoring of ducks is also being done in various waterbodies. Doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals of the animal husbandry unit are continuously monitoring bird flu across the state. So far, more than 100 samples have been collected and sent to the designated lab in Jalandhar. The report is expected by Monday, the government said. Sisodia has directed officials to keep a close watch on poultry coming in from neighbouring states. He also instructed them to monitor potential hotspots like Ghazipur fish and poultry market, Shakti Sthal Lake, Sanjay Lake, Bhalswa Horseshoe Lake, Delhi zoo and smaller waterbodies in parks. Samples collected from all such areas would be monitored closely and reports regarding them sent frequently.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/11-rapid-response-teams-to-keep-vigil-for-bird-flu-cases-sisodia-takes-stock/articleshow/80160458.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||150 encroached houses demolished near Selvampathi tank||Coimbatore: The city municipal corporation on Thursday demolished around 150 houses that were encroaching an area near the Selvampathi tank bund on Sundapalayam Road here. The corporation will demolish 57 more houses on Friday.The corporation and the Tamil Nadu slum clearance board have started to demolish encroached structures near the Muthannankulam bund on Thadagam Road and Sundapalayam Road last year. Around 2,700 structures, including houses and shops, were demolished and over 40 acres of land were reclaimed by the corporation so far. The slum clearance board had allotted houses to the evicted families at Kovaipudur, Kuniyamuthur, Malumichampatti, Vellalore and UkkadamDuring this drive, the corporation had issued notice to the 207 households residing near the Selvampathi tank and they were allotted alternative houses at Kovaipudur. But most of them failed to vacate the area and filed a petition before the Supreme Court. However, the apex court gave an order in favour of the corporation. Subsequently, demolition works were intensified. Most of the remaining residents started leaving the area as electricity supply to all the 207 houses were disconnected on December 30. On Thursday morning, four earthmovers moved into the area and started demolishing the houses after officials evicted some people who were stayed behind. About 50 police personnel were deployed on Sundapalayam Road. “We have demolished around 150 houses till Thursday evening. The rest of the houses will be demolished on Friday,” said Sathya, assistant town planning officer, Coimbatore corporation.As many as 384 houses were built illegally on the Selvampathi tank bund and in the first phase, 207 houses would be demolished, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/150-encroached-houses-demolished-near-selvampathi-tank/articleshow/80160474.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bird flu: Gujarat steps up vigil||AHMEDABAD: After the Centre issued guidelines to tackle avian flu, the animal husbandry department has asked all deputy directors to keep a vigil in their respective areas. The officials said the central government has issued a revised action plan to deal with bird flu. The guidelines direct states to implement an absolute ban on movement of poultry as well as closure of poultry and egg shops in areas where bird flu has been confirmed. The action plan also advise restricting access to wild and stray birds as well as restrict movement of persons and vehicles in the State with diseased birds. The guidelines state that the destruction and culling of birds in the infected zone and disposal of dead birds must be held with all precautions. The birds where infection is observed have to be culled. Farmers and poultry owners have to be compensated for the loss of birds, it adds. The official guidelines state that poultry owners should not be allowed to restock birds in culling zone until after after three months of sanitization. Animal husbandry department officials say special emphasis will be given on surveillance in live bird markets, wetlands, border areas, and areas with high bird density which are inhabited by wild and migratory birds. Officials say, "The forest and animal husbandry departments have also asked officials in the bordering districts to check movement of birds from states like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. They are also keeping an eye on bird density in wetlands and report to concerned officials if there is a sudden increase in density.” The centre’s action plan states that the district collector will play a central and coordinating role to deal with the outbreak of avian influenza. The collector should ensure proper enforcement of restrictions including movement control, ban on sale of poultry related products, closure of shops, payment of compensation among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-steps-up-vigil/articleshow/80160469.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Pune: Woman cop attacked during illegal parking drive, 6 booked||PUNE: The Vishrantwadi police are on the hunt for six persons after a traffic police constable accused them of attacking her and two others during a drive against illegal parking of vehicles on a road on Wednesday afternoon. According to the FIR lodged by the 42-year-old constable, the incident happened while the police were taking action in no parking zone along the Pune-Alandi road. Two attendants were pelted with stones, while the constable was hit by stone and slapped, the complaint stated. The suspects were all residents of the nearby Shantinagar slum pocket and had no link to the drive, said the constable — posted with the Vishrantwadi traffic division. “None of them had parked their vehicles there. They suddenly hurled abuses and pelted the police team with stones,” she told TOI. Inspector Manisha Zende said, “We will know why they attacked we arrest them,” Zende said the constable and the attendants were affixing jammers on illegally parked four-wheelers when the six men attacked them. “The suspects threw stones at and injured the attendants, and slapped and abused the constable,” Zende said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-cop-attacked-during-illegal-parking-drive-6-booked/articleshow/80160472.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Husband of former sarpanch detained over honeytrap links||JAISALMER: Based on intelligence inputs on a case of honeytrap, CID police on Thursday in a joint operation detained the husband of a former sarpanch and inquired him over the matter. He has confessed to sharing confidential documents on social media and will be taken to Jaipur for intensive interrogation. The ISI has been obtaining information since the last one year about army’s confidential documents and movement etc allegedly by honey-trapping Satyanarayan Paliwal, the husband of a former sarpanch in Lathi police station area. The information on this was found by Indian intelligence and security agencies, following which he was detained. Pak intelligence agency ISI has been allegedly making efforts to get information about the army’s activities at Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district and other strategic activities. Pak intelligence agency ISI’s women wing sent a friend request to Satyanarayan Paliwal on social media and honey-trapped him. Sources said that he got friend requests on Facebook from two women from Pakistan — one of the women had mentioned working as a journalist and the other had mentioned working with a private company. Paliwal’s friendship with the two women started getting thicker and he would chat with them regularly. Later, the women would call him from Indian WhatsApp number and started collecting strategic and confidential information. Sources said that since he was husband of the sarpanch, certificates have to be given to regiments for firing and other activities and the sarpanch has all the information about the army’s activities and taking advantage of it, the ISI honey-trapped Paliwal and started collecting confidential information. Sources said the intelligence bureau some time ago got information about the honey-trap, after which vigil on Paliwal was increased and when it was confirmed, he was detained and inquired. In the initial inquiry, he confessed to sharing confidential army information on social media but said he did not take any money. Rajasthan intelligence ADG Umesh Mishra confirming the case said that Paliwal was detained on the suspicion of sending strategic information from Lathi area and he is being inquired and taken to Jaipur for intensive investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/husband-of-former-sarpanch-detained-over-honeytrap-links/articleshow/80160466.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Surat||Surat PSI’s suicide: Both sisters-in-law get bail||Surat: The district and sessions court granted regular bail to both sisters-in-law of police sub-inspector Amita Joshi who had committed suicide on December 5 last year.Manisha Bhatt (37) and Anikta Mehta (31) were booked in an offence of abetment to suicide lodged with Mahidharpura police station.Joshi, who was posted at the Udhna police station, had shot herself to death with her service revolver at her residence in Falsawadi police colony. Joshiis survived by a four-year-old son and police constable husband Vaibhav Vyas. Police arrested all the accused on December 23, 2020 and lodged them at Lajpore Central Jail. “The allegations mentioned against the applicants are general. There are no ingredients of abetment of suicide. The two accused are staying separately with their husbands and hence there is no question of mental or physical torture,” the womens’ advocate G I Desai argued. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-psis-suicide-both-sisters-in-law-get-bail/articleshow/80158230.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro: By March, Pink Line may become whole||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s longest corridor, Pink Line, which has been functioning as two separate corridors due to a “missing link” in Trilokpuri, will finally operate as one from March. Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) managing director Mangu Singh told TOI that not only would the gap between Trilokpuri and Mayur Vihar Pocket-I Metro stations be bridged by March, but trains were likely to start running as part of trial runs. “Physically, the gap will be closed by March, including the laying of tracks. Our attempt is to have train trials in that month through Trilokpuri,” Singh said. After trial runs, the newly constructed section would require safety approvals for starting commercial operations. The 58.6km Pink Line from Majlis Park to Shiv Vihar is one of the most ambitious corridors built by DMRC. It is also known as the “ring corridor” as it functions as an arc, connecting all the existing Metro corridors. Unavailability of land at Trilokpuri had meant that DMRC couldn’t construct a crucial stretch connecting Mayur Vihar Pocket-I to Trilokpuri station. As a result, while one section operates from Majlis Park to Mayur Vihar Pocket-I, with trains reversing back from the latter station, trains coming from Shiv Vihar return from Trilokpuri. Trilokpuri is a densely populated residential area and land was needed for the construction of 10 pillars to build the viaduct. The occupants of 108 plots in Block-15 had to be relocated to make this land available. DMRC was able to relocate most of the occupants to flats it had built nearby. The total length of the stretch on which work is currently on is 289 metres and pillars to support the viaduct had come up last year. Bridging this gap had been a huge challenge for DMRC till the last moment. Though work is on at a war footing, the farmers’ protest at Delhi’s borders means that construction material coming from other states cannot reach the site on time. This includes fabricated steel girder, a major construction material coming from Punjab. The restricted movement at the borders has posed a small setback to the project, but DMRC is still confident of closing the gap by March. Once the viaduct is complete, Pink Line would connect large parts of east Delhi with south and west. Also, DMRC has started construction work on the 12.58km Majlis Park-Maujpur corridor, which will turn the arc-like Pink Line into a complete circle. This corridor is a part of DMRC’s Phase-IV project and will also boast of the first cantilever bridge across the Yamuna. Tenders for the missing viaduct were floated in 2019 and construction was expected to be completed within eight months at a cost of Rs 15.6 crore. While finding enough land took a long time, DMRC finally managed to provide housing to all the affected families last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/by-march-pink-line-may-become-whole/articleshow/80160470.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 8, 2021||Hyderabad||T MPs meet LS Speaker||Hyderabad: Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla arrived in the city on Thursday. Telangana assembly speaker Pocharam Srinvas Reddy, legislative council chairman Gutta Sukhender Reddy and several MPs called on him. Om Birla is on a visit to the city to attend the wedding of TRS MP from Zaheerabad, B B Patil’s son. At the Raj Bhavan where he is staying, TRS leader in Lok Sabha Nama Nageshwara Rao, Chevella MP Ranjit Reddy, and Rajya Sabha MP Banda Prakash called him. Governor Tamilisai Soundarajan welcomed the Lok Sabha speaker at Raj Bhavan. TPCC president and Nalgonda MP Uttam Kumar Reddy and his wife, former MLA, Padmavathi also called on him and presented a memento. Om Birla said on twitter that during his one day visit to Telangana, the assembly speaker, council chairman and several MPs called on him. Hyderabad city police commissioner Anjani Kumar also called on the speaker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-mps-meet-ls-speaker/articleshow/80160473.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Husband of former sarpanch detained over honeytrap links||JAISALMER: Based on intelligence inputs on a case of honeytrap, CID police on Thursday in a joint operation detained the husband of a former sarpanch and inquired him over the matter. He has confessed to sharing confidential documents on social media and will be taken to Jaipur for intensive interrogation. The ISI has been obtaining information since the last one year about army’s confidential documents and movement etc allegedly by honey-trapping Satyanarayan Paliwal, the husband of a former sarpanch in Lathi police station area. The information on this was found by Indian intelligence and security agencies, following which he was detained. Pak intelligence agency ISI has been allegedly making efforts to get information about the army’s activities at Pokhran field firing range in Jaisalmer district and other strategic activities. Pak intelligence agency ISI’s women wing sent a friend request to Satyanarayan Paliwal on social media and honey-trapped him. Sources said that he got friend requests on Facebook from two women from Pakistan — one of the women had mentioned working as a journalist and the other had mentioned working with a private company. Paliwal’s friendship with the two women started getting thicker and he would chat with them regularly. Later, the women would call him from Indian WhatsApp number and started collecting strategic and confidential information. Sources said that since he was husband of the sarpanch, certificates have to be given to regiments for firing and other activities and the sarpanch has all the information about the army’s activities and taking advantage of it, the ISI honey-trapped Paliwal and started collecting confidential information. Sources said the intelligence bureau some time ago got information about the honey-trap, after which vigil on Paliwal was increased and when it was confirmed, he was detained and inquired. In the initial inquiry, he confessed to sharing confidential army information on social media but said he did not take any money. Rajasthan intelligence ADG Umesh Mishra confirming the case said that Paliwal was detained on the suspicion of sending strategic information from Lathi area and he is being inquired and taken to Jaipur for intensive investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/husband-of-former-sarpanch-detained-over-honeytrap-links/articleshow/80165769.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||All districts barring Bhopal to be covered in exercise||Bhopal: A massive Covid-19 vaccine dry-run in all districts across Madhya Pradesh barring Bhopal would be undertaken on Friday. As the state prepares for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout, preparedness and monitoring of the rehearsal at the scheduled sites would be a massive undertaking for the health department and other support agencies. It would coincide with a massive countrywide mock drill to prepare for the Covid-19 vaccination. It is being conducted in 736 districts across 33 states/UTs.“To begin with criterion of determining a health worker has been rephrased. Health workers in administrative duties would also include in definition of health worker and thereby get the vaccine shot in the first phase,” said a senior health official. Collation of data of such new beneficiaries is being added to the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network or CoWIN. More than four lakh people would be covered as healthcare workers in Madhya Pradesh.This dry run was aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccination rollout in the health system and to assess operational feasibility of using Co-WIN application in field environment for planning, implementation and reporting at the block, district and state level.Earlier, Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) announced restricted emergency use for two Covid-19 vaccines — Bharat Biotech’s COVAXIN and Serum Institute of India’s Covishield.Capacity building activities at vaccination sites ahead of Covid-19 vaccination At the district level, the district immunisation officer has been entrusted to ensure all health personnel involved in the Covid-19 immunization programme are trained, cold chain is adequate and processes are in place to manage Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) following vaccination.Another important factor in the chain is doctors report minor, serious or severe AEFIs using the recommended processes. A district AEFI committee will include neurologists, cardiologists, respiratory medicine specialists/medical specialists and obstetrician and gynaecologist. These specialists will support in investigation of the case and establishing a diagnosis for causality assessment. Distribution of vaccine has been left to tracking zone wise, under a SDM jurisdiction in most districts, according to reports. Each of the SDM has held meetings with beneficiaries including private practitioners, hospital and medical college representatives. Various SOP for prevention of pilferage of Covid-19 vaccines has been recommended by the national guidelines on Covid-19 vaccination. “Setting up adequate policies and procedures is vital and crucial,” said a health official. The Co-WIN system is designed for end-to-end tracking of Covid-19 vaccines and linking every dose to individual beneficiary. As part of the Co-WIN system, details of Covid-19 vaccine (name of vaccine, batch, manufacturing date) will be entered in the electronic database and vaccine doses along with batch number will be allocated to each site using the electronic system only. Tracking every Covid-19 vaccine vial up to last mile is the goal, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/all-districts-barring-bhopal-to-be-covered-in-exercise/articleshow/80159332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Nilgiris registered less rainfall in 2020 compared to 2019||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris district received less amount of rainfall in 2020 compared to 2019. While the district received an average of 1726mm of rainfall in 2020, it registered 2282mm of rainfall in 2019. Besides, the amount of rainfall in 2020 was lesser than the average annual normal rainfall of 1920mm in the hill district. The pattern of rain was also erratic in the year.While the rain received in May stood at 67mm against the normal reading of 133 mm, August saw over 225% of more rain against the normal reading of 270mm. According to farmers and horticulture officials, while the erratic pattern of rain caused damage to crops in August, the excess rainfall in October and December favoured the farm lands.In June and July, the normal rainfall should be around 231mm and 405mm respectively, but the district received 152mm and 238mm of rainfall respectively due to failure of southwest monsoon.In August, incessant rain coupled with gusty wind in the hills caused minor landslips, numerous tree falls across the district and floods in some parts in Gudalur and Pandalur taluks. An average of 628mm of rainfall was recorded in the district in August against the normal rain of 270mm. In December, frequent rain kept away the frost formation. Krishnan of Nilgiri Farmers’ Association said, "The Nilgiris saw considerably less rain in June and July last year which affected the sowing process. The rain was unexpectedly heavy in August damaging the crops." Not cultivating in November and December is always beneficial to farmers as weeds and worms would die in the winter weather, he added.A Kumaran, another farmer, said, "Erratic and heavy rain in general will not do any damage to tea plantations as they are cultivated on slopes. But vegetable cultivation will be affected." Kumaran said good rain last year facilitated a good yield in tea plantations.Joint director of horticulture department Shiva Subramaniam Samraj said agriculture in the Nilgiris is always rain-fed and depends on natural streams. He said, "In general, normal rain as expected according to the seasons will help the farmers in a big way. But, when the rain pattern is erratic, then the farmers will be in trouble. Of course, last year the pattern of rainfall was very much erratic and affected the crops."Nowadays, carrot cultivation has no season. It is cultivated throughout the year, according to him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nilgiris-registered-less-rainfall-in-2020-compared-to-2019/articleshow/80160503.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Cop accused in custody deaths gets interim bail||Madurai: Reserving orders on the bail plea of two accused cops who were arrested in connection with the custodial deaths of P Jeyaraj and his son J Beniks at Sathankulam, the Madras high court on Thursday granted interim bail to one of the accused to attend his brother’s marriage. Justice M Nirmal Kumar reserved the orders on the bail petitions of suspended policemen - SI Raghu Ganesh and head constable X Thomas Francis. Apart from the bail petition, Francis also filed a miscellaneous petition seeking interim bail to attend his brother’s marriage which is scheduled to be held in Trichy district on January 11. Taking into consideration the circumstances, the judge granted interim bail to Francis for three days from January 10 to 12 by imposing certain conditions. The judge directed Francis to surrender before the Madurai Central Prison by 5pm on January 12. Earlier, during the course of hearing, assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for the CBI submitted that both petitioners had actively taken part in several rounds of assault on the father-son duo. She submitted that the postmortem report also reveals that the duo had died due to complications of blunt injuries. She submitted that this is the case of heinous violence leading to the custodial deaths and the petitioners who were policemen would use their powers to tamper with the witnesses, if they are released on bail. Jeyaraj’s wife Selvarani who filed an intervening petition objected to the grant of bail to the petitioners as there is possibility of tampering with the witnesses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cop-accused-in-custody-deaths-gets-interim-bail/articleshow/80161807.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Bird flu: Sellers rue decline in sales of chicken in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Is it safe to consume chicken and eggs in Delhi in the backdrop of bird flu being reported from several parts of the country? Whatever the answer, meat shop owners are complaining of a decline in sales of chicken, adding to their apprehensions about lean pickings after the Covid lockdown had already hit their earnings. “There is a ban on poultry products in states where bird flu cases have been recorded, but there are no reports in Delhi, so I don’t understand why people are not buying chicken,” said Kannu Singh, a Rajouri Garden meat seller. Sanjay Chauhan, owner of Kaynat Meat Shop in Mehrauli, grumbled about losses. “My shop is very popular and we have at least 250 people coming daily. But in the matter of two days, sales have dipped 70% and there are barely 70 customers now,” Chauhan claimed. Many others too are facing the same problem, though they expected it once news came of bird flu in some states. Anuj, owner of Khub Chand Meat Shop on Hudson Lane, said, “I knew that something like this would happen. Bird flu hasn’t reached Delhi but our business has been impacted. However, I am sure that people will soon start returning to buy chicken. How long will they won’t?” A few shops have reduced chicken prices to attract buyers. Taran of Sardar Pure Meat Shop grumbled that after Covid hit his earnings, business was down 15% due to the bird flu scare. “People are scared to buy chicken so we have offered a reduced price to them. Why are they scared, there’s no bird flu in Delhi?” he said. Wholesale prices too have been affected by lack of demand. Mohammad Salim, a retail chicken vendor in Kondli, informed, “The rate at the Ghazipur chicken mandi is down to Rs 85-105.” Meanwhile, Vicky Kumar, manager of Best Meat Shop in Janakpuri, suggested that if chicken was cooked well, then the flu virus was easily eliminated. “People are already scared of Covid. They are unsure of the bird flu, so are skipping chicken altogether. The sale of mutton, however, hasn’t been affected,” said Kumar. Mohammed Qureshi, who sells meat in Laxmi Nagar, added, “The number of individual buyers has declined but the demand from small vendors selling tandoori items hasn’t.” An official at Ghazipur mandi said the supply was normal. “Around 240 tonnes of chicken arrived in the mandi on Thursday which is what it is normally,” the official said. The mandi primarily receives supplies from Uttar Pradesh and Haryana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sellers-rue-decline-in-sales-of-chicken/articleshow/80160542.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan’s first university celebrates its 75th foundation day||JAIPUR: University of Rajasthan will be celebrating its 75th foundation day on Friday. This was the state’s first university and the last to be established before Independence. Officials said efforts for establishing a separate university in Rajasthan (then State of Rajputana) started in 1921 when most of the colleges in the state were affiliated with Allahabad University. In the new Act passed by Allahabad University, it was decided that intermediary classes and college have to be separate to get affiliation, a concept which wasn’t prevalent in any colleges of Rajasthan at that time. To have separate classes meant more expenditure which led to the need to establish a university in Rajasthan, but it wasn’t successful. After a gap of two decades when Mirza Ismail was the prime minister of Jaipur, he held a detailed discussion with rulers of Alwar, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Bikaner in 1946. Together they all agreed to establish a university in Jaipur and on January 8, 1947, the foundation was laid and came into existence in July 1947 with the name of University of Rajputana. Maharaja Sawai Man Singh (II) granted 300 acres to the university overlooked by Moti Doongri Castle and nearby presence of Jhalana Hills. University administration informed TOI that a grant of Rs 2.5 lakh was given by participating Rajputana rulers with a clear statement by rulers, “Acceptance of this grant in no way detract with the autonomy of university and its freedom.” G.S.Mahajani, who was principal of Ferguson College in Pune, was appointed the first vice-chancellor of the university. At that time, jurisdiction of the university extended over the entire Rajputana state except Ajmer-Mewara. After the merger of state, this area came under State of Rajputana and also came under the jurisdiction of the varsity, which was later on changed to University of Rajasthan in 1957. The varsity gave affiliation to 22 colleges across the state and also controlled high schools and intermediary education. After the establishment of the Board of Secondary Education, Rajasthan, all schools were transferred there. Over the years, various eminent faculty members became part of the university. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan and many other great politicians visited the university on different occasions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-first-varsity-celebrates-its-75th-foundation-day/articleshow/80160490.cms||Parul Kulshrestha
January 8, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Arnab Goswami skips hearing in Anvay Naik case||NAVI MUMBAI: Arnab Goswami, Firoze Sheikh and Nitesh Sarda, the three accused in the May 2018 abetment of suicide case of interior designer Anvay Naik, did not appear for the first hearing in the Alibaug magistrate court on Thursday. Their lawyers submitted an application seeking exemption from appearance. However, the special public prosecutor Pradeep Gharat objected to their application and in turn sought an arrest warrant for the three accused. On Thursday, when the case came up, Goswami’s lawyer sought exemption from personal appearance before Alibaug magistrate court. The court granted him exemption for the day. Special public prosecutor Gharat took exception. He said they should have been present for their identification as this was the first hearing after the court took cognizance of the chargesheet against them in the case. The lawyers for the three accused sought exemption from appearance for the trial by citing the Covid-19 pandemic, saying they were located in other cities. Gharat said the accused, however, did not specifically reveal their locations. Gharat submitted an application seeking issuance of an arrest warrant against the accused. But the court said that due to the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) till January 31 on account of the Covid-19 pandemic, an arrest warrant against the accused cannot be issued and asked the prosecution to take a date after January 31 for arguments during trial. The court has now posted the matter for hearing on February 6. The court has stated that if, during the hearing on February 6, the accused cannot physically be present in court, they should be available via video-conferencing for confirmation that they have appended signatures on the ‘vakalatnama’ and application for exemption from appearance submitted by their lawyers, said Gharat. Gharat said, “Vakalatnama filed by lawyers on behalf the accused cannot be accepted as there is no identification of signature, and there is no authentication that the accused have engaged the advocates who have filed the vakalatnama.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/arnab-skips-hearing-in-naik-suicide-case/articleshow/80161818.cms||George Mendonca
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||JMC Greater mayor takes stock of sanitation work||Jaipur: Jaipur Municipal Corporation Greater mayor Somya Gurjar and commissioner Yagyamitra Singh took stock of sanitation work on Thursday. Gurjar reached Murlipura zone early in the morning and inquired about the presence of sanitation workers. Majority of the workers were found to be absent from their routine duty. She ordered the sanitation inspector to mark their absence. Later, she took meetings with Murlipura councillors and heard their problems. Guajar said, “I heard the problems of councillors. I called up all the zonal officials and asked them to resolve the complaints in the area. We will soon take actions against the illegal encroachments in the area.” On orders of mayor, enforcement wing of JMC Greater removed encroachments from Jagatpura zone and seized five canter materials. JMC officials also collected fines of Rs 13,000 from various people for not wearing masks and following social distancing. Meanwhile, newly appointed commissioner Yagyamitra Singh inspected the entire Lal Kothi office enquiring about the complaints pending. He asked the planning department officials about the pending work and why they weren’t resolved on time of which officials had no answer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-greater-mayor-takes-stock-of-sanitation-work/articleshow/80160477.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Stand-off continues over BRTS corridor||Pune: The civic body and the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) continue to disagree starting the Katraj-Swargate Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) corridor. On Thursday, PMC insisted that the corridor was ready for use despite a lack of automated doors at bus stops. “The PMPML is just not ready to begin the service. Passengers can peep out and check if a bus is approaching,” PMC road department head V Kulkarni said. PMPML chief Rajendra Jagtap maintained that a lack of doors would make it unsafe for commuters. “We requested PMC to install temporary doors, but not a single door has been installed so far,” Jagtap said. Kulkarni said PMC was installing the doors and that it would take a month to complete. Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol did not respond to multiple calls seeking his comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/stand-off-continues-over-brts-corridor/articleshow/80160485.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 8, 2021||Madurai||HC to hear pleas against full occupancy in theatres||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday agreed to hear pleas challenging the state government’s decision to permit 100% occupancy at cinema theatres in the state.On Thursday morning, an advocate made a mention before the HC Madurai bench seeking to bring an urgent motion to hear a plea challenging the government’s decision. Similarly, two other advocates also sought to hear their pleas to be filed in this regard.After the advocates made the mention, a division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi agreed to hear the pleas on Friday. It may be recalled that the state government had permitted cinema theatres to function with 50% seating capacity from November 10, 2020. Subsequently, on January 4, it issued an order to increase the seating capacity to 100%.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of home affairs had sent a communication asking the Tamil Nadu government not to dilute its guidelines permitting only 50% seating capacity at theatres and multiplexes, that too only outside containment zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-to-hear-pleas-against-full-occupancy-in-theatres/articleshow/80161803.cms||---
January 8, 2021||India||Accidental rivals: India & China can blame it on Rio||NEW DELHI: India and China are — quite unwittingly — on opposing sides of a heated political debate in Brazil, a battle royal between Covishield by the Serum Institute and Coronavac by China’s Sinovac. Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro, who does not have a healthy fear of Covid, did not focus too much on securing vaccines for his people, even though Brazil is, like India, one of the world’s top vaccine-producing countries. However, things became serious when the governor of Sao Paulo, Joao Doria, Bolsonaro’s political opponent and a potential contender for the presidency in 2022 declared in December 2020, that he would vaccinate 44 million residents of his province with the Coronavac, developed by China’s Sinovac. The vaccine has been in Phase 3 trials at Sao Paulo’s Butantan Institute and was cleared by Brazil’s drug authority Anvisa. Doria’s intended vaccination programme is expected to kick off on January 25, according to Brazilian reports. The Chinese vaccine trials in Brazil became slightly contentious as a result of a couple of “adverse incidents.” Bolsonaro has dismissed the Chinese vaccine, instead, pinning hopes on the Astra Zeneca vaccine which was also in phase 3 trials in Brazil’s respected Fiocruz Institute that is controlled by the central government. But they started late, say reports, so everything, from approval to procurement had to be pushed back. Some other governors of provinces have also asked Bolsonaro’s government for a vaccination plan, which is yet to be rolled out. Brazil then turned to India’s Serum Institute which is manufacturing the Astra-Zeneca vaccine here. Unlike others, SII took a risk of producing millions of doses of the vaccine in advance of the official approvals. Brazil has asked for two million doses before the end of this month. The CEO of SII, Adar Poonawala raised anxieties when he said last week that the government of India could restrict exports. That was clarified by the government. Apart from Brazil, other countries that have made pre-purchase deals for the vaccine are Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Bangladesh, Myanmar etc. South Africa has asked for 1.5 million doses of the vaccine. But it is clear that the first priority would be to vaccinate Indian citizens. With the UK-variant of Covid-19 popping up in India, the government is keen to speed up the vaccination process within India. SII is also committed to giving some million doses to GAVI, which has invested in the vaccine program. Apart from Indians, top-level sources averred that the first group of countries to get the vaccine from India would be its immediate neighbours — Nepal, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Myanmar, Maldives and Sri Lanka. “It makes no sense for Indians to be vaccinated, without our neighbours also being vaccinated,” said officials. PM Narendra Modi has stated on numerous occasions that India would make sure that India provides vaccines for the world. “We will keep our promise,” said a top official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/accidental-rivals-india-china-can-blame-it-on-rio/articleshow/80162637.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||Nowhere to go, but BU asks students to vacate hostels||Bhopal: Around a dozen students who have been living in the hostels of Barkatullah University have been asked to vacate the accommodation. Students are in a fix as they are not able to get rooms in hostels outside the campus as they are closed. A BU official said that as per the government order, they can't allow students to stay in the hostels. After the lockdown was imposed due to the pandemic, several students who had been staying in BU hostels, stocked up. BU authorities then temporarily allowed these students to stay in the hostel. After the Unlock process begun, these students could not go back as they were attending online classes from the hostels. Students said, “We’ve been living in the hostel since March 25 when the lockdown was imposed. We have been following the Covid-19 norms. Now, the exams are to be organised and BU has asked us to vacate the hostel. We have searched for other hostels in the state capital, but due to Covid, they are closed. In such situation, where do we go?” said a student, on condition of anonymity . One of the students said that for the past 10 months, no one had tested positive in the hostel as the students were following all the norms. “I am not able to understand the reason of ask us to move out of the hostel when the situation is getting normal. The exam date could be announced on any given day and, if we go back, this will be an unnecessary exercise and a wastage of time. We have requested the university to consider our situation and allow us to continue in the hostels till the exams are over,” said another student who preferred to remain anonymous. Most of the students living in the hostel belong to the other states. “We know that the state government has ask the university to close the hostel. We are only a few students living in the hostel and following the Covid-19 norms. At least for humanity, please do not throw us out of the hostel,” said another student. When contacted BU's registrar Ajeet Shrivastava told TOI that they are only following the government orders. “These students had the opportunity to leave the hostel after the Unlock process started. However, they prefer to stay back. As the state government has asked the university to close down the hostel, we cannot allow the students to to continue their stay,” said Shrivastava. He added that BU is bound to follow the government orders. “Students have no option but to leave the hostel or else, we have to take action against them,” Shrivastava warned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nowhere-to-go-but-bu-asks-students-to-vacate-hostels/articleshow/80159371.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||City brought to its knees||Coimbatore: The record-breaking rainfall left the district in a mess, leading to residential areas and city’s underpasses getting flooded. Public places including markets turned slushy.This prompted Coimbatore collector K Rajamani and corporation commissioner Kumaravel Pandian to inspect water draining works across the city from 1am to 3am on Thursday. Corporation officials had to work well after 1pm to open the city’s underpasses for traffic.Though rain stopped by 6am, the old Avinashi Road flyover, underbridges near Kikani school and Lanka Corner could be opened only around 1pm. Office-goers found themselves cramming into alternate routes. Avinashi Road flyover saw heavy traffic jams between 8.30am and 10am.The Sanganoor canal began overflowing as water flow was blocked by garbage and debris. As a result, areas near the canal like Anna Market were covered with slush. “The relocated flower market on Brooke Bond Road was also unmotorable and unwalkable. We lost a day’s business,” said flower seller D Jeyaraj.There was severe waterlogging in and around the newly-constructed Avarampalayam bridge, which corporation workers had to drain out. “We also drained out water from the playground of Mani Higher Secondary School,” said Pandian. While a house collapsed in Eri Nagar in Ammankulam, there were reports of vehicles getting stuck on roads. “Roads collapsed in places the corporation had dug up for laying drinking water pipelines. Vehicles parked along roads were stuck,” said a commuter in Puliakulam.Aathupalam canal and Annan Thambi check dam near Govanur overflowed. But farmers, who are getting ready for sowing, welcomed the heavy rain, which recharged the groundwater table.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-brought-to-its-knees/articleshow/80160507.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||After hearings, govt panel unlikely to extend relief to 264 mining companies||JAIPUR: None of the 264 companies granted ‘Letter of Intent’ (LoI) between November 1, 2014 and January 2015, are likely to get relief. Sources in the mining department said the three-member panel comprising secretaries from home, mining and personnel department, which heard the case for 12 days in September last as per court orders, have decided not to restore their LoIs. The sources said the Centre’s amendments to MMDR Act in January 2015 mandating states to allow awarding mining leases up to January 2017 under first-come first serve regime could be the ground for not restoring the LoIs. The Centre wants the auction process to award mining leases to improve transparency. Earlier, industry sources expected that around two dozen genuine cases might get relief. “In fact, many genuine applicants had to bear the brunt as their approvals were held up and then the time limit lapsed. The deserving applicants should not suffer,” Akshadeep Mathur, president of Federation of Mining Associations had said. The sector suffered a massive dent to its image after the scam hit the headlines. Even genuine applicants were caught in the vortex as permissions to them have been held up by the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-hearings-govt-panel-unlikely-to-extend-relief-to-264-mining-cos/articleshow/80160524.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||‘No date yet for vaccine arrival in MP’||Bhopal: Amidst talks that the stock of coronavirus vaccine may arrive in the state anytime to vaccinate the frontline health workers, minister for medical education, Vishwas Sarang, said on Thursday that no date has been decided so far as to when vaccines will start arriving. “As far as I know, no date has been decided. I will let you know if there is any schedule decided for vaccination,” he told TOI. Divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyawat, when asked whether any schedule for arrival of the vaccine has been decided, said, “We shall give logistic support as and when vaccines arrive. Cold chain and everything -- the drill has already been done. We are ready, but only health department officials will be able to say when the vaccines are arriving,” he said. A district administration official, on the condition of anonymity, said, “There is no confirmation of date for arrival of vaccines. Which of the two vaccines permitted for emergency use by the Union government would be used in MP is also not decided. There will be dry run of the vaccine in all the districts, other than Bhopal, on Friday. The first batch of vaccines will not arrive till February 14, I am sure,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/no-date-yet-for-vaccine-arrival-in-mp/articleshow/80159354.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Army chief to review nCoV situation||Pune: Chief Of Army Staff General M M Naravane on Thursday reached the city on a three-day visit to review the Headquarters Southern Command’s operational preparedness. General Naravane would also discuss and take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the military areas under the Headquarters Southern Command’s jurisdiction. “General Naravane will visit various defence establishments, including some crucial training centres, in Pune. Senior command officers will give presentations on various security matters and operational preparedness,” a senior Army officer said on condition of anonymity. “A presentation on various efforts the command had taken to assist civil population during the time of Covid-19 and flood rescue and relief operations in southern states is likely to be given by senior Army officers during General Naraven’s visit,” the officer added. The command had made available 10 beds in the intensive care unit of the Army Institute of Cardio Thoracic Sciences to treat Covid patients in the Pune Cantonment Board limits when the pandemic was at its peak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-chief-to-review-ncov-situation/articleshow/80160527.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Class V girl commits suicide||Coimbatore: In a shocking incident, a Class V girl committed suicide by hanging in the city on Wednesday. The 10-year-old girl, a resident of Edayarpalayam near Pothanur, was chided by her parents allegedly after she repeatedly asked for snacks. Upset, she went inside a room and locked inside. Since she did not open for a long time, the parents and relatives broke open the door and found her hanging. "She tied a towel in the handle of the door and hung. Her legs were actually touching the floor. But she died as the cloth strangulated her neck,’’ a police officer said. The girl had a habit of consuming a lot of snacks. Her mother had given her food twice within a span of two hours and when the girl asked for more to eat in a short while, the mother had allegedly scolded her.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/class-v-girl-commits-suicide/articleshow/80160528.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||HC seeks details of SI candidates selected||Madurai: The Madras high court on Wednesday sought details from the state government on the number of candidates selected for viva voce for the direct recruitment of SIs under the persons studied in Tamil medium (PSTM) category. A division bench of justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a batch of petitions challenging the selection process and sought to apply PSTM reservation in every stage. During the previous hearing in December last year, the court had granted interim stay on the entire selection process on the ground that the reservation for PSTM was not followed properly in every stage of recruitment. The additional director general of police J Sandeep Rai Rathore, who is also the member secretary of the Tamil Nadu Uniformed Services Recruitment Board, in his counter affidavit, submitted that vertical reservation (community wise) and horizontal reservation such as sports quota and departmental quota are followed in the selection process. He submitted that since PSTM is a preferential treatment and not a reservation, TNUSRB is implementing the 20% PSTM preference at the final stage which is during the provisional selection list. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-details-of-si-candidates-selected/articleshow/80161820.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||HC disposes of plea on Avaniyapuram jallikattu organising committee||Madurai: The Madras high court on Thursday disposed of a plea which sought to constitute an organising committee with representatives from all communities for the jallikattu event to be held at Avaniyapuram in Madurai district. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by M Muniyasamy, assistant district organiser of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi at Madurai. The petitioner stated that the jallikattu event at Avaniyapuram is to be held on January 14. Since the petitioner is also an interested person, the judges disposed of the petition by directing the authorities to include him as a representative in the committee. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-disposes-of-plea-on-avaniyapuram-jallikattu-organising-committee/articleshow/80161821.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Despite ban on burning waste, complaints to BMC go unheard||MUMBAI: Marine Drive resident Nilesh Desai has been contacting local civic staff and using social media to report incidents of open burning over the past few years. While the BMC has replied to Desai’s grievances on a few occasions, the problem is yet to be resolved. According to the BMC’s Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, burning of garbage or waste is prohibited on landfill sites, public spaces and other areas. In December 2016, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) ordered a nationwide ban on open burning of garbage with a penalty of up to Rs 25,000, citing it as a major source of air pollution. However, ground reality is a different picture. “There are multiple instances of open burning in the stretch from Marine Lines to Charni Road station. It happens inside compounds so we don’t know what exactly is being burnt. It’s a frequent occurrence throughout the year,” said Desai. Similarly, Charkop resident and activist Mili Shetty has been informing police every time she spots a fire in the slums her house overlooks. “If not controlled, the fire quickly spreads to the mangroves. In all these years, only once has police registered a FIR.” In 2020, Shetty reported to the authorities nine such fires she could spot from her home. Officials said the BMC’s solid waste management (SWM department acts against open burning of garbage or dry waste but rules don’t specifically mention bonfires. “Burning of any dry waste or garbage is prohibited. If residents spot anyone burning garbage or dry waste, they can complain to the local ward office or file a complaint by calling 1916, BMC's helpline. They can also complain on the BMC’s official social media handles. The rules provide for penal action and we take action routinely,” said Ashok Yamgar, chief engineer, BMC’s solid waste management department. “However, use of sigdis and chulha is allowed. In the past we have taken action against bakeries and restaurants for burning wood and causing pollution, but that action was done as per directions of the MPCB,” Yamgar said. Officials said the ward-level nuisance detectors and clean-up marshals are tasked with penalising people for open burning of garbage or dry waste. Officials said bonfires are not specifically mentioned in rules but since it amounts to burning dry waste, it is not allowed. “However, people make bonfires late in the night and only for a short duration, so it becomes very difficult to take action. But if we get specific complaints, we impose penalties. But this only happens in the winter months,” the official said. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board’s member secretary A Shingare said the board’s role as a regulator was to issue “directions to urban local bodies” to tackle the menace. “Open burning of waste needs to be curbed on the ground by concerned local body,” he said. (This is the second in a series on the impact of burning wood, coal, waste, etc on air pollution. Readers are invited to send in their complaints and suggestions)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-ban-on-burning-waste-complaints-to-bmc-go-unheard/articleshow/80160632.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 8, 2021||Surat||Factory fumes choke Diamond City||Surat: Besides combating the coronavirus pandemic, Surat residents are fighting yet another battle against the alarmingly high levels of particulate matter (PM) in the atmosphere. With increased industrial emission post-lockdown, noxious fumes from the factories, vehicles and increased construction activity has put the Air Quality Index (AQI) in the very poor category. The particle pollution recorded at the two air quality monitoring stations located at Limbayat and Varachha on Thursday was much higher than the national average. Particulate matter is made up of tiny particles—the tiniest are about 30 times smaller than the width of a hair—that are generated from vehicles, factories, biomass combustion and construction dust etc. They can penetrate deep into our lungs and result in heart and lung diseases. Dr Parul Vadgma, associate professor department of pulmonary medicine told TOI, “The AQI in Surat is very poor and this is not good for the health of the citizens. Major concerns for human health from exposure to particulate matter include effects on breathing, respiratory symptoms, decrease in pulmonary function and damage to lung tissue, cancer, and premature death.” Officials of the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) said that air monitoring station at Limbayat covers the areas of Bamroli, Pandesara and Udhana, having the major concentration of the chemical and textile processing units. In Pandesara GIDC alone, there are about 60 textile dyeing and processing mills. On the other hand, Varachha has the highest concentration of vehicular pollution and industrial pollution in the form of textile dyeing mills. About 15 textile mills are located in and around Varachha. Dr Ashish Naik, deputy municipal commissioner (health and hospital) at SMC told TOI, “We are doing every bit to protect the health of the citizens. With two air quality monitoring stations installed at Varachha and Limbayat, people of the city can get real-time minute to minute information on the increase or decrease in particulate matter and take precaution accordingly. Wearing masks is two-way protection.” The central government allotted grant during 2020-21 under its clean air programme and SMC is set to receive Rs 65.5 crore. With this, the SMC is set to add 100 more air quality monitoring stations in different parts of the city, making it a total of 12 stations in the coming days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/factory-fumes-choke-diamond-city/articleshow/80158265.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Fashion designer Satya Paul passes away||Coimbatore: Iconic designer Satya Paul, known for giving the sari a contemporary look, passed away at Isha Yoga Centre here on Thursday. He was 79 and died of natural causes, said a press statement from the centre. Paul’s creations were known for various arts, fabrics and patterns. He entered the field of retail in the late 60s and began exporting fine Indian handloom to high-end retail stores in Europe and the United States of America. He launched L’Affaire, the country’s first sari boutique, in 1980 and launched his own designer label Satya Paul with his son in 1986. He retired in 2000, passing on the business to his son. They exited the company in 2010. Interest in spirituality led Paul to talks conducted by philosopher Jiddu Krishnamurti in the early 70s. He was initiated in neo-sannyas by Osho Rajneesh in 1976. The designer discovered Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev in 2007 and later immersed himself in yoga, the statement said. In 2015, Paul and his family became residents of the centre. Sadhguru tweeted a short obit, calling Paul a shining example of what it means to live with immeasurable passion and unrelenting involvement. “The distinct vision you brought to the fashion industry is a beautiful tribute to this. Privilege to have had you amongst us,” he said. Paul’s son Puneet Nanda tweeted saying his father could not have had a sweeter life or passage, “at the feet of the master”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fashion-designer-satya-paul-passes-away/articleshow/80160534.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||CBI to arrest three more people in Pollachi rape case||Coimbatore: The CBI has rounded up three more people in connection with the Pollachi rape case based on the statements given by the survivors before a magistrate court a few weeks ago. Of the six people named by the survivors, the CBI arrested and remanded three accused on Wednesday. The other three, who also hail from Pollachi and surrounding areas, are expected to be arrested soon."The investigation agency gave all the details to the court in a sealed cover. This is a sensational case and the investigation agency won’t reveal the identity of the three more people until the arrest," an official said.The CBI team has been camping in the Coimbatore district and collecting more documentary evidence to strengthen the case.Meanwhile, DMK youth wing from Coimbatore south district pasted posters against AIADMK in connection with the Pollachi sexual assault case at various places in Pollachi on early Thursday morning. However, police removed all the posters.Addressing media persons in the city on Thursday, state president of All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIDWA) S Valentina said the CBI should investigate thoroughly and bring out the names of those involved in the case. DMK women wing leader Kanimozhi will participate in an all-party protest to be held in Pollachi on January 10 seeking justice to the survivors of the Pollachi rape case. Members of AIDWA will also participate in the protest.AIDWA district president R Radhika said some suspects were released after the investigation by the state police. They should also be questioned again by the CBI, she added.On Wednesday, K Arulanantham, T Heron Paul and P Babu were arrested by the CBI. Arulanantham was the Pollachi town secretary of AIADMK students’ wing and he was expelled from the party immediately.In 2019, K Thirunavukkarasu, N Sabarirajan alias Riswanth, R Manivannan, T Vasanthakumar and N Sathish were arrested in connection with the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cbi-to-arrest-three-more-people-in-pollachi-rape-case/articleshow/80160571.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||When freak rain pounded Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Last Wednesday will go down in the history books as the day when Coimbatore recorded the highest rainfall within 24 hours in January. The district recorded 112.8mm rain, which is nearly four times the 33.4mm recorded in January 1985. In fact, the evening rain surpassed the highest amount of rainfall recorded in the whole month of January.According to the India meteorological department, as the northeast monsoon or rain bearing winds recede by December-end, January should record nil or extremely light drizzles. The highest amount of rainfall recorded throughout January was 64mm in 1985.However, that record was also broken on Wednesday evening. “Coimbatore so far has recorded 135.4mm, because it received 22.6mm rainfall from January 3,” said Pradeep John, who runs the Tamil Nadu Weatherman blog.The rare phenomenon of heavy rain in January has been attributed to a convergence of moisture-bearing westerly winds and easterly winds. “There is a western disturbance detected in the Arabian Sea, which is bringing westerly winds into Kerala, Karnataka and western parts of Tamil Nadu. This converged with rain-bearing easterly winds, blowing in due to an upper air circulation forming in the Bay of Bengal,” John told TOI. “This is why there was such a heavy rain.”Weather experts said the district is likely to receive more rain until Tuesday. “The northeast monsoon has extended into January and the upper air circulation over the Bay of Bengal will continue to persist for the next 48 to 72 hours,” said director of Agro Climate Research Centre at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University S P Ramanathan. “There will be light rain.”If this happens, January may record close to 160mm rainfall, which is more than what was recorded in November and December individually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-freak-rain-pounded-coimbatore/articleshow/80160558.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||2 killed as lorry runs amok after tyre burst||Madurai: Two people were killed in an accident after a lorry went out of control after its one tyre bust and collided with a two-wheeler at Tirumangalam in Madurai district during the early hours on Thursday. According to sources, P Vijay, 24, from Tirumangalam in Madurai district was travelling in his two-wheeler from Madurai to Tirumangalam. Vijay’s friends M Silambarasan, 37, and K Kavin, 27, of Madurai were also travelling in the two-wheeler. When the two-wheeler was travelling near Tirumangalam, the lorry which was travelling behind hit the two-wheeler when one of the tyre bust and ran amok. In this incident, Silambarasan and Kavin died on the spot while Vijay escaped with minor injuries. The Tirumangalam Town police have registered a case against the lorry driver Vetrivel and are conducting further investigations. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-killed-as-lorry-runs-amok-after-tyre-burst/articleshow/80161822.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Reclaiming the ridge: Drive starts to raze buildings on forest land||NEW DELHI: Demolition drives have been launched to remove large illegal structures in the recently demarcated Southern Ridge, with the forest department clearing out such buildings in Asola. On Friday, a team of forest, revenue and Delhi Police officials are likely to go to Dera village. The drive began after the department last month held a meeting with the South district magistrate, requesting assistance from the district task force to clear permanent settlements and buildings that had come up on forest land over the years. Forest department officials say they are currently targeting houses based on khasra numbers, but a separate action plan is being drafted for densely populated areas such as Neb Sarai and Saidulajab. “So far, we are only targeting locations where we require assistance from Delhi Police. Revenue officials also assist us,” said a senior official. An action plan is being prepared for the densely populated areas, which will determine the affected locations. “We will have to sort the areas, based on how much assistance is required and which buildings are old or new. Each such drive is generally followed by court cases and some have already been filed. However, that will not delay the drive,” said the official. The forest department has identified Saidulajab, Pul Pehladpur, some parts of Aya Nagar, Neb Sarai and Prem Nagar as locations where assistance from the district task force will be required in addition to more police personnel. Following a National Green Tribunal (NGT) order, Delhi’s revenue and forest departments had carried out a drive to demarcate Southern Ridge for over two years. On-the-ground markings, such as erecting fencing and walls, are still on, said an official. “The smaller structures that came in our way were removed. But all structures that are now part of the Ridge are permanent, larger structures and buildings. Their removal will require assistance from other agencies and police.” A joint status report recently submitted by the forest department to NGT stated that the survey maps for 19 villages — Asola, Bhatti, Chhatarpur, Aya Nagar, Maidangarhi, Satbari, Sahoorpur, Saidulajab, Neb Sarai, Jaunapur, Dera Mandi, Devli, Rajpur Khurd, Tughlaqabad, Pul Pehladpur, Rajokri, Rangpuri, Ghitorni and Mahipalpur — had been prepared and would help depict the exact status of the land, including green areas, encroachment-free land and those falling under Delhi government. “The complete list of allotments has been prepared with details of the khasra numbers, area, date of allotment and the department/agency to which the allotments were made,” the report had stated. A forest official said the locations and villages where most ecological damage had occurred had been identified, and new plantations, including those of jamun, arjun, neem, amaltas, khair, desi babool, ronjh and dhau, were being undertaken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/reclaiming-the-ridge-drive-starts-to-raze-buildings-on-forest-land/articleshow/80160617.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 8, 2021||Pune||Quota seats have highest vacancies, open category the least for FYJC||PUNE: An analysis of the admissions to First Year Junior College via the online Centralised Admission Process indicates that the least number of vacancies are in the open category seats despite having the highest intake capacity, and admissions to caste-based reserved seats in the city have the highest vacancy. Experts feel financial distress among the reserved category communities, withdrawal of the government from the concept of a welfare state and privatisation in education has lead to a higher drop out after standard X. Social activist Sanjay Dabhade said, “People everywhere know the importance of education. So, it is not a question of educational mobilisation. But, socio-economic factors are responsible. Even though the state gives fee concessions to students, other allied things are expensive after standard X. Many still drop out .” Mukund Kirdat, another social activist, who works with Right to Education Act 2009 said, “Many girls drop out after standard X and even in this group, the risk of drop out in girls from the reserved category is high. There is the issue of teenage marriages which is a problem in the socially disadvantaged communities. The financial condition is not good which leads to students taking up employment after standard X or going for a skill-based course like ITI or polytechnic which promises quicker employment, ” Kirdat added. Maharudra Dake, another activist, said the economic distress, less awareness about job opportunities and lack of hostels or the knowledge of these hostels adds to fewer admissions after standard X. “The literacy rate in the open category is higher when compared with the reserved category. So, the exposure that children in these communities get to various courses and job opportunities is also less. All this leads to dropping out in the community,” Dake added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/quota-seats-have-highest-vacancies-open-category-the-least-for-fyjc/articleshow/80160592.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cops foil ATM theft in Churu district; armed burglars flee||JAIPUR: At least six armed burglars barged into an SBI ATM in Rajgarh town of Churu district in the wee hours of Thursday but fled after police arrived at the spot. The machine had Rs 28 lakh. Police said the ATM theft bid was foiled after the landlord on whose house the kiosk was installed got up from sleep after hearing some sound intimated police. According to police, the burglars arrived at the kiosk and with the help of metal cutters, hammers and other instruments uprooted the ATM at 2.30am. “While they were at the job, the landlord of the house got up and intimated us. Our team rushed to the spot, but by that time burglars managed to flee from the scene,” said a senior police officer of Rajgarh police station. Rajgarh SHO Guru Bhupendra Singh said, “When the landlord told us that he suspected some suspicious activities and some people were tampering with the ATM, I told him to start pelting stones on them from the terrace. Since we were on the way to the location where ATM was being uprooted, we saved the ATM from being taken away.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-foil-atm-theft-in-churu-district-armed-burglars-flee/articleshow/80160572.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: First come, first served rounds back for FYJC as 42% seats still unfilled||PUNE/MUMBAI: The education department will soon declare first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions on a first come, first served basis in Mumbai, Pune, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik. The second special round will end on January 9. By the end of the first special round, out of a total intake of 5.6 lakh, as many as 3.2 lakh students had confirmed their admissions; 2.4 lakh seats were still vacant. Last year, the education department decided to do away with the first come, first served (FCFS) rounds and instead host additional merit-based admission rounds after three regular ones. A government resolution to the effect was issued on June 24, 2020. The government had introduced FCFS rounds in 2018 and students with a score above 80%, 60% and the rest were assigned a day to claim a seat, like one would book a tatkal train ticket. Activists had raised concerns, though, that these allotments were not merit based and were against Bombay high court directions. Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education for the state, said the education department had sought a special permission to conduct FCFS round this year. “Five online CAP (centralised admission process) rounds are over and a number of seats are lying vacant. Hence, we have now decided to conduct an FCFS round. We received permission from the education ministry and after the end of the current CAP round, FCFS round will be declared,” said Jagtap. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region, while over 58,318 students were not admitted according to the data shared by the education minister’s office, only 32,268 participated in the second special round, 21,835 of whom were allotted a seat. They have until January 9 to secure admission. While the second special round was scheduled to conclude on Friday, it has been extended till 6pm on Saturday. “For ease of admissions, the time for confirmation of admissions in junior colleges is extended till 09th January 2021. Rest schedule will remain the same as published before,” read a ticker on the admission site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/early-bird-round-for-std-xi-2-36-lakh-spots-await-takers/articleshow/80164557.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 8, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: First come, first served rounds back for FYJC as 42% seats still unfilled||PUNE/MUMBAI: The education department will soon declare first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions on a first come, first served basis in Mumbai, Pune, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik. The second special round will end on January 9. By the end of the first special round, out of a total intake of 5.6 lakh, as many as 3.2 lakh students had confirmed their admissions; 2.4 lakh seats were still vacant. Last year, the education department decided to do away with the first come, first served (FCFS) rounds and instead host additional merit-based admission rounds after three regular ones. A government resolution to the effect was issued on June 24, 2020. The government had introduced FCFS rounds in 2018 and students with a score above 80%, 60% and the rest were assigned a day to claim a seat, like one would book a tatkal train ticket. Activists had raised concerns, though, that these allotments were not merit based and were against Bombay high court directions. Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education for the state, said the education department had sought a special permission to conduct FCFS round this year. “Five online CAP (centralised admission process) rounds are over and a number of seats are lying vacant. Hence, we have now decided to conduct an FCFS round. We received permission from the education ministry and after the end of the current CAP round, FCFS round will be declared,” said Jagtap. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region, while over 58,318 students were not admitted according to the data shared by the education minister’s office, only 32,268 participated in the second special round, 21,835 of whom were allotted a seat. They have until January 9 to secure admission. While the second special round was scheduled to conclude on Friday, it has been extended till 6pm on Saturday. “For ease of admissions, the time for confirmation of admissions in junior colleges is extended till 09th January 2021. Rest schedule will remain the same as published before,” read a ticker on the admission site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/early-bird-round-for-std-xi-2-36-lakh-spots-await-takers/articleshow/80160570.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Rs77cr sanctioned to make Thengapattanam harbour safer||Kanyakumari: The government has sanctioned Rs 77 crore for making the Thengapattanam fishing harbour in Kanyakumari district safer for fishermen. The sanction was made after a series of protests by fishermen following the deaths of at least four fishermen at the entrance of the harbour last year.The government sanctioned the amount under state fund in anticipation of project approval from the fisheries and aquaculture infrastructure development fund (FIFD) considering the immediate requirement for execution of the project.It will be utilised to extend the main breakwaters for 200m and rehabilitation of the damaged head and trunk portion of the existing main breakwaters for a length of 36m. The sanctioned funds include Rs 7.99 crore as GST at 12% and Rs 77 lakh towards provision of labour welfare fund at 1%.According to the GO, core breakwater with stones measuring two to 12 tonne each for a total of 27,996 cubic metres, 1.87 lakh tonne of blue granite stones weighing 10 to 50kg each, 64,840 tonne of blue granite stones weighing 1.2 to two tonne each and 12,336 tonne of blue granite stones weighing 1 to 10kg each will be used for the works.Welcoming the GO as announced by the CM at the Christmas celebrations in the district in December, representatives of fishermen bodies urged the government for speedy completion of the works so that their livelihood will not be affected.The harbour was established at Rs 97.4 crore in 2019. Huge waves turned turtle many fishing boats and left fishermen who were tossed into the sea injured when they hit the boats or boulders at the harbour’s entrance and breakwaters.Fishermen bodies had staged protests blaming the poor design of the breakwaters and mouth of the harbour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rs77cr-sanctioned-to-make-thengapattanam-harbour-safer/articleshow/80161825.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Thane||MNS ransacks Torrent Power’s Bhiwandi offices||THANE: Activists of the Raj Thackeray-led MNS on Thursday ransacked offices of Torrent Power to protest against “excess” billing and alleged false complaints against consumers, police said. They said MNS activists vandalised offices of the private power firm at Oswal Wadi and Vanzarpatti Naka at Bhiwandi in Thane district. Narpoli police station in-charge said Torrent officials had registered a complaint and an offence would be registered soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mns-ransacks-torrent-powers-bhiwandi-offices/articleshow/80161824.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||Four of family found dead near Coonoor||Udhagamandalam: Four members of a family were found dead in a private estate quarters near Kolakombai, 20 km away from Coonoor, on Thursday.Police said the bodies of Ashok Bagath, 30, an estate worker from Jharkhand, his wife Sumathi Kumari, 25, son Abai, 9, and daughter, Reshma, 4, were found in different places in the quarters. The incident came to light after workers of a private tea estate noticed that Ashok was absent from work. A few of them went to his quarters and knocked on the front door, but there was no response. “They found the rear door open. When they went inside, they found Sumathi dead with a cut injury on her head. The other three members of the family were missing,” Nilgiris SP V Sasi Mohan said.The workers immediately informed the Kolakombai police, who reached the spot and launched a search for the missing family members. After a long search, the police found Ashok hanging from a ceiling in another vacant quarter at the end of the 12th lane. Abai was also found dead there with a cut injury on his head. The body of Reshma was later found inside a water tank situated some 20ft from the quarters. She had also sustained an injury on her head.“Based on the preliminary inquiry, it was established that Sumathi was murdered by Ashok and later he committed suicide. As far the two children, only after getting the postmortem report, we could come to a conclusion,” said Sasi Mohan. “The motive of the murder is yet to be arrived at,” he addedAll the four bodies were shifted to the Coonoor government hospital. The police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/four-of-family-found-dead-near-coonoor/articleshow/80160584.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||PSG Hospitals signs MoU with Chennai-based hospital||Coimbatore: To establish a comprehensive centre for heart and lung transplantation and heart failure clinic at the PSG Hospitals, the city-based group signed a memorandum of understanding with Chennai-based MGM Healthcare on Thursday. The MoU aims to help the hospital support patients with complex and chronic heart and lung ailments, which require transplant of either or both organs.There is no hospital in the city that performs both transplants requiring patients to fly to other cities to get it done. Despite having dedicated surgeons, anesthetists, intensivists and perfusionists technicians among others, the district has only seen three lung transplants performed so far. PSG Hospitals, which has been performing liver and kidney transplant regularly, had conducted a dual lung transplant in 2016. It is, however, yet to start performing heart transplants and even lung transplants are not done regularly. KMCH Hospital, which has performed five heart transplants so far, is yet to perform heart and lung transplants together.The MoU will facilitate a clinical team from MGM Healthcare to closely work with a team at PSG Hospitals. MGM Healthcare has performed almost 100 heart and lung transplants till now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/psg-hospitals-signs-mou-with-chennai-based-hospital/articleshow/80160568.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||Officers’ training for One Stop Shop held||Jaipur: For effective implementation of One Stop Shop (OSS), the industries department organised a capacity building programme for the officers of 14 departments that come under the approval process. There were also exposed to various functions of rajnivesh.rajasthan.gov.in which was recently launched by the chief minister to provide approvals online. “The state government is working on improving investment environment in the state at department level as well so that there is comfort and confidence among the investors,” said Archana Singh, commissioner, industries department. OSS has officials nominated from departments of urban development and housing, revenue, energy, environment, medical and health, local self-governance, industries, PHED, labour, tourism, factory and boiler inspection, consumer affairs, public works and RIICO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officers-training-for-one-stop-shop-held/articleshow/80160561.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: First come, first served rounds back for FYJC as 42% seats still unfilled||PUNE/MUMBAI: The education department will soon declare first-year junior college (FYJC) admissions on a first come, first served basis in Mumbai, Pune, Amravati, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nashik. The second special round will end on January 9. By the end of the first special round, out of a total intake of 5.6 lakh, as many as 3.2 lakh students had confirmed their admissions; 2.4 lakh seats were still vacant. Last year, the education department decided to do away with the first come, first served (FCFS) rounds and instead host additional merit-based admission rounds after three regular ones. A government resolution to the effect was issued on June 24, 2020. The government had introduced FCFS rounds in 2018 and students with a score above 80%, 60% and the rest were assigned a day to claim a seat, like one would book a tatkal train ticket. Activists had raised concerns, though, that these allotments were not merit based and were against Bombay high court directions. Dattatray Jagtap, director of secondary and higher secondary education for the state, said the education department had sought a special permission to conduct FCFS round this year. “Five online CAP (centralised admission process) rounds are over and a number of seats are lying vacant. Hence, we have now decided to conduct an FCFS round. We received permission from the education ministry and after the end of the current CAP round, FCFS round will be declared,” said Jagtap. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region, while over 58,318 students were not admitted according to the data shared by the education minister’s office, only 32,268 participated in the second special round, 21,835 of whom were allotted a seat. They have until January 9 to secure admission. While the second special round was scheduled to conclude on Friday, it has been extended till 6pm on Saturday. “For ease of admissions, the time for confirmation of admissions in junior colleges is extended till 09th January 2021. Rest schedule will remain the same as published before,” read a ticker on the admission site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/early-bird-round-for-std-xi-2-36-lakh-spots-await-takers/articleshow/80164559.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Bhujbal marks presence in special court||Mumbai: State cabinet minister for food & civil supplies Chhagan Bhujbal, his nephew Sameer, and 50-odd accused marked their presence before a special court for crimes where politicians are accused. Bhujbal is an accused in an alleged Rs 840-crore money-laundering case linked to “malpractice over contract’’ for Maharashtra Sadan in Delhi. A December 19, 2020, order passed by the special court hearing cases against politicians, directed that all accused, including those who were absent that day, to appear on January 7 “without fail’’. Bhujbal’s son Pankaj was among those not present. The proceedings were adjourned to January 29 by special Judge H S Sathbhai. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bhujbal-marks-presence-in-special-court/articleshow/80161834.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||‘Clean and green Madurai’ campaign launched at airport||Madurai:A ‘clean and green Madurai’ campaign was launched at the Madurai airport on Wednesday.The programme, jointly organised by the CII Young Indians (Yi) – Madurai Chapter with Airport Authority of India (AAI), was launched by assistant commissioner of police T K Lily Grace. As part of the campaign, signboards to keep the city clean and green are placed at many places in the airport for passengers to take the pledge.The assistant commissioner, an honorary member of CII - Young Indian (Yi) Madurai chapter, stressed on the importance of creating awareness on cleanliness and protecting the environment at the school-level. Poornima Venkatesh, chair – CII Young Indian (Yi), Madurai chapter said that they expected every passenger coming to the airport to take the pledge. She has also framed a theme for Yi Madurai for 2021 as ‘Be the Change’. The government is also initiating many schemes for the wellness of the city and its people. Let us unite, support the government in bringing up international standards to our city, which is the purpose of the initiative, she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/clean-and-green-madurai-campaign-launched-at-airport/articleshow/80161827.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||Farmers in MP not fully aware of the pitfalls in agri reform laws, says Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: PCC chief Kamal Nath will start an awareness campaign on January 16 to caution farmers of Madhya Pradesh on the risks and threats they face due to the Centre’s agri reform laws. “Farmers of MP are not fully aware of the problems they will encounter due to the three laws passed by the Centre,” Nath told TOI on Thursday. Nath will address a ‘kisan sammelan’ (farmers’ convention) in his constituency of Chhindwara on January 16 to drive home his point. Thereafter, he will address another such convention in Morena on January 20. Finally, on January 23, he will march to the Raj Bhavan in Bhopal along with farmers. Meanwhile, state Congress is organising a week-long block-level protest against the farm laws, which began on Wednesday from Nasrullaganj and will end on January 14. Farmers supported by the Congress party will observe a two-hour ‘chakka jam’ throughout the state, blocking numerous thoroughfares and highways on January 15. “About 70% of the state’s economy is dependent on agriculture. From grocery shops in rural areas to schools and engineering colleges, everything is dependent on the purchasing power of the farmers. The markets at the block, tehsil and district-level depend heavily on the performance of the agricultural sector,” Nath said, speaking to the media at the PCC headquarters here. Nath claimed that the agri reforms laws enacted by the Centre are based on the beliefs of the Jana Sangh who always supported a privatised market economy and was opposed to socialism. “When public sector companies such as BHEL and HAL were started, the RSS and Jana Sangh criticised the move. They also opposed nationalisation of banks and acquisition of coal mines by the government,” the former chief minister said. Nath said the Narendra Modi government’s three laws will privatise the farm sector. “Traders no longer will be registered with the mandis. Mandis will only be reduced to a department and anyone with a PAN card can do business in agriculture. The Essential Commodities Act has been removed making way for hoarding,” he said. Nath said the laws will end the minimum support price (MSP) system. “Farmers can flourish only if they get fertilisers and seeds from the government through cooperatives. With the new laws, private companies will hold the key to fertilisers and seeds. They will give that only to farmers who agree to contract farming. Farmers will be forced to accept contract farming and be at the mercy of corporate houses. That is why these are black laws,” he said. Nath said that MP today produces more wheat than Punjab. In 2019-2020, Punjab produced 175 lakh tonnes of wheat while MP produced 196 lakh tonnes. “Our state will be the hardest hit if procurement of wheat is stopped under MSP,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farmers-in-mp-not-fully-aware-of-the-pitfalls-in-agri-reform-laws-says-nath/articleshow/80159419.cms||Suchandana Gupta
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||PPCB: Eight polluting industries in Mandi Gobindgarh closed||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) has ordered closure of eight polluting industrial units in Mandi Gobindgarh under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. The PPCB had collected 184 units from September 1 to December 20, 2020, out of which 160 were found in compliance of the various pollution control laws. The remaining 24 were issued show cause notices and allowed compliance hearing. The PPCB had to take strict action against 10 units indulging in major violations and Rs 10.62 lakh was recovered from them as environmental compensation. The PPCB has submitted this information before the National Green Tribunal (NGT) in an ongoing case. Mandi Gobindgarh was the only town in Punjab where the state government had banned sale and bursting of crackers on last Diwali on account of very poor air quality. The PPCB also submitted before the NGT that out of the 190 rolling mills operational in Mandi Gobindgarh, 31 have converted their re-heating furnace from pulverised coal to piped natural gas (PNG) and 100 are in the process of shifting as they have made agreement with the PNG provider. The PPCB has also engaged experts’ group of IIT Delhi to carry out study on assessment of the carrying capacity of all non-attainment cities of Punjab, including Mandi Gobindgarh. Other non-attainment cities include Amritsar, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Patiala and Khanna. An action plan would be prepared by the PPCB, based on the recommendations of the report for the improvement of environment. Though the import of hazardous waste is being regulated as per law, non-recyclable hazardous waste is being scientifically disposed off at a designated place — treatment, storage and disposal facility (TSDF) at Nimbua village of Derabassi in Mohali district. The NGT has been apprised that in order to check air pollution due to the burning of scrap, the PPCB had on August 21, 2020 cancelled all one-time authorisations granted before January 31, 2019, for import of iron and steel scrap and amended the procedure for obtaining one-time authorisation to import other waste on behalf of actual users. Now no burning activity of scrap is carried out in Mandi Gobindgarh area as verified during inspections carried out in the odd hours and no complaint has been received in the office regarding any burning activity. To curb road dust, interlocking tiles have been provided at entry and exit points of the industry as well as weigh bridges. However, major and slip roads in Mandi Gobindgarh continue to add to dust emission due to heavy vehicular movement and parking and require overhaul by the municipal authorities, the PPCB has submitted. To regulate groundwater extraction, the PPCB is now asking industries to obtain permission from ground water authority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ppcb-8-polluting-industries-in-mandi-gobindgarh-closed/articleshow/80160629.cms||Sanjeev Verma
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive: Dry run in all Punjab districts today||CHANDIGARH: Ahead of the Covid-19 vaccine roll out, second dry run will be conducted in all the districts of Punjab on Friday to ensure seamless last-mile delivery of the vaccine when it is made available. The Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has accorded approval to two coronavirus vaccines for restricted use. The Union government is expecting to roll out the vaccine drive from mid-January. The first dry run was conducted in two districts on December 28 and 29. Sharing the details, Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the drive would be conducted on three sites — district hospital, private health facility and health centre in rural area — in each district. All the activities, starting from beneficiary data upload, session site allocation, session site management to reporting and debriefing would be covered in the dry run. The state government was aiming to provide vaccine dose to a target population of about 70 lakh in a phased manner. Health workers — doctors, medical students, nurses, paramedic staff, and Asha units — will be first to be immunised. These will be followed by frontline workers engaged in delivery of essential services such as police, the revenue department officials and municipal workers, who have been further classified as sanitation workers in Covid care centre, waste collector, sweeper, waste processing plant operators, urban local bodies staff, cremation ground staff, maintenance staff and miscellaneous staff. All people above 50 will be vaccinated in the third phase, followed by all people below 50 with comorbidities as on January 1, 2021. Punjab has identified 1.60 lakh health workers to receive the first dose of the vaccine, while the estimated number of frontline workers of different departments is around 3 lakh. Dry run done in all Haryana districtsHaryana health department on Thursday conducted a dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine roll out in all 22 districts, in which 3,300 beneficiaries were included and 132 sessions held at six identified sites (3 urban, including slum, and 3 rural sites) in each district. Several end-to-end activities like identification of vaccinators and supervisors, session sites with PIN code tagging, sending messages to beneficiaries for vaccination were smoothly conducted during this dry run. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora said the dry run was closely monitored and at one of the sites in rural areas of Gurugram district, World Health Organization country head (India), Dr Roderico H Ofrin was present. The dry run is being conducted as part of preparations for a successful roll out of the massive vaccination campaign and to identify any bottlenecks or glitches in operational and technical aspects of implementation. 6 deaths, 274 cases in HaryanaHaryana registered 274 Covid-19 positive cases and six deaths due to the deadly virus on Thursday, raising the number of cases in the state to 2,64,161 and deaths to 2,940. The state still has 2,563 active cases, despite 2,58,658 people having been discharged after treatment. The recovery rate in the state is 97.92% and the doubling rate 96 days. As far as sampling is concerned, 47,20,441 people have been tested till date. As many as 106 persons are currently on oxygen support and 11 are on ventilators. 10 deaths, 284 cases in PunjabPunjab reported 284 fresh cases while the virus claimed 10 lives on Thursday. Ferozepur recorded three deaths while one person each died in Barnala, Bathinda, Fazilka, Ropar, Jalandhar, Tarn Taran and Mohali. 59 were tested positive in Mohali, 42 in Bathinda, 30 in Ludhiana, 28 in Patiala, 24 in Jalandhar, 17 Amritsar, 16 in Hoshiarpur, 11 in Gurdaspur, 10 in Kapurthala, nine in Faridkot, six in Pathankot, four each in Fazilka, Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, three in Mansa, two each in Ferozepur, Moga and Sangrur and one in Muktsar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccination-drive-dry-run-in-all-punjab-districts-today/articleshow/80160630.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Coimbatore||9 new Covid cases, 1 death in Nilgiris||Udhagamandalam: The Nilgiris recorded nine new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the tally to 8,021. Eight patients were discharged on the day, pushing the recovery rate to 98.1%. The district also reported one death. A 57-year-old woman from Missionary Hill area in Ooty town succumbed to the virus at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. She was a comorbid patient. The death toll stands at 47. The district has 105 active cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/9-new-covid-cases-1-death-in-nilgiris/articleshow/80160607.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Pune||Civic body floats tender for water sprinkler vehicles||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has floated tenders for water sprinkler vehicles, as directed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), to keep a check on dust particles on road causing pollution.The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) is currently holding discussions on the matter.Mangesh Dighe, environment officer, PMC, said that two water sprinkler vehicles will be used for the purpose and tenders regarding the same have been floated in December.Asked whether two water sprinklers will be enough for the whole city, Dighe said more such vehicles can be included later. “We have to ensure regular cleanliness of roads to avoid settlement of dust. This will ensure less suspended particulate matter,” he said.Sanjay Kulkarni, executive engineer, environment department, PCMC, said that they have not taken any decision yet and will need to make budgetary provisions for water tankers to be used across the twin towns.He said, “The discussions are under way as the planning regarding the same needs to be thorough.”The NGT order of December 3, 2020, stated, “In view of the acknowledged fact that dust pollution is a significant component of air pollution and sweeping of roads is one of the sources of dust pollution, sprinkling of water before sweeping of roads, including the pavements, needs to be explored...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-floats-tender-for-water-sprinkler-vehicles/articleshow/80160620.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||4 held for arson, vandalism||Chandigarh: The police on Thursday arrested four persons in two separate cases for setting vehicles and a grocery shop on fire in Sector 25 and Colony Number 4.Those arrested have been identified as Sonu and Paras, both residents of Colony Number 4, Gaurav and Monu of Sector 25.Rajesh Kumar of Colony Number 4 said in his police complaint, “I was sleeping at my house when I heard noise outside around 2.15am Wednesday. I rushed out and saw my shop in flames.” Rajesh called up at 112 number and informed the police. Fire tenders reached the spot and doused the blaze, but the shop was gutted.“Jang, Shaved, Sonu, Paras and Najim had set my grocery shop on fire. They did so to avenge the murder of a friend. In the case, both my sons are lodged in jail,” he added.After registering a case, the police arrested Sonu and Paras and are on the lookout for the other two accused.In another case, Sector 11 police have arrested Guarav and Monu for smashing the windscreens of parked cars and setting a two-wheeler on fire on the night of January 3 in Sector 25. “Monu has a criminal record and was booked in several cases of theft, robbery, rioting and under the Excise Act. They were produced before a local court that sent them in judicial custody,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/4-held-for-arson-vandalism/articleshow/80159391.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Central team visits avian flu-hit areas in Alappuzha||ALAPPUZHA: A three-member central team deployed to assess the situation after the outbreak of avian influenza (H5N8) and study the Covid-19 preventive activities visited Alappuzha on Thursday. The team consisted of Ruchi Jain, public health expert, Union ministry of health and family welfare, Shailesh Pawar, scientist, National Institute of Virology, Pune and Dr Anith Jindal, physician, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Delhi. The team that reached collectorate on Thursday morning conducted discussions with Alappuzha district collector A Alexander and collected details about the present status of the district. The collector handed over them a report regarding details of bird flu situation and Covid-19 status in the district. The collector informed them that over 20 farmers in the district suffered losses due to the outbreak of bird flu. He also explained the culling activities. The collector informed that the rapid response team (RRT) of the district administration has culled 43,206 ducks and destroyed 32,550 eggs. District animal husbandry officer P K Santhosh Kumar made a presentation about the culling activities and the symptoms of the birds infected by the virus. District medical officer L Anithakumari informed about Covid-19 prevention activities in the district. Over 50,000 persons tested positive for Covid-19 in Alappuzha till date, the central team was informed. The team visited bird flu-affected places — Karuvatta, Pallippad and Thakazhi. The central team will study and submit a report on the bird flu spread, the features of the virus and the culling methods in tune with the guidelines of the central government. The team is also studying the public health risk of H5N8. The team inspected the culling in ward 15 of Karuvatta grama panchayat, inquired about the standard operating procedures (SOPs) from doctors of Karuavtta health centre and panchayat vice-president T Ponnamma. The team has also collected details regarding the Covid-19 preventive activities and other information for their detailed study. Bird flu was confirmed in Nedumudi, Thakazhi, Pallipad and Karuvatta grama panchayats in Alappuzha and Neendoor in Kottayam. This is the third outbreak of avian influenza in Alappuzha in the last seven years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/central-team-visits-avian-flu-hit-areas-in-alappuzha/articleshow/80159424.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||1 dies, 1 missing as sand caves in||While digging a public tank at a village in Barmer district, four persons got buried as the sand caved in, on Thursday. While two of them were rescued alive, one could be taken out only after he had died. The fourth person could not be found and chances of him being alive are very thin. Rescue operations are on to find the fourth person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-dies-1-missing-as-sand-caves-in/articleshow/80160619.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||133 new cases in south TN, 71 in central districts||Madurai/Trichy:After recording 88 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the number of cases in the southern districts climbed to 133 on Thursday, the highest in the last 10 days. According to the health department bulletin, no death was reported in the region on Thursday. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 71 fresh cases, taking its tally to 74,494, which include 723 active cases. The region recorded two deaths in Trichy taking the toll to 932. Kanyakumari recorded 37 fresh cases, the highest in the southern region. Thursday’s figure is the highest in Kanyakumari since November 13. Madurai recorded 22 cases. Sivagangai (2) recorded the lowest, followed by Ramanathapuram (6), Tenkasi (6), Theni (8), Dindigul (12), Virudhunagar (13), Tirunelveli (13) and Tuticorin (14). The number of active cases also spiked from 938 on Wednesday to 947 on Thursday. Among the central districts, except for Thanjavur and Trichy that recorded cases in double digits, rest of them registered cases in single digits, while Perambalur maintained zero fresh cases. Thanjavur recorded 22 fresh cases, and Trichy registered 17 fresh cases. With seven more fresh cases, the tally of Tiruvarur touched 11,000 on Thursday making it the fourth district to reach the mark after Thanjavur, Trichy and Pudukottai. With two deaths, Trichy’s toll has increased to 178, next to Thanjavur with 239 casualties. The casualties include a 62-year-old man and a 67-year-old woman with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/133-new-cases-in-south-tn-71-in-central-districts/articleshow/80161831.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Kochi||Rajkumar died of brutal torture: Judicial panel||IDUKKI: The judicial commission, set up to probe the alleged custodial death of a remand prisoner at a police station in Idukki, said brutal torture in police lock-up resulted in his death. The commission, headed by justice K Narayana Kurup, said in its report submitted to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday that it was K Rajkumar’s second postmortem that revealed the actual cause of his death. “The second postmortem established that he died of multiple blunt injuries from physical torture. The first post-mortem had indicated the cause of death as pneumonia,” the commission said in its report. The second postmortem was conducted on the insistence of the judicial commission. Justice K Narayana Kurup commission submitted a 160-page report to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday.The 160-page report which recommends initiating termination procedures against the police officers involved in the custodial torture, also includes suggestions to prevent such incidents in future. The second post-mortem examination conducted by a team of forensic experts had spotted 22 new injuries on Rajkumar’s body. The commission submitted its report after about a year and half since formation. 73 witnesses were examined by the panel. Several witnesses stated that they saw Rajkumar being beaten up in the SI’s room at Nedumkandam police station and in the rest room at the first floor of the building. Kolahalamedu resident Rajkumar was taken into custody by Nedumkandam police in connection with a financial cheating case on June 12, 2019 and he died at Peermade taluk hospital on June 21. Rajkumar was running a financial firm at Thookkupalam near Nedumkandam in Idukki and the case against him was that he collected money from the self-help groups, promising them loans. A crime branch special team constituted to probe the custodial death arrested seven policemen, including former Nedumkandam SI KA Sabu in connection with the case. Later, the government handed over the case to CBI, which is investigating the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/rajkumar-died-of-brutal-torture-judicial-panel/articleshow/80159452.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 8, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM Amarinder Singh launches welfare schemes, dedicates January to girl child||CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday launched a set of welfare projects, including free sanitary pads for high school and college girl students in the state. He rolled out a Rs 75.64 crore smart metering project and an ‘e-Daakhil’ portal for e-filing of consumer complaints and Basera scheme for slum dwellers. Youth and the girl child will be the beneficiaries of the two other schemes launched virtually by the chief minister, dedicating January to the girl child as ‘Dheeyan Di Lohri’. The state will also distribute 2,500 sports kits. Under ‘Dheeiyan Di Lohir’, Amarinder gave five girl children, along with their mothers, a shagun of Rs 5,100 and baby kits for each. Under the scheme, a series of events will be held every day across districts, beginning with Mohali district, through the month to mark the occasion of Lohri, which will see congratulatory letters penned and signed by Amarinder being handed over to the parents of more than 1.5 lakh girls celebrating their first Lohri this year. With the launch of the Basera programme, 2,816 slum dwellers in 10 slums of Patiala, Bathinda, Fazilka and Moga districts will get proprietary rights in the first phase. Those living in three slums of Moga will be granted their rights by shifting them to a separate land in municipal corporation at Moga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-launches-welfare-schemes-dedicates-january-to-girl-child/articleshow/80160633.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Govt official caught while taking Rs 1L bribe||Dindigul: Sleuths from the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) arrested an assistant director in the town and country planning department after catching him red-handed while he was accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh on Thursday. The action was taken following a complaint lodged by Naatrayan, 65, of Karur. Naatrayan owned a piece of land at Eriyodu in Dindigul district and wanted to partition it. He approached A Muthukrishnan, 53, the assistant director. Since the plot was more than one lakh sqft, Muthukrishnan told Naatrayan that it has to be referred to the director of town and country planning in Chennai. Muthukrishnan allegedly demanded Rs 2 lakh as bribe for recommending the partition and writing to the director. Naatrayan refused and after negotiation it was agreed that he would give Rs 1 lakh. Naatrayan approached the DVAC who gave him chemical-coated currencies to hand them over to Muthukrishnan. The official was caught red handed. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-official-caught-while-taking-rs-1l-bribe/articleshow/80161833.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Centre urged to establish ITAT branch in Madurai||Madurai: The Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to the Union government to establish a branch of the Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) in Madurai to benefit taxpayers in the southern districts of the state. In its representation, the chamber stated that four ITAT benches are functioning in Chennai for Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. “In other states, the ITAT is also functioning in cities where the high court benches are set up. Since the Madras high court has a Madurai bench, it is very necessary and reasonable to have the I-T appellate tribunal bench at Madurai. At present, taxpayers from the southern districts have to go to Chennai to appeal for income tax,” chamber president N Jegatheesan said. The chamber appealed to MPs from the region to urge the Centre to take suitable measures for establishment of the second court of appeal under the Income Tax Act for easy, quick and cost-effective award for the appeals of taxpayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/centre-urged-to-establish-itat-branch-in-madurai/articleshow/80161835.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai beats Delhi’s AQI, light rain likely on Fri, Sat||Mumbai: The city’s overall air quality index (AQI) on Thursday was higher compared to Delhi, according to System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research’s (SAFAR) real-time monitoring. This came as Indian Meteorological Department has forecast light rain or thunders showers in the city on Friday and Saturday. Mumbai recorded an overall AQI of 313, the worst this year, compared to Delhi’s 239 on Thursday. While Delhi’s AQI was lower than usual due to rain, Mumbai’s air quality was in the very poor category for the second day due to weather. “Due to colder temperature and shallow boundary layer height, pollutants are not dispersing faster and getting accumulated. AQI is predicted to remain in very poor range for Mumbai for two days,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR. Last year, overall AQI breached the 300-mark on December 31. An AQI of 301-400 is considered very poor and could pose a health risk to everyone. Among 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, Bandra-Kurla Complex, Andheri, Mazgaon, Malad, Chembur, Navi Mumbai, Colaba and Borivli recorded an AQI of over 300. IMD has issued for Mumbai a green alert: Light rain or thunder showers very likely until Saturday. A yellow alert (thunderstorm with lightning) was issued for neighbouring Thane and Raigad districts. “Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast in lower tropospheric levels, isolated to scattered rainfall with moderate thunderstorm and lightning at isolated places very likely over Maharashtra,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Parts of Thane district received light rain on Thursday. Santacruz and Colaba on Thursday recorded a minimum temperature of 20 and 21 degrees Celsius and maximum of 30.7 and 28 respectively. While minimum temperatures were above normal, maximum temperatures were lower than normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-beats-delhis-aqi-light-rain-likely-on-fri-sat/articleshow/80159526.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Waste-to-wonder park finally reopens, strict Covid-19 safety norms in place||NEW DELHI: After a long wait, the Waste to Wonder Theme Park near Nizamuddin Metro Station, Sarai Kale Khan, was opened for public on Thursday. South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) adhered to all Covid-19 norms strictly while opening the park, an official said. Around 600 people visited the place on the first day till 7pm, as per SDMC data. “While we have provided face shields and masks to our staff, it will be mandatory for visitors too. Only 400 people would be allowed inside the campus at a time to ensure safe distance,” said an SDMC official. The civic agency has decided to keep the park open for six days a week and keep it closed on Monday. “Visitors will be strictly prohibited from touching any replicas and guards will keep an eye on everyone. The maximum time a person can spend inside would be 3-4 hours. If more people turn up, then they will be asked to wait in the lawn area,” added the official. The park was closed from March 22 after Covid-19 pandemic gripped the nation. To avoid queues at the ticket counters outside the place, people can book tickets online through a website made by SDMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/waste-to-wonder-park-finally-reopens-strict-covid-19-safety-norms-in-place/articleshow/80160637.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Jallikattu regn begins Sat, Covid-19 tests from Jan 10||Madurai: The district administration has laid down guidelines for the jallikattu events in Avaniapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur in the district and said that registration for bull tamers would begin from January 9 followed by RT-PCR tests for the tamers and bull owners. Those wishing to participate in the games in Avaniapuram scheduled for January 14 will have to register on January 9 at the panchayat union primary school in Avaniapuram. They can then proceed for the RT-PCR tests on January 10, 11 and 12. Registration of bulls for the first game would take place on January 11 at the same school. The registration for the Palamedu jallikattu, to be held on January 15, would be carried out at the panchayat union primary school in Palamedu. Registration for Alanganallur jallikattu will be held on January 9 for bull tamers and January 11 for bulls at the Alanganallur panchayat union primary school. Covid-19 tests for the participants and owners would be conducted on January 12 and 13. All bull tamers and the owners would have to bring a copy of their Aadhaar and three passport size photographs for registration. District collector T Anbazhagan has said that members of the jallikattu organising committee, bull tamers, bull owners and audience would have to adhere to Covid-19 precautionary rules and wear masks during the events. Sources said that the events would begin at about 8.30am and go on till 4pm on the scheduled dates. Meanwhile, the minister for revenue, disaster management and IT, R B Udhayakumar visited Alaganallur on Thursday to review the arrangements. He said that as per the order from chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, 300 bull tamers would be allowed into the venue this year and standard operating procedures. The audience would be screened. The seating capacity is expected to be at 50%. On demands by jallikattu associations that cross-bred bulls should not be allowed to compete, the minister said that the veterinary department would ensure that all rules are adhered during the events.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/jallikattu-regn-begins-sat-covid-19-tests-from-jan-10/articleshow/80161836.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Jaipur||MP villagers abduct 38 tribals from Rajasthan over bike theft suspicion||KOTA: At least a hundred people from Madhya Pradesh kidnapped about 38 people, including children and women belonging to the Kanjar tribe at Bamandevriya and Hajdia villages of Jhalawar district, on suspicion that they stole a bike from a village in MP. Jhalawar police late on Wednesday evening rescued the kidnapped persons safely and arrested six persons from MP on charges of kidnap and assault. The said mob arrived at Bamandevriya and Hajdia villages in Jhalawar district from Madhya Pradesh in different vehicles including a bus and kidnapped the members of the community. According to the police, a motorbike was allegedly stolen on Monday from Kalasiya village in MP. “Thus, suspecting the people of the Kanjar tribe living in make-shift tents at Bamandevriya and Hajdia villages under Unhel police station of Jhalwar district to be behind the bike theft, at least a 100 people from Kalasiya village in MP came to the tribals’ tents on Wednesday noon and kidnapped 10 women, 20 girls and 8 children from the tribe,” police said. After the incident came to the notice of Jhalawar police, senior officers asked authorities at Unhel police station to chase and arrest the accused and rescue the kidnapped persons. “When they noticed that we were chasing them, the accused allowed the kidnapped persons to get off the bus near Alot police station area of MP and fled from the scene,” said a senior officer of Jhalawar police. Police added that after the rescue, the accused, identified as Suresh Singh alias Suraj Singh, Bhadur Singh, Surender Singh, Mahendra Singh, Narayan Sigh and Guman Singh, all residents of Kalasiya village in MP were arrested. “We have also recovered a country-made pistol, 2 live cartridges, a sword and iron rods, and also seized the car in which the six persons were travelling,” the officer added. Jhalawar police have registered a case of kidnapping and assault under appropriate sections of IPC. Also a case under appropriate sections of Arms Act and SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act has been lodged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-people-from-mp-held-for-kidnapping-members-of-tribe/articleshow/80160634.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Madurai||Roads in Madurai city inundated after rain||Madurai: As rain lashed Madurai and its suburbs late on Wednesday night, roads in residential areas were left inundated. The district received an average rainfall of 20.7mm in just four hours. Many of the pothole-ridden main roads, including West Perumal Maistry Street, Sambandhamoorthy Street, Scott Road, Anupanadi Housing Main road, East Veli Street, Ellis Nagar 70 feet road, Nehru Nagar, Sellur 60 feet road and TPK road were inundated with rainwater. Ongoing road works also made it very difficult for motorists to ride on the roads as the muddy roads like the Sivaganga road from Melamadi junction to Ring road junction became very slippery. Anna Nagar main road, K K Nagar main road, Pudur main road, and other major roads and the inner roads like the Marudhupandiar road in ward number 30 saw traffic jams as vehicles tried to avoid the water-filled potholes. “Corporation officials should refrain from blaming the ongoing works for the menace and provide a temporary relief,” said M Ganeshan of K K Nagar. Many tanks in the wards filled up due to which many parts of the city including S Alangulam, Ramalinga Nagar, Thaimoogambigai Nagar, Krishna Nagar, Royal gardens, were in the danger of getting inundated. Two tanks Kosakulam tank and Mudakanthan tank filled up due to rains and water started overflowing. Corporation commissioner S Visakan inspected these areas in person and asked the officials to ensure the free flow of water through Kosakulam channel to Vaigai river. They were asked to keep sandbags ready to block water from entering the residential areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/roads-in-madurai-city-inundated-after-rain/articleshow/80161852.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Bhopal||Not going anywhere, I’ll remain in Madhya Pradesh: Kamal Nath||BHOPAL: Ending all speculation on his retirement from politics or moving to New Delhi for a central role, former CM Kamal Nath on Thursday said he would “remain in Madhya Pradesh”, and “is here to stay”. Speaking to reporters at the PCC office here on Thursday afternoon, Nath said, “I want to make it very clear that I am not going anywhere. And I am not going to rest either.” Nath said he was quoted out of context in recent media reports that he wanted to take rest. There were assumptions that Nath could give up one of the two posts he is holding — PCC chief and leader of opposition. Which post I hold is not important: Kamal NathI was in Chhindwara, speaking to party workers, when I said that the time for struggle has come. Don’t get fat because everyone has to struggle now. And if you rest, then I will also rest. The next day, a newspaper headline said Kamal Nath is going to rest,” he remarked. There were also assumptions that after Congress’s defeat in the November 2020 bypolls, Nath could give up one of the two posts he is holding — PCC chief and leader of opposition. Asked about this, Nath said, “I had not applied for any position. But whatever be the decision of the party, I will implement it. What is significant is that I will remain in Madhya Pradesh. Which post I hold is not important.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/not-going-anywhere-ill-remain-in-mp-kamal-nath/articleshow/80159451.cms||Suchandana Gupta
January 8, 2021||Madurai||AIADMK govt tried to shield Pollachi case accused: Kanimozhi||Tuticorin: Tuticorin MP and DMK women wing secretary Kanimozhi on Thursday alleged that the AIADMK government had been trying to shield the accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case after it came to light three years ago. “This is because many involved in the case are from the AIADMK,” Kanimozhi told reporters at the Tuticorin airport. She was responding to a question on the arrest of an AIADMK youth wing leader on Wednesday in connection with the case. Referring to social media where pictures of the accused with AIADMK ministers are doing the rounds, Kanimozhi said, “They (AIADMK) did not want the issue to be brought to light. The victim was threatened after police divulged her name and identity. The victim and her family were threatened so that others should not come forward and speak. So many affected women did not show interest. There is no effort to protect them.” Recalling her interactions with the survivors, Kanimozhi expressed concern that they could still be facing blackmail and need protection. She said that the case was transferred to the CBI only after the DMK made repeated representations and it has taken two years to take action against the accused as the government had been trying to protect their party people involved in it. To a query on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s claim that there is no use of the gram sabha meetings conducted by the DMK, Kanimozhi said, “DMK will come to power in three months and redress grievances that have been petitioned at the gram sabha meets.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/aiadmk-govt-tried-to-shield-pollachi-case-accused-kanimozhi/articleshow/80161837.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Delhi||Polluted water from Haryana: Raghav Chadha urges Centre to intervene||NEW DELHI: Raghav Chadha, vice-chairman of Delhi Jal Board (DJB), appealed to Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on Thursday to intervene to sort out the problem of release of untreated waste water into the Yamuna from Haryana. Chadha alleged that untreated waste water and industrial effluents were released into Sonipat drains near Piao Manihari, Panipat and Rohtak X-regulator. “As per our latest survey of the Rohtak X-regulator, it was observed that not only has the water turned a dirty green, but the ammonia levels have risen to an alarming 40ppm,” Chadha said. Such “alarming levels” of ammonia will compel DJB to shut down its plants, impacting the water supply in Delhi, Chadha pointed out. DJB’s team has also surveyed Barota village and DD-8 at Piao Manihari, and the ammonia levels were found to be 6ppm and 3ppm, respectively, he added. “DD-8 supplies water to Delhi from Haryana. We request the Haryana government to take immediate steps to curb the release of untreated effluents into the Yamuna.” The contaminated water from DD-1 and DD-2, two canals in Haryana, reaches the Yamuna, the DJB vice-chairman. “The DD-2 canal is also known as dye drain because it contains a large amount of dye from industries, which contain ammonia in large quantities.” These two canals meet each other at Shimla Gujran village in Panipat district, which merges with the Yamuna at Khojkipur village and becomes a major polluting centre in the Yamuna with ammonia levels often reaching 25-40ppm, he said. The neighbouring state keeps its sewage treatment plants closed and releases the untreated water and sewage into the Yamuna, Chadha alleged. It makes the Yamuna muddy and increases the ammonia levels of the water reaching Delhi, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/polluted-water-from-haryana-chadha-urges-centre-to-intervene/articleshow/80160644.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Mumbai||Unruly passenger gets into a scuffle with flight crew, let off||MUMBAI: A passenger on board a recent IndiGo flight from Mumbai to Delhi got into a brawl with the crew during take-off after he refused to remain seated, and jostled his way to the airplane lavatory, refusing to pay heed to the anxious crew. However, no action was taken against the unruly passenger after the plane landed as he was found to be ‘mentally unstable’.  “After the aircraft landed in Delhi, the crew along with CISF security personnel took the passenger to the Delhi police, but no case was filed,’’ said an aviation source. The passenger was let off as he was found to be mentally unstable. IndiGo did not comment on the matter. The incident occurred on December 27 soon after the flight lifted off the Mumbai runway. The passenger unbuckled his seat belt and stood up despite the crew requesting him to remain seated. “But he got into an argument with the flight attendant. Even as the crew tried to restrain him, he pushed them away and went to the lavatory,’’ said a source. The crew informed the pilots about his behaviour. “Later, he was asked to move to the back row of the aircraft, far away from the cockpit door. Throughout the flight, the passenger was unruly. At one point he turned physically abusive and was restrained by the crew and some passengers,’’ the source added. The pilots sought a priority landing in Delhi and asked for security on arrival. The passenger was headed for Srinagar. On arrival at Delhi, he was handed over to CISF security personnel, who along with the flight crew took him to Delhi police station, the source said. An aviation source said that the passenger was found to be mentally unstable, which was why no complaint was filed against him. Indian civil aviation regulator, the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) defines a disruptive passenger as one who “fails to respect the rules of conduct at an airport or on board an aircraft or to follow the instructions of the airport staff or crew and thereby disturbs the good order and discipline at an airport or on board the aircraft.” On February 18 last year, a group of five IndiGo passengers created a ruckus and one of them tried to open the aircraft door. The aircraft returned to the parking bay and the unruly passengers were offloaded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/unruly-passenger-gets-into-a-scuffle-with-flight-crew-let-off/articleshow/80161857.cms||Manju V
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||Those receiving jabs will be provided digital vaccine cards, says Jharkhand govt||Ranchi: The state government said on Thursday that it has identified approximately 99.89 lakh people in Jharkhand who will be administered the Covid-19 vaccines which were recently approved by the Central Drug Standards Control Organization (CDSO). A statement issued by the office of chief minister Hemant Soren on Thursday evening stated that 62.97 lakh people above 50 years of age and 3.42 lakh people below 50 years, who are living with underlying diseases such as diabetes, cancer, lung ailments and other complications, have been identified for inoculation so far. As per the 2011 census, Jharkhand has a population of 3.5 crore. Soren chaired over a meeting of senior bureaucrats on Thursday to take stock of the preparations for the phased vaccination programme and its management at the state, district and grass-roots levels. Health minister Banna Gupta, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni attended the meeting. Although the date for the vaccination drive’s commencement was yet to be communicated to the state by the Centre, Jharkhand is on course to prepare for the exercise, Gupta said after the meeting. In the first phase, 1.5 lakh healthcare workers, including anganwadi sevikas, will be administered the vaccine. So far, 1.26 lakh of them have registered under the Union government’s Co-Win portal. “In the second phase, the police and security personnel of the state and the Central forces, SSB, home guards, prison workers, disaster response personnel, municipal workers, civil society groups and revenue workers will be inoculated,” the statement read. The government said beneficiaries will be provided digital vaccine cards after inoculation. “A reporting and tracking mechanism has been set up to address health problems which may arise after inoculation,” the statement read. “As many as 275 vaccine storage centres have been set up state-wide. Training programmes for vaccinators are currently underway,” it added. In the afternoon, Gupta participated in a meeting with Union health minister Harshvardhan over vaccination. “The state has provisioned over 1.3 lakh syringes for the first phase of vaccination and nearly 7,500 volunteers have been roped in for the exercise. As many as 1,672 vaccination centres have been set up,” Gupta said at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/those-receiving-jabs-will-be-provided-digital-vaccine-cards-says-jharkhand-govt/articleshow/80160457.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Vadodara||Jail inmates kin got Rs 24 lakh aid during pandemic year||Vadodara: The prisoners’ welfare department of Vadodara Central Jail disbursed Rs 24 lakh, the highest aid ever to the prisoners’ families, during the pandemic year. Families of 96 prisoners were given the aid under the an assistance scheme of the state government’s social security department. The department of the Vadodara jail has been giving financial assistance since 2011-12 and has so far helped families of 757 inmates by giving them Rs 85.3 lakh. The aid is given to the families of those prisoners who are the sole earning members of the families and have received a sentence of five or more years. Under this scheme, the family members can buy animals for dairy farming, sewing machine or a hand cart. “We did not stop giving aid even during the pandemic. In fact, last year we gave the highest aid since the scheme began,” said Mahesh Rathod, prisoners’ welfare officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/jail-inmates-kin-got-rs-24-lakh-aid-during-pandemic-year/articleshow/80158448.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||Drive at 6 Koderma health centres||Koderma: As many as six health centres have been selected in Koderma for holding the dry run for Covid-19 vaccine on Friday as a part of the nationwide drive ahead of the actual rollout. Talking to TOI on Thursday, additional chief medical officer Dr A B Prasad said, “All ground works have been done and we are set to go for the mega mock drill.” He added that the dry run will be crucial to evaluate the preparedness ahead of the actual rollout to prevent any glitches during the inoculation. “The dry run will take place in four steps. The first step would be to control the crowd that will arrive at the vaccination centres, followed by their registration, then the process of vaccination and thereafter keeping them under observation at a separate room for half an hour. The registration and the status of vaccination will be uploaded on a real-time basis on the coWIN app, a mobile application designed by the Union government for the purpose,” he said. About the participants for the dry run, he said 50 people will be covered at every vaccine session site in the dry run. “At all the six sites, there will be five officials each — four vaccine officers and one vaccinator,” he said, adding that as many as 3,234 health workers have been selected as a priority group for actual vaccination in the first phase after the rollout. On the storage facilities, he said, “The district has a capacity to store 2.57 lakh vaccines at its warehouse here.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/drive-at-6-koderma-health-centres/articleshow/80160640.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Jamshedpur||Spectacles go missing from Netaji’s bust in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: BJP leaders, workers and Bengali residents of the Steel City on Thursday took a strong exception to the removal of spectacles from the bust of Netaji Subash Chandra Bose installed at Aambagan Maidan by miscreants. Senior BJP leader and candidate of the Jamshedpur West assembly seat, Devendra Singh, along with a large number of party workers demanded immediate repair of the bust. Singh also informed authorities of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) about the incident and demanded complete repair of the bust before January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji. The saffron party leader later said JNAC has the taken the matter seriously and assured to repair the bust and the surrounding area soon apart from installing high-powered lights in the area. Earlier, Singh had demanded construction of a boundary wall for the park to prevent anti-social elements from entering the premises at odd hours. He said the area has become the den of drug addicts and other miscreants after dark. Large parts of the iconic park were also encroached upon by garage and motor vehicle workshop owners, Singh added. Netaji's bust was installed at the park by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha in the presence of then chief minister Arjun Munda. When Saryu Rai was the local MLA of the constituency, he had promised to free the area of encroachments but till date, it has not materialised. Bengalis and Bangla-speaking community living in the city and its surrounding areas, which comprise around 40% of the total population, have also taken a strong exception to the vandalising of the bust. Rajesh Roy, head of Banga Bandhu, said miscreants had also damaged the bust earlier. He said the group will start protests after Netaji's birth anniversary if the district administration fails to protect the bust. Earlier on August 11, 2019, a bust of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose disappeared from the Chandil area of Seraikela-Kharsawan district a day after it was installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/spectacles-go-missing-from-netajis-bust-in-steel-city/articleshow/80169772.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||2nd vax dry run at 188 centres in Jharkhand today||Ranchi: The second dry run for the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, scheduled for Friday, will be a bigger affair from the first version of the exercise held on January 2. “The dry run will be held at 188 primary health centres across 24 districts. The medical college and hospitals (in Ranchi, Jamshedpur, Dhanbad, Dumka, Hazaribag and Palamu) are also likely to be roped in for the programme,” Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal officer for vaccination programmes in Jharkhand, told the TOI. Friday’s mock vaccination drive will succeed a similar rehearsal which was conducted on January 2 across six districts — Ranchi, Simdega, Pakur, Palamu, Chatra and East Singbhum. As many as 325 health workers were involved in the drills. The exercises are being held to comply with a mandate of the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Around 1.26 lakh health workers have been registered for inoculation in Jharkhand in the first phase and their numbers are expected to rise in the coming days. “All aspects of the vaccination programme will be rehearsed. We have also arranged for fake syringes, which will be administered to dummy patients so that the health workers can be acquainted with the process,” Prasad said. Health officials said Friday’s drill will rehearse all the four steps which will begin with crowd and queue management outside the vaccination centres and the entry of beneficiaries in compliance with social distancing protocols. In step two, the beneficiary will be registered for inoculation and will be made to wait for his or her turn. In the third step, a beneficiary will be registered with the Union government’s Co-WIN portal and will be vaccinated. In the final step, the beneficiary will be sent to an isolated room and kept under observation to check for symptoms, if any. “We have also provisioned for volunteers who will pose as beneficiaries and falsely complain about adverse symptoms of the vaccine. This will be done to check the efficacy of the arrangements which have been made to mitigate such a health condition,” Prasad said. Prasad said transport of vaccine vials to the vaccination centres from the cold chain points will also be rehearsed. A total of 274 cold chain points have been set up statewide. Each district has the capacity to store approximately three lakh doses at a time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/2nd-vax-dry-run-at-188-centres-in-jharkhand-today/articleshow/80160631.cms||Dhritiman Ray
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||Spectacles go missing from Netaji’s bust in Steel City||JAMSHEDPUR: BJP leaders, workers and Bengali residents of the Steel City on Thursday took a strong exception to the removal of spectacles from the bust of Netaji Subash Chandra Bose installed at Aambagan Maidan by miscreants. Senior BJP leader and candidate of the Jamshedpur West assembly seat, Devendra Singh, along with a large number of party workers demanded immediate repair of the bust. Singh also informed authorities of the Jamshedpur Notified Area Committee (JNAC) about the incident and demanded complete repair of the bust before January 23, the birth anniversary of Netaji. The saffron party leader later said JNAC has the taken the matter seriously and assured to repair the bust and the surrounding area soon apart from installing high-powered lights in the area. Earlier, Singh had demanded construction of a boundary wall for the park to prevent anti-social elements from entering the premises at odd hours. He said the area has become the den of drug addicts and other miscreants after dark. Large parts of the iconic park were also encroached upon by garage and motor vehicle workshop owners, Singh added. Netaji's bust was installed at the park by former Union minister Yashwant Sinha in the presence of then chief minister Arjun Munda. When Saryu Rai was the local MLA of the constituency, he had promised to free the area of encroachments but till date, it has not materialised. Bengalis and Bangla-speaking community living in the city and its surrounding areas, which comprise around 40% of the total population, have also taken a strong exception to the vandalising of the bust. Rajesh Roy, head of Banga Bandhu, said miscreants had also damaged the bust earlier. He said the group will start protests after Netaji's birth anniversary if the district administration fails to protect the bust. Earlier on August 11, 2019, a bust of freedom fighter Khudiram Bose disappeared from the Chandil area of Seraikela-Kharsawan district a day after it was installed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/spectacles-go-missing-from-netajis-bust-in-steel-city/articleshow/80160475.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Ranchi||Working panels to replace panchayat bodies in Jharkhand||Ranchi: As the term of the elected representatives of the panchayat bodies in the state ended on Thursday, the Jharkhand government has notified setting up of working committees in all three levels of the rural local bodies in which the elected members will be members. The arrangement was adopted by the Madhya Pradesh government recently. The state has over 4,000 panchayats and the polls are delayed in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic. According to the notification, the committees will function till the time fresh polls take place. Talking to TOI, state panchayati raj director Aditya Ranjan confirmed the new arrangement stating that the former panchayat representatives have been put in the new working committees by giving them equal powers but they will have to work in tandem with all other members in the committees which will also have government-nominated members. He said, “This new arrangement is done by the government in exercise of its power under Section 107 of the Panchayti Raj Act. While the mukhiyas, whose terms just ended, will continue to head the working committees at the gram panchayat level, they will now be known as the chief (pradhan) of the working committee and not as mukhiyas. Similar arrangements are done at other levels, too.” The notification also said in the non-Scheduled area, a working committee in the gram panchayat will have former mukhiya as its president with other ex-office bearers of the particular panchayat as its members. “This apart, two government representatives and a retired Class III government employee or others nominated by the government authorities, will also be part of the working committee. For every decision, a formal consent of each member is made mandatory while the president will have the financial authority for withdrawal of funds to executive works,” Ranjan said. A similar system will also function in the Scheduled areas but the government has made traditional religious heads of the particular panchayat as members of the working committee. In panchayat samitis, the former head of the existing samiti is made its president while ex-officer bearers and three government representatives will be its other members. Zila parishads, too, will have a similar system. Jharkhand State Mukhiya Sangh president Vikas Mahto welcomed the move. Talking to TOI, he said, “The government has adopted the system which was followed in Madhya Pradesh recently. We are happy with the arrangements as the move has virtually given an extension to the existing elected members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/working-panels-to-replace-panchayat-bodies-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80160550.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 8, 2021||Goa||17 UK returnees test -ve, ESI hosp discharges them||Panaji: The ESI hospital discharged 17 UK returnees on Thursday evening after they tested negative for Covid-19. The state authorities, however, did not declare whether they had carried the new strain of the UK virus or not. The authorities had tested the UK returnees on Wednesday morning following protests over the Goa government’s silence on their genomic test results. Fresh swab samples of those who were positive for more than 14 days were sent to the Goa Medical College laboratory. A patient told TOI that he got to know from sources that the viral load of samples sent to Pune was too low to detect the UK strain and alleged the government had no plan or SOP in place for this group as a result of which they were being kept in the facility. In another case, a distressed mother breathed a sigh of relief that her teenager, who was isolated alone in the hospital for more than ten days, would be back home. “I hope the government puts SOPs in place so that there is some transparency for others in the future. My child was told they would be out in three days, but it is now close to two weeks and my child is mentally and emotionally drained. None of us were mentally prepared for this and it was very stressful,” the mother told TOI. An inmate, who participated in the protests, told TOI they were justified in doing so. “Obviously we’d be agitated. We have a right to know what is going on with us and our samples. If our samples couldn’t be processed for the new strain at NIV, Pune, they should have addressed the issue, worn PPE suits and told us, instead of taking fresh swabs every now and then to send to GMC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/17-uk-returnees-test-ve-esi-hosp-discharges-them/articleshow/80160665.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 8, 2021||Goa||Goa: Drinking on beaches to invite Rs 2,000 fine per individual, Rs 10,000 per group||PANAJI: Over a year after the introduction of a law to curb nuisances in public places, the tourism department has begun installing signboards at all beaches warning visitors of the dos and don’ts. The signboards also specify that any visitor found drinking on beaches will be slapped with a fine of Rs 2,000 while a group of people found to be indulging in such behaviour will have to cough up Rs 10,000. The move appears to be spurred after several popular beaches were strewn with alcohol bottles and other waste on New Year’s Day, what with tourists from other states thronging Goa to ring in 2021. There were also reports of visitors sustaining injuries after accidentally stepping on broken glass bottles lying scattered in the sand. “Once we have a dedicated tourist police force, we will be able to have better control,” tourism director Menino D’Souza said while pointing out that help from the police department would be instrumental in implementing the law. D’Souza further said that all litter left on beaches on New Year’s Eve was lifted the next day. “While waste is cleared three times a day, it is difficult for the workers to spot every small piece of glass under the sand,” he explained. Despite Goa spending around Rs 10 crore each year on beach-cleaning, the tourism sector draws a lot of negative publicity when tourists get injured by broken glass bottles that are discarded in the sand despite bins being stationed at the entry points of all beaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drinking-on-beaches-to-invite-rs-2k-fine-per-individual-rs-10k-per-group/articleshow/80160654.cms||---
January 8, 2021||India||Kerala, 2 other states account for 50% of new Covid cases||India’s daily Covid-19 count dropped to nearly 18,500 a day after the tally had crossed the 20,000 mark, even as three states continued to report higher than 1,000 new infections. On Thursday, Kerala logged 5,051 fresh cases, Maharashtra 3,729 and Chhattisgrah 1,010. Although all three states reported a slight drop from the numbers recorded on Wednesday but still accounted for 50% of all cases recorded in the country on Thursday. Meanwhile, the Union health secretary has written to the Maharashtra, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Bengal governments on the need for “strict vigil” and “prompt action” to arrest the recent spike in Covid cases in each of the states. These four states account for 59% of all active Covid cases in the country, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in his letter. The state governments were also warned against allowing testing rates to drop, particularly in the light of the spread of the mutated strain of the virus that's said to be more infectious. Bengal reported 921 new cases on Thursday, the fourth highest in the country and a slight increase from the numbers recorded in the state in the past six days. Overall, however, the cases appears to be receding in Bengal as compared with the numbers reported last week. There were 231 deaths recorded in India on Thursday, around the same as the previous day’s toll (228). Maharashtra continued to report the highest deaths, 72 on Thursday, followed by Kerala (25), Delhi (19) and Bengal (18).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kerala-2-other-states-account-for-50-of-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80162727.cms||---
January 8, 2021||Goa||Covid positivity rate up to 6%||170 words Panaji: Goa reported 119 fresh cases of Covid-19 and 90 recoveries on Thursday, pushing its active tally to 898. The case positivity rate jumped to 6% as against 5% reported on Wednesday. While on Tuesday, the state’s daily tally went below 50, it has increased in the following two days. For a second day in a row, no mortalities were reported. The day saw 28 hospital admissions and 47 patients home isolated. In South Goa, Ponda saw its numbers rising again after a dip in cases for a few days. On Thursday, its count rose to 63 as also Cortalim and Navelim, with their numbers rising slightly, while Margao’s caseload dropped to 99. In North Goa, Mapusa and Porvorim witnessed a marginal rise in cases and their tallies went up to 29 and 56 respectively, while Panaji and Chimbel reported a drop in fresh infections. Meanwhile, health services is scheduled to hold a second mock-dry run for Covid vaccinations at eight centres in the state on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-positivity-rate-up-to-6/articleshow/80160676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Asymptomatic man suffers partial blindness||NAGPUR: Thousands of Covid-19 patients are recovering without any symptoms, while lakhs are recovering without even realizing that they had been infected because their immune system developed antibodies. But this doesn’t make Covid-19 less dangerous at all. In a case recently reported at a hospital in city, a 52-old patient lost his right side vision due to post-Covid complications, doctors claimed. The patient is undergoing treatment at Orange City Hospital and Research Institute (OCHRI). Doctors said the patient had reported to an eye specialist with complaints of diminished vision (partial blindness) along with headache, giddiness and imbalance while walking. Suspecting a neurological problem, eye specialist Dr Abhay Agashe referred him to neurology department. Investigations revealed that it was neurological blindness due to acute non-haemorrhagic infarct in left PCA territory with thrombotic occlusion. Generally, this type of interruption of blood flow within the brain happens in patients having risk factors like diabetes, smoking, high cholesterol, sedentary lifestyle, atrial fibrillation etc. But the patient had no such risk factors associated. As per protocol, his RT-PCR test was conducted and it resulted in negative which suggested that he was not having Covid-19 either. Finally, doctors did antibody test to check whether he had prior infection of Covid-19 and recovered without developing any symptoms. His IgG antibody test came positive with high amount of Covid-19 antibodies detected in blood. Physician Dr Devayani Buche, who also runs daily post Covid OPD at OCHRI, said, “It is now well established that coronavirus causes problems in the brain while initially it was all about the lungs. It is important to understand neurological impact of the virus.” Critical care physician Dr Rajesh Atal added that stroke can be a presenting symptom of Covid-19 and can happen in young people without traditional stroke risk factors. “Usually, blood thinners are given for 3-4 weeks to all diagnosed Covid patients during post Covid follow-up. However, in such cases wherein the patient remained asymptomatic and was unaware of his Covid status, lack of essential post Covid prophylactic medications can unfortunately lead to such eventuality,” he said. Dr Agashe said that a post Covid patient can present with such diverse symptoms like diminution of vision in one or both eyes or just difficulty in focusing on objects. “Every patient who has unusual symptoms should be suspected of possible after-effects of Covid infections irrespective of previous positive history of the disease,” he said. OCHRI director Dr Anup Marar reiterated the need for regular post Covid follow-up. “Citizens should get Covid antibody test done to confirm their post infection status so that they can undertake post Covid consultation and be on needful medications,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/asymptomatic-man-suffers-partial-blindness/articleshow/80159576.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 8, 2021||Goa||Govt considers tribal food park at Sanjivani site||Panaji: Tribal welfare minister Govind Gaude on Thursday said that a TRIFOOD park is likely to be set up at the Sanjivani Cooperative Sugar Factory site at Dharbandora. “Tribals and self-help groups will manufacture products at the park and these products will be sold in domestic as well as international markets,” he said. Gaude said that cashew feni will be branded through Tribal Cooperative Marketing Development Federation of India (TRIFED). He said that the government has decided to focus on three things — a TRIFED showroom, Van Dhan Kendra and TRIFOOD park. The park will manufacture products from local produce. “If we want to promote local products then we need to have a food park,” Gaude told reporters. Gaude held a meeting with a team from the Union tribal affairs ministry which is in Goa. He said that a central government team will inspect the sugar factory site at Dharbandora. “If it is feasible, then a food park can be set up there after taking the chief minister’s approval,” he said. He said that the products manufactured at the food park will be distributed through the central government. Van Dhan Kendra should have minimum 300 members and “because Goa is a small state we have sought relaxation in the number of members with the ministry of tribal affairs”. The scheme is not restricted to tribals only. “Only 5% self-help groups may be run by tribals only. The rest will be run by mixed communities. We have also decided to allow non-ST community self-help groups to join the Van Dhan Kendra,” Gaude said. The minister said that the Union minister has given in-principle approval to accommodate self-help groups with 60:40 ratio of ST and non-ST people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-considers-tribal-food-park-at-sanjivani-site/articleshow/80160692.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Sisters 15 & 17 wrestle with armed dad, save mom||Nagpur: Two teenage sisters, aged 15 and 17, along with their 10-year-old brother were trembling in fear on Thursday recalling the attack by their father Chandrashekhar Sarode, 43, who tried to assault his wife with a knife in each hand at their rented apartment at Matoshree Nagar near Wanadongri, Hingna, a day earlier. On Wednesday, Sarode, under the influence of alcohol and armed with knives, barged into his estranged wife Twinkle’s residence and tried to attack her. On seeing father in a rage, the teenagers wrestled with the man and shielded their mother from being assaulted. The two girls sustained slash injuries as they wrestled with father, a trucker, who was trying to stab them to death. Fed up of husband constantly doubting her character, the woman Twinkle had deserted Sarode and left home along with her daughters and son. Twinkle used to frequently change her location, but Sarode would always find her address and start harassing them. Twinkle had lodged several complaints about Sarode with MIDC and Wadi police. Her case was also referred to Bharosa cell, but the problem had aggravated over the period. As the sisters fought to stave off the attack, Twinkle appealed to the onlookers to help them, but none came forward seeing the armed man in murderous rage. When none came to the rescue, the woman pulled back her husband, who had nearly pinned down the younger daughter who had suffered numerous slash marks. As Twinkle and her daughters kept on struggling, a woman from the neighbourhood rushed to intervene. Twinkle and her daughters somehow managed to flee from the spot and took shelter in an adjacent house where they locked themselves in a room and alerted police control room. As the trio managed to flee, Sarode’s wrath was directed towards his 10-year-old son whom he tried to assault, but he too managed to flee. Twinkle said Sarode had been torturing her for the last 15 years. After a couple of years of their marriage in 2003, Sarode had started harassing Twinkle suspecting her character. Twinkle and her children have survived multiple assault attempts by Sarode in the past too. “My husband would somehow manage to trace out our new location and land up with knife and start attacking us,” she said. Even in the presence of MIDC police, who arrived at the spot after being informed by control room, Sarode warned Twinkle and her daughters of dire consequences once he is out on bail. He also threatened police personnel to implicate them in false cases. MIDC police have arrested Sarode and slapped an offence of assault against him and also for issuing grave threats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sisters-15-17-wrestle-with-armed-dad-save-mom/articleshow/80159603.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 8, 2021||Nagpur||Wadettiwar’s passport impounded after he surrenders it||Nagpur: The passport of Maharashtra social welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar was impounded after he surrendered it on December 21. This is the result of a plea filed by former MLC Mitesh Bhangadiya in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court. The passport (No K3570582) was issued on May 11, 2012. The petitioner, through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, had accused the relief and rehabilitation minister of suppressing his ten criminal cases while applying for the passport on May 29, 2001 and misleading the authorities. A detailed note issued by assistant passport officer Harshadkumar Parmar on Thursday said that the Bramhapuri MLA’s passport was impounded under Section 10 (3)(e) of the Passports Act, 1967 after he was issued a notice on December 18. He also submitted the order copies of cases pending against him in various courts. “This office referred the case to the police authority of Nagpur and Gadchiroli along with the court copies for verification,” Parmar said. Denying the accusations, Wadettiwar told TOI that his passport form was filled by the agent and it was the passport office’s duty to conduct verification before issuing the passport. “It’s not my fault if they issued it without verification. The offences registered against me were primarily political which are very minor in nature,” he said. Wadettiwar said after Bhangdiya filed the case he decided to hand it over to the authorities for verification. “It wasn’t seized as claimed by Bhangdiya. I personally went to the passport office in Seminary Hills to surrender it. Since there are no offences against me currently, I will get it back shortly,” the minister said. In his petition, Bhangdiya accused Wadettiwar of allegedly committing an offence under Section 12(1)(b) of the Passport Act, 1967, by hiding the information about his criminal antecedents. According to him, Wadettiwar had applied for a passport for a second time on January 25, 2007, but again suppressed the same information. Bhangdiya filed many complaints with the Maharashtra government and ministry of external affairs (MEA) before moving HC. He claimed that Wadettiwar had wrongly mentioned in his affidavit to the passport office that his address was of Mumbai, whereas he stays in Gadchiroli and mentioned the same address on his income tax return forms. The motive was to transfer the passport application from Nagpur to Mumbai. The petitioner pointed out that despite an adverse verification report submitted by the police to the passport office, it issued a passport to the minister, which shows a nexus between the officials and him. In his petition, Bhangdiya had prayed for directives to the police commissioner, passport offices in Mumbai and Nagpur to register an FIR against Wadettiwar and seize his passport. The HC had issued notices to the minister and state home department in July last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wadettiwars-passport-impounded-after-he-surrenders-it/articleshow/80159619.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 8, 2021||Goa||Women must take up leadership roles: Sawant||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Thursday stressed on the need for women to assume leadership positions for the welfare of society. “When a woman takes over the leadership, it nurtures the next generation. Society requires women leadership,” Sawant said. He also said that women need to take leadership roles in various fields like business, literature, etc. Speaking at the birth anniversary of the first woman chief minister of Goa, Shashikala Kakodkar, Sawant said that he wondered why Kakodkar’s name does not figure in any infrastructure facility in the state and assured to name a project after her in the next one year. The organisers of her birth anniversary celebration demanded that a state-level function be organised in her memory. “I will discuss the demand with the protocol department and ensure that the state celebrates her birth anniversary. The youth have a lot of learn from Kakodkar,” he said. Sawant said that with the intention of providing better educational facilities in the state, the government has passed the Private University Bill. “Goans will get higher education in Goa itself,” he said. He also said that the state will set up various education institutes, including NIT, IIT, etc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/women-must-take-up-leadership-roles-sawant/articleshow/80160704.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
