January 9, 2021||Chennai||Chengalpet administration to take over govt land sold illegally||CHENNAI: After attaching more than 100 acres of land usurped by private individuals in connivance with state government officials at Thazhambur off Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), the Chengalpet district administration will soon kick start the drive to take over the remaining land. Already, registration of land belonging to at least 1,000 people, comprising both constructed and barren land parcels with a market value of 2,000 crore, has been frozen. A case in the Madras high court helped blow the lid off the illegal sale of government ‘Anadeenam’ (dryland) to 70 private individuals from 2013 with the help of officials from land reforms and revenue departments, say Chengalpet district administration officials. While a joint commissioner-rank official in the land reforms department at Villupuram, where the documents pertaining to the ‘Anadeenam’ land were handled, gave it away to 40 individuals, an assistant commissioner in the same department and Revenue Divisional Officer followed suit later. A committee constituted by the Chengalpet district administration began an inquiry into the scam. According to officials privy to the developments, the land reforms department cannot reassign ‘Anadeenam’ land ‘pattas’ to any private individuals. “We plan to take over the remaining land in another fortnight. A case has been registered with Kancheepuram police who are investigating,” a revenue official said. About 150 pattas, covering 100 acres, issued in violation to rules, have been cancelled. While the guideline value of the 100 acres retrieved is 137 crore, real estate sector sources said the market value of an acre at Thazhambur is 4 crore. A visit by TOI found several housing constructions had come up on the land with some pockets vacant. The barren land parcels sported notice boards bearing the names of private individuals and organisations claiming ownership. Inquiries with villagers showed the plots were once owned by affluent landlords when Thazhambur was a farming village before being taken over by the government as ‘Anadeenam’. Chengalpet collector A John Louis told TOI a special leave petition (SLP) in this connection was pending in the Supreme Court. “In March last year, we froze registrations in the land parcel which has ownership of at least 1,000 people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chengalpet-admin-to-take-over-govt-land-sold-illegally/articleshow/80178033.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Now, kids can send complaints of sexual abuse to cops by post||CHENNAI: For scores of children who are victims of sexual abuse and are forced to suffer in silence, the Adyar police have introduced a post card system to send in complaints. Any child who has faced sexual harassment or abuse at school, home or elsewhere can report the incident, if he or she is reluctant to open up to their parents. This initiative was started as sexual abuse of children often goes unnoticed and unreported. Children, being vulnerable, continue to suffer abuse without having any mechanism to report especially when the abuse is perpetrated by someone close to the child. A similar initiative was introduced in 2013 in Pulianthope district where the child abuse victims were asked to drop in their complaints in a box set up at schools. Police received an overwhelming response to the initiative. With this system, survivors need not fear about their identity getting divulged. They can post the card from any post box, police said. After a complaint is reported, the case will be followed by specially trained counsellors who will track it keeping in view the position of the child. Police officers of the respective localities will follow up the case along with a woman police officer. “Many children who have suffered some form of sexual harassment were afraid to report the abuse out of fear. This facility gives children the anonymity they want. They can report the violence against them in any form without any fear,” said deputy commissioner, Adyar, V Vikraman. As part of the move, officials created awareness among the children from Kanathur and Karikattukuppam areas. The women inspectors explained to them about good and bad touch. More than 150 of them participated in the programme. They were handed over postcards addressed to the office of the deputy commissioner of police, Adyar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/now-kids-can-send-complaints-of-sexual-abuse-to-cops-by-post/articleshow/80178034.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Fishers’ welfare more important than Marina beautification: Madras HC||CHENNAI: Welfare of fishermen and their human rights are more important than beautification of Marina, the Madras high court said on Friday. “Beautification can be done simultaneously but first preference is for fishermen welfare,” the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The bench made the observation while hearing pleas on regulating vending on Marina and Loop Road. The issue pertains to two pleas moved by Fishermen Care – a fishermen rights organisation seeking implementation of the Murari Committee recommendations on high-sea fishing and increase in allowance provided to fishermen during the fishing ban period. Subsequently, the scope of the pleas was suo motu expanded by a division bench headed by Justice Vineeth Kothari (now transferred to the Gujarat HC) to regulate vending and beautification of Marina and Loop Road. When the plea came up for hearing on Friday, counsel for the petitioner L P Maurya submitted that the petitions are pending since 2015 and the original prayer sought for is not being considered, instead beautification of Marina is being given priority, though the petitioner is not concerned about the same. The bench said, “We are making it clear that the fishermen issues would be given priority first.”The court further assured to consider the relief sought by impleading petitioners to reserve certain ships for people with disabilities and not to restrict the number of vendors to 900. The bench asked the counsel for the petitioner to remind the court if they are over-concentrating on the beatification issue during the future hearings. The court then adjourned the hearing after Pongal holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fishers-welfare-more-important-than-marina-beautification-hc/articleshow/80178480.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Deggie to coach FC Goa reserves||Panaji: Deggie Cardozo has been appointed as the new head coach for FC Goa’s developmental team. He will take charge of the FC Goa reserves for the upcoming season of Goa Pro League, starting January 15. The 33-year-old was in charge of the ATK Reserves and U-18 teams for the past two seasons. “I am incredibly excited to be a part of the FC Goa family. This is a fantastic opportunity for me and one that I am thrilled to have been given,” said Deggie. FC Goa technical director Derrick Pereira was pleased with the appointment. “Deggie is someone I have seen work from close. He is wholly aligned with the vision and philosophy of the club. He is young and hungry to make his mark, just like our youngsters,” said Pereira.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deggie-to-coach-fc-goa-reserves/articleshow/80178553.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||A warm party on a chilly night with friends in Lucknow||A bonfire party hosted by a social club in the city was a rocking affair. With the theme of the party being red and white, all members were dressed accordingly. A live music band added to the fun by playing several peppy numbers like Badan Par Sitare Lapete Hue, Tere Jaisa Yaar Kahan, etc. Later, the Best-Dressed couple title was given to Anshu and Girish Taneja, while the Most Vibrant Couple title went to Navneet and Taranjeet. (L) Anshu and Deepali (R) Ekta (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Anshu and Deepali (R) Ekta (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Bhavna and Swati Agarwal (R) Neha and Manu Garg (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Bhavna and Swati Agarwal (R) Neha and Manu Garg (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L-R) Bhavya, Kamya and Tanushree (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L-R) Bhavya, Kamya and Tanushree (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Deepak (L) and Bobby (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Deepak (L) and Bobby (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Gurpreet and Rajni Arora (R) Sonika and Abhishek Bansal (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Gurpreet and Rajni Arora (R) Sonika and Abhishek Bansal (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) The singer at the event regaled the guests (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)The singer at the event regaled the guests (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) (L) Riddhi and Navneet (R) Ruchita (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)(L) Riddhi and Navneet (R) Ruchita (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Sanchta Goel (L) and Parul Malik (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal)Sanchta Goel (L) and Parul Malik (BCCL/ Vishnu Jaiswal) Watch A warm party on a chilly night with friends in Lucknow||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-warm-party-on-a-chilly-night-with-friends-in-lucknow/articleshow/80182619.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Airlines given some leeway on local fares||NEW DELHI: The aviation ministry on Friday issued an order saying domestic airfares will remain capped till March 31, 2021, a further extension of over a month from the earlier deadline of February 24. Airlines, however, will now be required to sell only 20% of seats at fares below the midpoint of the minimum and maximum fares. They were required to sell 40% of seats on a flight below the midpoint when scheduled flights were allowed to resume on May 25, 2020, with capped fares. This means, fewer seats will now be available for lower price bands as airlines can now sell more domestic flight tickets for higher fares. Airlines had been pointing out that jet fuel prices have shot up significantly since the rules were set last May and that fare range should either be raised to factor in the increased operating cost or be done away with. On June 1, 2020, a kilolitre (1,000 litres) of jet fuel cost Rs 26,860 and Rs 26,456 in Delhi (at T3) and Mumbai, respectively. On January 1, 2021, the prices had shot up to Rs 39,324 and Rs 37,813 (taxes extra) in Delhi and Mumbai, respectively. Jet fuel accounts for almost 40% of an airline’s total operating cost. The aviation ministry had last May classified domestic flights into seven categories based on flying time — starting with flights below 40 minutes having a range of Rs 2,000-Rs 6,000 and going up to those with flying time of 3-3.5 hours with a range of Rs 6,500-Rs 18,600. Delhi-Mumbai, one of the world’s busiest domestic air routes, falls in a category with a fare range of Rs 3,500-Rs 10,000. Till Friday, airlines were required to sell 40% seats on this route at below the midpoint of Rs 6,750, and now they will need to sell half of that number of seats at that fare. The formula for calculating the midpoint is minimum fare plus maximum fare divided by two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/airlines-given-some-leeway-on-local-fares/articleshow/80180081.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Assets of ‘love jihad’ accused to be attached||LUCKNOW: Police will attach properties of a resident of Tambor in Sitapur district of UP, who’s on the run since December last year after being booked under provisions of the new ‘love jihad’ law, reports Kanwardeep Singh. A court approval was taken to execute the proceedings under Section 83 of CrPC, which lays down that a proclaimed offender’s property can be attached after s/he’s declared an absconder. Zubrail, 22, had allegedly eloped with a 19-year-old Hindu girl, Neetu, on November 26. Later, he married her and allegedly forced her to convert to Islam. Zubrail’s house and land will be attached in the presence of the sub-divisional magistrate on Saturday. His van was seized on Friday, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/assets-of-love-jihad-accused-to-be-attached/articleshow/80179618.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Business||Push reforms, boost investor confidence: Economists to PM||NEW DELHI: The Centre should accelerate the pace of stake sales in state-run companies, unveil a fresh fiscal roadmap, recapitalise banks, reduce import duty, leading economists told Prime Minister Narendra Modi, while backing the government's structural reforms, including those related to the farm sector. The PM’s meeting with economists comes ahead of the February 1 Union budget that is expected to unveil fresh measures to revive growth, which has taken a massive hit due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, Niti Aayog vice chairman Rajeev Kumar, CEO Amitabh Kant and other top officials from the PMO and finance ministry were present in the meeting, held over video-conference. Sources said there was a suggestion to undertake reforms and have a roadmap to make the country a $10-trillion economy in 10 years. A participant suggested that the government should remain firm on farm reforms, while another suggested that it should not challenge tax arbitration awards, like the one on Vodafone. "All those present agreed that high frequency indicators are showing signs of a strong economic recovery, and that too earlier than expected. They were broadly in agreement that next year will see robust growth and suggested measures to maintain this growth rate to drive India’s socio-economic transformation. The participants in the discussion highlighted the strong structural reform measures that have been undertaken in the past few years and how they would help in the creation of an Atmanirbhar Bharat. Suggestions were made by participants on future reform areas," an official statement said. Modi told the economists that along with fiscal stimulus, the government had also tried reform-based stimulus, which was seen through historic reforms in agriculture, commercial coal mining and labour laws. "The PM explained his vision behind an Atmanirbhar Bharat, where Indian companies are integrated in global supply chains in a manner not seen before," the release said. Economists also suggested spending on infrastructure to help sustain the economic recovery. Sources said there was support for production-linked incentives and suggestions to ensure that India becomes part of the global supply chain. Some economists suggested that the Centre examine the issue of joining the mega regional trade block RCEP. There was discussion on the issue of fiscal deficit and the need to step up infrastructure spending. “There were suggestions that the fiscal deficit target could be eased to ensure infrastructure spending,” said a source. Participants also urged the government to undertake efforts to revive investor sentiment and ensure that investors are attracted given the raft of reforms that have been undertaken. Some economists also suggested creation of a bad bank to tackle the issue of bad loans while others talked about massive recapitalisation of banks. “There was a suggestion that a bad bank can be set up within a large bank,” said a source. Some participants spoke about the need to have health insurance for the middle class while others backed the idea of providing digital infrastructure for poor students to carry on with online classes. Several top economists such as former Niti Aayog vice chairman Arvind Panagariya, former CEA Shankar Acharya, former CEA and ex-deputy governor of RBI Rakesh Mohan, former CEA Ashok Lahiri, former ICICI Bank chairman and managing director KV Kamath, SBI group chief economic adviser Soumya Kanti Ghosh, former MPC member Ravindra Dholakia, Nomura economist Sonal Verma, economist and commentator Ila Patnaik were among those who participated in the deliberations. Sitharaman will present her budget against the backdrop of a sharp contraction of growth and massive dip in revenues. On Thursday, the NSO forecast GDP to contract 7.7% in 2020-21 due to the impact of the pandemic-induced lockdown that stalled economic activity. Recent data has shown that the economy is scripting a swift recovery and is expected to return to growth in the third and fourth quarters of the current fiscal year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/push-reforms-boost-investor-confidence-economists-to-pm/articleshow/80180315.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Business||Sensex nears 49k on Biden confirmation, foreign fund buying||MUMBAI: Although delayed, Joe Biden’s confirmation as the next US president on Thursday led to a global rally which also lifted sentiment on Dalal Street on Friday. As a result, the sensex soared 689 points to close at a new life high at 48,783 points, with Infosys, TCS and RIL leading the charge. In intra-day trade, the sensex touched a new all-time high at 48,854 points. The day’s rally was supported by strong foreign fund inflow with the net buying at Rs 6,030 crore, BSE data showed. On the NSE too, the nifty hit an all-time high at 14,367 and closed 210 points higher at 14,347, also an all-time closing high. So far this week, the sensex has gained nearly 2% while the Nifty is up 2.3%. This also took the current month’s net inflow to past the Rs 10,000 crore mark. Friday’s gains also made investors richer by Rs 2.5 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 195.6 lakh crore. The good news for the street is that unlike in the earlier months of the rally that started in late March, there are indications it’s lifting mid and smallcap stocks also. According to Rusmik Oza, EVP & head of fundamental research at Kotak Securities, the broader indices have performed even better than the benchmark indices: So far this week, the nifty midcap 100 index has gained 5.2% while the smallcap index on BSE is up 2.7%. “On the back of rising metal prices and of very good Q3 earnings expectations the BSE Metal Index rose by 9% this week. Other sectors that delivered healthy returns this week are telecom (up 5.9%), utilities (up 5%) and IT services (up 5.6%),” he said. The market is expected to remain firm going forward as brokers expect good numbers from frontline companies during the results season which started Friday evening as TCS announced its third quarter results. According to Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities, as more companies come out with their numbers, the focus could shift from index to individual stocks and peer stocks. “There is still no reversal signal for the index. Another two odd weeks of gains seem plausible though not at the same pace,” Jasani wrote in a post-market note||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-nears-49k-on-biden-confirmation-foreign-fund-buying/articleshow/80180330.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Serum’s vaccine despatch delayed another 48 hours||PUNE: The massive airlift of the Covishield vaccine doses from here has been delayed by another 48 hours. It is now likely to happen only by Monday. Vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India has dismissed talk of the transportation delay being due to “price negotiations” with the Union government. Transportation was first expected to begin on Thursday, and then Friday. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “No movement has happened today (Friday) too. As said earlier, we are fully prepared and ready from our end. We can easily handle (the transportation) and are at present handling more than 150 tonnes of cargo in a single day.” An airline representative said on condition of anonymity that “transportation has been postponed until Monday. We don’t have any more information on this right now”. Read AlsoBrazil's Bolsonaro asks India to expedite Covid vaccine shipment as delays loomBrazilian President Jair Bolsonaro asked PM Narendra Modi to expedite a shipment of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid broader delays to the vaccine's arrival in Brazil. ​​Bolsonaro's letter, released by his press office, comes amid growing pressure to speed up Brazil's vaccine rollout and end theMeanwhile, SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla said, “There is absolutely no price negotiation at all. The rollout will happen in a few days. There are due processes to be followed before we transport the vaccine doses,” he told TOI. Poonawalla has announced that Covishield will be offered to the government at a special price of Rs 200 a dose for the first 100 million doses. It will be available in the market for Rs 1,000 a dose. Read our coronavirus live blog for all the latest news and updatesSII has 50 million doses ready at its Manjari plant in Pune. It has been waiting for the government to place a formal order for the doses before it can undertake the massive transportation exercise. Poonwalla said his company is making 50-60 million doses of the vaccine every month. Read AlsoDelhi: Nodal officers to handle vaccine side-effectsWhile the third round of dry run for Covid vaccination was completed in Delhi on Friday, all government hospitals in the city have been asked to designate a nodal officer each for promptly handling “any adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI)” case referred to by a vaccination booth.SII has a fleet of refrigerated trucks to transport the vaccine in cold packs from its plant in Manjari to Pune airport and also to closer destinations, including Mumbai. At Pune airport, authorities are considering options such as changing domestic flights to cargo flights with the permission of the DGCA and opening a special slot for quick transport of the vaccine, in addition to transporting the vaccine by road, experts and airport officials said. Officials said all options, including creating a special slot for destinations which do not have scheduled flights from Pune and opening the runway for flights at night, may be considered. At present, Pune airport does not operate flights after 8 pm due to runway re-carpeting work. IndiGo, in an official statement, said, “In line with our business model and cost leadership strategy, we are happy to evaluate the shipment of Covid-19 vaccines on board our aircraft and will promise to contribute to the best of our abilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/serums-vaccine-despatch-delayed-another-48-hours/articleshow/80180355.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 9, 2021||India||‘Ready to sit for months’: Buzz on 100th day of Punjab protests||BATHINDA: The protest against the central agriculture marketing laws in Punjab completed 100 days on Friday. The protests on railway tracks, and at toll plazas and business establishments of some corporate houses, apart from the residences of BJP politicians, had started in the state on October 1. Even though the protests shifted to Delhi’s borders on November 26, the agitation in Punjab continues, reports Neel Kamal. Protesting farmers claim the struggle will continue till the Centre agrees to repeal the contentious laws. “Hundred days of protest is no mean thing, but for us it is nothing less than a do-or-die battle. We are ready to sit for any number of days or months as our only one motive is to get the laws repealed. Nothing less is acceptable to us,” said Gurmukh Singh of Chhiniwal village, Barnala district, while sitting at the Barnala railway station protest site. “It is well over three months of indefinite protests in Punjab. Farmers have braved chilly weather but not lost confidence and determination. We still are full of energy and will continue to struggle till our demands are met,” said farmer Karnail Singh at Lehra Bega toll plaza in Bathinda district. “These laws are like a death warrant for us and we will not sit back till these are thrown away,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda unit leader Mothu Siongh Kotda. Though the protesters had vacated the railway tracks after many days of sit-ins, the protests are continuing near the tracks either in railway parks or at nearby places, apart from those at 23 toll plazas, which have incurred losses of over Rs 300 crore during these months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ready-to-sit-for-months-buzz-on-100th-day-of-punjab-protests/articleshow/80180486.cms||Neel Kamal
January 9, 2021||India||‘Won’t repeal farm laws, let SC decide’: Govt hardens stance||NEW DELHI/ BATHINDA: In a sharp change of tack, the Centre on Friday bluntly told unions opposed to the new farm laws that the legislations could not be repealed and as talks were stalemated, it would be best to leave it to the Supreme Court, which is seized of the matter, to resolve the protracted dispute. The government move to toss the ball into the apex court’s lap, a day after requesting the court not to insist on a formal response on the farm laws as talks were “progressing well”, came as a surprise to farm union representatives who attended the eighth round of discussions on Friday. The government side argued it was ready with amendments and concessions but would not repeal the laws, implying that the unions could consider whether they might arrive at a better deal with the Centre or in the SC. In its earlier hearings, the court had suggested setting up a committee that included not just the agitating unions drawn mainly from Punjab, Haryana and western UP, but other parts of the country besides the Centre. In such a committee, all 40-odd unions who attend talks with the Centre are unlikely to be accommodated while others may be brought in. The court is to hear the case on Monday and the Centre and the unions decided to meet again on January 15. “It is a sad day for democracy that an elected government in the middle of talks resorts to the Supreme Court and says let’s get this resolved through the court,” said Kavitha Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch after attending the talks. The move is indeed unusual and seems intended to present the unions with a choice of either reaching a negotiated settlement short of repeal of laws or taking their chances in the legal process before the court. The farm groups said they would continue their protest and intensify it and not retreat even if the SC asked them to end the stir. The unions rejected the Centre’s suggestion that farmers constitute a small committee to take meetings forward though they later said the proposal would be discussed on January 10. BKU Ekta Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told TOI, “We had no hope from this meeting and it progressed on expected lines. The government is not at all ready to repeal the laws but we are not ready for anything less.” Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said, “The government wants us to put our case before the Supreme Court but we are not going to represent our case in the court. Even if the Supreme Court asks us to lift the protest, we will not lift the protest and will continue protesting peacefully.” The farm leaders did not appear keen to take the apex court route for resolution, saying it was an issue of “policy domain and not just a legal or technical matter”. With talks stalemated after the Centre agreed to withhold the new electricity Act and remove penalties for stubble burning, the government was upfront in ruling out repeal of laws and said objections on the constitutionality of the laws and related matters could best be left for the SC to decide. The farmers’ unions did not have any option other than agreeing for talks on January 15 as they did not want to send a wrong message to the SC where the government will on January 11 submit what it has offered to the leaders. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said, “The discussion on the three laws was taken up but no decision could be made. The government urged farmers’ unions that if they give an option other than repealing, we will consider it. But no option could be presented. So, it was decided to hold the next meeting on January 15.” “Consultations in view of alternatives to matters relating to agriculture reform laws will take place before the next round of meeting,” said the ministry’s statement in Hindi. This point was, however, missing from its English translation. Although the ministry remained silent on details, the hint was dropped during the talks itself when Tomar, who led the government side, suggested forming an “informal” group of four-five farmer leaders to take the consultations forward ahead of the next meeting. Farmers unions, however, did not agree even though a few from Punjab, including Balbir Singh Rajewal and Kulwant Singh Sandhu, wanted to give Tomar’s suggestion a chance. But Rakesh Tikait of Bhartiya Kisan Union strongly objected to the move, showing minor differences among them for the first time since talks began. Sources said Tikait did not want the next round of meeting unless the government promised repeal of the laws. The unions, however, finally unanimously agreed for the January 15 meeting as they also want to send a message to the SC that they too would like to resolve the matter through discussion. During the meeting, the farm leaders stayed silent for some time as a mark of protest. One of them wrote the words, “Ya Marange Ya Jittange (We will either die or win)”, on a notepad and waved it at the other farm leaders during the lunch break. They also refused lunch to express their anger. The farm organisations said their next target is to burn copies of the three laws on Lohri on January 13 or 14, and prepare for a tractor parade on Republic Day. Watch Govt hardens stance, says- ‘Won’t repeal farm laws, let SC decide’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-repeal-farm-laws-let-sc-decide-govt-hardens-stance/articleshow/80180510.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 9, 2021||Varanasi||Ghat changing rooms freed of encroachment||Varanasi: Changing rooms on ghats along the river Ganga were installed on a massive budget, but priests and vendors have illegally converted them into living rooms, shops and godowns, busting the claims of authorities of providing basic facilities to pilgrims. The authorities woke up from slumber only after a complaint by Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which funded the project. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Gauran Rathi admitted, “After a complaint from JICA, a massive drive was started between Assi and Dashaswamedh ghats on Wednesday. It was found that several shops have come up in changing rooms where other other commercial activities were also taking place.” The encroachment was cleared and articles kept inside the changing rooms were either seized or removed, he said. Rathi said new changing rooms will be built to avoid problems like encroachments in future. As per records of Varanasi Municipal Corporation, 27 changing rooms had been constructed on the ghats between Assi and Dashaswamedh under the JICA-funded project. JICA officials complained that six changing rooms — three on Assi ghat, two on Tulsi ghat and one on Jain ghat — had been illegally occupied by encroachers. Rathi said as the old changing rooms were not constructed by keeping the flood level in view, new ones are being built with modern facilities, including proper lighting, shower, hangers. These prefabricated structures have walling with vinyl flex and floor tiles. He said these changing rooms are being constructed with the help of corporate social responsibility fund. Eight new changing rooms have already been established, while seven would be inaugurated on January 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ghat-changing-rooms-freed-of-encroachment/articleshow/80176985.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Surat||Smriti Irani to inaugurate first B2B textile exhibition on Jan 9||Surat: Union textiles minister, Smriti Irani will inaugurate a B2B textile machinery exhibition on Saturday. After the pandemic and lockdown, ‘Surat International Textile Expo’ (SITEX) is Gujarat’s first physical exhibition to be organised by the Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI). The three-day exhibition which aims to promote brand ‘Surat’ by highlighting the strength of the textile sector, will be held at the Surat International Exhibition and Convention Centre (SIECC) at Sarsana. The exhibition is spread in 10,500 square metre area where about 100 exhibitors from different parts of the country will be participating. Dinesh Navadiya, president of SGCCI said, “SITEX will provide an excellent opportunity to the entire gamut of the textile machine manufacturing sector to showcase their wide range of products and services. Around 20 textile machinery manufacturers, majority from Surat, are participating in this event, besides international exhibitors.” Some of the latest technologies in the textile sectors including fully electronic jacquard machine, Crochet fabric needle looms and 1,000 Rotation Per Minute (RPM) AirJet machines will be the centre of attraction. These machines will be launched for the first time at SITEX.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/smriti-irani-to-inaugurate-first-b2b-textile-exhibition-on-jan-9/articleshow/80176384.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||11 farmers from Hry died so far in agitation against farm laws||Ambala: Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) has recorded data of 11 farmers, including a Sikh saint of the Haryana state, who got martyred so far in the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws. The family members of these martyred farmers will be supported financially by the BKU Haryana (Charuni), whose leaders have started to receive calls from different organisations wishing to lend financial support to these families, told a union leader. The BKU leaders claim that they have recorded the details of all those who got martyred from Haryana amid the ongoing agitation and in case if anyone is left behind, the family members can contact the union leader Jagdeep Singh Aulakh of Karnal district at his mobile number 9896409460 through WhatsApp. Aulakh said, “In case, any farmers are left, they can contact me and the name will be added to the list. We have started receiving calls from organisations wanting to help the families of these martyrs. Soon, we will initiate a process to ensure equal relief to all the family members of these martyrs from our union side in support with those wanting to help. Also, we will press the government for providing relief to these families.” In the list of martyr farmers, the BKU has also included the name of Sikh saint Baba Ram Singh (65) of Singhra village in Karnal district, who had shot himself dead on December 16, 2021, because of farmer distress and in protest against the Centre government’s stand, terming it as “tyranny against farmers and that the government is not giving justice.” Ten other martyrs in the BKU Haryana list include Surinder Singh Waraich (60+) of Gumthala Garhu in Pehowa block of Kurukshetra died on December 20, after a road accident near his village when he was returning home from agitation and was hit by a vehicle. Amarpal Dhull (32) of Serdha in Rajound block of Kaithal suffered heart failure at Tikri Border, Delhi on December 25, and he is survived by his wife, and two children aged four and six. Chaudhary Ram Kumar Dhull (62) of Bhana in Pundri block of Kaithal suffered a heart attack on December 30 at Tikri Border of Delhi and was rushed to a hospital in Bahadurgarh, where he was declared dead on the same day. Ram Mehar (42) of Chhan in Hisar expired on December 7 after a road accident in Ghilor area of Rohtak district when he along with villagers was on his way to Tikri Border, Delhi in a tractor-trolley that collided with a truck. Kamaljeet Pal Singh of Haibuana in Mandi Dabwali area of Sirsa returned from Delhi border and fell down while de-boarding a bus near Khuian Malkana toll plaza near Mandi Dabwali on December 5, and was rushed to hospital by farmers sitting on protest at toll, but died on the way as he received serious injury in his head. Jasbir Singh (57) of Tharwa Majra in Karnal collapsed outside Nanaksar Thath in Singhra village of district on December 17, when he went to pay condolences to Baba Ram Singh. Tej Singh (34) of Katwara in Rohtak expired on December 31 in a road accident, when he along with another person was travelling in a car from Tikri border, Delhi to Dharuhera, which collided with a roadside parked container amid fog near Sultanpur toll plaza on KMP Expressway. Tej was the only son and has two minor children. Kulbir (52) of Deshwal Pana in Sonepat was found dead in a trolley at Singhu border by his village residents on January 3, where he had gone to serve langar to the farmers. Ajay (32) of Baroda Mor in Sonepat, suffered heart failure at Singhu border, Delhi on December 8, and survived three daughters — twins aged six and four. Devender Singh (43) of Nandal in Rohtak remained in farmers’ agitation for seven days when he fell ill and was taken to PGIMS, Rohtak by family, where he died suspected due to cold weather on December 13.s||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-farmers-from-hry-died-so-far-in-agitation-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80178991.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||22 Bihar's Munger kids test Covid negative in retest||PATNA: All 22 students of the Lal Bahadur Shastri Kisan High School in Munger’s Mamai village, who tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday, tested negative in a second rapid antigen test on Friday. However, the result of the more conclusive RT-PCR test is awaited. “The 22 students who tested positive for Covid-19 have now tested negative in the second round of the coronavirus antigen test. Till now, the samples got tested at the district level, now RT-PCR tests will be conducted and samples sent to Patna,” news agency ANI quoted the district program manager Naseem Khan as saying. A senior official in the district civil surgeon’s office confirmed that swab samples for the RT- PCR test have been taken and the result is awaited. On being asked about the preventive steps taken at the school, a senior officer in the Munger education department said, “The school has been thoroughly sanitised. We are also asking for a letter of consent from parents for sending their wards to the school.” Meanwhile, education department’s principal secretary Sanjay Kumar wrote a letter to the health department on Friday for random Covid tests of students, teachers and staff at all education institutions, including schools, colleges and coaching institutes. Meanwhile, altogether 452 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state in the past 24 hours, taking the corresponding tally to 2,55,926. Active Covid-19 cases, on the other hand, stood at mere 4,050 with a whopping 2,50,447 recovered patients to date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/22-munger-kids-test-covid-negative-in-retest/articleshow/80176318.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Temperature likely to fall from Monday||PATNA: A comparatively warm weather is likely this weekend as minimum as well as maximum temperatures are being recorded several notches above normal. Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted plunge in minimum temperature only from Monday. The lowest minimum 11.2 degrees C temperature was recorded at Gaya in the state on Friday. It was three notches higher than the corresponding normal of the day. The minimum temperature at Patna was 14.8 degrees C. The maximum temperature was also six notches higher than the corresponding normal. Dry weather prevailed over the state and shallow fog was observed at Gaya and Purnea during last 24 hours. No major change is expected in night temperature during the next 24 hours. However, shallow to moderate fog is likely to prevail at one or two places. Shatrughan Kumar Mandal, an officer at Patna centre, said the skies remained mostly clear in the last 24 hours, though partly cloudy skies were witnessed at one or two places in south Bihar. “The clear skies led to surge in maximum temperature one to four notches, which was four to seven notches higher than the corresponding normal,” he said. The weatherman said an anti-cyclone over south Bihar and adjoining Jharkhand is averting any substantial plunge in temperature. He said the cold north-westerly winds were blowing at the speed of 25km per hour,” he said. He added that the cold north-westerly winds along with gradual dispersal of anti-cyclone and cold north-westerly blowing in the region may lead to drop in temperature after two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/temperature-likely-to-fall-from-monday/articleshow/80176387.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Wait for new ropeway at Rajgir may get longer||BIHARSHARIF: The wait for new state-of-the-art cabinet-type ropeway at Rajgir is likely to get longer as work on the upper terminal and railings would take few more months to complete. Principal secretary of tourism department Ravi Manubhai Parmar, who is also the chairman of Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC), said the mechanical trial of the new ropeway is underway and work on the lower terminal has been completed. “The upper terminal, railings and some other civil works are still incomplete. Some more time is required to make the new ropeway operational.” The principal secretary made the statement after inspecting the new eight-seater cabin like gondola ropeway installed on the Ratnagiri hills on Thursday. BSTDC managing director Shri Prabhakar, OSD in CM’s office Gopal Singh, Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh were among other officials present on the occasion. During his recent visit to Rajgir, CM Nitish Kumar had asked officials to make the new ropeway functional in January. BSTDC had engaged Railway India Technical and Economic Services Ltd (RITES) for the construction of the new ropeway in 2016. It was initially targeted to be made ready by 2018. The new gondola ropeway with 20 cabins, which is being constructed with an expenditure of Rs 19 crore, will replace the existing chair lift ropeway, which was inaugurated by the then President V V Giri on October 25, 1969. Funded by Japanese philanthropist FUJI Guruji, the foundation stone for the chairlift ropeway and the Vishwa Shanti Stupa was laid by President Dr Radha Krishnan in 1965. Once the new gondola ropeway gets started, the existing 1,000-foot-long chairlift ropeway, the oldest in the country with 101 chairs attached to it, will get a heritage status.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wait-for-new-ropeway-at-rajgir-may-get-longer/articleshow/80177335.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 9, 2021||Patna||Brace for mid-term polls: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: The leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday predicted that a mid-term election in the state is imminent. Talking to media persons after his return to Patna on Friday evening, Tejashwi said, “We have asked our leaders as well as workers of the party to start preparation for the mid-term election in the state, which appears to be imminent.” He, however, said the alliance between BJP and JD(U) would be severed once the task of the saffron party was accomplished. “BJP ko Nitish Kumar ji se aur nirnay abhi karwana baki hai (BJP has to get some tasks accomplished by Nitish),” he added. When asked about RJD’s offer to Nitish Kumar to come back to the Grand Alliance (GA) fold, Tejashwi said, “Anybody can give an offer to someone. But the question of any offer to Nitish Kumar from the RJD doesn’t arise.” He, however, didn’t rule out the possibility of formation of government through backdoor. “We have been a witness to such political developments in the state in the past as well. Four governments were formed in just four years,” he asserted. Terming the NDA government led by Nitish as a ‘curse’ for the people, the opposition party leader said there is resentment among every section of society. Be it youth, farmers or for that matter even Jeevika workers, everybody is disappointed, he alleged. To drive home his point, he referred to the protest registered by Jeevika didis at Dhamdaha in Purnia district during the recent visit of the CM. He further alleged that the NDA government was formed in the state by betraying the people’s mandate. He said Bihar is not getting its due despite being one of the youngest states in the country. The JD(U), however, claimed that the NDA government would complete its full term.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/brace-for-mid-term-polls-tejas/articleshow/80177239.cms||Ramashankar
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Chill takes a break, makes viruses more active in pandemic season||KOLKATA: A Western Disturbance and a high-pressure zone that have halted winter in its tracks and forced Kolkatans to switch on fans in early January may continue to keep the mercury well above the normal mark till the middle of the month. The unusual disappearance of the winter chill, though, could only be a temporary break, said the Met office. Once the wind pattern changes and the northwesterly wind resumes, carrying in chill from northwest India, the temperature could plunge again, albeit for a brief spell. Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 18.6°C on Friday, five notches above normal. The sudden temperature rise has led to a spike in viral and vector-borne diseases in the middle of the pandemic. High-grade viral fever and common cold have been triggered by the changed weather conditions, sparking off Covid fears due to overlapping symptoms. Temperature variations help viruses to multiply, especially when the mercury pushes up, said doctors. “Most common viruses like rhino, human meta-pneumo and the influenza virus die out in cold. They start multiplying when the ambient temperature and humidity rise, which is now happening. When the temperature remains low, our immune system and body temperature adapt to the change. If the mercury shoots up suddenly, it fails to gear itself to the alteration, making us vulnerable to viral attacks,” said Belle Vue Clinic internal medicine consultant Rahul Jain. High fever and a persistent cough have been common among the elderly, who are also vulnerable to Covid, said Jain. “These won’t go away till the temperature drops again,” he said. But that could still be a week away, said weathermen. A second western disturbance that has formed across Pakistan and northwest India have blocked the northwesterly completely. Making matters worse, a high-pressure zone has formed above the Bengal-Jharkhand region that has altered the wind pattern. “It has triggered a clockwise movement of wind in a circular motion. As a result, the system is picking up moisture from the sea and infusing it across Odisha, south Bengal, central India and Jharkhand. This, coupled with the absence of northwesterly, has led to the rise in temperature, which is indeed unusual at this time of the year,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director G K Das. Children have been suffering from viral fever, malaria and diarrhoea ever since the mercury started spiralling, said paediatrician Santanu Ray. “Due to similar symptoms, children are having to be tested for Covid. Many are also suffering from a persistent cough. Thankfully, schools are shut, so the transmission of viruses has been checked to an extent,” said Ray. The common viruses trigger similar symptoms that recede in 3-5 days, according to consultant PK Nemani. “But a bacterial infection can lead to complications and delay recovery. The elderly and children are vulnerable,” he said. But winter hasn’t bowed out of Kolkata yet, said the RMC. “Once the western disturbance recedes, the wind pattern may change. A revival of northwesterly is likely around January 14-15 and we expect a short spell of low temperature. But it could be the final one this season,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/chill-takes-a-break-makes-viruses-more-active-in-pandemic-season/articleshow/80177406.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University: Exams caught between Covid and election dates||KOLKATA: The undergraduate first semester and other odd semester examinations, along with postgraduate semester-end evaluation tests, are going to be conducted by Calcutta University between March 8 and March 26. The decision has led to concerns about completing the syllabi on time. In the pandemic year, the state government has allowed the state-run universities to commence the new academic calendar from December 15 while the other semesters started from December 1. In many colleges, PG admissions are still on and teachers fear they will be unable to complete the curriculum on time. So, they could be forced to hold classes throughout the week, without a break. With the assembly elections slated to begin in April, expanding the examination window has been virtually ruled out. “During a normal academic session, classes for the first semester begin from August while examinations are conducted in May or even later in June. Students get adequate time to complete the chapters. However, this year is an exception. The students will only get 10 weeks to complete the syllabus. It will be taxing for students as well as teachers,” rued a college principal. Another college head where PG courses are run pointed out that the programme had not yet begun. “We are still in the process of finalizing the final admission records and registering students. I expect the CU authorities to understand the constraint and curtail the syllabi,” he said. The university, however, does not have much good news for students. “We have decided to hold the exam-ination within the stipulated time as suggested by UGC. Also, without UGC approval, there is no possibi-lity of curtailing the syllabi,” said a CU official. College heads are also worried about holding the practicals. “There is no scope to hold laboratory classes. It is unfortunate to find many students being promoted to the next semester without hands-on experience that is a crucial part of their curriculum. Some of the principals have requested the teachers to prepare an elaborate list of topics based on the previous tests that can be distributed among the students, easing their stress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/exams-caught-between-cov-and-election-dates/articleshow/80177437.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Family appeals to government to treat Akhila Priya fairly||Hyderabad: The family members of former Andhra Pradesh minister Akhila Priya appealed to the Telangana government to ensure fair treatment to her by the law enforcement agencies. They also claimed to have rights over the disputed land and expressed willingness to sort out the issues amicably with the victims of the kidnapping case. Meanwhile, police moved a petition before the court, seeking Akhila Priya’s custody for seven days. Akhila Priya’s brother B Jagat Vikhyat Reddy said that his sister does not deserve such unfair treatment. “Was my sister seen in CCTV footage of the kidnapping? Then why is she being treated like this (as an offender)? My sister suffered seizures. She is being ill-treated in the prison. Our machinery at the stone crusher in Allagadda was also taken away. “The land belongs to us and it has been under litigation for a long time and Praveen’s father was the lawyer of my father. After our father passed away, in collusion with AV Subba Reddy, they planned to cheat us and some big people, including an MP and a businessman are involved. After our parents passed away, we are fighting against all odds. We request the CM to do justice to us,” Reddy said. Akhila Priya’s sister Mounika Reddy also claimed that her family members have rights over the disputed land in Hafeezpet. “The land is registered in several of our members’ names and subsequently it was given to some company for development. As the company failed to meet its promises, it ended up in a dispute. It is ironic to say that we along with AV Subba Reddy have kidnapped our partners,” Mounika said. Mounika also expressed willingness to negotiate about the land. “Family members of Praveen said that they are willing to negotiate, I welcome that. I request that someone including Kavitakka or Ramanna should come forward and mediate,” Mounika said. Akhila Priya’s sister also questioned the government whether they are being targeted as they belong to another state. “Hasn’t anyone from Allagadda voted for TRS in the GHMC elections? Isn’t our well being a concern for the government,” Mounika asked during the press conference held in the city on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/family-appeals-to-government-to-treat-akhila-priya-fairly/articleshow/80177739.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Business||Gold ETF flows turn positive at Rs 430cr in Dec||Chennai: Correction in gold prices resulted in gold ETF flows turning positive in December with inflows of Rs 430 crore, after recording an outflow of Rs 141 crore in November, 2020. “This is due to two reasons — gold has continued to be seen as a safe haven and spike seen in gold rate in the month of December, after a slowdown in the past month,” says N S Venkatesh, chief executive, AMFI. Lakshmi Iyer, president & CIO (debt & head of products), Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Company, said, “After net sales turned negative in the month of November, we have seen investments in gold ETF resume positive march in December. Typically, demand elasticity in gold is quite high (low prices mean more demand and vice-versa). Besides, Rupee appreciation in the near term acted as a dampener on gold prices which aided in demand pickup.” Redemption or repurchase of funds fell lowest for the year at Rs 24 crore in December, as compared to Rs 616 crore reported in the previous month. Net Assets Under Management as on December 31, 2020, stands at Rs 14,173 crore. And the total number of gold ETF portfolios stand at 8.87 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/gold-etf-flows-turn-positive-at-rs-430cr-in-dec/articleshow/80178419.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Will quit as MLA, if issue not resolved by Jan 26: Abhay||Chandigarh: Ellenabad MLA and senior INLD leader Abhay Singh Chautala on Friday said that he would resign from the state assembly if the ongoing farmers’ agitation issue is not resolved by January 26. According to Abhay, if nothing happens by the Republic Day, he would submit his resignation as an MLA on January 27. He made this statement at Bahadurgarh, where he had reached while leading a tractor rally organised by INLD in solidarity with the farmers protesting against three agriculture laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/will-quit-as-mla-if-issue-not-resolved-by-jan-26-abhay/articleshow/80178997.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Mock exercise successful at hospitals and health centres||PATNA: The second Covid vaccine dry run was successfully conducted in 30 government hospitals, nine medical college and hospitals, 16 private healthcare facilities and 23 other places across the state on Friday. In Nalanda, the dry run was held at 29 health centres, including Biharsharif sadar hospital, 20 primary health centres, referral and sub-divisional hospitals. At each centre, 25 people were chosen for the mock exercise to ensure a smooth and hassle-free vaccination when the vaccine is rolled out. After the mock vaccination, each subject was shifted to observation room for half-an-hour for post-vaccination management. Nalanda DM Yogendra Prasad Singh, who observed the entire process at Biharsharif sadar hospital, asked medical officers and paramedical staff to take care of every minute details of pre and post management. In Madhubani, the dry run was held at three places – Madhubani Medical College, sadar hospital and sub-divisional hospital at Jainagar. Twenty-five beneficiaries were shortlisted (registered) at each centre for the dry run. The health workers at all the three centres were in prescribed dress and the arrangements were made on the pattern of polling booths. DM Amit Kumar, who supervised the exercise at sadar hospital, said three separate chambers for registration, vaccination and observation were in place at all the centres. In Gaya, the dry run was conducted at Jai Prakash Narayan (JPN) hospital, primary health centre, Bodh Gaya and PHC (urban) at Iqbal Nagar. Gaya district magistrate (DM) Abhishek Singh said health workers would be vaccinated in the first phase. In the second phase, people at booth level will be vaccinated. In East Champaran, DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok launched the dry run at Maotihari sadar hospital. The exercise was held at three places in the district – Motihari sadar hospital, Sharan complex and in Rajaram Sah High School at Turkauliya. The mock exercise was conducted on 25 people at each centre. In Darbhanga, the dry run was held at three places – Bahadurpur PHC, a private hospital and in the newly constructed superspecialty hospital building at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). The mock vaccination was performed on 25 people at each centre. Darbhanga DM Thyagrajan S M monitored the mock drill at DMCH. In Saran district, the dry run was held at paramedical institute on Chhapra sadar hospital premises, Sonepur sub-divisional hospital and Ishuapur primary health centre (PHC). After inspection of the drill on sadar hospital premises, Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore said the selected health workers were informed through a message regarding place of immunisation, name of the manufacturing institute, date, day and time of immunisation. In Bhagalpur, the dry run was conducted on 75 people at sadar hospital, Hussainabad primary health centre (PHC) and a private hospital. Similarly, 75 people were engaged in the dry run at sadar hospital in Banka, PHC in Katoria block and at a private hospital in Banka. Bhagalpur DM Subrat Kumar Sen supervised the dry run at Bhagalpur sadar hospital in the presence of civil surgeon and others. (With inputs from Farrukh Nadim, C S Jha ‘Azad’, Alok Kumar, C B Pandey, B K Jha, H K Verma & Kumod Verma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mock-exercise-successful-at-hospitals-and-health-centres/articleshow/80176297.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Second Covid jab dry run held at 114 places in Bihar||PATNA: A dry run before launching the mega vaccination drive against the Covid-19 virus was organised successfully at 114 places across the state on Friday. In Patna, the dry run was organised at four places — The Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH), The Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), Paras Hospital and Research Centre and the government girls middle school, Khagaul. Principal secretary of health department Pratyay Amrit, state immunisation officer Dr N K Sinha and other officials inspected the local dry run centres and discussed ways to further improve the process. The state health society executive director-cum-special secretary of the health department, Manoj Kumar, who inspected the dry run at the PMCH and the NMCH said the state was fully ready for beginning the largest immunisation drive soon after getting the consignment of vaccines. He also discussed the CoWin app with medical professionals. All the participating health workers, 25 at each dry run centre, had to pass through thermal scanning before entering the centres and also had to wait for 30 minutes in the observation room after completion of the exercise as per the guidelines issued by the government. Dr Binod Kumar Singh, superintendent of the NMCH where the state vaccine house for storage and its distribution is situated, said it was a much-needed rehearsal before beginning the Covid-19 vaccination on a larger scale as the health workers became fairly acquainted with the manual and digital documentation of the details of persons to be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/second-covid-jab-dry-run-held-at-114-places-in-bihar/articleshow/80176154.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||HAM(S) plans to contest 26 seats in West Bengal||PATNA: Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi-led HAM(S) on Friday announced that it would contest 26 seats in the West Bengal assembly elections. “The party is open to forging alliances with like-minded parties in West Bengal. Efforts are on to strengthen the support base of the party in the eastern state,” president of HAM(S)’s West Bengal unit Krishna Singh said. Singh said the party would fight polls with full preparedness to make its present felt in West Bengal. Earlier, at the executive committee meeting of the party in Patna, Manjhi had announced that HAM(S) would try its luck in the West Bengal polls in a bid to expand its wings. Singh said seats to be contested by the party in West Bengal were being identified. “The process is already on and names of the seats will be announced at an opportune time,” he added. Meanwhile, Manjhi has demanded one more ministerial berth and an MLC position for the party in Bihar. Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman is a minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet. He is a member of the legislative council. The HAM(S) has four MLAs in the 243-member Bihar assembly, including the former CM. HAM(S) is part of the NDA comprising the BJP, JD(U) and the VIP led by Mukesh Sahani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/hams-plans-to-contest-26-seats-in-west-bengal/articleshow/80177230.cms||Ramashankar
January 9, 2021||Patna||Man held for duping people in Bihar||PATNA: An alleged impostor pretending to be a soldier of Indian Army was arrested for duping people in the name of providing them jobs in the infantry. He had worked at the military hospital in Danapur where he used to hand over slips to the visitors. Danapur police station SHO Ajeet Kumar Saha said the accused was identified as Raushan Kumar (23) of Imliya village under Pali police station area of Jehanabad district. He said forged military identity cards and canteen card, several Aadhaar cards, two stamps of Army and PAN card were recovered from him. The SHO said Raushan had duped one Sumit Kumar Jha of Kharanja Road in Danapur of Rs4 lakh in 2019 while promising him a job in the Army. “Sumit lodged an FIR against Raushan on Thursday after which he was nabbed,” he said. “We also recovered his photographs in Army uniform from the cellphone. In one of the photographs, he was even posing with a rifle, which is only given to armed forces or police,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-held-for-duping-people/articleshow/80177325.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Business||Hike FDI to 74%: ICICI Prudential Life chief Kannan||MUMBAI: The chief of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance, one of the largest private insurance companies, has made a strong case for easing of foreign investment limits in the sector. The call for higher foreign investment comes ahead of the Budget and at a time when many Indian promoters of small companies are looking to exit the joint ventures they had set up during better times. Speaking at an event organised by the National Insurance Academy, ICICI Prudential MD & CEO N S Kannan said that the insurance regulator has not placed any restriction on new entrants and has granted licences to different types of promoters, including purely digital ventures. Yet there was no application pending for licence. “India is seen as a good investment destination despite the pandemic. Given that there is easy liquidity around the world, it is a good time to increase the foreign direct investment (FDI) from 49% to 74%. If 100% foreign investment is allowed in non-banking finance companies (NBFCs) & asset management companies (AMCs) and 74% stake is allowed for banks, why cannot 74% be allowed for insurance companies?” According to him, getting foreign equity into a sunrise industry was important because maintaining solvency margins would require a lot of capital. Also, some of the smaller players looking for exit could be bought out by their foreign partner. Kannan’s call comes at a time when the insurance industry completes 20 years of liberalisation. At the time of liberalisation, it was widely expected that foreign investment would be relaxed in future. Many global giants had tied up with smaller-sized corporates on the expectation that they would be allowed to hike stake in future. While the government did relax foreign limits from 26% to 49% a few years ago, it introduced fresh laws that insurance companies should be Indian-owned and Indian-managed, which made it less attractive for multinationals. Since then, private equity investors and foreign portfolio investors have shown interest in the insurance space. However, they have been hampered by the 49% ceiling, which has been used by the foreign partner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hike-fdi-to-74-i-pru-life-chief-kannan/articleshow/80179577.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 9, 2021||Business||Inclusion push: Fuel pumps may sell insurance||MUMBAI: Petrol pumps and gas dealerships may start distributing standardised insurance products if the sector regulator’s efforts are successful. There are nearly 61,000 fuel pumps in the country and almost 25,000 LPG dealers who can add to the insurance distribution capability in smaller towns and even villages. Additionally, the regulator Irdai has already directed companies to come out with simple standardised products on health and term insurance and will shortly come out with guidelines for standard annuity products, which can be brought without much advice. Delivering the inaugural address at the 22nd Annual C D Deshmukh Memorial Seminar, Irdai chairman S C Khuntia said that the regulator was in talks with the ministry of petroleum to permit distribution of insurance at fuel pumps and gas agencies. He said that the idea was to enable them to sell simple insurance products to narrow the protection gap in the country. Khuntia also urged more life insurance companies to go public and list themselves on stock exchanges as the disclosures would increase transparency and build trust. “Insurance is a social protection scheme based on trust, and increasing trust will help improve insurance penetration,” he said. According to LIC chairman M R Kumar, who was part of the same event, life insurance business in India is expected to grow 12% to 15% in coming years and will be a major job-creator. Pointing out the protection gap in India, Kumar said, “The Covid pandemic has shown more emphatically than ever how inadequate our efforts have been in insuring India over the last seven decades, since independence… and how crucial a role life insurance plays in ensuring resilience.” Kumar said that the penetration of life insurance stood at 2.8% in FY19, which marginally increased from the level of 2.7% in FY18. “With the exception of the years between 2006 and 2010, life insurance penetration in India has remained between 2% and 3%. For the last one decade now, India’s life insurance penetration has remained below the world average,” he said. Speaking at the same event, Policybazaar CEO Yashish Dahiya questioned the need for complex products. He said that some policies were so complex that only the actuaries in the company could understand their depth. According to Irdai chief Khuntia, Prime Minister schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Jyoti Bima Yojana had demonstrated that it was possible to design innovative products where protection can be provided for lower sum assured with affordable premium. He added insurers should take a lead from this and develop similar products. Khuntia said that widening the spread of insurance was the thought behind asking companies to develop standardised products. “It makes choice easier as it is easy to understand for first-time buyers who can now easily compare what is being offered by two different companies,” said Khuntia. He highlighting the next challenge before insurers as providing annuity solutions since life expectancy had increased significantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/inclusion-push-fuel-pumps-may-sell-insurance/articleshow/80179476.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 9, 2021||Patna||PM should take Covid-19 vaccine first: Tej Pratap Yadav||PATNA: RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav joined those opposition party leaders in the state who were demanding that PM Narendra Modi should take the Covid-19 vaccine first. “I have no objection to taking the Covid-19 vaccine. But PM Narendra Modi should take the first shot. Others will also follow him,” the MLA from Hasanpur and former state health minister told the media in Vrindavan, the place he visits frequently. Reacting to Tej Pratap’s statement, senior BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi said RJD chief Lalu Prasad’s elder son Tej Pratap made this statement to appease devout ‘maulanas’. “What else can one expect from a man who couldn’t read his oath as a minister?” he said. State health minister Mangal Pandey also said, “Tej Pratap earlier served as the health minister and he should know that the vaccines are approved after several stages of clinical tests. Such a statement was not expected from a man who had served as the health minister.” Reacting to Tej’s statement, JD(U) leader Sanjay Jha said his brother and the leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, should make his party’s stand clear on vaccination. Union minister of state for home Nityanand Rai also took a dig at Tej for making “baseless and frivolous” statements on vaccination. Taj’s comment came barely two days after Congress legislature party leader Ajit Sharma raised question over the vaccines. Sharma, in a statement, said the Centre should have waited for the third phase of clinical trials before approving the vaccines. “As people are wary of the vaccines, the PM and the BJP leaders should take the first shot,” Sharma had said. Earlier, former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav had said that he would not get vaccinated as he didn’t trust the “BJP’s vaccines”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pm-should-take-covid-19-vaccine-first-tej-pratap/articleshow/80176349.cms||Ramashankar
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Rehearsals for Republic Day parade from January 11||PATNA: Rehearsals for Republic Day parade at Gandhi Maidan will begin from January 11. Altogether 13 departments and agencies of the state government will take part in the parade to be held at Gandhi Maidan on January 26. Keeping in mind the Covid pandemic, the number of people attending the event will be restricted this time. Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal, who held a meeting with officials concerned on Friday to review the Republic Day preparedness, said, “A separate gallery will be set up for Covid-19 warriors to honour their selfless services to the mankind.” Altogether 10 tableaux will be showcased at the Republic Day parade. Government departments and agencies which will display their tableaux include art, culture and youth affairs, tourism, building construction, agriculture, education, health, information and public relations, water resources, minor irrigation and industries. Women Development Corporation, Upendra Maharathi Shilp Anusandhan Sansthan and Jeevika will also showcase their tableaux. The divisional commissioner asked the officers to ensure availability medical team, safe drinking water and toilets at the parade site. Every participant will have to undergo Covid test. Contingents from Central Reserve Police Force, Sashastra Seema Bal, Indo-Tibetan Border Police, Central Industrial Security Force, Bihar Military Police, National Cadet Corps (NCC), home guard and fire brigade will also participate in the parade. Entry from the gates will only be allowed after identification. “All the Covid-19 protocols will be strictly followed. Gandhi Maidan and nearby areas will be scrubbed and barricaded,” Agarwal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rehearsals-for-r-day-parade-from-january-11/articleshow/80176366.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||NDA govt to complete its term in Bihar: Syed Shahnawaz||PATNA: BJP national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain on Friday said the NDA government in Bihar would complete its full term and deliver the desired results. Talking to media, he referred to the upcoming West Bengal assembly elections in April-May, the BJP leader said, “Bihar to jhaki hai, Bengal vijay abhi baki hai (Bihar polls victory is a prelude to Bengal)”. Lauding the efforts of the BJP central leadership, Hussain said the party has performed well in recent polls. Even in Hyderabad urban bodies election, the BJP performance was very encouraging, he added. Talking about the farmers’ protest over the farm laws, he said only a handful of peasants were opposing the laws while majority were in favour. “Bharat ke kisan PM Narendra Modi ke saath hain (farmers of the country are with PM Modi),” he claimed. He further said the farm laws were in favour of the farmers but opposition party leaders were misleading them for their political gains. “But they will not succeed in their conspiracy,” Hussain added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nda-govt-to-complete-its-term-in-state-shahnawaz/articleshow/80176973.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Speaker calls on PM Modi||PATNA: Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Friday said PM Narendra Modi has emphasized on taking measures for spreading awareness about the rich heritage and history of Bihar across the globe. Sinha met the PM at New Delhi on January 5. As per a statement issued by the office of the Speaker, the PM was quoted as saying: “Bihar is the land of Gautam Buddha and Lord Mahavir and has spread the message of peace and prosperity across the globe. Bihar has also given the first republic — Licchavi — to this world.” The Speaker said PM Modi told him that he should try to address people’s issues raised by having an amicable environment in the House. “The role of elected legislators is very important in democracy and the Vidhan Sabha is like a temple for them. Ensuring timely disposal of people’s issues through the House will make Bihar move further on the path of development and Atmanirbharta (self-reliance),” the PM was quoted as saying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/speaker-calls-on-pm-modi/articleshow/80177278.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Interview for appointment of assistant professors next mth||PATNA: The Bihar State University Service Commission (BSUSC) is likely to start interview for the selection of 4,638 assistant professors in 52 subjects in 13 conventional universities of the state in the first week of February. BSUSC chairman Rajvardhan Azad told this newspaper on Friday that nearly 67,000 candidates from all over the country have applied online in response to the commission’s advertisement. “The last date for online submission of forms ended on December 10. The last date for submission of hard copy of the applications expired on December 30. Almost 60,000 hard copies have been received till date and more are coming. It is expected that all the applicants would be able to submit the hard copy of their applications in a week,” he said. The chairman further pointed out that scrutiny of applications submitted by the candidates has already started. After the screening of applications, manual tabulation of scores on the basis of the candidate’s teaching experience, publication in research journals and awards received, if any, would be taken up and the same would be uploaded to the computer. If everything goes well, subject-wise interview of candidates would commence in the first week of February. Subjects with less number of applications would be taken up first, Azad said. He asserted that the commission is committed to make the appointment of teachers at the earliest so that students’ career is not jeopardized for want of teachers. That’s why, all the office works are being transacted on time despite constraints of staff and space faced by the commission, he said. According to BSUSC sources, interview would be conducted by six boards in two shifts each, with 15 candidates in each shift. The commission has six members at present. This will be the first appointment to be made by the commission after its constitution. Among the states, the maximum number of applications have been received from Bihar (3,19,22), followed by Uttar Pradesh (1,85,54), West Bengal (4,786), Jharkhand (2,186), Rajasthan (1,508) and Madhya Pradesh (1,328). Applications have also been received from such far places as Mizoram, Lakshadweep, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Goa, sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/interview-for-appointment-of-asst-professors-next-mth/articleshow/80176961.cms||B K Mishra
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||70 families struggle to keep land in Hafeezpet||HYDERABAD: For nearly 70 families, who had bought plotted Paigah lands in survey number 80 of Hafeezpet—which is spread across 484 acres and 31 guntas—the struggle to keep the land safe is proving futile. Addressing a press conference here on Friday to draw light to the issue, the members of Hafeezpet Land Protection Committee said despite the high court of Telangana recently delivering a judgement on the dispute, the families who bought plots in survey number 80 were forcefully evicted from their properties by alleged land sharks. Speaking to TOI, B Pasha, a 55-year-old woman said, “I purchased a small parcel of land in survey number 80 of Hafeezpet about 30-years-ago with the money that I got after selling the land in my village. At that time, I thought that this piece of land in the city will provide shelter for my three children. But these land sharks have demolished the one room that I constructed on the plot, broke my leg, filed wrong cases and pushed us out of our own house.” The residents accused Dr Prasad, also known as Goldstone Prasad, and film producer C Kalyan of encroaching the plots. The complainants also said that they have purchased the plots from Mohammed Kabeeruddin, who inherited the land from his mother Dildarunnissa Begum, the legal heir of the Paigah family. The Paigahs were the prime aristocrat families in Hyderabad during the Nizam era who had huge expanse of lands in and around the city including the land that is currently under dispute in survey numbers 77, 78, 79 and 80. Another resident, Mohammed Iqbal who purchased the land in 1985 said, “From 1985 to 2006, all these people who are now claiming that the land belongs to them were never there in the picture. And all of a sudden in 2009, they came to my house with the police and took my entire family to the police station. Even after showing all the documents, they said that my house belongs to Kalyan and that I cannot go back to live there.”  According to the complaint letter submitted to the chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, Human Rights Commission, GHMC commissioner, District collector, CBI and DGP, the advocate commission has divided 867 acres of survey numbers 77,78,79 and 80 to the legal heirs of the Nawab Khursheed Jha Paigah in 1976. “There are 927 plots in survey number 80. In 2017, those who have bought the plots in the area received injunction orders against the encroachers but later when there was no implementation of these orders, they have approached the court again for police protection. Despite receiving approval for police protection, they did not get any support from them,” said Gade Innaiah, chief advisor, Hafeezpet Land Protection Committee. Venkatesh Shamala, inspector, Miyapur PS said, “C Kalyan and others who currently claim to be the rightful owners of the land have constructed boundary walls around the area. These families who are fighting for the land want to move back into these plots. We cannot take any action until they get an eviction order.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/70-families-struggle-to-keep-land-in-hafeezpet/articleshow/80177757.cms||Moulika.KV
January 9, 2021||Business||WhatsApp’s privacy policy pushes users to Signal, Telegram||CHENNAI: Privacy conscious smartphone users are opting for Telegram and Signal messaging apps to chat and communicate as the most popular messaging app, WhatsApp, has explicitly mentioned sharing data with parent company Facebook. Downloads of Signal app have seen a 79% increase from India during the period January 1 to January 6 compared to December 26 to December 31, data from app analytics firm Sensor Tower showed. Telegram, though more popular in India, only saw a marginal increase during the six-day period compared to the week before that. Telegram’s download ranking on Google Play, however, steadily rose over the past few days, Sensor Tower said. The downloads of Signal were likely fuelled by Elon Musk and whistleblower Edward Snowden’s endorsement on Twitter. Users flocked to the app so much so that Signal’s server could not handle the requests for phone number verifications of new accounts. “Verification codes are currently delayed across several providers because so many new people are trying to join Signal right now (we can barely register our excitement). We are working with carriers to resolve this as quickly as possible. Hang in there,” Signal app tweeted on Thursday. Verification codes are currently delayed across several providers because so many new people are trying to join Sig… https://t.co/nW6fqp0jdW— Signal (@signalapp) 1610042022000Social media was abuzz on Friday with people declaring they were going to move to Telegram or Signal, and such discussions also dominated WhatsApp groups. “I am part of a WhatsApp group with friends where we discuss a lot of politics, and we are apprehensive about how our conversations will be mined by Facebook and are thinking of moving to Telegram,” Mohan R, a working professional based in Chennai, said. WhatsApp alerted users to a new privacy policy effective February 8, that expressly says that WhatsApp will share user data with its parent company Facebook. Users earlier had an opt-out option, which won’t be available now. Prabhu Ram, head of industry intelligence at CyberMedia Research said users’ sentiment around use of their data by tech majors is changing. “Monetizing private user data without providing them a choice is contentious…It is no longer just the evolved and aware tech user who is concerned about data privacy and usage, but also others,” he said. The choice of an alternate app depends on where most of one’s social circle already is and how conscious about privacy users are, analysts said. Telegram holds an edge for Indian users as the app already has a substantial adoption in India, and has a large use case for sharing exam preparation materials, movies, and other media. Among the two [Signal and Telegram], I see Telegram benefiting more for its awareness and its channel feature through which people are increasingly consuming content, Faisal Kawoosa, founder of techARC, said. “Among Indian apps, we have JioChat and Hike, but they haven’t been able to make much of a mark,” he said. Telegram is just approaching 500 million active users globally compared to 400 million+ Indians on WhatsApp. Signal’s total user base is not known. Given mass use in India, analysts also said that WhatsApp is here to stay, and it would take a lot for people to shift their social circles to a new app. WhatsApp clarified in a statement that the update does not change its data sharing practices in any way, and “does not impact how people communicate privately with friends or family wherever they are in the world.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapps-privacy-policy-pushes-users-to-rivals/articleshow/80178485.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Biting cold can’t lessen warmth of learning||RAJKOT: While he paces the length of his verandah reciting poems and quoting Kalidasa with vibrating tenor in the chilly evenings, Nirav Jani isn’t trying to act the season. He is simply doing his job — of being a teacher trying to teach his young students the nuances of Sanskrit, Gujarati and English amid the cold. Every evening between 6.30 and 9.30 pm, Jani, a teacher in Kumar Shala-1 of Rajula in Amreli district teaches students from Classes VI to VIII while playing hide and seek with mobile network either from the veranda or up on the terrace. So, when its literature, Jani’s pacing the verandah despite the chill, and when it’s grammar he is seen with his laptop on the terrace, toasting vowels in the wintry nip. But Jani’s not the only weather-beaten digitally-heckled government teacher in digital India’s remote villages. Many others who have to teach 80 to 100 students in one class too share Jani’s woes. With the change in school timings in the villages ever since online education started, teachers have to take evening classes to accommodate students get access to a handset only after their father or uncle returns home from the farm. “The weather is playing truant these days, with very erratic temperatures at present which drop to even below ten degrees at times. Sometimes I have to teach shivering in the cold outside,” said Jani. Nigala primary school teacher Prakash Solanki of Rajula taluka can exchange notes with Jani on this. “I teach mathematics and science and I need to seat before a laptop for that. As the number of students in online classes increase, I need high speed internet. But here I am plagued by extremely weak network, leaving me with no option but set up my virtual pathshala on the terrace.” But kudos goes to the teachers’ zeal. Not only are they addressing their network hassles with desi jugaad, they are also voluntarily preparing students of Class VII to crack the national merit scholarship scheme of the central government. If that’s not all, these teachers are also teaching students who do not have access to smartphones at all during the day time in the streets in small batches maintaining social distancing norms. If the teacher is adamant, so is his taught. Meet Tushar Bambhaniya, a Class VIII student of Ningala-1 village who admitted that he and his younger brother studying in Class VI share one phone to study. “We not only have to go outside to get better mobile network, but sometimes also for light. At times, we have to study under the street lights,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/biting-cold-cant-lessen-warmth-of-learning/articleshow/80176691.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||Bird flu scare: 34 teams fan out in 8 Vadodara talukas||VADODARA: Amid bird flu scare, sudden death of some 25 crows in Vasantpura village of Vadodara’s Savli taluka has become a cause of concern. A team of veterinarians, livestock inspectors and health officials reached the village on Friday and samples of dead crows were sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal on Friday. “We have already formed 34 teams that visited poultry farms in eight talukas of the district. Once the report from Bhopal arrives, we will be reporting it to Gandhinagar and based on further directives from the director, animal husbandry, the necessary steps will be taken,” said Vadodara district development officer Kiran Zaveri. “We had already alerted all poultry farms to remain vigilant. After reports of death of the crows, we have asked villages falling within 10-12 km periphery of Vasantpura to take extra precautions,” he said, Further, door-to-door survey of 362 households covering a population of 1,749 individuals including residents of Vasantpura and two nearby villages – Varnol and Charanpura was carried out by Friday evening. “We will come to know whether the birds have died due to bird flu or any other reason later. But our team is coordinating with veterinary officers so that appropriate action can be taken,” said district chief health officer Dr Uday Tilawat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/34-teams-fan-out-in-8-vadodara-talukas/articleshow/80176174.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Over 300 birds die in 24 hours, Rajasthan toll now reaches 2,166||JAIPUR: Bird flu scare continues to haunt the state as 329 more birds were found dead on Friday, including 46 in Jhalawar, 44 in Chittorgarh and 37 in Jaipur. The department of animal husbandry, however, didn’t claim that the deaths were due to bird flu, but since the flu cases have been confirmed from across the state, every bird death is being treated under the bird flu protocol. The number of bird deaths has jumped to 2,166 since December 26. Reports said almost two-third of the casualties was reported among sparrows, while none among the migratory birds has been found dead in the last 24 hours. Officials said they have intensified the sample collection of birds from across the state by forming several teams for the same. “The sites where birds were dying in huge numbers are put on high alert. Some of the areas have been identified where mass deaths have been reported. Samples from these areas are being sent to the laboratory for further examination,” said an official. Most of the mortalities are being reported from Jhalawar, while Chittorgarh has started reporting cases, which is a cause of concern for officials. Dr Lenin Bhatt of the animal husbandry department said that they have started taking samples from water bodies with presence of over 1,000 birds. “It is being done to ensure that nothing is left out in the state,” said Bhatt, who ruled out any possibility of bird flu among the poultry birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/329-birds-dies-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/80179026.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: ED attaches assets worth Rs 2.8 crore in ponzi scheme case||JAIPUR: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) issued a provisional attachment order under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002 (PMLA) attaching assets worth ₹2.80 crores in a Ponzi scheme case. The attached assets are in the form of 29 immovable properties (one house and plots) situated at Bhilwara, gold and silver jewellery held in the name of M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt Ltd and its directors. ED initiated investigation under PMLA based on FIR registered by Bhilwara police against Anil Birla, Murlidhar Birla, directors of M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt Ltd and others under Sections 420, 406 of IPC and Sections 3, 4, 5, 6 of Prize Chit and Money Circulation Scheme (Banning) Act, 1978. Further, 14 FIRs were registered by Rajasthan Police and Crime Branch, Surat, Gujrat against M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt. Ltd and its directors Anil Birla, Murlidhar Birla and others. Investigation conducted under PMLA revealed that Anil Birla, Murlidhar Birla, directors of M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt Ltd and others have collected crores of rupees from public/investors during the period from March 14, 2010 to March 26, 2012. They have paid negligible amount through cheques to public/investors. The illegally collected amount were deposited in various bank accounts of M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt Ltd and its directors. These amounts were further invested in immovable and movable properties. On identification of these assets totalling to Rs 2.80 crore held in the name of M/s Abhinav Gold International Marketing Pvt Ltd and its directors, a provisional attachment order has been issued under PMLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ed-attaches-assets-worth-rs-2-8cr-in-ponzi-case/articleshow/80179024.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kochi||Ernakulam: Cops seek court’s nod to investigate Church land deal||KOCHI: Central police have filed a report at the chief judicial magistrate court, Ernakulam, seeking permission to register a case in connection with a land deal of the Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese. A preliminary inquiry by police found that prima facie there were grounds for registering a case and investigating into the allegation that there were irregularities in the documents used for a land deal transaction of the archdiocese. Police conducted the inquiry based on the court direction under CrPc 202 after a private complaint was filed in the court regarding the matter. The issue pertains to the sale of a property of the archdiocese at Thrikkakara in 2017. The complainant alleges that the Church leadership sold the 27.9 are property in 2017 march by forging fake deeds and caused loss to the tune of crores of rupees to the archdiocese.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cops-seek-courts-nod-to-investigate-church-land-deal/articleshow/80176507.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ajmer||Ajmer: Poultry prices plummet amid bird flu rumours||AJMER: Rate of an egg went down by Rs 1.50 in three days as the news of bird flu broke in the region. However, the state poultry training institute in Ajmer claimed that there was no evidence of bird flu at present among poultry in Rajasthan. The rate of a single egg was Rs 6 last Sunday, which went down to Rs 4.50 on Friday. Even the broiler chicken price touched a new low of Rs 80, which was earlier being sold at Rs 120. Not only the poultry owners, but roadside vendors too are facing less demand. The district administration is vigilanr and has formed a rapid action team and block-level teams in which 14 nodal officers have been appointed who will go on field visits. Samples are also being taken from different poultries. A social media group of 931 poultry farms in Ajmer has been formed. A poultry farm owner said they are losing business as demand for eggs and chicken has gone down drastically. During winters, the demand for eggs and chicken is pretty high. It is estimated that the poultry business in the district has incurred a loss of over Rs 1 crore in the last two days. There are 931 poultry farms in Ajmer with a production capacity of 38 lakh eggs per day which is supplied to Jaipur, Delhi and even to the cities of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab. Another poultry farm owner said, with the rumours of bird flu, people are avoiding chicken and eggs. The state veterinary department said that the poultry farm owners have been asked to be cautious and follow government guidelines on the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/poultry-prices-plummet-amid-bird-flu-rumours/articleshow/80179014.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||WR man accused of molestation||MUMBAI: The Azad Maidan police recently registered a case of molestation against a 55-year-old Western Railway (WR) chief engineer. The incident took place on January 1 in the afternoon at the accused’s Churchgate office, said the police. The complainant, a 48-year-old WR woman staffer, stated that the chief engineer called her to his cabin and hugged her inappropriately. The accused has filed a plea for anticipatory bail. No arrest has been made yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-man-accused-of-molestation/articleshow/80180064.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Georgia’s envoy seeks assistance||Georgian ambassador Archil Dzuliashvili on Friday sought India’s cooperation in providing the Covid vaccine to his country. He discussed the issue during his meeting with Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari at the Raj Bhavan, a statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/georgias-envoy-seeks-assistance/articleshow/80179027.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Police books the money lender under SC/ST atrocity act and extortion||Jaipur: A day after arresting a person for abetment of suicide, Vaishali Nagar police have also added charges from SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and also booked him for charges of extortion. Police have also made the sister of the deceased man a witness in the case. Police, in their interrogation, found that accused Dinesh Yadav was once a medical representative who was not earning his livelihood as a real estate agent and as a money lender. As police have also added sections of SC/ST atrocity act Rai Singh Beniwal, a deputy superintendent of police rank officer was made the investigating officer of the case. “We have also added section 384(Extortion) of IPC against the accused. In the primary interrogation he has confessed that he had given some money to the deceased Giriraj. For the vehicle he has stated that he had just facilitated the family in getting the vehicle sold,” Beniwal told TOI. He added that for this case the sister of the deceased Giriraj is very important. “It was found that Giriraj had taken Rs 30000 from his native village in Sawai Madhipur when he had gone to the village in December. He had shared with his sister and other family members that he has taken some loan and the said money lender Dinesh Yadav was harassing him. Thus the statements of the sister would be very important,” Beniwal added. It may be recalled that Giriraj had murdered his wife, a son and a daughter and thereafter he committed suicide at Bunkar Colony near Khatipura under Vaishali Nagar police station area on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-books-the-money-lender-under-sc/st-atrocity-act-and-extortion/articleshow/80179029.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Patna HC suspends Motihari CJM||Patna/Motihari: The Patna high court has suspended the Motihari chief judicial magistrate, Sudhir Kumar Sinha, with immediate effect and ordered that during the period of his suspension he should not leave his station without obtaining prior permission. Sinha has been suspended in the light of disciplinary proceedings against him and will remain suspended till the pendency of the enquiry against him or until further orders from the district judgeship at Motihari. The HC issued the suspension order on Thursday. According to the order, the judicial officer will get subsistence allowance per the Bihar Service Code during the suspension period. On October 20 last year, the high court had placed two more judicial officers under suspension due to pendency of disciplinary proceedings against them. One was additional district and sessions judge Tribhuwan Jha and another was sub-judge III-cum-district legal services authority secretary Ram Sujan Pandey, both posted in Sheohar. Just three days ago, the HC dismissed 16 staffers of the Patna civil court from service for their alleged involvement in a bribery case shown in a television news channel’s sting operation in November 2017. An FIR was lodged against 17 people, including the 16 staffers, as one had retired from service. These employees were placed under suspension soon after the case came to light in 2017. Besides issuing the order for suspension on Thursday, the high court posted 21 judicial officers in Patna judgeship after transferring them from various districts. Eleven civil judges of the senior division were transferred to Patna judgeship as sub-judge-cum-ACJM. Of the 11, one each has been posted at Barh and Paliganj, two at Patna civil court, three at Patna City and four judges at Danapur court. Two more civil judges of the senior division were transferred to Darbhanga judgeship while one got transferred to Buxar judgeship as sub judge-cum-ACJM. Four civil judges of the junior division were also transferred as judicial magistrates to Patna judgeship from Katihar, Kishanganj and Purnia. Another civil judge of the junior division got posted in Rohtas judgeship. Besides them, six additional district and sessions judges got transferred to Patna judgeship from Madhubani, Banka, Supual and West Champaran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-hc-suspends-motihari-cjm/articleshow/80176509.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 9, 2021||Meerut||UP: Forest department places two cages to trap leopard||BIJNOR: Bijnor forest department on Friday placed two cages and installed camera traps around Bhogpur village area in Najibabad to catch a leopard that killed a toddler on December 29. Since then, scared villagers had stopped venturing out from their homes at night and were keeping away from their fields, where the leopard is suspected to be lurking. The boy’s partially eaten body had been found in a sugarcane field near the village. Manoj Shukla, Najibabad divisional forest officer, said, “A leopard mauled to death a boy last week while he was playing outside his house. We have set up a CCTV camera at the spot and placed a cage to trap the big cat. We are trying to trace the leopard.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/forest-dept-places-two-cages-to-trap-leopard/articleshow/80176508.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Kirit Somaiya to file plea against CM Uddhav Thackeray on 19 Alibaug houses||MUMBAI: BJP’s Kirit Somaiya said he will file a complaint with state Election Commission against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly not disclosing the purchase of 19 houses in Alibaug in Raigad district. Somaiya said the houses (23,500 sq ft at Korlai village in Alibaug) were purchased by his wife Rashmi and MLA Ravindra Waikar’s wife Manisha from Anvay Naik. “Government records show the purchase was done in March 2014 but was transferred to Thackeray’s name in November 2020. Till then they were benami properties. The 19 houses are valued at nearly Rs 5.3 crore. Somaiya had made similar allegations of non-disclosure on purchase of 9.35 acres in Korlai village from the Naiks. The allegations were raised after the state government reopened the suicide case of Anvay Naik. His family has accused journalist Arnab Goswami and two others of abetment to suicide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kirit-to-file-plea-against-uddhav-on-19-alibaug-houses/articleshow/80177702.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kochi||Abhaya murder case: KCBC news portal’s editorial raises questions||KOCHI: Kerala Catholic Bishop’s Council’s new news portal, KCBC News, claimed in its first editorial that investigation officers were unable to establish evidence to prove the crime alleged against the accused in Sr Abhaya murder case. The editorial written by KCBC deputy secretary general Fr Jacob Palackappilly said the question whether Sr Abhaya received justice is still relevant. Kerala waited 28 years for justice in Sr Abhaya case. From the day of her demise, the Church believed that it was murder and facilitated an investigation along those lines. Now it is becoming clear that investigating officers were unable to establish the evidence to prove the allegations against the accused. The sad ending to the 28-year-long wait was that the investigation was able to satisfy an artificially-developed public awareness though the sleuths were unable to produce enough evidence or conduct a foolproof investigation, the editorial stated. The editorial assumes significance as CBI special court in the capital had sentenced Fr Thomas Kottoor and Sr Sephy to life imprisonment for the murder of Sr Abhaya on Dec 23. The editorial also referred to HC ruling against the trial court in Walayar case. “The awareness that such judges are there in higher courts to speak for the unfortunate victims and their families, evoke hope,” the article said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kcbc-news-portals-editorial-raises-questions/articleshow/80176520.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Meerut||No innocent should suffer as I did, says Haridwar youth exonerated in ‘love jihad’ case||MUZAFFARNAGAR: A day after the Uttar Pradesh government told the Allahabad high court that it was dropping forced conversion charges in one of the first cases registered under the new anti-conversion law, the “accused”, Nadeem Ahmad, said he is still trying to pick up the pieces after the false charges changed how people see him and his family. “No innocent person should suffer like this,” Nadeem, 27, said on Friday. “My reputation has been ruined. I went through an endless ordeal. That can never be compensated.” Angry and hopeless, Nadeem, a labourer from Uttarakhand’s Karaundi village, said he feels weighed down by the stray comments that follow him. “In the factory where I work, I see people whispering. In my village, my neighbours talk about me. It doesn’t end.” At home are his brother, Salman, who was booked with him in the case, and their mother. “She has to go through this humiliation as well. We didn’t do anything.” He now regrets that day, five years ago, when he met a labour contractor from Muzaffarnagar, Akshay Kumar Tyagi, in Haridwar. “They became friends. Tyagi funded his sister’s wedding too,” a police officer at Mansoorpur, where the case against him was filed, said. On November 29, Tyagi complained that Nadeem had “lured and brainwashed” his wife to convert her to Islam, and that Salman had helped him. Nadeem would visit his house, Tyagi had alleged, and wanted to marry his wife. It was a day after the Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, was passed. They were booked under the new law and under sections 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Nadeem was the first in the state to challenge the charges under the anti-conversion law in high court, saying that this was the fallout of an altercation he had with Tyagi over unpaid dues for his work. “We have filed a chargesheet,” Mansoorpur SHO KP Singh said. “No evidence of forced conversion was found against the accused.” The two other charges, however, have been retained. Nadeem said, "In the future, police should investigate extensively before pressing charges of love jihad. I hope the government takes note of what I have been through."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/no-innocent-should-suffer-as-i-did-says-haridwar-youth-exonerated-in-love-jihad-case/articleshow/80176516.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 9, 2021||Meerut||Moradabad rape survivor stable, spine injury will take time to heal, say docs||MEERUT: A 19-year-old girl, who was allegedly raped inside her house and later thrown off the terrace allegedly by her neighbour in UP’s Moradabad district, was undergoing treatment for a fractured spine and injuries to her scalp at a government hospital in Meerut. She was referred to Meerut’s LLRM Medical College on Thursday evening in a serious condition. Doctors now say that she is out of danger. “The girl is currently being treated at the orthopedic department. She has a fracture in the first vertebra of the lumbar spine (lower spine) and injuries on her scalp. The girl’s family denied gynaecological examination as her medical was already done at the district hospital in Moradabad,” said Dr Gyanendra Kumar, principal, LLRM Medical College. Doctors at the hospital said that she is conscious and stable. However, the injuries in the spine will take its time to heal. TOI had earlier reported that the girl was thrown out from the terrace after rape last Tuesday night. Her father had said, “I was sleeping when I heard people shouting that a thief was there on the terrace of my house. When I rushed, I saw my neighbour, Arvind, pushing my daughter from the roof of the house. My daughter’s hands were tied with a piece of cloth and a cloth was stuffed into her mouth. I immediately informed police and Arvind was arrested.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/moradabad-rape-survivor-stable-spine-injury-will-take-time-to-heal-say-docs/articleshow/80176512.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 9, 2021||Meerut||Five die, 15 hospitalised after consuming spurious liquor in UP||MEERUT: At least five persons died in the past 24 hours at a village in Uttar Pradesh's Bulandshahr district after allegedly consuming spurious liquor. Apart from five deceased - Kallu, 40, Sarjeet, 45, Sukhpal, 60, Satish, 50, and Pannalal, 45 - all residents of Jeet Garhi village, at least 15 other locals were rushed to hospitals in Bulandshahr, Noida and Delhi after their condition deteriorated overnight most likely due to consumption of the spurious liquor. The mysterious deaths in the region caught the local administration off guard, initially, and senior officials rushed to ground zero in Jeet Garhi village within limits of Sikandrabad police station on Friday morning to take stock of the situation. Later in the day, chief minister Yogi Adityanath took cognizance of the incident and directed local administration to take strict action against the culprits. Taking cognizance, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Santosh Kumar has suspended four police officers on charges of dereliction of duty on Friday. Police have begun an investigation in the case and have arrested the main suspect, identified as one Kuldeep, who is said to have sold illicit liquor to the local residents. The stringent Gangster Act and National Security Act (NSA) will be slapped against the arrested accused, police said. Meerut divisional commissioner Anita Meshram and inspector general Praveen Triapthi also visited the village and met the hospitalised victims and assured them of full support. After the report of deaths surfaced, local cops arrested the main accused and at least six of his accomplices who used to aid in the manufacture and sale of spurious liquor in the region, police said. A team of local administration also went around the village making announcements on loudspeakers requesting people to report to the officials if they had consumed spurious liquor. "Prime facie, we learnt that locals were aware about illicit liquor being sold in the village. The local SHO, police outpost incharge and beat constables should have had information about it and are being suspended for dereliction of duty," the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/five-die-15-hospitalised-after-consuming-spurious-liquor-in-up/articleshow/80176504.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Land parcels at Hafeezpet: BJP demands judicial probe||HYDERABAD: Telangana BJP vice president NVSS Prabhakar on Friday demanded that an inquiry be conducted by a sitting high court judge into the controversial land parcels at Hafeezpet. Prabhakar said the Hafeezpet land issue cannot be brushed aside as a dispute between two families. “It involves big political players in the state. Hafeezpet land has been in controversy since 1970. It does not belong to anyone since it is a Paigah land. A judicial probe must be ordered to look into the dispute,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-demandsjudicial-probe/articleshow/80177856.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||TRP case: ED calls India Today CFO||MUMBAI: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned India Today group’s CFO on Monday to record his statement in a money laundering case the agency is investigating in connection with the television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam. The ED has recorded statements of around 15 persons, including the complainant, officials of Broadcasting Audience Research Council (BARC), and those earlier arrested by Mumbai police in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-case-ed-calls-india-today-cfo/articleshow/80178060.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 9, 2021||Meerut||UP: Kin, colleagues blame nagar palika for sanitation worker’s death, seek compensation||BIJNOR: Sanitation workers along with family members of a woman colleague who died of a cardiac arrest on Thursday evening placed her body at the nagar palika office here on Friday morning, blaming the civic body staff for her death. The protesters allegedly vandalized government property, demanding action against a palika clerk and compensation for the deceased’s family. According to sources, the deceased, Usha Devi of Bijnor’s Seohara town, was facing financial difficulties and wanted to withdraw money from her provident fund. Her file was under process for the past three months allegedly due to negligence on the part of the palika clerk concerned. Family members alleged that Usha Devi had made several rounds of the palika office but was turned away every time by the clerk, who was rude to her. On Thursday, she went again to the palika office to pursue her case but the clerk allegedly misbehaved with her. She returned home upset and later died of a cardiac arrest. On Friday, the protesters took Usha Devi’s body to the palika office and allegedly went on the rampage, vandalizing furniture there. Executive officer of the nagar palika AP Pandey and police rushed to the scene and somehow managed to pacify the protesters. According to Seohara station house officer Narendra Kumar Gaur, police are probing the matter but a complaint against the clerk is yet to be filed by the family of the deceased woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/kin-colleagues-blame-nagar-palika-for-sanitation-workers-death-seek-compensation/articleshow/80176511.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 9, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: CPM revokes suspension of V A Zakir Hussain||Kochi: V A Zakir Hussain, former Kalamassery area secretary and district committee member of CPM, who was suspended from the party for amassing wealth disproportionate to his assets is back in the party. The decision to reinstate Hussain was taken at a district committee meeting on Thursday which was presided by A Vijayaraghavan, who currently holds the charge of CPM state secretary. The party has not officially responded to the development and it is not clear to which level of the party he has been reinstated after six-month suspension.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/cpm-revokes-suspension-of-hussain/articleshow/80176531.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||BJP yet to submit list for cabinet expansion: Bihar CM||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday said no cabinet expansion talks were held during the Thursday’s meeting of BJP and JD(U) leaders in the state capital. BJP’s national general secretary Bhupender Yadav and the two deputy CMs, Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, had called on Nitish. Yadav and state BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal had also met JD(U) national president RCP Singh the same day. Their meetings led to speculations in political circles that senior leaders of the NDA allies must have discussed the cabinet expansion issue, which has been pending for almost two months since the government formation in the state. “No talks on cabinet expansion took place during yesterday’s meetings. There were only general talks. No political talks were held. Today, I saw in newspapers about the cabinet expansion. Earlier, hardly such delay used to take place in cabinet expansion. In our previous governments, I used to do cabinet expansion in the initial days,” Nitish told reporters. He also said the cabinet expansion would be done only after the BJP submits its report (read the list of likely ministers) to ally JD(U). “Till date, only 14 ministers are in the state cabinet,” Nitish said. As per the constitutional provisions, a maximum of 36 ministers, including the chief minister, can be appointed in the state cabinet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-yet-to-submit-list-for-cabinet-expansion-nitish/articleshow/80176530.cms||Madan Kumar
January 9, 2021||Meerut||Retired Army man charged with spying for Pakistan, arrested||MEERUT: A former Army man from Hapur, who retired from the Signals Unit at Assam’s Tezpur, has been arrested for allegedly passing on official military secrets to Pakistani intelligence officials. The UP Anti-Terror Squad (ATS) on Friday lodged an FIR after receiving information from the military intelligence unit in Lucknow. “On the basis of an investigation by the UP ATS, Saurabh Sharma, a resident of Bihuni village (in Hapur), … was identified (as a spy for Pakistani intelligence). He served with the Indian Army as a jawan and was expelled on health grounds in June 2020,” the FIR filed at the ATS police station in Lucknow stated. “He was in touch with Pakistani intelligence officials and would pass on secret and confidential information about the Indian Army. In return, he got money from various sources. He also used his wife’s account to receive this money from Anas Gitaili (from Godhra).” An ATS statement said he had been detained on December 24 last year but released for want of evidence. But now, after following the money trail, ATS arrested Sharma and Gitaili on Friday. “Upon being questioned, Sharma admitted to espionage and said he had shared confidential information over WhatsApp with a PIO woman,” the statement said. “Gitali’s elder brother Imran had been arrested by NIA, Hyderabad on September 14 last year for spying on behalf of Pakistani agencies.” Sharma, Gitaili and an unidentified person have been charged with criminal conspiracy, concealing with intent to facilitate design to wage war under the IPC, Section 13 of the UAPA (advocates, abets, advises or incites the commission of, any unlawful activity) and sections 3 (spying), 4 (communications with foreign agents to be evidence of commission of certain offences), 5 (wrongful communication, etc., of information) and 9 (attempt to commit or abetment to the commission of an offence under this Act) of the Official Secrets Act. Shocked at the turn of events, Sharma’s mother Madhu said, “I don’t understand what is happening. About 15 days ago, an ATS team had taken him away but released him later. This time, he hasn’t returned. He had developed kidney problems because of which he took an early retirement and got home in May last year. I don’t know why he has been detained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/retired-army-man-charged-with-spying-for-pak-arrested/articleshow/80176519.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Tempo falls 300 feet into valley, 3 dead & 43 injured||NAVI MUMBAI: Three people were killed and 43 injured after a tempo truck with 67 persons onboard fell into a valley around 6pm on Friday in Raigad. After the truck driver lost control of the vehicle, it plunged 300 feet into a valley. Rescue operations were on at the time of going to press. Those onboard were on their way home from a wedding in Satara district. The group was part of a marriage party from Khed taluka, Ratnagiri. The incident took place at Dhangarwadi in Kudpan village, Poladpur taluka, Raigad. “Per information received, a tempo with 67 people was returning from Kandoshi village, Satara district. The injured were rushed to the Poladpur Rural Hospital,” said Raigad police spokesperon Subhash Pansare. “Two people died on the spot, and so far, three deaths have been confirmed. Six of the 43 injured were referred to the district civil and MGM hospitals,” said district information officer Manoj Sanap. The deceased were identified as Tukaram Zore (50), Harischandra Hogade ( 22) and Vithoba Zore (63).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/tempo-falls-300-feet-into-valley-3-dead-43-injured/articleshow/80180067.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Wadhawans’ bail plea rejected in Yes Bank case||MUMBAI: Additional chief metropolitan magistrate at Esplanade court Sayali Dande rejected bail pleas by brothers Kapil and Dheeraj Wadhawan, promoters of Dewan Housing Finance Ltd (DHFL), in the multi-crore Yes Bank fraud case filed by CBI. Dande said it was an economic offence which should be viewed seriously. Last year, Justice Sarang Kotwal of Bombay high court had rejected their plea for “default bail” and had held that CBI had filed its chargesheet properly and within the deadline. In response to their claim that it was “illegal” to file the chargesheet before the court registry, the HC said it wasn’t. Dheeraj (42) and Kapil (46) were arrested on April 26 for alleged involvement in the Rs 3,700-crore Yes Bank fraud. CBI claimed the bank had invested the amount in a short-term debenture of DHFL between April and June 2018, and in lieu Yes Bank founder Rana Kapoor allegedly gave kickbacks to Wadhawans. Wadhawans sought bail on merits before Esplanade court. Their counsel, Pranav Badhe, argued that “the chargesheet doesn’t contain even a whisper of any allegation of kickback or quid pro quo’’, though during arguments CBI had made “vague allegations of kickbacks,’’ he said. Besides, offences under Prevention of Corruption Act do not arise as CBI failed to apply for and has not obtained sanction, which is a prerequisite. Hence, he said, allegations that the court could only consider are under section 409 (criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) read with criminal conspiracy under section 120B of Indian Penal Code. The chargesheet against Wadhawans and Kapoor family states that Yes Bank purchased non-convertible debentures (NCDs) of DHFL for Rs 3,700 crore between April 2018 and June 2018. It said DHFL initially gave DoIT UrbanVentures (India) Pvt Ltd a loan of Rs 300 cr and then an additional loan of Rs 300 cr, and both were repaid by sanctioning and disbursing a new loan of Rs 600 crore. The chargesheet said a Rs 750 crore loan was sanctioned by the bank to Belief Realtors and some money was transferred through different companies, and used to settle the loan of DHFL. Wadhawans’ bail plea said there was no allegation against them of misrepresentation or intention over issuance of NCD, hence no case of cheating was made out. There is no case made out for ‘misappropriation of any property’’ and could not have committed any breach of trust of their own property. It argued that Supreme Court, in a ruling last year, had said that rejection of bail in economic offences was not a rule, so “mere fact that the case involves economic offence is not a valid ground for rejection of bail’’. The defence counsel stressed that “pre-trial incarceration’’ by denying bail cannot be for punitive reasons and the ‘tripod test’’ as envisaged by the SC should be seen. The three tests are whether the accused is a flight risk, will he tamper with evidence and influence the witnesses. The lawyer said the Wadhawans satisfied the test and may be released on bail. But the CBI prosecutor opposed their bail pleas and stressed on allegations that there were “kickbacks’’ involved, the case was serious and that the HC had rejected their default bail plea too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wadhawans-bail-plea-rejected-in-yes-bank-case/articleshow/80177700.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops foil Cong leaders’ secretariat march plan||Hyderabad: Police on Friday foiled the ‘chalo secretariat’ march, planned by the minority leaders of the Congress party. Demanding immediate reconstruction of the two mosques that were razed during the demolition of the secretariat complex, the minority wing of the Congress gave this call. They also wanted to offer Friday prayers where the mosques existed. Congress leader Feroz Khan was placed under house arrest by the Nampally police. To foil their attempt, the police deployed forces near the secretariat and Feroz Khan was stopped from leaving his house. Other Congress leaders, who wanted to go ahead with the programme, were also arrested by the central zone police. “The mosques belong to the state wakf board. It is the property of the almighty and no one can be stopped from offering prayers,” Feroz Khan said, adding that the government made a false promise that the mosques would be constructed at the same places. “The secretariat buildings were demolished six months back. The re-building of mosques is just a false promise,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-foil-cong-leaders-secretariat-march-plan/articleshow/80177886.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kanpur||Parents of 17-yr-old girl held for her honour killing||Varanasi: The parents of a 17-year-old girl whose body was found in a field in Mirzapur district on January 5, were arrested for honour killing on Friday. According to reports, the body of an unidentified girl was found in the field of one Radheshyam Sharma in under Jamalpur police station in Mirzpur on January 5. During initial investigation, it came to light that the girl was strangulated. A case was registered under Sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence) of IPC. Later, the identity of the girl was ascertained as Anjali alias Pushpa, resident of Jamalpur. Jamalpur SO Vijay Kumar Saroj said, “The investigation has revealed that Anjali’s parents Amarnath Biyar and Shiv Kumari killed her in order to save their honour.” Police said during interrogation, the parents confessed their crime and were arrested. The couple said that their prestige was at stake due to the behaviour of their daughter. They admitted that in order to protect their honour in society, they killed killed their daughter on the night of January 2. Later, on the night of January 4, they threw the body in the field that belonged to Radheshyam Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/parents-of-17-yr-old-girl-held-for-her-honour-killing/articleshow/80177021.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Submit poll spend details by Jan 18: SEC||Hyderabad: Telangana State  Commissioner C Partha Sarathi, on Friday, said that all candidates who contested the recent GHMC elections should submit their election expenditure before January 18, 2021. Failure to submit poll expenditure to local election authorities would result in the candidates being disqualified from contesting elections for the next three years. Poll expenditure needs to be submitted within 45 days from the date of results being announced. Those who have won the election but fail to submit poll expenditure, will be disqualified resulting in the division (ward) falling vacant. Partha Sarathi asked the officials to issue notices on all candidates who have not submitted their poll expenditure, reminding them that January 18 is the last date to do it. As there would be Sankranti festival holidays for a couple of days before January 18, the candidates are advised to complete the process of preparing and submitting the affidavits at the earliest, Partha Sarathi said. Of the 1122 candidates who contested the GHMC-2020 elections, 999 have so far submitted their poll expenditure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/submit-poll-spend-details-by-jan-18-sec/articleshow/80177926.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||JP Nadda will visit Rajasthan in February||JAIPUR: The BJP leaders led by its state president Satish Poonia on Friday held a meeting with the party’s national president J P Nadda in Delhi over its strategy in the upcoming by-polls in three assembly segments, political appointments and its roadmap in taking on the ruling Congress government. Nadda has accepted the invite of state party leaders and would visit Rajasthan in February which is a month before the polls. It is going to be his maiden visit in the state since he became the party president. Poonia briefed Nadda on the party’s strategy in the polls in Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh. These three assemblies got vacant after the death of Kailesh Trivedi (Congress), Kiran Maheshwari (BJP) and Bhanwarlal Meghwal (Congress). “The meeting was related to the organisation and we discussed how to make the party stronger in the state. The party leaders informed him on how we are ensuring the central government schemes should reach to the last man standing in the state,” said Poonia. They apprised Nadda on the importance of the three assembly elections. “The verdict would reflect the mood of voters on the ruling government. Our party is working on the issues in these constituencies and election in-charges are on the job to ensure the victory of our party,” said Poonia. Also, a detailed discussion was held on political appointments of all front organisations of the party. “Soon, the executive and working committee of these frontal bodies will be announced,” said Poonia. The meeting was attended by leader of opposition Gulab Chand Kataria, deputy leader of opposition Rajendra Singh Rathore, Union minister Arjum Ram Meghwal and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nadda-to-visit-raj-in-feb-before-by-polls/articleshow/80179074.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Nodal officers to handle vaccine side-effects||NEW DELHI: While the third round of dry run for Covid vaccination was completed in Delhi on Friday, all government hospitals in the city have been asked to designate a nodal officer each for promptly handling “any adverse effect following immunisation (AEFI)” case referred to by a vaccination booth. The third dry run was conducted at 150 vaccination booths, including those in private hospitals, across 11 districts. Officials said the outcome was satisfactory. At each centre, 25 people were given the shot after verification and were kept in observation rooms for 30 minutes. Officials observed the transition from the verification room to the vaccination and then the observation rooms. “The transition was smooth. At places, some crowding was reported initially, but was addressed soon,” said a source. The capital will have around 1,000 vaccination booths at 48 government and 100-odd private hospitals, where around one lakh people are expected to be immunised daily. Each booth will be managed by five vaccination officers, who will also ensure immediate shifting of anybody with an adverse symptom to a hospital. The nodal officers will be over and above these officials. Medical superintendents have been directed to identify “designated AEFI nodal officers” for prompt management of such cases. Delhi government has also asked them to ensure availability of AEFI management kit, including anaphylaxis kit, and trained staff. The recipients were briefed about the Covid vaccines and assured about their safety during the dry run. They were also told that even after getting the shot, they would need to wear masks and follow social distancing. Both Covishield and Covaxin have been approved by Drugs Controller General of India. But effective preparations to manage any “adverse effect following immunisation” is an important aspect of any vaccination rollout plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nodal-officers-to-handle-vaccine-side-effects/articleshow/80177890.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Animals sport face masks in Ajmer pet rally||Ajmer: To send out a message on the importance of wearing a mask, the district administration organised a rally of animals in which cows, camels, dogs, goats and even sheep were sporting masks, while donkeys were without face masks.It was a ‘Playing Possum’ rally staged at Patel Stadium. The administration wanted to convey that it was ‘donkeys’ who do not wear face masks in society.The rally was flagged off by district collector Parkesh Rajpurohit and other officials. The rally was accompanied by police music band and firefighters on motorcycles.Spectators applauded the ramp walk of different animals. The officials of animal husbandry department and others too took part in the rally with placards in hands urging people to wear mask and maintain social distancing.District collector Rajpurohit said the theme was to give a message to common man on wearing mask. Later, the pet owners were provided certificates for their participation.RAS official Devika Tomar said rallies and various programmes are being conducted in Ajmer to create awareness among people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/animals-sport-face-masks-in-ajmer-pet-rally/articleshow/80179081.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||HC tells civic body to reply to PIL on tenders for Covid items||Mumbai: Observing that prima facie there appears to be a need to look into the tendering process for Covid-related items, the Bombay high court on Friday directed BMC to file its reply within two weeks to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar that has sought streamlining of pricing of medicines, disinfectants and sanitisers to prevent profiteering by a few. The PIL said hospital-acquired infection (HAI) should be checked and disinfectant procurement by public hospitals should be of the highest standards to ensure the health and safety of common people, especially the economically disadvantaged sections of society. BMC has failed to evolve a proper framework for procurement of medicines and disinfectants through the tendering process in conformity with applicable norms for civic hospitals, submitted Shelar’s counsel Deepa Chavan before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. Senior counsel Milind Sathe for BMC questioned the bona fides of the PIL. Chavan refuted his submissions and said the petitioner is a member of legislative assembly (MLA) and was concerned about the safety of people and high standards of public health. Sathe said the tendering process was a technical matter decided by experts from civic hospitals and not an issue that can go into a PIL. The PIL said, “A skewed public procurement process to favour certain manufacturers by diluting the standards of eligibility are germane to seek interference of the HC.” Shelar, it added, had already provided various suggestions to bring in greater transparency and effective approach by the BMC and better regulations. It sought to highlight “vague and incomplete specifications” in the tender form that could lead to “procurement of substandard material’’ which in turn could adversely impact lives of common men and women. The tender form fell short, said the PIL, of the updated international standards formulated by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research and the standard operating procedure (SOPs) through state-level infection control committee for antiseptics and disinfectants. The PIL essentially faults only the civic body for its “lacunae’’ and “ambiguities leaving space for favouritism’’ in the tendering process. The PIL sought orders to ensure adherence to specifications and standard operating procedures evolved by the Infection Control Committee of DMER at the state level, in October 2019 and also to incorporate processes evolved by Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals while procuring drugs and disinfectants. The HC will next hear the matter after three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-tells-civic-body-to-reply-to-pil-on-tenders-for-covid-items/articleshow/80179111.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kanpur||Mukhyamantri Arogya mela will restart from Jan 10 with Covid norms||Kanpur: Mukhyamantri Arogya Mela will once again begin from January 10 with complete compliance of Covid-19 protocol at all health centers. Chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra said all 50 urban and 42 rural health centers of the district would conduct the Arogya Mela from 10 am to 4 pm on the forthcoming Sunday. Besides giving treatment and conducting medical tests, a Covid health desk would also be activated. He said that Mukhyamantri Arogya Mela had to be suspended in March last year as a precaution due to corona infection. Now almost after nine months, this programme would be held at each health center on every Sunday. It would be organized with active cooperation of medical education, women and child development and Ayush departments. Dr AK Singh, additional chief medical officer and nodal officer of Arogya Mela stated that the programme would be held under complete Covid protocol. People wearing masks, or putting their mouth with scarf or handkerchief would be allowed to enter the Arogya Mela site. A Covid health desk to be set up at the entry gate would be equipped with pulse oximeter and thermal screening equipment. Golden cards would be made in a campaign under Ayushman scheme and people visiting the mela would be medically examined free of cost. Focus would be given on pregnant women, children and child health. Newly wedded couples would be informed about family planning. The nodal officer informed that services of voluntary organizations would also be sought and efforts would be made to provide all health services to the patients under one roof. Serious patients would be referred to district hospital by ambulance services, he added. Dr Singh said that medicines and pathological examinations would be conducted free of cost. Screening of malaria, dengue and leprosy would also be conducted in the camp. Free advice would be given to parents about precautions to be taken for diarrhea and pneumonia in children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/mukhyamantri-arogya-mela-will-restart-from-jan-10-with-covid-norms/articleshow/80177074.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Green channel helps transport live lung||Hyderabad: The Hyderabad traffic police helped facilitate a green channel for the transport of a live lung from Rajiv Gandhi International Airport in Shamshabad to KIMS Hospital in Begumpet on Friday. The organs came by flight from Ahmedabad city. The green channel was created between 5.11 pm and 5.43 pm, enabling the lung to be transported 36.8 kms in 32 minutes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/green-channel-helps-transport-live-lung/articleshow/80177912.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Union health minister lauds Tamil Nadu for controlling Covid cases||CHENNAI: A Covid-19 vaccine will be rolled out across the country in the next few days, with the first stage covering healthcare providers and frontline workers, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Friday. He was in the city to oversee the second dry-run for the vaccination drive that includes five centres from each TN district. “In the next stage, we will offer it to people above 50 years, and then those less than 50 years with co-morbidities,” he told reporters after visiting Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital with TN health minister C Vijayabaskar and senior officials. He, however, did not say when the vaccine will arrive in the state or when the massive campaign will begin. “India has done well by developing vaccines in a short while,” he said, adding that the drug authorities have approved the Oxford vaccine, Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. The Union health ministry began work on the mammoth vaccination campaign four months ago, converting the electronic vaccine intelligence network into CoWin. This can track details of potential beneficiaries, the nearest vaccination centre, issue an electronic certificate, and follow up for the second dose through text messages and reminders, he said. The earlier platform was used to track the vaccine storage along with place and temperature. Beginning with just one testing lab in January 2020, the country now has more than 2,300 labs, manufactures and exports testing kits, PPEs and ventilators. “We have one of the highest recovery rates and lowest death rates,” he said, lauding Tamil Nadu for bringing the number of fresh cases a day to less than 1,000 by sticking to RT-PCR tests. Harsh Vardhan later met chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The pulse polio vaccination campaign will be held on January 17. The last case of polio was seen in West Bengal in January 2011. The three-day campaign will include mop-up rounds for children who don’t come on day 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/union-health-min-lauds-tn-for-controlling-covid-cases/articleshow/80178013.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Demolish all liquor supply chains, Bihar CM tells officials||Patna: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday asked the police, prohibition & excise departments officials to launch a special drive to demolish the liquor supply and distribution chains across the state. He told them to identify the routes through which liquor was being smuggled to Bihar from other states and maintain a close vigil on all such routes. Chairing a meeting with the state’s top officials at his office in the main secretariat, Nitish also asked them to ensure the arrest of “big people” involved in illegal liquor smuggling from other states and take tough action against the real smugglers. The meeting was convened to review the action taken by different departments for enforcement of total prohibition in the recent months. Liquor is banned in Bihar since April 5, 2016. IG (Prohibition) Amrit Raj presented a report on the district-wise recoveries of illegal liquor, arrests and action taken against the officials concerned. Nitish said the central command team of prohibition and excise should work with all seriousness and alertness. “The officials should also find out what type of works the people earlier engaged in the licensed liquor trade before prohibition are doing now? There should be a vigil on such people,” he said. The CM told the officials that a majority of people were still in the favour of prohibition. “Even doctors suggest people against taking liquor during the Covid-19 pandemic. It has been stated in a report that there will be little impact of Covid-19 vaccine on those consuming liquor,” Nitish said. Chief secretary Deepak Kumar, additional chief secretary (home and prohibition) Amir Subhani, DGP S K Singhal, principal secretary to CM, Chanchal Kumar and prohibition and excise commissioner B Kartikeya Dhanji were present at the meeting. Earlier, he reviewed the ‘Har Khet Tak Sinchai Ka Paani Yojana’ (scheme to provide irrigation water to each farm land) to be implemented under the ‘Saat Nischay Part-2’ programme of the NDA government. Nitish asked the water resources department (WRD) officials to identify all irrigated and non-irrigated plots, water bodies and their command areas. “This assessment should be done at the ground level,” he said. He asked the officials to take suggestions from farmers about the kind of irrigation facilities needed in their areas. “We have resolved to provide irrigation water to each farm land. Today, we discussed the ways how to meet the target,” Nitish told reporters after the meeting. WRD minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and the energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav were also present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/demolish-all-liquor-supply-chains-nitish-tells-officials/articleshow/80176544.cms||Madan Kumar
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Dry run conducted across all 13 districts||Dehradun: With 269 new cases of Covid-19 reported in Uttarakhand on Friday, the coronavirus tally reached 93,111. The health department in Uttarakhand managed to successfully conduct the dry run for Covid-19 vaccine in all 13 districts. Seven deaths were also reported in the state in the last 24 hours after which the toll reached 1,562. The number of recovered patients is 87,127 in the state with 390 new cases. Meanwhile, among the 269 new cases reported on Friday, 13 worked in the forest department. Subsequently, the Van Nigam office was closed for sanitisation. State Nodal Officer and National Health Mission (NHM) mission director Sonika said the dry run for Covid-19 vaccine was conducted as per the guidelines laid down by the Government of India. “The dry run was conducted across 132 spots in the state. The rehearsals started as per the schedule in almost all the places and a mock drill was conducted to demonstrate the vaccination process. The dry runs were also held in areas with no internet connectivity,” Sonika said adding that the run was 99% successful as 86% of the beneficiaries against a target of 3,160 were vaccinated. “There were also 116 patients who showed adverse effects after the vaccination,” she divulged. NHM director, Dr Saroj Naithani, said data on 87,588 healthcare workers has been prepared for vaccination in the first phase, which includes those working in 2,804 government health institutions and 2,149 private health units. “A total of 2,118 vaccinators and 402 supervisors will be deployed and an action plan has been prepared to conduct the vaccination process at 9,708 places,” added Naithani. “A maximum of 90 new cases were reported in Dehradun followed by 58 in Nainital, 31 in Haridwar, 19 in US Nagar, 14 in Almora, 13 in Pithoragarh, 7 each in Uttarkashi, Rudraprayag, Chamoli, Champawat and Pauri, 6 in Tehri and 3 in Bageshwar,” said Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dry-run-conducted-across-all-13-districts/articleshow/80176542.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman caught with fake UPSC (Mains) admit card||Hyderabad: An FIR has been registered by the Habeebnagar police against a 23-year-old woman, who tried attending the UPSC (Mains) exam by posing as an aspirant with fake e-Admit Card. She was caught in the act by the invigilator, in the city on Friday. The woman, a native of Kurnool in Andhra Pradesh, came to the city on Friday, to attend the UPSC exam at Government Junior College for Boys at Bazarghat in Nampally. The invigilator of the exam centre suspected that the e-Admit Card was fake and verified with the existing records.Her suspicions turned out to be true and the it was a fake e-Admit Card. The issue was brought to Hyderabad Collector Swetha Mohanty’s notice. Based on Collector’s instructions, a complaint was lodged and an FIR has been registered against the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-caught-with-fake-upsc-mains-admit-card/articleshow/80177911.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kanpur||KDA staffer suspended in bldg collapse case||Kanpur: In a tough action after the Qulie Bazar building collapse incident, a supervisor of Kanpur Development Authority (KDA) was suspended on Friday. “Following a probe, supervisor Deepak Upadhyay has been suspended over dereliction of duty,” KDA VC Rakesh Singh said. To recall, a major portion of a multistorey building collapsed claiming the life of one person and rendering several others homeless in the Qulie Bazar area of the city on November 23 night. KDA had lodged an FIR based on which the police had arrested builder Amit Jain, Vikas Shukla and Vikas Jain. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kda-staffer-suspended-in-bldg-collapse-case/articleshow/80177059.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Discontent brews over new PCC executive||Jaipur: Discontent among Congressmen is surfacing over the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) team announced by the party central leadership on Wednesday. Party men are miffed about sitting MLAs and former ministers being given organisational posts in the new executive.The 39-member new team has as many as 11 MLAs and five ex-ministers or ex-MLAs, besides persons who got party's tickets in the last assembly election. Since ministers and parliamentary secretaries for the impending cabinet expansion and reshuffling too will be picked up from the remaining MLAs, the Congressmen are beginning to question if Rajasthan Congress was confined to just the 105 MLAs it has in the state. Many legislators are lobbying for posts as heads of statutory boards and commissions. What about the party’s 'one man, one post' rule, the Congress workers want to know.“For a political party to grow, maximum inclusivity ought to be the policy. If the same groups of people continue to get all the opportunities each time these are available, it will discourage the grassroots workers and also limit the party to few people,” said a Sikar Congressman associated with the party for the past three decades.“We put in years spreading Congress ideology and building public support but get sidestepped during selections in elections as well as in the organisation. Is kowtowing to big leaders the sole criteria to get party tickets and posts?” asked a party man from Ajmer.The discontent shows even among workers who have toiled as backroom staff helping the party and its leaders gain ‘resources’ and votes. “At least a post in the organisation is not too much to aspire for in recognition of the time, energy and savings we spend to expand the party base, be it in urban or remote areas,” said Congress old hand in Udaipur.In their eagerness to appease the warring factions in the state, the Congress decision makers apparently missed out on balancing regional as well as social representation in the short executive announced after a delay of nearly five months. The 39-member new RPCC team has none from 15 of the state’s 33 districts. Cabinet minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas and former PCC general secretary Giriraj Garg have spoken about their communities getting either negligible or nil representation in the organisation.Congress state president and cabinet minister Govind Singh Dotasra told TOI, “This is an initial team, which will be expanded in the coming days and responsibilities will be given to those who could not be accommodated at this stage.” Dotasra added, “MLAs were given party posts in the past too, but grassroots workers and those who toiled for the party will not be ignored.”The party was currently planning to reconstitute its teams in the districts. “The PCC executive members will soon be given duties to identify and recommend party workers for organisational posts in districts,” Dotasra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/discontent-brews-over-new-pcc-executive/articleshow/80179097.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Land grabbers make fresh attempt on prime land at UoH||Hyderabad: University of Hyderabad (UoH) was yet again under the threat of land grabbers with a fresh attempt made by some miscreants on Thursday night to encroach upon prime land abutting the Indian School of Business in Gachibowli. A similar attempt was made by members of a housing society in October last year. According to students, over 100 feet of compound wall was demolished using earth-movers. Following this, university students held a protest within the campus and alleged that construction of a road for the housing society on the university land would destroy the biodiversity within the campus. “A series of attempts have been made to encroach upon the university land in the last few years. Last year itself there were two major land encroachment attempts. Why are the boundary walls being demolished discreetly without any prior notice to the university? This is clear encroachment,” said Rohit Bondugula, Telangana Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad co-convenor who was detained by the Cyberabad police along with 14 others protesting students from the campus. The UoH students union too condemned the encroachment and asked the administration to look for a permanent solution. “This is not the first instance of encroachment of the university land. University administration has time and again failed to take any concrete action,” stated the UoH students union in a statement issued to the press. “Even as we have been in touch with the district administration and both state and central government authorities to resolve the matter, the district administration has suddenly ordered laying of the road in university property. It has now forced the university to approach the Hon’ble High Court to intervene in the matter,” said Vinod Pavarala, UoH spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/land-grabbers-make-fresh-attempt-on-prime-land-at-uoh/articleshow/80177929.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Glitches while editing e-forms: Law aspirants||MUMBAI: Several law aspirants have claimed that they were unable to edit their online admission forms due to technical glitches. If there are any mistakes in the form, students were expected to make corrections. However, the edit option did not work in many cases, said a student. Sachin Pawar, a student activist, said several students have been facing glitches in the online process. The state CET cell needs to take note of the problem and recommend a solution, he said. An official claimed that over 3,500 students had managed to edit their forms and make changes. Another official said that there was a change in service provider this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/glitches-while-editing-e-forms-law-aspirants/articleshow/80180082.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kanpur||Will develop Chitrakoot if SP forms govt: Akhilesh||JHANSI: On the second day of his visit to Chitrakoot, Samajwadi Party (SP) National President on Friday announced that Laxman Pahadi in the district will be developed as a destination for religious tourism on a par with international standards when SP will form the government after the assembly elections. He said the SP government will also resume organising the Ramayan Mela and give special pension to artists who perform Ram Leela irrespective of the faith they belong to. Akhilesh made the announcements at a press conference in Chitrakoot that he addressed after her performed parikrama at Kamadgiri barefoot and of visited Lord Kamatanath for darshan. Attacking the ruling BJP he said except for a fresh coat of paint of the ropeway, the government has done nothing in terms of development in Chitrakoot. “In fact the government has left the work started by the SP government like construction of the airstrip that is incomplete and lying unattended since the BJP government was formed,” Akhilesh said. Attacking BJP for the deteriorating crime scene in the state, he said now even the Supreme Court and High Court have accepted that jungle raj is prevailing in UP. “It is BJP’s ‘Thoko Niti’ (encounter policy) that has brought the state to such lawlessness and rampant violation of human rights,” he said. Citing the tragedy in Bulandshahr where 25 people died in a roof collapse at a cremation ground Akhilesh said the party that talked so much about Shamshaan was now silent on the loss of human lives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/will-develop-chitrakootif-sp-forms-govt-akhilesh/articleshow/80177088.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Bus services hit as roadways employees go on indefinite strike||Dehradun: As many as 1,200 employees of the Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) went on an indefinite strike on Friday to press for their demands, including disbursement of outstanding salaries. The strike, called upon by Uttaranchal Roadways Employees Union, crippled the bus services from Dehradun, Kotdwar, Rishikesh, Roorkee, and Haridwar. The agitation left hundreds of commuters stranded at bus stands. “Employees have not got their salaries for the past five-months. We have been demanding the disbursement of salaries at the earliest. We had also sent a notice to the management regarding our demands on November 9, 2020,” said Ashok Chaudhary, general secretary of the union. Almost 1,000 bus drivers and conductors took part in the strike, leaving almost 400 buses from seven depots off road, said Chaudhary. He added that the action taken against the employees for raising their voices must be revoked. As a consequence of the protest, several passengers were seen waiting for the buses, which were not plying, at ISBT Dehradun. They either had to return to their homes or book taxis at expensive prices to reach their destinations. One such passenger Sandeep Kishtwar, who was supposed to go to Tanakpur in Champawat district, had to cancel his plan as the bus service was not operational due to the strike. “I reached ISBT at 9 am to take a bus for Tanakpur. However, I was told that the bus is not plying due to an employee strike. The taxi operators were asking for Rs 6,000, which is way too much. So, I postponed my plan,” said Sandeep. According to Deepak Jain, General Manager (operations), UTC, “The strike by a particular union is unauthorised and we are going to reach out to them to break the deadlock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bus-services-hit-as-roadways-employees-go-on-indefinite-strike/articleshow/80176552.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Officials asked to improve facilities for protesters||Jaipur: Divisional commissioner Samit Sharma on Friday reviewed the arrangements at the farmers’ protest site at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur and directed the officials to improve facilities for the protesters, saying they were all ‘residents of the state’ and it was the administration’s responsibility to provide basic facilities to them.Sharma, after reviewing the arrangements at the protest site in Shahjahanpur, said, “Those who are protesting here despite the rains are all residents of Rajasthan. A sort of mini town has come up at the site. “We heard the protesters were facing some problems due to the rain, so we visited the site. Whatever demands they have or the reason for their protest is a separate issue. “However, it is the administration’s responsibility to provide basic facilities like proper sanitation, cleanliness, security, water supply and medical facilities to the protesters. These things should be arranged to make sure that diseases don’t spread or there are no losses of life. All the facilities will be further improved. The number of mobile toilets will be increased and sanitation will be maintained regularly.” “A senior RAS officer has been appointed as a nodal officer to monitor the situation here. Apart from this, nagar palika officials and SDMs will also be present here. A WhatsApp group has also been created for updating me daily about the situation here. Water supply in the toilets will be ensured and taps will be repaired or replaced. Also, for cleanliness purposes, the number of personnel will be increased,” he added. RLP leader and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said, “If the dialogue between farmers and the centre fails, the agitation will be organised on a larger scale in the state. We will keep fighting for the farmers. We will prepare a strategy to continue the protest in favour of farmers.” BoxJaipur: Divisional commissioner on Friday, during his inspection in Alwar and Jaipur districts, directed district collector of Jaipur Antar Singh Nehra to issue a notice to Shahpura SDM Manmohan Meena as signatures were not found in the register of the SDM for two days. He also directed the officials to take disciplinary action against a government doctor Narendra Kumar Dangi for doing private practice after conducting an investigation in 24 hours. A committee was formed to probe the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/officials-asked-to-improve-facilities-for-protesters/articleshow/80179110.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Permission for film shooting goes online||Jaipur: The tourism department on Friday introduced an online service for film shooting permits in the state.The state is a popular destination for movie and other commercial video shoots and permission for such purpose is granted under Rajasthan Film Shooting (Amendment) Regulations 2016.The Rajasthan tourism department had previously released standard operating procedures for film shootings to facilitate the movie industry during unlock period.“Introduction of the online permission service will further relieve the movie makers from requirement of physical appearance and application at the department office,” said a senior official of the department.To improve ease of doing business in the tourism sector, the department has also introduced online process for registration of travel agencies, excursion agencies, and safari operators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/permission-for-film-shooting-goes-online/articleshow/80179115.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Man dies in wall collapse||Coimbatore: P Rajasekar, a 29-year-old Siddhapudur resident, was killed after a portion of his house collapsed on Thursday night. “Rajasekar and his mother Saraswathi, 55, were labourers. They were staying in their tile-roofed house at Haripuram in Siddhapudur. The walls of the house were weakened due to the recent heavy showers. They were sleeping when a portion of the wall collapsed around 11.30pm. Rajasekar was caught under the debris. Saraswathi suffered minor head injuries,” a police officer said. Their neighbours cleared the debris and rushed them to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). But doctors declared Rajasekar brought dead. Saraswathi is undergoing treatment. The Kattoor police have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC. City corporation and revenue officials had visited the area on Thursday morning and requested people staying in six dilapidated houses there to shift to a corporation school, police inspector Latha said. “While some of the residents stayed in their relatives’ house, Rajasekar and Saraswathi stayed in their house,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-dies-in-wall-collapse/articleshow/80179107.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Traffic diversion causes chaos on busy Mettupalayam Road||Coimbatore: Chaos greeted motorists using Thadagam Road and the Edayarpalayam to Mettupalayam Road on Friday after the highways department closed the stretch of Mettupalayam Road from GN Mills to Ganga Hospital. Vehicles lined up from KNG Pudur Junction till NSR Road junction after one side of Thadagam Road was blocked around 10.30am. “We were stuck on the stretch for almost 15 minutes. More than the traffic, it was the policemen standing at the junctions that caused the traffic jam,” said a frustrated businessman, driving to Vadavalli from Thudiyalur. Three policemen who regulated traffic at Edayarpalayam junction allowed vehicles to pile up for more than 1km on all three sides. On Day 1, vehicles coming from Mettupalayam towards Coimbatore also used Thadagam Road to reach the city, instead of using the suggested Vellakinar, Udayampalayam and Maniakaranpalayam route. “That route is congested because it handles all vehicles going and coming to the Kongunadu College and Hospital and leads to Gandhipuram. The Thadagam Road is more sensible for those heading to R S Puram, Selvapuram, Thondamuthur and Vadavalli,” said a steel trader heading towards R S Puram. Motorists coming from Mettupalayam to Coimbatore also struggled with traffic blocked from GN Mills. “Though the flyover work starts only at Kavundampalayam, motorists heading to their houses and companies on the blocked stretch were not allowed within the barricades,” said a commuter. Vehicles piled up before the GN Mills, from where the barricades were placed. However, cops said the traffic arrangement was successful. “We did not see a big congestion as expected on Thadagam Road and the side roads like NSR Road, Edayarpalayam Road and the KNG Pudur to Mettupalayam Road,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/traffic-diversion-causes-chaos-on-busy-mettupalayam-road/articleshow/80179112.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty’s ‘Cinema paradiso’: Where culture came to life||Udhagamandalam: Sprawling across 1.13 acres on Garden Road in Ooty, the Assembly Rooms, stands tall. Established in 1886, this was a place for entertaining the then British settlers and was known as Ooty’s ‘cinema paradiso’. Nobody knows why it was called ‘Assembly Rooms’ but over the years, it became an institution in Ooty and locally well known as ‘Assems’. Rummaging through history one finds that in 1922, Lord and Lady Willingdon - Governor of Madras and his wife- purchased the Assembly Rooms presumably from a Mr. Brown, for Rs.50,000. He created a trust with Lady Willingdon as the president, for the proper management and development. As per the trust deed, the Rooms were to be developed as a place for theatres, cultural events and musical performances. The trust deed explicitly states that the Rooms shall not be used at any time for political meetings. Over the years, the Rooms saw several additions and alterations and in early 1931 the stage was pushed further back and widened for a cost of Rs 34, 200. In the same year, the question of installing ‘Talkies’ was broached upon by the trustees and after enquiries from many quarters, it was decided to accept the offer of Western Electric Co. Lady Willingdon, who apparently continued to take an interest in the progress of the Assembly Rooms even after returning to London, sent a cheque for Rs 10, 000 to cover part of the cost. The remaining was met by a handsome donation from Sir Annamalai Chettiar. In a league of its own, from 1946, the Rooms began concentrating on screening only English movies. A practice it stuck to till as recent as a decade ago. “For the first time, a film in ‘natural colours’, was exhibited in October 1939. That was the first Tamil talkie, ‘Chintamani’ and was a great success, the total receipts being Rs 3583,” writes late N.H.Vajifdar, past trustee, Assembly Rooms. In the early years, the Rooms also held western music exams of the Trinity college and the Associated Board (both of Britain) because of the availability of a grand piano. “With the TN governor as its patron, the Assembly Rooms Trust, perhaps, is the state’s only public trust, which runs a cinema hall on a non-commercial basis. The constitution of the trust is unique. As the patron of INTACH-Nilgiris Chapter, I am sentimentally attached to the heritage building of the cinema hall”, said Geetha Srinivasan, one of the trustees of the Assembly Rooms and Patron of INTACH-Nilgiris chapter. In 1974, the Rooms underwent another major structural change for around Rs .3 lakh. The wooden flooring, which served as dance floor and skating rink, was removed and new modern seats were installed. Again in 2011, the Rooms was set for a revamp under the ‘maintenance of heritage building’ scheme and was closed to the public for nearly four years. Only in 2015, it was reopened as a digitalized theatre with a new sound system and a projector. On Dec 6, 2017, a ‘Cine Museum’, a first of its kind in the south of India was dedicated to the public at the Rooms. The cine museum, developed at the cost of Rs.6 lakh, showcases two 60 –year old Bauer projectors made in Germany, film reels, spool, film rewinding table among other accessories of movie theatre, old gramophone records, carbon rods, and old photographs, including those of Lord and Lady Willingdon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ootys-cinema-paradiso-where-culture-came-to-life/articleshow/80179120.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Fresh list of 621 posts of SIs sent to RPSC for hiring||Jaipur: In order to fill the vacant posts of sub-inspectors in the police department, the home department has sent a fresh list of 621 posts to the Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) for recruitment, said a statement issued by the department.According to the statement, earlier, a list of 511 posts was sent to the RPSC after inclusion of 181 additional posts to 330 posts, which were to be filled through sub-inspector recruitment, 2016. The recruitment in this matter is under process. Overall, 1132 posts of sub-inspectors will be filled through both the recruitment process, it added.Out of 2,130 posts of sub inspectors in the police department, 1200 posts are vacant. Of these 1200 posts, a list of 621 posts has been sent to RPSC and recruitment of 511 posts is under process. “Therefore, there has neither been any deduction in the number of posts nor any advertisement was published for 227 posts in the recruitment of sub-inspectors (2016),” it further stated. On October 4, 2018, the finance department sanctioned 391 additional posts of sub-inspector. These posts were also sent to RPSC for inclusion in the previous list of 330. On this, RPSC had informed the department that, as per Rajasthan Police Service Subordinate Services Rules 1989, maximum of 50% new posts could be added to the list of posts that was released earlier for recruitment (330), the statement added.Later, the department sent a fresh list of 164 posts to RPSC, based on 50 per cent of the 330 posts. Following this, RPSC published a revised notification for 494 (330 and 164) posts on December 5, 2018. In addition to that, a list of 17 posts was sent by the department in view of 5 per cent reservation for the most backward classes (MBCs). A final notification for 511 posts (494 and 17) posts was published by the RPSC on August 23, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fresh-list-of-621-posts-of-sis-sent-to-rpsc-for-hiring/articleshow/80179180.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Another milestone: UP first to conduct 2.5crore Covid tests||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh achieved three milestones in Covid-19 testing on Friday. One, it became the first state in the country to have conducted more than 2.5 crore Covid tests in government laboratories. Two, King George’s Medical University, Lucknow, became the first laboratory in the country to conduct more than 10 lakh Covid-19 tests through the RT-PCR method. Three, one crore RT-PCR tests by government labs is the cumulative achievement of medical colleges and institutes in the state. On January 1, UP had crossed the one crore RT-PCR tests-mark but that included tests by private laboratories too. “UP is second only to Tamil Nadu in RT-PCR testing. Also, UP is way ahead of states like Maharashtra and Karnataka which have better lab infrastructure. So this also makes UP’s feat remarkable,” said additional chief secretary, medical education UP, Dr Rajneesh Dube. About KGMU’s accomplishment, he said: “Even the National Institute of Virology has undertaken just two lakh RT-PCR tests, so credit goes to the tireless work by laboratory staff of KGMU.” Dube said that SGPGI and Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences have also conducted more than seven lakh tests. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that testing has been the mainstay of UP’s strategy against the pandemic. “UP is the best in providing free Covid-19 testing facility to the people,” he said, reiterating that anyone can walk into government facilities for free Covid test. Meanwhile, data from the Indian Council of Medical Research shows that state’s share in overall testing in the country is nearly 14%. Experts attribute UP’s achievements in Covid-19 testing to aggressive infrastructure building. In March 2020, UP had just one laboratory for Covid testing, but today there is a high-end laboratory in every divisional headquarters. Health officials said that 775 fresh coronavirus cases were reported in the state in the past 24 hours. With this, the state count reached 5,91,893. Of these, 96.6% patients have recovered while 1.4% succumbed to the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-milestone-up-first-to-conduct-2-5cr-covid-tests/articleshow/80179956.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Acquittals of Babri demolition accused challenged in high court||LUCKNOW: A revision petition was filed in the Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday against the acquittals of all 32 accused persons by the CBI court in the Babri Masjid demolition case. The petition was moved by two residents of Ayodhya, Haji Mahboob Ahmad, 74, and Syed Akhlaq Ahmad, 81, who were CBI witnesses in the case. The list of 32 accused acquitted by the CBI court on September 30, 2020, include former deputy prime minister LK Advani, the then UP chief minister Kalyan Singh, senior BJP leaders MM Joshi, Uma Bharti, Vinay Katiyar, Sadhvi Ritambhara and Brij Bhushan Sharan Singh. The petition was filed in the HC’s registry on Friday, exactly 100 days after the verdict and just before the deadline for moving a revision petition ended. It would now be placed for hearing before the bench concerned on its rotation. The duo have alleged in the petition that they were witnesses in the trial against the accused persons and were also victims due to the demolition of the disputed structure . “The two have filed the revision against the September 30, 2020 judgment because the prosecuting agency CBI has not yet filed appeal to challenge the said verdict," their lawyer Zafaryab Jilani told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/acquittals-of-babri-demolition-accused-challenged-in-high-court/articleshow/80179940.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Increase foodgrain storage, utilize central funds: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday pitched for increasing the capacity for storage of foodgrains in the state. He also pressed for issuance of ration cards to people through both online and offline process. Presiding over a review meeting of the food and civil supplies department, Yogi pointed out that the Centre has made funds available for development of infrastructure in the agriculture sector, which should be utilized for the benefit of the farmers and people at large. The CM said that the storage capacity may be increased with the help of Farm Producer Organisations which should be set at the block level. Yogi’s stress on up-scaling agricultural infrastructure and capacity to store foodgrain comes close on the heels of the state government organising Kisan Kalyan Mission at the block level in a bid to facilitate farming. The CM laid emphasis on providing essential commodities including foodgrains to the people at an affordable price. He categorically asked officials to come up with mechanisms, besides making budgetary provisions, which could help the state government in checking the rise in price of pulses. Maintaining that the state government was committed to helping the poor and needy, Yogi stressed on the use of technology to ensure that the benefits of the state government schemes are passed on to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/increase-foodgrain-storage-utilize-central-funds-cm/articleshow/80179880.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Another cold wave to hit Lucknow next week||LUCKNOW: Another cold wave is approaching the city and may hit by the middle of next week. As cold winds swept through the plains, both day and night temperatures dropped by three-four degrees on Friday. With no significant change expected in the weather conditions, mercury levels would go further down by four-five degrees on Sunday-Monday. On Friday, the minimum temperature recorded in the early hours was 11.5 degrees Celsius, 3.7 degrees above normal, but three degrees lower than Thursday’s. Similarly, the maximum temperature was 21.8 degrees Celsius, 0.5 degrees above normal, but 4 degrees less than a day before. On Saturday, shallow to moderate fog is expected in the morning followed by clear sky. The maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to drop by one or two degrees. Met officials said that the drop in temperatures is because of the chill effect brought in the atmosphere by the cold winds coming from snow-fed mountains. The flow of these winds was restricted for the past five days due to a western disturbance (WD) that caused snow in the hills and rains in some parts of north India including west UP. However, the WD has fizzled out, paving way for revival of the cold wind. In the rest of the state, a gradual drop in mercury will continue in the coming days. “In Lucknow, temperatures will come back to the normal levels on Sunday-Monday and drop below normal on Tuesday-Wednesday,” said officers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/another-cold-wave-to-hit-city-next-wk/articleshow/80179983.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Goon’s murder: Lucknow cops inch closer to shooters, seize SUV||LUCKNOW: Lucknow police detained a man and seized an SUV from near a posh apartment in Vibhuti Khand area in Gomtinagar on Friday. Senior police officers said that the red SUV was reportedly used by the shooters involved in the murder of history-sheeter Ajit Singh, carrying 19 criminal cases on January 6. Lucknow police commissioner, DK Thakur said that the vehicle has been seized and based on registration details the owner is being traced. “A person who has been detained has disclosed that he had driven as many as four persons on the day of the incident from Azamgarh,” said the officer. Sources in the crime branch said that they have found blood stains in the vehicle, hinting at a possibility that the shooters were also injured in the crossfire with the victim Ajit and Mohar Singh. The officials of the crime branch disclosed that the same SUV was also used to transport the shooters to a safe place. On January 6, the shooters remained in Vibhuti Khand and the next morning they were taken to a safe place in the same vehicle. Some associates and aides of the named shooter, Girdhari Sharma have also been detained from Mau and Azamgarh and are being grilled about his possible hideouts. The aides of the slain history-sheeter have disclosed that the shooters could not have struck Ajit in Mau, Azamgarh and Jaunpur, because Ajit used to roam in a well-guarded fleet of over seven SUVs, with his own being bullet-proof. Police have also revealed that a lady who was with Ajit in the SUV on the fateful day had escaped unhurt. “With Ajit’s wife in Kolkata, police teams are trying to trace the woman,” said a policeman privy to the probe. On January 6, Ajit Singh (35) alias Ajit Langda of Mau, a history-sheeter who had been externed from his native district and was living in trans-Gomti area of the city, was shot dead. His associate Mohar Singh was also injured in the attack while a delivery man of a food chain also sustained a bullet injury. The next day, police registered an FIR against six people. While three of them were unidentified, three others were Girdhari Sharma, who carries a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh, Kuntu Singh and Akhand Pratap.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/goons-murder-cops-inch-closer-to-shooters-seize-suv/articleshow/80180002.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Varanasi||Katiyar says move will hit communal harmony||Ayodhya: Hours after two CBI witnesses moved Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Friday against the acquittal of 32 accused in the Babri demolition case, one of the key accused, Vinay Katiyar, said the revision plea will vitiate the atmosphere at a time when communal harmony was being restored. “Mahual kharab hoga (amity will be hit). Muslim parties have not sent out a good message and the move could again breach peace in Ayodhya and rest of the country,” he told TOI. However, petitioner Haji Mahboob, one of the oldest litigants in the Ayodhya title suit, said, “Muslims are not against construction of the Ram temple, but those responsible for the demolition of Babri mosque must be punished.” Talking to TOI, general secretary of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, Champat Rai, another accused in Babri demolition case, said, “Filing a revision petition against CBI court’s judgment is the legal right of the other party and it should not trigger any dispute.” But Shiv Sena leader Santosh Dube, who is also an accused, reacted with anger. “Muslim parties are adding fuel to fire. Now, demands for reclaiming the Kashi and Mathura shrines will get shriller. Every action has an equal and opposite reaction,” he said. However, former litigant from the Muslim side in the Ayodhya title suit, Iqbal Ansari, told TOI there wasn’t any need to file a revision plea in the demolition case. “Now, Babri Masjid doesn’t exist and Supreme Court handed over the once disputed site to Hindus to build the temple. The decades-old controversy is over and the revision plea will not serve any purpose.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/katiyar-says-move-will-hit-communal-harmony/articleshow/80179893.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Govt retreat on nod for full cinema halls after HC’s ‘no’||Madurai: Hours before the state government decided to withdraw its permission for 100% filling of seats in cinemas, the Madras high court had asked it not to permit more than 50% seats to be filled till January 11. The court was hearing a batch of three petitions challenging the government order permitting full occupancy in theatres and multiplexes. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that all petitioners primarily contended that notwithstanding the mandate of the Disaster Management Act and guidelines issued by the central government, dilution had been made with regard to increasing the occupancy in theatres and multiplexes from 50% to 100% by the Tamil Nadu government. The judges observed that a perusal of various communications sent by the national authorities to the state government clearly shows there cannot be any breach of the 50% occupancy. A communication dated January 5 had been sent by the Union home secretary to the chief secretary of Tamil Nadu to act according to the guidelines, after the state government passed the GO. “We are dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic situation which does not bother about the economic factors and territories such as district, state or country,” the court said. Since additional advocate general Sricharan Rangarajan informed the court that the government was considering the matter and sought time to obtain clear instructions in this regard, the judges said that the state government should not allow more than 50% occupancy till January 11. “We hope and trust that the state government would reconsider the issue in the right perspective,” they said. The judges also asked the government to consider the suggestions of the petitioners to increase the number of shows without increasing occupancy. However, sufficient intervals should be given between the shows to carry out sanitation work. During the hearing, assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri submitted that the central government had issued guidelines for the functioning of theatres with 50% occupancy outside containment zones. Members of the Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association also filed an impleading petition with its counsel contending that employees faced hardship due to the complete closure of theatres for nearly five months. The case was adjourned to January 11 for further hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-retreat-on-nod-for-full-cinema-halls-after-hcs-no/articleshow/80179151.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: ‘No mask penalty for those driving alone’||NEW DELHI: The Centre has categorically informed the Delhi high court it has not penalised non-wearing of masks by those driving alone. In an affidavit, the government submitted that its ministry of health and family welfare “has not issued any guidelines directing people to wear mask while travelling alone in a vehicle.” The ministry maintained that health is a state subject and therefore, it had no role to play in the decision in Delhi to challan commuters found without mask even when driving alone. The ministry’s response came on a petition by a lawyer, Saurabh Sharma, challenging the Rs 500 challan issued to him for not wearing a mask while he was driving alone on September 9. It seeks quashing of the challan, refund of the Rs 500 paid as fine and compensation of Rs 10 lakh for mental harassment. Advocate Joby P Varghese, appearing for Sharma, had pointed out that there is a health ministry notification clarifying that wearing of mask was not compulsory while driving alone in a car, yet people were being prosecuted. Opposing the plea, the DDMA maintained that its guidelines issued in April and June this year make it mandatory to wear a mask in a public place, and added that the Supreme Court has held that a private vehicle is a public place. The high court will now examine the stand of the ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-mask-penalty-for-those-driving-alone/articleshow/80177930.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Covid case count touches July numbers but death toll still high in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Even as three more Covid-19 patients died and 130 more persons tested positive for the infection in the city on Friday, data shows that the daily incidence of Covid-19 has now dropped to the level witnessed in the second week of July when the surge began six months ago. Both deaths and new cases reported on Friday were highest in the state and both accounted for 17% of total fatalities and infections respectively. Total case count of the city now is 79,594. Of these 76,147 (95.6%) including 203 on Friday have recovered. The death toll has reached 1,127, which is 1.4% of the caseload, which means 14 patients in every 1,000 could not survive. The number of patients at present in the city is 2,320. Of these, 1,062 with no or mild symptoms are in home isolation and the rest with are in hospital. After peaking in September, the transmission graph dropped significantly, but took the shape of a plateau in October-November. Thereafter, a steady decline was witnessed in December, which is now continuing in January, although the death rate continues to be high as it was earlier. The fears of a surge in winter, however, due to thick and dense fog are still alive. Experts said that risk of air transmission increases in dense foggy conditions. However, it can be kept easily checked by taking due precautions, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/covid-case-count-touches-july-numbers-but-death-toll-still-high/articleshow/80180007.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Referred trial cases: TN HC notice to govt in death sentence convictions||MADURAI: The Madras high court has ordered notice to the state government while hearing two referred trial cases on Friday in which the lower courts had awarded death sentences to the convicts. In the first case, a man was awarded triple death sentence for sexual assault and murder of a 7-year-old girl at Pudukottai district in 2019. The girl who was staying in her grandmother’s house used to go to a nearby temple to play. After the girl went missing on June 30, 2019, her parents lodged a complaint at the Embal police. Subsequently, police found the body of the girl in an isolated place with multiple injuries. Following this incident, police arrested M Raja for sexually assaulting and murdering the girl. During December last year, the Pudukottai district mahila court convicted and sentenced Raja to undergo triple death sentence. Hearing the referred trial case, a division bench of justices K Kalyanasundaram and G Ilangovan ordered notice to the state and adjourned the case to a further date for hearing. Similarly, the judges also ordered notice to the state government while hearing another referred trial case where the Theni court awarded death sentence to a man for murdering his pregnant wife. M Suresh married N Karpagavalli when she was just 14 years old. She gave birth to two children and became pregnant for the third time. Suspecting her fidelity, Suresh often tortured her by injuring her using cigarette butts and beating her up. He picked up a quarrel with Karpagavalli on July 21, 2015 and punched her on her private part and abdomen with his fist. The woman bled profusely, resulting in abortion. She was admitted to hospital where she died the next day. Subsequently, the Chinnamanur police registered a case and arrested him. In December last year, the Theni district fast-track court convicted and awarded death sentence to Suresh for murdering his wife and causing the death of his unborn child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/referred-trial-cases-hc-notice-to-govt-in-death-sentence-convictions/articleshow/80179162.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Rs 17 lakh looted from Muzaffarpur bank, egg vendor shot at||PATNA: Five unidentified armed criminals looted Rs17.29 lakh from the Bandhan Bank branch at Donawa under Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur on Friday. The criminals also shot at roadside egg vendor Rajesh Kumar (40), who had caught one of them while escaping. One Santosh Kumar, who accompanied Rajesh in the ambulance to the hospital, told TOI over the phone that the vendor sustained one bullet injury in his chest. “Rajesh has been referred to PMCH from Muzaffarpur,” he added. The incident took place within 16 hours of the murder of a trader, Abhishek Agarwal after robbing him of Rs70,000 in the BB Collegiate Lane under Town police station area of Muzaffarpur on Thursday night. Bank manager Rathin Das said the loot amount would have been more than Rs32 lakh had he not shown his presence of mind. “I was sitting with a customer inside my chamber when the criminals barged inside at around 12.30pm. They asked everyone to assemble at one place in the hall. I also followed a customer,” he told TOI. Das said the criminals asked for the keys to open the iron vault. “I told them that the manager has the keys and he had gone outside for some work. A woman customer also mustered courage to support my version,” Das said, adding that the criminals got convinced, otherwise Rs15 lakh was in the vault. “They collected Rs17,29,090 from the counters and escaped. Hardly four customers were inside the bank as it was time for namaz in the area,” he said. The manager said criminals tried to lock them inside but failed as a chain was tied in the gate. “As soon as they left, we rushed outside and raised an alarm,” Das said. Meanwhile Sudhir Kumar, the owner of a general store on the ground floor of the building, told TOI over the phone that several persons gathered and started chasing the criminals. “Five criminals came out of the branch. They had two bikes, but one didn’t start. This gave us a chance to chase them,” he said. Sudhir said Rajesh got hold of one of them and pinned him down on ground. But he pulled out a pistol and shot at Sudhir in his chest. “The criminals fired several rounds after which we backed off. All five hopped on one bike and fled,” he said. Sakra police station SHO Ramnath Prasad said police have identified the criminals with the help of CCTV camera footages of the bank branch. “Criminals had stayed inside the branch hardly for six minutes. The bike was seized,” he said. Muzaffarpur DSP (east) Manoj Kumar Pandey said raids were going on at suspected hideouts. “The person shot at is undergoing treatment,” he said. Watch Muzaffarpur: 5 unidentified men loot 17.29 lakh from bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs17-lakh-looted-from-muz-bank-egg-vendor-shot-at/articleshow/80176559.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||‘Complete distribution of scooty and allowance under Devnarayan scheme’||Jaipur: The ministerial sub-committee, led by minister B D Kalla, on Friday directed the officials to complete distribution of scooty under Devnarayan scheme, which is outstanding for the period 2019-20, and to speed up the distribution for the year 2020-21. Kalla said it has also been directed to the officials to complete distribution of incentive amounts under to scheme for both the years to the girl students. The Devnarayan scheme review meeting was attended by minister Raghu Sharma and Ashok Chandna. It has also been directed to the officials of departments concerned to regularly monitor the progress of work under Devarayan scheme. The committee directed social justice and empowerment department to recruit people for non-teaching posts at Devanarayan residential schools. Instructions were given to fill posts of women teachers the residential schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/complete-distribution-of-scooty-and-allowance-under-devnarayan-scheme/articleshow/80179146.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan HC stays result of constable exam||JAIPUR: The Rajasthan high court on Friday stayed the declaration of district-wise result of constable recruitment exam 2019. The court also issued notice to the Deputy Director General of Police, Rajasthan and Inspector General of Police (Recruitment) the over alleged irregularity in district-wise merit list. The matter will be heard again on January 20. The single bench of Justice S P Sharma issued the order on a petition by Jaheer Ahamad. The petitioner said the selection for the post of constable is done by issuing a common advertisement for all districts. The vacancies for various districts are also mentioned in the advertisement and a common examination is conducted for all the candidates. But when the merit list is prepared, the same is prepared district-wise resulting in discrimination between the similarly situated candidates as the cut-off marks for various categories are given differently in different districts. An example has been mentioned by the petitioner that in Dausa, cut-off marks for general category candidates was 69.75 while that for Sikar 74.5 and for Pratapgarh, it was only 49.75. Thus, different candidates who appeared in the same examination got appointment merely because they applied from different districts. HC to begin physical hearing from Jan 11 The Rajasthan high court will start physical hearing of cases from January 11. The decision was taken considering the constant decline in Covid-19 cases. It said while continuing with all preventive measures for effective control and containment of spread of Covid, the high court would regularly function from January 11. According to a notification issued by the registrar general, all the benches of the high court will function regularly from 10.30am to 4.30pm with lunch break from 1pm to 2pm. The notification said hearing of the matter would be permitted through physical appearance and also video conferencing. In a case, hearing to be conducted simultaneously through physical appearance and video conferencing, the lawyers or parties-in-person opting for video conferencing would intimate the court master of concerned court at least a day before the date of listing cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-stays-release-of-district-wise-result-of-constable-exam-2019/articleshow/80179164.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Woman injured in robbery bid||Coimbatore: A 37-year-old woman sustained deep cut injuries on her cheek, tongue and finger when she tried to escape from robbers who attempted to snatch a gold chain from her at Thottipalayam in Erode on Thursday. According to the Karungalpalayam police, the two robbers covering their faces scaled the compound wall of a leather godown at Joseph Thottam in Thottipalayam around 7pm on Thursday. The company’s administrative assistant, K Selvi, 37, was working in the company when the robbers entered. "They grabbed her from behind. When they tried to snatch a gold chain from her neck, she tried to escape. But the robbers used a knife to cut the gold chain, which ended up in inflicting deep cut in Selvi’s cheek, tongue and middle finger," police said. The robbers, believed to be around 30-year-old and 18-year-old, eventually made away with an eight sovereign gold chain and half sovereign of a gold pendant. Police have begun inquiries to nab the suspects. Selvi was admitted at the Erode KMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/woman-injured-in-robbery-bid/articleshow/80179142.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Second Covid vaccination dry run successful in dist||Coimbatore: The dry run for administration of vaccine for Covid-19 was successfully conducted in the district on Friday. None of the five centres selected for the dry run faced any glitches or issues, officials of the health department said. All the centres also managed to complete the practice run on 25 people each within two hours. However, the number of centres where the real vaccine would be administered is yet to be decided. The dry run was conducted at five locations in the district—Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Nallatipalayam PHC, Samathur PHC, Karpagam Medical College and Hospital and Mettupalayam GH. "Just like the nationwide dry run, we selected 25 beneficiaries for each centre. Since their data was already fed into the Covin app, we faced no difficulties in finding their data. We administered the vaccination following the data," deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar said. As part of the first nationwide dry run on January 2, dry run was conducted at ESI Hospital, PSG Hospitals, Bouluvampatti, community health centre, SLM Home urban primary health centre, among others, in the district. However, officials say the number of vaccination booths for administration of the vaccine is yet to be decided. "We have 104 well-functioning cold storages in the government sector, which also happens to have the required facilities and space for administration of the vaccine like three rooms, separate entry and exits," health department official Dr Bharani Kumar said. "But we have not decided whether we will use all the 104," he added. Number of private centres with cold storages is yet to be listed and chosen for the vaccine administration. "We will be using the big private hospitals, but we are yet to decide which ones," an official said. So far, 31,450 health workers have been registered for the first phase of the vaccine. Another 4,000 are likely to be added to the list by the end of next week. "We have been told that vaccines are likely to arrive just after the Pongal holidays," the deputy director said. According to the health department officials, the district has one walk-in freezer and one walk-in cooler along with 151 ice lined refrigerators. While each ILR can store 2,000 to 3,000 litres, the district as a whole can store 4 lakh doses of the vaccine. They also added that the aim is to vaccinate 20% of the population within the year-end. 32,000 to 35,000 health workers in the district will be vaccinated in the first lot, followed by frontline workers, senior citizens and younger people with co-morbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/second-covid-vaccination-dry-run-successful-in-dist/articleshow/80179165.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Three members of family killed in road accident||Coimbatore: Three members of a family were killed, and 14 people were injured in a road accident near the Karnataka -Tamil Nadu border on Friday morning. The deceased were identified as Subramani, 60, and his wife Amaravathi 60, of Perumanallur in Tirupur district and their daughter Gokila, 45, from Palani. Sixteen people from Perumanallur and surrounding areas were on the way to the Chamundeshwari Temple in Mysuru in a van. Tirupur resident Arunkumar was behind the wheel. “He lost control over the vehicle while negotiating a curve near the Suvarnavathi Reservoir around 5am and the vehicle overturned, and fell into a ditch. Three people died on the spot,” a police officer said. The Chamarajanagar police rescued nine women and eight men including the driver and took them to the government hospital. The bodies were handed over to the relatives after postomortem on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/three-members-of-family-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80179177.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||IVRI to shift focus on bird flu from Covid test||Lucknow: With at least five states affected by avian influenza or bird flu, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly is used exclusively for testing birds, ceasing Covid testing that had been taking place there for few months. Directions have also been issued for people not to feed birds and avoid direct contact with them. In light of the Magh Mela which is scheduled to start in Prayagraj next week where thousands of migratory birds visit the Ganga River at this time, the CM has said that special care should be taken to prevent bird flu and visitors should be told not to feed birds. Till Friday, the government has received complaints of 21 dead birds from four districts, three from Bijnore, four from Kanpur, 10 from Sonebhadra and four from Jhansi. Samples of dead birds from Sonebhadra and Bijnore have been declared free of avian flu, while report of birds from Kanpur and Jhansi is expected on Saturday. “So far there are no bird flu cases in UP, but people should stay away from any physical contact with birds. It is better to take precautions since it is not possible to maintain blanket checks on migratory and wild birds, as it is with poultry,” said Bhuvnesh Kumar, principal secretary (animal husbandry). On Friday, agriculture produce commissioner Alok Sinha issued detailed directions on bird flu protocols to be followed in each district. “An alert has been issued for all poultry farms and all water bodies where migratory birds come during the season. If there are any sudden deaths, they should be reported immediately. Samples of the dead birds should be sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease Lab in Bhopal and to the Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Bareilly,” the directions state. Instructions have been given to prepare a list of bird sanctuaries, water bodies and such parks which receive migratory birds and to implement bio security at these places. Regular inspections have to be carried out of all water bodies and poultry farms. The APC has said that control rooms should be set up in each district while rapid response teams should be kept on alert to inspect water bodies, sanctuaries, poultry farms etc. District Magistrates of areas at UP borders which receive chickens and chicken products from bird flu affected places should ensure that no dead bird is allowed to enter UP. Open transportation of chickens, other birds and eggs has been banned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ivri-to-shift-focus-on-bird-flu-from-covid-test/articleshow/80179875.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Consumers top priority of govt, asserts energy minister||Lucknow: UP power minister Shrikant Sharma on Friday reiterated that consumers were on the top priority of the state government and the department should strive to take all possible steps in addressing their complaints. Addressing a seminar organised by NTPC power management institute, Sharma said that the distribution companies should try to get Know Your Customer (KYC) done of all power consumers and take their feedback. He also maintained that an uninterrupted power was only possible with the help of consumers. The minister said that managing directors of the distribution companies should ensure that consumers get electricity bills on time. He reiterated that the discoms should ensure that consumers be provided downloadable bills so that no anomaly is reported. He also asked officials to ensure tripping free power supply in the National Capital Region (NCR) as well as other districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/consumers-top-priority-of-govt-asserts-energy-minister/articleshow/80179888.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Second dry run of Covid vaccine completed at 102 centres across Rajasthan||JAIPUR: The second dry run of vaccination for coronavirus was successfully organised at the 102 vaccine centres across the state on Friday. At least 2,500 volunteers participated in the dry run, in which health workers informed the volunteers about various guidelines on the symptoms. At the Kanwatia Hospital here, a team of five doctors and 10 nursing staff completed the process of vaccinating 25 volunteers in the dry run, where volunteers were supposed to get themselves registered through the mobile app and later, they were sent for thermal screening. “After vaccination for the dry run, they were taken to an isolation room where they were given various guidelines on symptoms which can affect them. The exercise was successful,” said Dr Narottam Sharma, chief medical and health officer (CMHO), Jaipur. Health minister Raghu Sharma stated that prior to this, the department had organised a similar dry run in 7 districts at 18 centres across the state on January 2. “A total of 102 vaccination centres were made in medical colleges and district hospitals in community health centres (CHCs), primary health centres and urban dispensaries and also at some of the private medical institutions in the third category. A target of total 25 vaccinations was fixed at each vaccination centre,” Sharma added. In Jaipur, Siddharth Mahajan, secretary, health inspected the dry run activities and visited various centres, while in other districts, local CMHOs and other officers under the leadership of the district collectors, inspected the dry run. How the dry run was organised? During the dry run, a model of vaccination room and monitoring room was made for the beneficiary and rehearsal of administering the vaccine was done. Meanwhile, the vaccination officer verified the identity documents and then gave entry to the beneficiary. The beneficiary was sent to the vaccination room after certifying on Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network (COVIN) software, where the vaccinator officer completed the vaccination process (demo) and made entry on COVIN software about administering vaccine to the beneficiary. “Every beneficiary was kept at the monitoring room for 30 minutes under the observation of the vaccination officer. During the process of dry run, time taken to vaccinate a beneficiary and in making an entry on COVIN software was assessed and the process of running the software was checked,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/second-dry-run-of-covid-vaccine-completed-at-102-centres-across-raj/articleshow/80179206.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Village vigilance cops appointed across district||Coimbatore: The Coimbatore rural police have deployed 397 village vigilance police officers (VVPOs) to collect advanced intelligence information from the villages. The officers will also start a WhatsApp group to help villagers address their various issues. As many as 283 mother villagers come under the Coimbatore district police. In total, 397 police personnel (special sub-inspectors, head constables, grade one constables) have been appointed as VVPOs. Flex boards in each village have been installed giving the mobile numbers of VVPOs, police inspector, police sub-inspector and police station numbers. "We have initiated the VVPOs across the district on January 1. The VVPOs would visit the village at least twice or thrice in a week and would meet grocery shopkeepers, autorickshaw drivers, village administrative officers (VAOs), panchayat ward members. The VVPO will be the first person to receive any information from the allotted village. He would collect advanced intelligence information from the villages," superintendent of police, Coimbatore district, Ara Arularasu said. "If any accident happens in villages, the village vigilance police officers will take necessary steps to send the injured people to the hospital and will also help to clear the traffic," Arularasu said. He said the VVPOs are instructed to visit the villages in uniform and speak politely with the villagers. They should also have the details of the number of shelter homes for children and women, women’s hostels, leaders’ statues in their respective areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/village-vigilance-cops-appointed-across-district/articleshow/80179221.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Graft case against Red Cross members||Chennai: Central Bureau of Investigation, Chennai, has booked a corruption case against former and current officials of the Indian Red Cross Society a week ago. CBI was given a complaint by the office of Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit in this regard. According to the FIR filed by anti-corruption bureau of CBI, the accused had committed offences of criminal conspiracy, criminal breach of trust and criminal misconduct to cause pecuniary advantage to themselves by causing a wrongful loss to Indian Red Cross Society from 2011 to 2020. However, details of the complaint filed by T Sengottaiyan, deputy secretary to the governor and comptroller in the office of governor, have not been made public. The accused have been identified as Dr Harish L Mehta, chairman of the Indian Red Cross Society, Tamil Nadu Branch, M S M Nasruddin, general secretary of the organisation, Dr C Indernath, treasurer of the organisation, Senthilnathan the former treasurer of the organisation, Manish Choudhary, deputy/joint secretary of Indian Red Cross at its national headquarters in New Delhi, and Dr V Vadivel Mugundhan, former chairman of the TN branch. In October 2020, the Madras high court had ordered the Indian Red Cross Society to file its response on allegations of misappropriation of funds in the Tamil Nadu unit. The petitioner, Shankar Naganathan, who was the honorary vice-president of the TN branch, had levelled allegations of financial fraud against some members of the organisation and had demanded a CBI probe. He had said no financial audit had happened in the unit since 2012 and senior office-bearers were facing criminal charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/graft-case-against-red-cross-members/articleshow/80178003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Don’t misuse Gangsters Act, Allahabad high court tells UP police||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Thursday ordered the police authorities to strictly adhere to the guidelines framed by the director general of police (DGP) to check misuse of the provisions of Gangsters Act. “If it is found that the guidelines have been violated by any police officer against an accused, he would likely to be proceeded with for disciplinary proceedings”, the bench warned the police. A bench of Justice Dinesh Kumar Singh passed the order while disposing of a bail petition filed by MK Nirmal. Earlier, finding that the Gangsters Act was misused by the police, the court had allowed the bail plea of the petitioner on November 19, 2020. While allowing the bail, the bench noticed that in trivial matters the provisions of The UP Gangsters and Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act, 1986 are being invoked and misused by the police authorities. Expressing serious concern at this, the bench, directed the DGP to formulate definite guidelines for preventing the misuse of the provisions of the Gangsters Act and place them on record by way of affidavit before this court. In compliance of the court’s directions, additional government advocate (Ist) Rao Narendra Singh placed the affidavit of DGP before the bench. The affidavit stated that guidelines were already issued on June 30, 2014 and that he reiterated the same issuing fresh directions to police authorities to comply with the earlier guidelines in true sense. The guidelines include eight directives, including that the gang chart will not cite those cases in which either final report was submitted or acquittal was recorded. The investigation of such cases will be conducted by a different police station. Besides, before forwarding the charge sheet in such cases, the district police chief would ensure that the provisions of the Gangsters Act were really applicable to the case and that there was ample evidence on record to file charge sheet. It was also mentioned in the guidelines that once the Act was invoked on the basis of some cases, the same cases would not then be considered for invoking the Act any further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-misuse-gangsters-act-hc-tells-up-police/articleshow/80161175.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Country’s third dedicated thoracic surgery dept to be set up at KGMU||LUCKNOW: Patients struggling with issues of the lungs and esophagus among others will now find their solution at King George’s Medical University (KGMU) with the establishment of the thoracic surgery department. The university’s executive council (EC) gave its nod on the same on Friday. KGMU will be the third institute in the country to have such a dedicated department. The EC on Friday also agreed upon the prosecution of the head of its radiotherapy department, by the CBI, in a case related to income fraud. The CBI had filed a case against the head doctor and his doctor wife, also posted in government service, after a raid found them in possession of money superseding their income. CBI wrote to the government seeking approval for prosecution which was then sought from KGMU. For the thoracic surgery department, Dr Shailendra Singh Yadav has been designated as the head. The department will bring ease to thoracic surgery patients who will not have to be clubbed with heart patients in the cardiovascular and thoracic surgery (CTVS) department and wait for their turn. The department will come up at the newly constructed cardiology building. EC also approved the headship of Prof AK Tripathi in his parent department of hematology. Prof Tripathi had served as director of RML Institute of Medical Sciences.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/countrys-third-dedicated-thoracic-surgery-dept-to-be-set-up-at-kgmu/articleshow/80179799.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||LDA ended 2020 on a high note with surge in sale of apartments in December||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow Development Authority (LDA) has sold over a hundred flats in December month which was almost 50% of the total flats or housing units sold by the authority in 2019. The achievement has come as a boost to LDA which has been reeling under financial crisis since lockdown. As per LDA records, as compared to 211 flats in 2019, LDA sold 275 units in 2020, including 105 in December. Flats sold last month were in Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Kanpur Road and Sultanpur Road. Most of these units were under middle (63 flats) and lower (28) income groups. Nine flats were in the high income group. LDA collected Rs 6.3 crore as registration money of 105 flats while the total revenue would be Rs 27 crore when all the payments are made. LDA officials said sales were low in the first 10 months due to Covid-19. As incomes dropped, people were not willing to make investments. However, buyers are now coming forward, which indicates that people are confident about economic revival. “There is a feeling among lower and middle classes that money will grow more if invested in property,” a senior officer said, adding that people were investing in LDA flats as they were cheaper than the ones being offered by private players. District magistrate and acting vice-chairman of LDA, Abhishek Prakash, had also given targets to engineers to sell flats/housing units in vacant housing projects in December with the promise for award to those who meet targets. To increase the sale of housing units in future, LDA has decided to introduce a single-window system wherein buyers will not have to run around to complete formalities. “At present, if anyone has to purchase a unit, he needs to visit LDA headquarters or zonal office several times for registration and payment. However, in a single-window system, each engineer will be given the task to ensure the registration work is done right after the buyer finalizes the unit,” Prakash said. Currently, LDA has more than 3,500 vacant flats in its several projects in Jankipuram Extension, Kanpur Road, Sitapur Road and Gomtinagar Extension, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lda-ended-2020-on-a-high-note-with-surge-in-sale-of-apartments-in-dec/articleshow/80179862.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||TN HC relief for MBBS aspirant, says aided school is govt school||MADURAI: Granting relief to a medical aspirant, Madras high court on Thursday held that an aided school in Thanjavur district is a government school according to the provisions of the “Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homeopathy on preferential basis to students of Government Schools Act, 2020,” taking into consideration that the school was managed by the district administration. The court was hearing the petition filed by D Arun who sought admission in medical course under the Act. His request seeking bonafide certification that he studied in a government school was rejected by the chief educational officer on the ground that the school was an aided school. The petitioner underwent schooling from Class VI to XII in Rajah’s higher secondary school in Thanjavur district. He scored 238 marks in NEET and belongs to scheduled caste community whose parents eke out a living by running a pushcart eatery. Justice G R Swaminathan observed that the question whether the school is a government school has to be answered by referring to its present position. The fact remains that its administration was vested in the district board which was abolished in 1961. Subsequently, it came under the control of the district administration. There is a school committee, but the Thanjavur district collector is its president and special tahsildar the secretary. The school no doubt has been treated as a private school under Tamil Nadu Recognized Private Schools (Regulation) Act and its staff are not government servants. But it is managed by the revenue department/district administration and is funded entirely by the government. The judge said that expressions “Government schools” and “Students studied in government schools” have been defined in sections 2(c) and 2(d) of the Act. “Government schools” mean and includes government schools, corporation schools, municipal schools, adi dravidar and tribal welfare schools, kallar reclamation schools, forest department schools and other schools managed by government departments. “The key word occurring in Section 2(c) is ‘managed by government departments’. This statutory definition will have to receive a purposive construction. The object of enacting this legislation is to extend the benefit of reservation to economically disadvantaged students who have passed out of government schools. Therefore, I have to adopt such a construction that would effectuate the legislative object,” observed the judge. The judge said it was the special tahsildar who wrote to the education department seeking issuance of bonafide certificate certifying that the petitioner was a student who studied in government school. This clinches the issue in favour of the petitioner. The judge said that when the petition came up for admission in December last year, the predecessor judge felt that the petitioner must be considered as a student who studied in government school and gave interim direction to keep one seat vacant. During counselling, the petitioner was allotted MBBS seat in Sivaganga medical college subject to the result of the writ petition. Since this court held that the school in which the petitioner studied is a government school within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act, the seat allocation made in favour of the petitioner is made absolute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-relief-for-mbbs-aspirant-says-aided-school-is-govt-school/articleshow/80179186.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 9, 2021||Madurai||TN: 2 directors of fin firm held on charges of cheating hundreds of depositors||MADURAI: The economic offences wing (EOW) arrested two directors of a fraudulent financial institution in Kanyakumari district for cheating hundreds of depositors to the tune of several crore rupees across Tamil Nadu. The scam came to light when one of the depositors lodged a complaint earlier this week. The accused have been identified as T Edwin Suthakaran and T Jeya Sasitharan, directors of Unique Asset Promoters and Estates India Limited at Nagercoil. A search is on for the managing director Syed Ali, director Ramesh and their agents who lured investors, deputy superintendent of police (DSP) EOW, Kanyakumari district, K Muthupandian said.. The firm, which was established in 2011 had lured customers by promising exorbitant interests for deposits over a period of five to six years. Most of its depositors are from Kanyakumari, Vellore, Tiruvannamalai, Kancheepuram and Ramanathapuram districts. “They gave an assurance to depositors that they have invested in several acres of land and would register them as plots in the names of the depositors in the event of inability to give them the promised amount. But they closed down their office in mid-2019,” the DSP said. In his complaint, Vasanthakumar of Nagercoil claimed that he deposited Rs 1.23 lakh in his and his wife’s names but when the deposit term reached maturity in 2019, he was asked to surrender the original bond to return the money, but cheated him. “The other victims too had complained of cheating in a similar manner,” Muthupandian said. During a search in the company, police found 365 bonds collected from the depositors. The accused claimed that they returned the money to 85% of the depositors and that they owe only a few crore rupees to the depositors. Police, however, suspect that it could be higher. The accused have been booked under sections 406 (punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) of the IPC and 5 of the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997. They were produced before the special court for TNPID cases in Madurai on Thursday night and remanded. The EOW has asked victims to lodge complaints in writing along with copies of the bond and original receipts. The process of freezing the land belonging to the accused at Karungal and Eraniel in Kanyakumari district and Thisayanvilai and Srivaikuntam in Tuticorin district has also begun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/2-directors-of-fin-firm-held-on-charges-of-cheating-hundreds-of-depositors/articleshow/80179210.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Cargo express train launched||The Salem division of Southern Railway has introduced another parcel cargo express train, which will operate between Coimbatore North and Rajkot on Fridays. The train will leave Coimbatore North at 8pm, stop at Vanjipalayam, Anangur, Udhna, Bharuch Jn, Kankaria and reach Rajkot on Monday at 5am. It will leave Rajkot at 8am on Tuesday and reach Coimbatore on Thursday at 8.35pm. The first parcel cargo express was introduced between Coimbatore and Patel Nagar in Delhi in August. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cargo-express-train-launched/articleshow/80179196.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Cases booked for helmetless travel almost double in 2020||Madurai: Madurai district police have registered almost double the number of helmet violation cases in 2020 compared to 2019. While 1.62 lakh cases were registered in 2019, a total of 3.21 lakh cases were registered in 2020, an increase of about 98%. Similarly, there was a considerable increase in the number of cases registered for not wearing seat belts in 2020. Altogether, there was an increase of 74% cases for helmet and seat belt rules violation. Officials from Madurai district police said cases registered under six heads had also increased in 2020 compared to its previous year. Overspeeding, using mobile while driving, drunk and drive, overloading of goods and carrying passengers in goods vehicles were considered as six head cases. Comparatively, there was an increase of 13% of cases in the category in 2020. An official said that all districts in the state received instructions from higher officials to increase the cases registered under two heads (helmet and seat belt) by 100% in 2020. Madurai managed to achieve only 74%. However, except for a couple of districts in southern Tamil Nadu, all other districts had registered a lesser number of traffic violation cases than Madurai. In Madurai, sub-divisions like Melur, Oomachikulam, Samayanallur and Usilampatti had registered more number of cases under the two heads. Samayanallur and Oomachikulam registered a higher number of cases under six heads. Sub-divisions like Peraiyur and Thirumangalam were not as stringent as other sub-divisions in registering the violation cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/cases-booked-for-helmetless-travel-almost-double-in-2020/articleshow/80179226.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||2 arrested for duping textile mill owner||Coimbatore: The rural police on Thursday arrested two men for cheating a textile mill owner of Rs 20 lakh. They had bought Rs 20 lakh worth bundles of warp thread from the mill owner and failed to pay the amount. The arrested were identified as Rajesh, 42, and Dhanabal, 38, both from Pillaiyappampalayam. The duo was booked under sections 294 (b) (uttering obscene words), 420 (cheating) and 506 (i) (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code. They were remanded in judicial custody on Friday morning. P Senthilkumar, 45 from Andikadu, owns a textile mill at Sedapalayam near Somanur. Police said Rajesh and Dhanabal had bought warp and weft thread from Senthilkumar in the last two years. But they failed to pay Rs 20 lakh for the goods purchased from the mill owner. Senthilkumar lodged a complaint with the Karumathampatti police who registered a case against the duo on January 4 and arrested them on Thursday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-arrested-for-duping-textile-mill-owner/articleshow/80179212.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Gomtinagar plots turn into trash spots||LUCKNOW: More than 3,800 vacant plots in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension have turned into garbage dumping spots, a month long survey of the area by Gomtinagar Jankalyan Mahasamiti (GJM) has found. GJM secretary Raghvendra Shukla said, “Despite door-to-door garbage collection, most residents of the area dump household garbage in these vacant plots which can become a breeding ground for mosquitoes and make the place unhygienic to reside. Despite repeated complaints to LMC, nothing has been done on their part.” Vishesh Agarwal, a resident of Vineet Khand, said, “A private plot near my house has been lying vacant for many years and locals have turned it into a garbage dumping spot. Neither the plot owner nor the municipal authorities have come forward to clean it.” “Vacant plots near my house are used as dumping ground by colony members. We have to bear with the constant garbage stench,” said Nitesh Singh of Viram Khand. LMC zone-4 executive engineer SK Mishra said, “We will send notices to the plot owners for constructing barricades or find other ways of stopping garbage dumping in the plots, else they will be fined Rs 50,000 by the civic body. It is the responsibility of the owners to ensure that no trash is dumped on their vacant plots.” In November 2019, LMC had sent notices to 4,162 plot owners in the city to stop open garbage dumping on their vacant plots or their plots would be seized. But nothing happened thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gomtinagar-plots-turn-into-trash-spots/articleshow/80161079.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Raj sees no Covid death after 8 mths||Jaipur: After a gap of eight months, the state on Friday witnessed no Covid-19 deaths, while 471 fresh cases were witnessed.In April 2020, there were many days when zero deaths were reported, but the state has been witnessing deaths every day since May onwards. The state now has 3,12,091 positive cases, but the number of active cases has now gone down to 7,402.Authorities of the health department were elated to know no deaths were reported in the state after a gap of eight months. “When we started tackling Covid-19 in March when first death was reported, we had a very minimal testing facility and very limited infrastructure. The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility as we now have a testing facility of 60,000 samples per day, timely detection, our medicinal protocols, Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director (Rural) health.However, in terms of numbers, Jaipur continued to be on top as 96 cases were reported in the city. Apart from Jaipur, below 50 cases were reported from other parts of the state as Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 41 cases were reported, Kota 39, Bhilwara 32, Nagaur 28 and Udaipur along with Dungarpur 23 cases each.“Other reason to rejoice apart from zero deaths is that on Friday many districts reported a few cases which included Dholpur and Sawai Madhopur. Also in Jaipur there are only 1,283 active cases out of which 70% are either asymptomatic or are under home isolation with very mild symptoms,” said a senior officer.Also 537 patients got discharged from various hospitals in the state after getting recovered. “Till Friday, 3,01,962 persons have been discharged from hospitals across the state,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-no-covid-death-after-8-mths/articleshow/80179218.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||No report of bird flu death in UP so far: Forest dept||Lucknow: The UP Forest department, on Friday, said that it has not received any information on any death due to bird flu in the state so far. The head of the department, Sunil Pandey, has issued directions to the senior officials to be watchful and be on alert for zoos in Lucknow, Kanpur and Gorakhpur and lion safari in Etawah. About the death of birds in Kanpur zoo, chief conservator of forest, Mukesh Kumar, said, "Preventive measures have been put in place in Kanpur zoo. Cause of death is not known yet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-report-of-bird-flu-death-in-up-so-far-forest-dept/articleshow/80179932.cms||Neha Shukla
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Toll-free no. to track mass bird deaths||Lucknow: Sounding alert over the bird flu outbreak in six states, the district administration on Friday released a toll free number — 18001805141 — at the office of chief veterinarian to gather reports of mass birds’ death. The decision was taken at a meeting headed by district magistrate Abhishek Prakash and attended by senior officials, including chief veterinary officer (CVO) Tej Singh Yadav, chief development officer Prabhash Kumar and municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi. Apart from the toll free number, a task force was set up at district, tehsil and municipal level to ensure proper coordination and enforcement of precautionary measures like prohibition on sale of meat products in open, carrying out culling drive, vaccination, disinfecting birds and to gather information on mass death of birds. The CVO was instructed to inspect poultry farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/toll-free-no-to-track-mass-bird-deaths/articleshow/80179826.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Seven arrested Asha workers found Covid positive, cops undergo test||JAIPUR: Panic prevailed at the Bajaj Nagar police station in the city when the Covid-19 report of seven out of 12 Asha Sehyogini workers who were arrested on Wednesday came positive. The arrested workers were though released on bail on Wednesday, the authorities of the health department swung into action on Thursday as samples of 60 policemen posted at the police station were collected. According to police, 12 Asha workers were arrested by the Bajaj Nagar police station for disturbing peace since they had blocked the Tonk road while protesting. “As a protocol, their RT-PCR tests was conducted. Late on Wednesday evening, the report indicated that seven out of them were Covid-19 positive,” said a senior officer of health department. On Thursday, the samples of 70 policemen posted at the Bajaj Nagar police station were taken and the police station premise was sanitized. “Since seven arrested workers were found positive of Covid-19, we have given our samples. All of them were though released on bail but since some of the reports were positive, we too have given samples,” said Ramesh Saini, circle inspector, Bajaj Nagar police station. However, police authorities stated that none of them have so far got any symptoms. “Only a few members of our staff were in the close proximity of the women while doing paper work etc and making their bail. But as a protocol all the 70 members of the staff have given their samples for the tests,” Saini added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/7-arrested-asha-workers-found-ve-cops-undergo-test/articleshow/80179244.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Retired soldier, Gujarat aide held by UP ATS for sharing classified info with ISI||LUCKNOW: In a clinical counter-espionage operation, Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (ATS) on Friday arrested a retired soldier and his Gujarat-based aide for sharing classified information with Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). While former signalman Saurabh Sharma was arrested from Hapur, his accomplice, Anas Giteli, was nabbed from Godhra following inputs by Lucknow-based Military Intelligence unit. Additional director general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar, said, Sharma was remanded to eightday custody while Giteli’s transit remand was taken from a Gujarat court and is being brought to Lucknow. “The duo has been booked under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and Official Secrets Act,” said Kumar. Inspector general, ATS, G K Goswami, who led the operation said, “classified inputs were received in November last year about Sharma’s links with a woman Pakistani intelligence operative, whom he met on Facebook in 2014. He was actively passing sensitive military information by WhatsApp to ISI since 2016 during his deployment at Pathankot base.” ‘Declared unfit, Sharma was forced to take voluntary retirement last year’Giteli on the other hand would transfer funds into Sharma’s account in lieu of information, the officer said. Sharma was declared medically unfit in June last year and was forced to take voluntary retirement,” Goswami added. The officer also said, Giteli’s brother Imran was arrested in September, 2020, by National Investigation Agency for his role in the Vishakhapatnam espionage case in which ISI recruited agents in India for collecting classified information. “We recovered two mobile phones, a sim card, and memory card from Sharma and these are being forensically examined to trace evidence. The money trail is also being tracked,” said the officer. Sources in the Military Intelligence unit said, the woman Pakistani intelligence operative had introduced herself as a defence journalist and lured Sharma, who began sharing sensitive military information in return for money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-ats-arrests-retired-soldier-his-guj-aide/articleshow/80179918.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Electric poles in the middle of now widened Zingabai Takli road||Nagpur: Godhani Gram Panchayat Sarpanch Deepak Raut has approached state’s public works department (PWD) demanding shifting of hundreds of electric poles standing in the middle of the 6.6km Zingabai Takli-Godhani-Bokhara Road that is being widened and concretized.If PWD fails to shift the electric poles, gram panchayat member Nitin Langde has threatened to file a contempt petition in the high court. In 2017, Union minister Nitin Gadkari had sanctioned Rs35 crore. through Central Road Fund for widening the road from 9 metre to 18 metre. Earlier, the narrow road was causing frequent traffic jams. The road widening project brought much relief to motorists using this busy stretch. “As the road widened, the electric poles adjacent to the old road are now in the middle, defeating the road widening purpose. Now, these poles are not only causing problem for smooth movement of vehicles, but also accidents,” Raut wrote to the PWD. A senior official from MSEDCL said that they had already submitted to the PWD an estimation of Rs3 crore required to shift around 400 electric poles and eight DP structures from the road. It was submitted much before the road’s estimation was prepared. But it was ignored by the PWD, the official said. The work has also reduced the electrical accident clearance guidelines, he said explaining the road height has been increased by almost three to four feet resulting into failure of clearance criteria of electric cables. PWD superintending engineer Vidyadhar Sardeshmukh was not available for comments. In the past, a city based NGO Janmanch had filed a petition in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that directed the NMC to remove all poles standing on the middle of 47 roads after widening. The high court has also set a deadline. “Despite this, how the PWD could ignore electric poles coming in the way of road widening work,” Langde said. TOI found that there are concrete paver blocks around the base of the poles. This extra wide area of the road now has several electric poles and even transformers. “Apart from posing a danger to road users, these poles reduce the carriage width of the road resulting in massive cost of concretization going to waste,” said Piyush Janbandhu, a resident of Govind City in Zingabai Takli locality. Zingabai Takli corporator and former deputy mayor Sandip Jadhav questioned how can the PWD fail to include the shifting of utilities while preparing estimate of the road widening project. Raut also pointed out that the PWD did not even consider utilities like water pipelines and electric cables to be shifted. “Actually, it is also a contempt of court by the state PWD,” said Raut.Jadhav said the authorities should take steps to complete the road widening work as soon as possible. He would also be approaching the state PWD demanding allocation of funds for shifting of poles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/electric-poles-in-the-middle-of-now-widened-zingabai-takli-road/articleshow/80176615.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||1 1 infra companies show interest in Ganga e-way||Lucknow: At a time when the economy is passing through a rough phase, the expression of interest (EOI) by 11 infra companies to join the ambitious 594-km Ganga expressway is certainly an encouraging sign for chief executive officer, UP Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA) Awanish Awasthi. Talking to TOI after chairing a high-level meeting of bidders on Friday, Awasthi sounded confident of public funding for Rs 45,000 crore project. “Two companies from abroad IJM Corporation of Malaysia and Intopia Construction of South Korea, too, have shown interest in the project,” remarked the CEO. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath wants the Ganga e-way project to be started soon and the EOI by 11 companies for the project has proved a big booster, Awasthi said, adding that the UPEIDA has also engaged a financial consultant to submit recommendations for the mode of project funding. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/1-1-infra-companies-show-interest-in-ganga-e-way/articleshow/80179928.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Slap fine on private technical institutes not following norms: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Directing technical institutes to ensure the best quality education is provided by them, chief minsiter Yogi Adityanath said on Friday that private technical colleges which do not follow standards will be fined and action taken against them. During a review of the admission process, courses for technical education colleges under the directorate of technical education, the CM said that libraries, laboratories and other necessary facilities should be available in the technical education colleges. He said all vacant posts in government polytechnics should be filled up immediately. The CM said that if a person wants to set up a private technical institute on the basis of established standards, the government will give recognition to it as soon as the criteria adopted by the institute are verified. There are 147 state, 19 financed and 1,203 private polytechnics in the state. The meeting also saw discussion on 2020-21 academic year, admission capacity in technical institutes, the engineering branches of AICTC and the process of starting a new pharmacy institute in the APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University Lucknow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/slap-fine-on-pvt-tech-institutes-not-following-norms-cm/articleshow/80180014.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jodhpur||Conduct special girdawari to asses crop loss: Rajasthan CM to officials||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed the revenue department to conduct special girdawari to assess damage to crops due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost in the state. Principal secretary, revenue and disaster management, Anand Kumar said as per the preliminary information crops have been damaged due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost between January 2-4 in Kota, Alwar, Bundi and Nagaur districts. He said 33% or more crops damage have been reported from two villages of Pipalda tehsil of Kota district, four villages of Ramganj Mandi, 17 villages of Riambadi tehsil in Nagaur district. No crop damage has been reported from any other areas, he said. He informed that the district collectors have been directed by the revenue department to conduct special girdawari in the affected areas of the respective districts. In case of 33% or more crop damage in special girdawari, the distribution of agricultural grant will be ensured to the affected farmers. He said that according to the information received from the meteorological department, light to moderate rain and hailstorm are expected at isolated places in the districts of Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions of east Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. He directed the farmers to take necessary precautions to protect their crops from hailstorm, cold wave and frost for the next few days. On January 8 and 9, there is a possibility of dense fog in some places and cold wave in some parts of northern Rajasthan. On January 9, it will be cloudy in Kota division. There are chances of cloudy and light rain at some places. Weather will remain dry in the remaining divisions. From January 10, the minimum temperature will fall by 2 to 4 degrees. There is a possibility of cold wave in northern parts of the state on January 11 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/conduct-spl-girdawari-to-asses-crop-loss-cm/articleshow/80183163.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ajmer||Conduct special girdawari to asses crop loss: Rajasthan CM to officials||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed the revenue department to conduct special girdawari to assess damage to crops due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost in the state. Principal secretary, revenue and disaster management, Anand Kumar said as per the preliminary information crops have been damaged due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost between January 2-4 in Kota, Alwar, Bundi and Nagaur districts. He said 33% or more crops damage have been reported from two villages of Pipalda tehsil of Kota district, four villages of Ramganj Mandi, 17 villages of Riambadi tehsil in Nagaur district. No crop damage has been reported from any other areas, he said. He informed that the district collectors have been directed by the revenue department to conduct special girdawari in the affected areas of the respective districts. In case of 33% or more crop damage in special girdawari, the distribution of agricultural grant will be ensured to the affected farmers. He said that according to the information received from the meteorological department, light to moderate rain and hailstorm are expected at isolated places in the districts of Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions of east Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. He directed the farmers to take necessary precautions to protect their crops from hailstorm, cold wave and frost for the next few days. On January 8 and 9, there is a possibility of dense fog in some places and cold wave in some parts of northern Rajasthan. On January 9, it will be cloudy in Kota division. There are chances of cloudy and light rain at some places. Weather will remain dry in the remaining divisions. From January 10, the minimum temperature will fall by 2 to 4 degrees. There is a possibility of cold wave in northern parts of the state on January 11 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/conduct-spl-girdawari-to-asses-crop-loss-cm/articleshow/80183164.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Officers Town folk hold protest for steps to prevent inundation||Madurai: Seeking immediate action to prevent inundation caused due to storm water draining into their area, residents of Officers Town Extension area near Kosakulam in Madurai blocked the S Alangakulam Road at Mudakathan on Friday. Residents said that water inundated areas like Officers Town Extension, Vaigai Nagar, Mettu Street and Kumaran Nagar from Wednesday night onwards. Despite raising the issue, officials from the Madurai Corporation did not take any steps, they said. The road block protest, which lasted for 20 minutes ended after police held talks with the protesters. Soon after the protest was withdrawn, officials from corporation, revenue and public works department visited the place with an earthmover to clean the channels. “Water inundates our area every year after heavy rainfall. Ours is a low-lying area. The issue can be prevented if the channels and drains are cleared before monsoon season,” S Ismail, a resident said. Residents said that water in some of the areas is stagnating up to waist level, forcing them to stay indoors. Meanwhile, heavy rain lashed various parts of Madurai district on Thursday night. The district received an average of 25.90mm rainfall in 24 hours ending 8am on Friday. Pulipatti received the highest rainfall of 58mm, followed by Idayapatti with 55mm, Chittampatti with 52.20mm, Kallandiri with 47.60mm and Melur with 34mm. Places like Vadipatti, Thaniyamangalam, Tallakulam, Airport, Viraganoor and Madurai North also received good rain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/officers-town-folk-hold-protest-for-steps-to-prevent-inundation/articleshow/80179262.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Parents want schools to reopen for Class X and XII students||COIMBATORE: Parents of students in nearly 90% high and higher secondary schools here want them to be reopened for Class X and XII students after the Pongal holidays. Schools had conducted consultation with parents in the last two days following a state government direction, an official with the school education department said. “While some parents participated in person, others phoned and sent letters. More people participated in the meetings, compared to the meetings conducted in November,” he said. Of the 653 high and higher secondary schools in the district, 590 are in favour of reopening, the official said. “A majority of parents wants to send their wards to the school as they would be taking up board examination.” When consultation meetings were conducted in November, the schools had received a mixed response from parents. As most of the parents were not ready to send their wards to schools, the state government withdrew the decision to reopen. “It would be better if schools are reopened, because many students, who do not have smart phones, are struggling to attend online classes. We will have to provide counselling to students for a week before starting classes,” said district president of the Tamil Nadu Postgraduate teachers Association G R Chendooran. “We plan to coach average and below-average students separately for the board examination.” T Arulanantham of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary School Government Teachers Association said that more than Class XII students, it is important to reopen schools for Class X students. “Unlike the Class XII students, for whom the state government has issued laptops and uploaded study materials and videos, these students have no facilities.” It would be sufficient even if the students visit school for three days – every alternative day, Arulanantham said. “That way, we can enforce social distancing. Instead of placing sanitizers at the entrance of schools, hand sanitizers should be distributed to the students and teachers should make them clean hands before starting class. Also, the government should announce the deleted portions at least for the students facing board examination.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/parents-want-schools-to-reopen-for-class-x-and-xii-students/articleshow/80179259.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||Assets of man booked under anti-conversion law to be attached||Lucknow: Police will attach properties of a Sitapur resident, Zubrail, who’s on the run since December last year after being booked under provisions of the new anti-conversion law. A court approval was taken to execute the proceedings under Section 83 CrPC, which lays down that a proclaimed offender’s property can be attached after he’s declared an absconder. Zubrail, 22, allegedly eloped with a 19-year-old Hindu girl, Neetu, on November 26 and later reportedly married her. SHO, Tambor, Amber Singh said, “We declared Zubrail an absconder last month and announced Rs 20,000 cash reward for clues on his whereabouts. Zubrail would drive a van for a living and eloped with Neetu, a Class 12 passout.” Zubrail’s van was seized on Friday and his house and land will be attached in presence of sub-divisional magistrate on Saturday, said police. Earlier, Sarvesh Shukla, resident of Makhubehad village in Sitapur, lodged a police complaint that his daughter, Neetu, had eloped with an unknown man post-midnight of November 25. Two days later, an unnamed FIR was lodged under sections of kidnapping for inducing a woman to marriage. Days later, Sarvesh told police Neetu had been forced to convert to Islam and was kidnapped by a Tambor resident, Zubrail, in connivance with his family. On December 4, fresh charges under Section 3/5 of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, were added to the FIR and his brothers, Israel and Mainuddin, mother Janatun, aunt Afsarjahan and neighbours Rafique, Samshad and Usman were arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/assets-of-man-booked-under-anti-conversion-law-to-be-attached/articleshow/80179900.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro SOS: Fund us to keep operations running||NEW DELHI: The capital’s lifeline is running out of funds to operate its daily services. Facing an unprecedented financial crisis due to the Covid-19 outbreak, the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) has written to the central and Delhi governments, apart from those of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, for financial assistance to run its trains. In its letter, DMRC said it was facing an unprecedented situation, and it required support as per sanctioned orders of the projects at different states to ensure that the corporation continued to operate Delhi Metro in a safe manner while also meeting its obligation to repay instalments of loans taken from the Japan International Cooperation Agency. While the centre and Delhi government are mandated to equally share operational losses of the Phase I and II corridors, the state government is supposed to bear the entire operational losses of Phase III. Since 2002, when its operations began, DMRC hasn’t suffered operational losses. When asked about Delhi Metro’s request, state transport minister Kailash Gahlot said that he hadn’t yet received the letter. But Mangu Singh, DMRC managing director, told TOI, “We have requested both the governments and need their help.” When asked about the letter and the company seeking help from the governments of Haryana and UP too, for the sections falling under their area, Singh confirmed, “We have asked for help from them and we hope we get some support.” Singh said that DMRC is running all trains at optimum frequency but with a third or a quarter of the earlier passenger load due to physical distancing imperatives. Only alternate seats are available for passengers and those standing have to maintain distancing. As a result, the carrying capacity of a coach has fallen from 300-350 passengers to 50-60. “We are on the minus side every day as our expenditure remains the same,” Singh explained. “Demand is slowly rising, but this is causing more inconvenience to passengers because they are required to wait longer due to restricted capacity.” Both fare revenue and revenue from shops, parking lots, etc, have dipped. “Everybody is in financial distress and many renters have left,” said Singh, adding that things are returning to normal but yet to reach pre-Covid levels. Last month, DMRC directed that only expenses necessary to run the trains should be incurred by the operations and maintenance wing. DMRC’s director of operations said that while the wing was able to meet daily expenditure and use the balance fund to repay the JICA loan and interest, the shutdown meant there was zero income for 169 days and lower fare revenue due to capacity restrictions after that along with a dip in revenue from property development and parking. Singh said that at the moment, money earned by DMRC through consultancy provided to metro projects in other cities such as Mumbai and Jaipur was being accessed to meet expenditures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/metro-sos-fund-us-to-keep-ops-running/articleshow/80177982.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt clears tenancy law to reduce owner-tenant row||LUCKNOW: The state cabinet on Friday cleared the Uttar Pradesh Regulation of Urban Premises Tenancy Ordinance, 2021 which seeks to safeguard rights of both the property owner and the tenant. Under the new law, a rent agreement is a must for a property to be given on rent. A rent authority will be set up and any new rent agreement will have to be registered with it. The authority will issue a unique identification number and within seven days of receiving an agreement, will upload details of the tenant on its website. Details of tenants may not be shared with the authority if the duration of the tenancy is less than 12 months. The tenant and the property owner will jointly decide the duration of the tenancy and any renewal of the agreement. The points mentioned in the agreement will continue to be applicable on the successor of both the tenant and property owner in the case of death of one or both. The new law lays down responsibilities of the property owner, increase in rent on renewal of lease, details of the rent authority which will consider cases of dispute etc. “Once this law is in place, there will be much more clarity in the agreement between the tenant and property owner and therefore, there will be no scope for petty disputes or at least, there will be much more clarity on several issues. For instance, the law will make it clear whose responsibility it will be for painting, paying maintenance, water, power bills etc,” said a government official. Industrial Development Authority PM Awas Yojana Implementation PolicyIn another decision, the cabinet cleared the Industrial Development Authority PM Awas Yojana Implementation Policy under which the PMAY will now also be implemented in areas owed by development authorities. Under this, each project should have a minimum of 250 houses with at least 35% of the land reserved for low income housing. UP Defence & Aerospace Unit & Employment Generation Policy AmendmentThe cabinet has decided to extend the benefits under the policy to MSMEs and start-ups investing in defence and aerospace sectors for the first time. The policy makes it imperative to use land allotted only for activities defined under the policy, failing which land allotment will stand cancelled. Any benefits like rebates and subsidies provided before cancellation of allotment will be settled against the bank guarantee. Free land for Nishad Raj ParkThe cabinet approved a proposal to provide free land for the development of a Nishad Raj Park in Shringverpur near Prayagraj. The park is being built in an area of 5,600 sq m at a cost of Rs 15 crore and is expected to be a huge tourist draw in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-clears-tenancy-law-to-reduce-owner-tenant-row/articleshow/80179938.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Udaipur||Conduct special girdawari to asses crop loss: Rajasthan CM to officials||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed the revenue department to conduct special girdawari to assess damage to crops due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost in the state. Principal secretary, revenue and disaster management, Anand Kumar said as per the preliminary information crops have been damaged due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost between January 2-4 in Kota, Alwar, Bundi and Nagaur districts. He said 33% or more crops damage have been reported from two villages of Pipalda tehsil of Kota district, four villages of Ramganj Mandi, 17 villages of Riambadi tehsil in Nagaur district. No crop damage has been reported from any other areas, he said. He informed that the district collectors have been directed by the revenue department to conduct special girdawari in the affected areas of the respective districts. In case of 33% or more crop damage in special girdawari, the distribution of agricultural grant will be ensured to the affected farmers. He said that according to the information received from the meteorological department, light to moderate rain and hailstorm are expected at isolated places in the districts of Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions of east Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. He directed the farmers to take necessary precautions to protect their crops from hailstorm, cold wave and frost for the next few days. On January 8 and 9, there is a possibility of dense fog in some places and cold wave in some parts of northern Rajasthan. On January 9, it will be cloudy in Kota division. There are chances of cloudy and light rain at some places. Weather will remain dry in the remaining divisions. From January 10, the minimum temperature will fall by 2 to 4 degrees. There is a possibility of cold wave in northern parts of the state on January 11 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/conduct-spl-girdawari-to-asses-crop-loss-cm/articleshow/80183162.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Honeytrap case: Links found with women agents in previous cases||JAISALMER: Pak intelligence agency ISI has made a wing of 8 to 9 women who are involved in honeytrapping BSF, army and air force personnel and other important persons, who are directly or indirectly involved in strategic activities in border areas and other important areas, in order to get confidential information. There are resident sleeper agents of the ISI in the border areas in Rajasthan, who provide numbers of the important persons to ISI and these women then use them to honeytrap them. This was revealed in the case wherein husband of a former sarpanch was detained over honeytrap links. In the two days of inquiry with him, it has come to light that those three to four women who had honeytrapped him had earlier done the same with army jawan Barua, Somveer, a senior army officer deployed in Pokhran, among others, to obtain confidential information. These Pakistani women were identified in the chats they used to hold with Satyanarayan Paliwal, the former sarpanch’s husband. On Friday, he was inquired at Jaipur, to ascertain further details on the matter. Paliwal said that the last woman who he was chatting with told her name to be Sonita Kumari and introduced herself as the local editor of a national Hindi daily. Security and intelligence agencies checked the chats with these women and found their manner and voice similar as compared to the ones in previous cases of honeytrap. These women make calls using fake Indian numbers and trap the targets. Intelligence police ADG Umesh Mishra said that Paliwal was detained and brought to Jaipur and all security and intelligence agencies are inquiring him and a decision will be taken only later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/honeytrap-case-links-found-with-women-agents-in-previous-cases/articleshow/80179267.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||Build flyover at Eachanari junction, says MDMK||Coimbatore: Members of Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) on Friday staged a protest demanding the government to construct a flyover at the junction of L&T bypass and Pollachi main road, near a private college in Eachanari. Heavy vehicle movement at the Eachanari junction has caused several accidents, including fatal accidents, said V Eswaran, state youth wing secretary of MDMK. “To prevent traffic congestion and accidents, the central and state government should come together and construct a flyover at the junction,” he said. “If they fail to act on our request, we would stage a massive protest at the junction.” The members also urged the state government to set up a police check post at Malumichampatti and a pedestrian pathway at Kembu Colony near Eachanari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/build-flyover-at-eachanari-junction-says-mdmk/articleshow/80179261.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Hold postal recruitment exam in Tamil too, says MP||Madurai: Opposing the conduct of examination to fill the posts of P O & RMS accountant in the department of posts only in English and Hindi, Madurai MP Su Venkatesan has urged the Centre to conduct it in Tamil as well. The exams are scheduled on February 14. In a letter to Union minister for law and justice, electronics and information technology and communication Ravi Shankar Prasad, the MP said that on July 16, 2019, the government announced its decision to conduct tests only in English and Hindi for the recruitment of postmen. This was strongly objected by MPs in the floor of the parliament. Venkatesan recalled Prasad intervening and assuring that such examinations would be conducted in regional languages including Tamil. “But regional languages are neglected in the above said notification for the posts,” he said. “Consequently, the notification issued earlier was annulled for the issuance of fresh one. The same stance was confirmed by the Union government before the Madras high court when the case came for hearing on July 30, 2019,” he said and added that issuance of such notification is unfair and against the declaration made by the minister and assurance given in the Madras high court. The recruitment notification by the department of posts dated January 4 with January 20 as last date for receipt of applications at the divisional offices and January 27 at regional offices would affect candidates of Tamil Nadu, he said. Venkatesan requested issuance of a fresh notification or corrigendum with inclusion of Tamil as a medium for examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hold-postal-recruitment-exam-in-tamil-too-says-mp/articleshow/80179249.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Stalin has developed cold feet on debate: TN Minister Kadambur C Raju||TUTICORIN: Criticising the conditions put forward by DMK president M K Stalin for the open debate challenge of Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami over corruption charges levelled against the government, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju said “the conditions look like Stalin is not prepared for the debate and he is backing off.” Talking to reporters at Kovilpatti on Friday, the minister said that Stalin should have answered with a “yes or no” or if he “is ready or not” for the challenge. “Stalin who raised the allegations is making lame excuses under the pretext of conditions,” he said, adding that the leader of the opposition is not ready as his allegations are false. Calling DMK women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi Karunanidhi biased over her views on women safety in the Pollachi serial sexual abuse case, the minister criticised the Tuticorin MP for not condemning the attack unleashed by her party men on a woman who questioned Stalin at a gram sabha meeting in Coimbatore, recently. He also said the CM announced a CBI probe for an unbiased inquiry in the Pollachi case. “Elected representatives and leaders of political parties are in a responsible position to answer the queries raised by the public. But DMK goons attacked a woman and treated her badly for questioning Stalin. Had Kanimozhi condemned it as a woman, we can call her unbiased,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/stalin-has-developed-cold-feet-on-debate-min/articleshow/80179260.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Lucknow||This entire Sitapur village was a movie set for 40 days||KANDUNI (SITAPUR): Kallu Rao's house in Kanduni village of Sitapur's Biswan was like any another brick and mortar structure in the village till the makers of the movie, 'Kaagaz', that went location hunting in the area about three years back to shoot the story of a man declared dead in government files for celluloid, found it fit to house the movie's male protagonist, Lal Bihari (played by Pankaj Tripathi). Since then the house has seen few turnarounds, the thatched look of it was done away with and interiors were given a uplift with ply, walls got few motifs and were done in pink. With so much done to boost the look of the house without disturbing its original layout, owners of the house have nothing to complain about.  The movie was shot at Sitapur villages, tehsil and district for about 40 days.Sharad Chaudhary, a local social entrepreneur, helped director Satish Kaushik spot this village. Chaudhary, a former civil servant who has taken voluntary retirement to devote his time to social work at his native place. Kaushik has all good things to say about UP and this particular village. "UP has been declared the most shooting-friendly village for the past two years. This village is an example why. Out shooting was so smooth that we never thought we were shooting outdoors," he says. On Friday, when the movie was screened for the villagers in Kanduni itself, most of them, sort of, got their old memories related to the shoot dusted off. Kallu Rao said, "It was for 14 days that the team was here. They (cast and crew) used to reach as early as 5.30 or 6 in the morning and we were told to vacate the house." He was one of the eager audience at the venue where the movie was to be shown at a mobile theatre. His teenage son, Shailendra, had already watched the movie on his mobile a day before the premiere. Ask him if he wants to be an actor himself, the boy makes a failed attempt to hide his excitement. "Seekhe toh bahut hain team se (have learnt a lot from the team)," he said. Rao's wife, Ramrani, had her own share of experience. "We used to cook in the night when our house was left to us totally and that was around 7 or 8 in the evening." For most part of the day family was living with the neighbours. "Shooting happened in October and the weather was easy," she said. What makes the family happy is that their kitchen was left unchanged and the male lead was shown cooking 'rotis' in the same kitchen. The best part is that most villagers claim they have been shown in the movie. "I have played Lal Bihari's uncle in the movie. My shot was okayed in five retakes. I didn't even take clothes from the crew and had my clothes ready. I also did not take money and thought should help," said Ramchandar, a 'chowkidar' and a farmer. The movie was shot about two years back but that has not made ten-year old Vikram forget how he played 'kanchas' at the shooting location. "Hopefully, I am there (in the movie)," the boy said. Kanduni has been shown as a village from Azamgarh from where Lal Bihari originally comes. The movie was shot at Sitapur villages, tensil and district for about 40 days. Crew and cast had stayed at a hotel at Mishrikh and they (the shooting team) had a mess which took care of food and drinks. "We were given to eat too. They behaved well and never turned people away except when the shooting was on and only those who were part of the shoot were called," said Anita, who named her son as Raj (inspired by a popular Bollywood screen name) after he became a part of the movie. "Picture ke pehle scene mein Jo bachha hai woh yehi hai," claimed the mother while the toddler looked grumpy in her arms. Another house that has been prominently shown in the movie is of Ramesh Shukla. The actress, Monal Gajjar who has played the character named Rukmini in the movie has it as her 'maayka' (maternal home). On Friday, to make the event memorable a friendly cricket match was also organised between the Team Kagaz, representing the movie and Team Media. Actress Monal Gajjar who was at the event location did try her hand at batting. She also met the school students who had come to watch the movie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-entire-sitapur-village-was-a-movie-set-for-40-days/articleshow/80180017.cms||Neha Shukla
January 9, 2021||Coimbatore||16,967 MSMEs in dist registered for Udyam certificates||Coimbatore: As many as 16,967 micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) have registered at the Udyam registration portal in the district as on Friday. The District industrial Centre (DIC) had warned the industrialists not to become prey to fraudulent activities as the registration process should be carried out only at http://udyamregistration.gov.in and it is free of cost. The central government has recently reclassified the definition of MSMEs with effect from July 1, 2020. With an investment in plant and machinery or equipment up to Rs 1 crore and an annual turnover of up to Rs 5 crore is a micro unit. A unit with an investment in plant and machinery or equipment up to Rs 10 crore and a turnover of Rs 50 crore is a small unit. Those units with an investment in plant and machinery or equipment up to Rs 50 crore and a turnover of Rs 250 crore are medium units, according to an official from DIC. Pointing out that the registration is a self-declaration process and it could be done till March 31, 2021, an official said that the udyam certificates will be the only valid proof for the MSMEs from April 1, 2021 as the Udyog aadhar entrepreneurs memorandum that were used as proof by the MSMEs until recently, will become invalid from March 31, 2021. District president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises (TACT) J James said, "The central government should consider units whose investments are below Rs 25 lakh as cottage units and announce separate subsidies and loans to them. Because, now that the cap limit for micro industries was increased up to Rs 1 crore, competition would increase and these cottage units might not get any subsidies or loans." Over 20,000 cottage units are in the district alone and they create a lot of employment opportunities, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/16967-msmes-in-dist-registered-for-udyam-certificates/articleshow/80179253.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Road project ayed 21 yrs ago yet to take off; citizens ‘celebrate’||Nagpur: Sanctioned 21 years ago, the project to widen 3.28km congested stretch of old Bhandara Road from Mayo Hospital to Sunil Hotel T-point has not moved an inch.On Thursday, Madhya Nagpur Vikas Aghadi celebrated ‘anniversary’ of the launch of the project that was sanctioned on January 7, 2000, by cutting a cake. Officials from Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s public works department said the project was stalled due to lack of funds to acquire roadside properties needed for broadening the road. Aghadi president Bhushan Dadwe pointed out that the high court had directed the municipal commissioner on July 19, 2017, to start the road widening within three months. “The road widening work is yet to start even after 40 months,” Dadwe said. If the work does not start by January 31, 2021, Dadwe said MNVA will file a contempt petition in the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court for ignoring its earlier directives. The decision was taken in the MNVA meeting held to ‘celebrate’ the project launch’s anniversary.Currently, the Old Bhandara Road width varies from 20 to 50 feet. At some places, encroachments have reduced the road width to just 15 feet or so. It is proposed to be widened to 18 metres or 60 feet.“Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had assured to provide financial assistance to undertake the widening of this and four other roads. He had also announced a package of Rs 600 crore for these projects. If he provided the fund, why the work has not been started yet,” Dadwe asked.With widening delayed, many shopkeepers have renovated their shops on this road. Many have extended their encroachments further narrowing the road width at many places, pointed out an alert citizen from Itwari.Officials said non-receipt of government funds forced the NMC to stop the widening work. They added the NMC had already completed all the procedures like identification of road width, survey number and survey plot number of commercial and residential properties along the road.An officials said 631 properties that needed to be acquired have been identified. The cost of land acquisition has been finalized at Rs 185.03 crore. The NMC is supposed to bear Rs 55 crore, while state government is supposed to provide Rs 120.5 crore. NMC has initiated land acquisition from its resources and acquired 41 properties by paying compensation of Rs 25.09 crore.TIMELINE* 3.28km congested stretch of old Bhandara Road from Mayo Hospital to Sunil Hotel T-point* Project was sanctioned on January 7, 2000* High Court directed the municipal commissioner on July 19, 2017 to start the widening project in 3 months* Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari sanctioned money from central road fund* 631 roadside properties are to be acquired* Cost of land acquisition is Rs 185.03 crore* Government was to give Rs 120.521 crore* NMC has acquired 41 properties by paying Rs 25.09 crore from its share||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/road-project-ayed-21-yrs-ago-yet-to-take-off-citizens-celebrate/articleshow/80176611.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Conduct special girdawari to asses crop loss: Rajasthan CM to officials||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday directed the revenue department to conduct special girdawari to assess damage to crops due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost in the state. Principal secretary, revenue and disaster management, Anand Kumar said as per the preliminary information crops have been damaged due to hailstorm, cold wave and frost between January 2-4 in Kota, Alwar, Bundi and Nagaur districts. He said 33% or more crops damage have been reported from two villages of Pipalda tehsil of Kota district, four villages of Ramganj Mandi, 17 villages of Riambadi tehsil in Nagaur district. No crop damage has been reported from any other areas, he said. He informed that the district collectors have been directed by the revenue department to conduct special girdawari in the affected areas of the respective districts. In case of 33% or more crop damage in special girdawari, the distribution of agricultural grant will be ensured to the affected farmers. He said that according to the information received from the meteorological department, light to moderate rain and hailstorm are expected at isolated places in the districts of Kota, Bharatpur and Jaipur divisions of east Rajasthan in the next 24 hours. He directed the farmers to take necessary precautions to protect their crops from hailstorm, cold wave and frost for the next few days. On January 8 and 9, there is a possibility of dense fog in some places and cold wave in some parts of northern Rajasthan. On January 9, it will be cloudy in Kota division. There are chances of cloudy and light rain at some places. Weather will remain dry in the remaining divisions. From January 10, the minimum temperature will fall by 2 to 4 degrees. There is a possibility of cold wave in northern parts of the state on January 11 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/conduct-spl-girdawari-to-asses-crop-loss-cm/articleshow/80179258.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Two RPF cops save couple from falling||KALYAN: Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) constables saved two passengers, a senior married couple, from falling into the gap between the train and platform at Kalyan railway station on Thursday. The incident was captured on CCTV and even went viral. Ashfaq Khan (61) and his wife and their son, were going to their native place in UP. The trio was trying to board in a risky manner. Head constable Sheshrao Patil and constable S P Yadav noticed that the duo was about to fall into the gap and pushed them inside the train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/two-rpf-cops-save-couple-from-falling/articleshow/80180120.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Road accidents in Madurai district down by 15% in 2020||MADURAI: Madurai rural police limits witnessed 46 road deaths lesser in the year 2020 compared to the previous year. While 282 road deaths took place in 2019, 236 people died in road accidents in 2020. Madurai district police have been helping in bringing down the traffic accident fatalities consistently for the past few years. The year 2017 witnessed 512 road deaths, which is has been declining gradually every year with efforts taken by the police. Police officials say that frequent vehicle checking, increase in the traffic violation cases including seat belt and helmet rule violation cases and action on driving licenses like recommendations made to Regional Transport Officials for suspension and cancellation also helped to bring down accidents. Officials say that most of the road deaths in Madurai district take place on national highways, followed by state highways and rural roads. Most of the accidents involved trucks and two-wheelers or light motor vehicles. Over speeding and rash driving by two-wheelers are also the reason behind the accidents. It is the youth, who mostly get killed in accidents involving two-wheelers. Additional Superintendent of Police S Vanitha said “detailed examination is being conducted at every accident spots and issues are being rectified with additional care. A place is declared as black spot if at least two accidents have occurred in the same place in the last two years. Often lack of illumination resulted in accidents. With the help of concerned police inspectors, lighting is being improved,” she said. Fortunately, there were no major accidents in the district in 2020. However, there were quite a few accidents, which resulted in double deaths, she added. The district witnessed a total of 1,436 accidents in 2020, which is 15% lesser than its previous year. Another police official said “the usage of barricades to reduce speed in national highways and state highways has helped to bring down accidents to an extent. Accident data is periodically reviewed by the district superintendent of police Sujit Kumar and required instructions are being provided to concerned police officers to increase road safety measures at accidents spots,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/road-accidents-in-madurai-district-down-by-15-in-2020/articleshow/80179255.cms||V Devanathan
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Dist fatality rate remains high as Covid-19 deaths reach 4k||Nagpur: The number of Covid-19 deaths reached 4,000 in the district on Friday. The district’s case fatality rate (CFR) is high compared with average of state and country.The district registered seven fatalities on Friday taking the toll to 4,000. Of these, 2,667 (66.68%) were residents of the city, 707 (17.67%) from rural parts of the district while 626 (15.65%) were from outside.Total number of positive cases were 1,27,110 so district’s CFR comes to 3.15%. Average CFR of state is 2.55% and of India 1.45% as on Friday. If deceased from other districts are excluded, CFR will be 2.67% (3,374 deaths against 1,26,302 positive cases) which too is higher than average of state and country.Patients come to Nagpr for treatment from all districts of Vidarbha and a few districts of Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. In all 626 such patients tested positive for novel coronavirus here and died here during treatment in the government and private hospitals situated. Therefore, these deaths are counted in the district’s toll.The district is fourth in the state to touch 4,000 deaths after Mumbai (11,162), Pune (7,805) and Thane (5,619). The population of the district is less than that of Nashik district. However, the fatalities are much higher here compared with Nashik district (1,931).The district had registered first positive case on March 11. First death was recorded on April 5. Number of deaths crossed 100 on July 29. At that time, the district was on 12th among 35 in the state.Discrepancies in the data of district provided daily by the office of District Civil Surgeon (CS) and that of state’s public health department (PHD) have continued. As per PHD, total number of deaths in the district was 3,249 on Thursday which is 751 less than Civil Surgeon’s figures.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI, “Deaths have reduced in last three months compared with August and September. A majority of outstation patients are admitted here in critical conditions so the number here seems high. Otherwise, CFR of the district is only slightly higher than average of state.”He said fatalities will continue to decline in coming days as beds were available and also line of treatment had become clearer. Only worry was that people, especially senior citizens and persons with comorbidities, were still not testing on time and taking treatment. Doing that can further reduce number of deaths.“Early diagnosis and early treatment are the only ways to curb fatalities. Also, general practitioners and primary care physicians should encourage Covid test for patients as first step if they are having any symptoms,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dist-fatality-rate-remains-high-as-covid-19-deaths-reach-4k/articleshow/80176635.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi air quality remains poor, fog expected today||NEW DELHI: Several parts of Delhi recorded very light rain on Thursday evening. The maximum temperature dropped to 16.9 degrees Celsius, three notches below normal, while the minimum temperature was 9.6 degrees Celsius, three degrees above normal. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials said the minimum temperature was predicted to fall from January 11. According to India Meteorological Department, very light rain was mostly recorded in east and south Delhi. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD, said, “As there was a cloud cover, the maximum temperature dipped while minimum temperature remained above normal.” Shallow fog is expected on Saturday morning. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 18 and 12 degrees Celsius on Saturday, said Met officials. Meanwhile, the air quality continued to remain in ‘poor’ category. The overall air quality index was 234 on Friday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research said, “Surface winds are forecast to improve gradually for the next few days. The improved ventilation condition is likely to influence AQI positively.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-air-quality-remains-poor-fog-expected-today/articleshow/80178014.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||Madurai college students highlight domestic violence at film festival||MADURAI: Films on the theme of domestic violence produced by women college students from Madurai has won top prizes at an online film festival adjudged by international panellists. The Centre for Women’s Studies, Lady Doak College had collaborated with the Association KARANGAL, Nyon, a non-profit organization based in Switzerland, to conduct an online webinar cum film making workshop titled ‘Stop the Silence Film the Violence’ with Peter Christopher of Revelation Bay productions. Students learned to produce quality films with minimal infrastructure of mobile phones and worked in teams. “When domestic violence on women increased drastically during the lockdown, a need was felt to urgently break the silent acceptance and generate public opinion and promote dialogues,” said Dr Beulah JM Rajkumar, advisor, Centre for Women’s Studies. She shared how students themselves had noticed in their families or neighbourhoods how women became victims most of the time. Asha Simpson, executive director, Association KARANGAL, said that the films produced by the students had opened up powerful ways of revealing the intense violence situations women face within homes and behind the closed doors. The ‘KARANGAL Film Festival’, which concluded on January 6, saw students of Lady Doak College, Madurai bag three out of the four top prizes for the films they produced. The films were put up for a public vote on social media and the film titled ‘Penn Enbaval Yaar?’, by a team of Lady Doak College students won the first prize. There were a total of 8 entries and the films were evaluated by a panel of jurists from Madurai, Cochin, Nyon and Paris. The films titled ‘May Change a Little”, “Childline”, from Lady Doak College and “I” from the John Cox Memorial Institute of Technology, Trivandram, won the I, II and III prizes respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-college-students-highlight-domestic-violence-at-film-festival/articleshow/80179279.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Most parents want schools to reopen for classes X, XII||Trichy/Madurai: There has been an overwhelming response in favour of reopening schools after Pongal for classes X and XII at the consultation meetings with parents across the state, including Trichy and Madurai districts, which concluded on Friday. Speaking to TOI, Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan said that out of 513 schools, parents from 509 schools (99%) from the district gave their consent for reopening schools to conduct classes. Opinion was sought from 513 schools in the district with higher secondary classes including government, government aided, CBSE and matriculation schools. Out of 539 high schools and higher secondary schools in Madurai, more than 95% of the schools have reported that parents have agreed for reopening for Class X and XII. The final report of the consultation meetings held through the course of this week has been submitted by district officials to the Tamil Nadu school education department. “Considering this overwhelming response from parents, we are hoping to soon safely reopen for students. This academic year, there has so far not been any proper academic activity in the campus and hopefully this will change after Pongal,” said the headmaster of a government high school. When similar consultations were held in November last year, only 60% parents had agreed for reopening. “As Covid-19 cases also continue to show a decline across the state and preparations for vaccination being done, parents are more positive of allowing their child back to school. We also clearly explained the Covid-19 safety protocol that is to be in place, which has been convincing for many parents,” said the principal of a private matriculation school. “Even if schools are reopened, it is still voluntary, so we can stop at any time if there is any concern. The school has promised to ensure all Covid-19 safety measures and to sanitise classrooms and toilets periodically. Hopefully, there will be no issue,” said K Shanthi, a parent of a Class XII student. Not more than 25 students will be allowed in a class and schools have been asked to prefer classes in open spaces within the school. While students will remain in schools for lesser hours than usual, they will not be allowed to go outside once they enter the campus. Students from containment zones can attend online classes from homes. Asked on the possibility of covering the syllabus before the board examination, Arivazhagan said that given the reduction in syllabus, we will be able to cover the curriculum before the board examination. While government school students are on self-study mode by attending Kalvi Tholaikatchi and text books, we have asked teachers to contact at least 15 students each day to clear their doubts, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/most-parents-want-schools-to-reopen-for-classes-x-xii/articleshow/80179282.cms||K Sambath Kumar
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||4 hurt as bus falls into ditch in Kota||Kota: Four persons sustained injuries after a private bus with nearly 20 passengers, including driver and two helpers, fell into 30-feet deep ditch at a turn on NH–52 Kota-Indore route near Abli Mehal under Modak police station of the district in intervening nights of Thursday and Friday. All the injured have been rushed to hospitals in Kota and Jhalawar.According to police, some passengers managed to get out of the bus on their own, while others were rescued. An assistant sub-inspector was on Friday sent to the hospitals to record the statements of the injured to ascertain actual reason of mishap. The bus was going to Indore from Jaipur, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-hurt-as-bus-falls-into-ditch-in-kota/articleshow/80179281.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Woman kidnaps baby of Malad couple who gave her shelter||MUMBAI: Throwing open their home to a woman who had been rendered jobless during the pandemic cost a Malad couple dearly. The 23-year-old woman, whom the couple offered shelter and shared meals with, kidnapped their one-year-old baby girl. After a 48-hour hunt, police managed to track her down to an apartment in Thane on Friday evening even as she was planning to leave the state with the infant. The accused, Sapna Nayak, was childless, but had told her family back home in Odisha that she had a one-year-old infant. Desperate for a baby, she found an opportunity at Pooja and Ashok Rathod’s home in Malad. “Sapna worked as a housemaid in a building where my husband runs a tailoring shop. She used to come to his shop with her employer’s clothes and would frequently complain of being ill-treated by her employer,” Pooja told TOI. Last week, Sapna told Ashok she had quit her job and needed shelter for a night so she could look for work elsewhere. “I refused because we live with my mother-in-law and cannot have people staying over. But eventually, we took pity on her and allowed her to come to our place,” said Pooja. Nayak moved in on January 5. She helped the family with chores, played with the two children and bought them chocolates. Around 6.30pm on January 6, she vanished with the infant. The Rathods rushed to the police, but sleuths found Nayak’s phone switched off. Over the next two days, police scanned CCTV footage and checked every train headed to Odisha. “We checked public lavatories as well,” said detection officer Hasan Mulani. Nayak would switch her phone on for a few minutes, but every time, her location was different. Police teams looked for her at Kalyan, Kasara, Mumbra, CST and Thane. They also quizzed her ex-employer who revealed that Nayak was well-versed in English and would often Google about fertility issues. “Through technical surveillance, we tracked her down to Hiranandani Complex in Thane where she had pleaded with another couple to let her and the baby stay over for a day,” said inspector Arjun Rajane. She had stayed back as she had been unable to book a train ticket for her hometown. Investigations have revealed she had come to Mumbai two years ago and was pregnant at the time. But she lost the baby and did not have the nerve to tell her family. She has told the police her husband had warned her against returning to their village without a child.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-kidnaps-baby-of-malad-couple-who-gave-her-shelter/articleshow/80179315.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Leopard spotted at Ghosunda dam, flees before rescue||UDAIPUR: Panic prevailed in Ghosunda dam area, some 18km from Chittorgarh district headquarters, on Friday when a leopard happened to enter the premises in search of water. The leopard was startled at the sight of dam staff and tried to hide itself behind pillars and structures and before the rescue team could tranquilize the wild cat, it vanished into the forest area. The leopard was spotted by workers who were terrorised to see the animal near the gate. The staff informed the rescue team and kept a watch on the cat until forest officials arrived. Meanwhile, the wild cat, too, was alarmed to see men and hear noises that made it restless. Teams from the district administration too arrived. The rescue team waited for the leopard to settle and planned to tranquilize it. However, the leopard kept moving and finally it leaped upwards and found its way into the jungle. The dam staff said the scarcity of water in nearby areas and drying up of water holes are the reasons that wild animals are forced to come in human settlements in search of water. They said there are chances of the leopard reappearing in the area and hence demanded the forest department to place a cage to trap the animal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/leopard-spotted-at-ghosunda-dam-flees-before-rescue/articleshow/80179297.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Madurai||TN: Dry run goes off smoothly in central, southern districts||MADURAI/TRICHY: The mock drill of the vaccination programme was conducted at five places each in Madurai and Trichy districts. They included Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), Melur government hospital, Kovilpapakudi primary health centre, K Pudur urban primary health centre and Apollo multi-speciality hospital in Madurai. In Trichy, it was held at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital, government headquarters hospital at Manapparai, urban PHC at Ramalinga Nagar, PHC at Inamkulathur and Apollo hospital. At GRH, the dry run was conducted in the presence of hospital dean Dr J Sangumani and Dr K V Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services (DDHS), Madurai. In each of the centres, 25 beneficiaries took part though the beneficiaries were not vaccinated for real. The various steps in the process were carried out. “The dry run gives the officials a better understanding of the processes and check if there are any practical difficulties,” said DDHS Dr Arjun Kumar. The beneficiary list is first uploaded in the Co-Win online portal and the date, venue and time of vaccination will be intimated by SMS to the beneficiary’s mobile number. A five-member team trained by the health department was involved in the process on Friday. The first member allowed the beneficiary registered on co-WIN into the vaccination room. The second member verified the details. A nurse administered the vaccine to the beneficiary while the fourth and fifth members were assigned to monitor the recipient for 30 minutes to check for adverse effects. In Madurai district, a cold storage facility for storing vaccines for around 7 lakh beneficiaries has been kept ready at the Regional Vaccine Store. In Trichy, district collector S Sivarasu inspected the process at MGMGH in which dean Dr K Vanitha and others participated. The collector stated that 5,542 frontline workers from all government health centres have been registered in co-WIN and 6,553 frontline workers out of around 7,000 in private hospitals have been uploaded. The dry run was conducted in other districts in the central and southern regions as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dry-run-goes-off-smoothly-in-central-southern-districts/articleshow/80179274.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Son assaulted in custody, says former Goa RSS chief||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant, Goa BJP president Sadanand Shet Tanavade and party organisational secretary Satish Dhond should be held responsible if any untoward incident takes place with my son in police custody, said former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar on Friday. His younger son Shailendra Velingkar was arrested on Thursday, after he participated, along with Melauli villagers, in a protest in Sattari against the IIT project. ”Shailendra was assaulted by superintendent of police (crime branch) Shobhit Saksena, leading to loss of hearing,” Velingkar alleged. “Shailendra’s arrest is an act of revenge against me by the BJP government because I had refused to withdraw my agitation over the medium of instruction issue. Shailendra was present there to support the protest, but he has been booked under serious non-bailable offences like attempt to murder. He was arrested without a warrant,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/son-assaulted-in-custody-velingkar/articleshow/80179288.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Covid warrior doc alleges builder stopped his water supply||Nagpur: A Covid warrior doctor at a private hospital has lodged a police complaint against a builder for stalling water supply to his house for five days in December.In his complaint with Hingna police station, Dr Anand Rathi said he was living in Vrindavan Township, Jamtha, and working as a resident doctor in Covid-19 ward at Kingsway Hospital for the last three months.On December 27, 2020, when he returned home after duty in the morning he learnt there was no water in his house. After checking he found the overhead tank at his house completely empty.“When I contacted the maintenance department of Vrindavan Township, the person concerned there informed me that Rajesh Agrawal of Radha Madhav Developers had ordered stoppage of all essential services to my house for some unknown reason,” he said. Dr Rathi tried to contact the builder but in vain.Speaking to TOI, Dr Rathi said the builder knew that he is a Covid warrior and how important water is for him and his family to clean all his infected belongings.Having failed to get the water supply restored for three days, Dr Rathi filed a complaint against the builder with the Hingna Police station on December 29. But the police too did not extend any help terming it to be a civil matter.Next day, Dr Rathi approached officiating assistant commissioner of police Ashok Bagul and the water supply was restored the same evening.Dr Rathi, who claimed he had in advance paid all maintenance amount to the builder, was not aware why the water connection was snapped which led him and his family to suffer mental and physical harassment.Dr Rathi also said that the builder allegedly dishonoured consumer court’s order that clearly stated the residents of Vrindavan Township who have paid all charges should get all the essential services. “The builder’s action amounted to contempt of court,” he said.Builder Rajesh Agrawal called the claims of Dr Rathi false. Agrawal claimed that Dr Rathi had done some illegal construction in the parking area of his house. “When we raised objection, he is making false complaints,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-warrior-doc-alleges-builder-stopped-his-water-supply/articleshow/80176627.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Positivity rate down from 2% in Dec to 1.4%||Chennai: Tamil Nadu added eight deaths and 790 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, which pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,24,776 and the death toll to 12,208. There were 7,432 people still under treatment for the viral infection. State health secretary J Radhakrishnan told Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, who was here for the vaccine dry run, that there were clear epidemiological indications on the falling infection rate in Tamil Nadu. “We are seeing a clear decline in the test positivity rate. In the first week of December, the average positivity rate was hovering above 2%. In the past week, we are recording 1.4%,” he said. The doubling time for cases in Tamil Nadu is now 593 days compared to 50 days in September, when the infection was at its peak. While the hospitals are reporting less than 50% occupancy in beds, statistics from the Covid registry show that the daily average cases and deaths have declined too. The average number of daily cases was 1,427 during the November 27 - December 3 week. In the following week from December 4, it dropped to 1,297 new cases. In the last week of December, the state reported an average of 986 new cases a day, which has further fallen to 853 cases in the first week of January. The state has managed to keep the recovery rate high and mortalities low, he said. Tamil Nadu, which recorded an average of 15 deaths every day in the first week of December, reported 11 in the first week of January. “Fever surveillance, aggressive testing using RT-PCR kits and early treatment has been our key to success,” he said. Since February, the state has tested more than 1.43 crore people – the state has done 1,69,594 tests per million people. In January, the incidence per million was 10,024. On Friday, 7,432 people were still under treatment for Covid-19. The recovery rate went up to 98% after the state discharged 897 people in the past 24 hours. More than 8.05 lakh people have been cured of the viral infection. Together the 11 northern districts reported 409 cases and four deaths. While Chennai reported 208 cases and four deaths, Coimbatore reported 79 cases and one death and Dindigul, Erode and Theni reported one death each. After the north, the eight western districts together reported 200 cases and two deaths. The ten districts in the south reported 106 cases and two deaths, while the central districts reported 73 cases and zero deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/positivity-rate-down-from-2-in-dec-to-1-4/articleshow/80178054.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Army officer feared drowned in lake not traced yet||Jodhpur: The body of Captain Ankit Gupta, 28, of 10 Para could not be traced despite an intensive search operation on Friday too.Captain Gupta had jumped into Kaylana lake as a part of a routine exercise on Thursday afternoon, but did not emerge on the surface.SHO Jai Kishan Soni said the search had continued till late evening on Thursday and resumed on Friday morning. “On Friday, a team of NDRF was also roped in for the search of the officer along with SDRF, civil defence and private divers, apart from Army teams. But he could not be traced until the operation was aborted due to sunset,” Soni said, adding that the death could not be confirmed until the body of the officer was found. .A resident of Gurugram, Captain Gupta got married barely a month and a half ago and had left soon to complete his special training with the force, according to sources.The incident has come as a shock to his family, friends and entire unit at the military station here, who had never anticipated losing a young and able officer in such a manner.Though he has not been found despite aggressive efforts, chances of finding him alive seems quite bleak now, according to the members of search teams.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/army-officer-feared-drowned-in-lake-not-traced-yet/articleshow/80179278.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar to meet Amit Shah in Delhi today||KOLKATA: Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar will meet Union home minister Amit Shah on Saturday, three days after chief minister Mamata Banerjee had called on the governor. Dhankhar left the city on Friday evening for the meeting in Delhi to brief Shah about the state of affairs in Bengal. This is apart from his regular dispatches to the Centre as the central government’s nominee. Before leaving the city, Dhankhar gave a patient hearing to Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury. The governor has been pointing to the “politicisation of administration” since long. The Union home minister will consult the governor before firming up any step.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-guv-to-meet-shah-in-delhi-today/articleshow/80179316.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's Chandni Chowk revamp: Peepal tree relocated||NEW DELHI: The peepal tree that was located next to the encroachment in the form of a temple on the central verge of the road in the Walled City was removed in the intervening night of Thursday and Friday. Officials had earlier told TOI that the encroachment removal would not achieve the desired impact of clearing the “right of way” unless the tree was also removed. A senior official said a team from the PWD horticulture department started relocation of the ficus tree in the presence of police between midnight and 1am. “The tree is expected to be replanted near Geeta Colony flyover. Since the roots are intact, we expect the tree to survive,” the official added. An official involved in the execution of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project said there were 90 full-grown trees on the 17th century boulevard between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque and an attempt had been made to protect most of them. “This was the only tree in the middle of the road, so it had to be relocated for smooth movement on the redeveloped stretch. Saplings of local varieties like Moulsari and Kaim will be planted as compensation,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/chandni-chowk-revamp-peepal-tree-relocated/articleshow/80178043.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Two members of auto-lifter gang arrested in Roorkee||Roorkee: Bhagwanpur police arrested two members of an auto-lifter gang on Thursday and recovered two stolen trucks from them in Roorkee.According to Bhagwanpur police station in-charge PD Bhatt, they got a call late in the night on January 5 from one Padam Tejpal of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, informing that his truck, which was parked near Bhagwanpur-based cement factory, was stolen.The police said the stolen truck had a GPS system installed, but the robbers removed from the vehicle.“We then looked at the CCTV footages of different locations to trace them. Later, with the help of informers, we nabbed one Irfan, a truck diver by profession. During our search operation, we discovered that there was another accused and his aide Dawood who had also stolen a truck. We have recovered two stolen trucks from their possession,” said Bhatt.The police officer said the miscreants were taking the trucks to Muzaffarnagar to sell it to one Sonu, who had promised to pay them Rs 1 lakh for each of the trucks.“We have also formed a team to trace Sonu,” Bhatt added.According to police, the miscreants—Irfan and Dawood —are residents of Nanheda Anantpur and Rampur Tandi villages, respectively, near Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-members-of-auto-lifter-gang-arrested-in-roorkee/articleshow/80158529.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Over 3500 health workers take part in drill in 51 dists||Bhopal: To prepare for a full-fledged Covid-19 vaccination process, a dry run was carried out at 153 centres across 51 districts of the state on Friday. Over 3500 health workers participated in the dry run. The actual process that would be followed during vaccination was duly followed and the process was monitored through central control room at state capital. This exercise was aimed at helping the administration understand, try and implement the entire process in a practical way. Each and every thing was done in a real way, said the officials. State immunisation officer, Dr Santosh Shukla said, “The exercise was conducted between 9 am and 11 am across all the districts. During this process, health minister also interacted with health officials from several districts. SMSes were received by health workers on time, they reached the hospitals in scheduled time. All the protocols were followed”. He went on to add, “We had even made it a part of the dry run that one patient would faint and 108 ambulance will reach there immediately. This was aimed at ensuring that in case of any such problems things run smoothly. We had also added, one exposure visit of district medical officers. It was a success and the system is now geared up for the vaccination, wheels are now rolling for vaccination in state. Mid-level managers, paramedical staff - everyone was involved.” A few problems were also reported from some places, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/over-3500-health-workers-take-part-in-drill-in-51-dists/articleshow/80176646.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Melauli quiet but tense as police keep close watch on movements||Valpoi: Though quiet, the air was tense in Melauli, Sattari, on Friday, as heavy police deployment at the entry point to the village continued for the second consecutive day. Police were stationed at the Guleli and Khotodem junctions and maintained a close watch on those entering Melauli. Putting up barricades at the entry points, and random checking of those entering was carried out. Based on the checks, Valpoi police detained 12 persons. Of the 12, one was arrested and handed over to the crime branch, to whom the case has been transferred since the villagers clashed with police on Wednesday. Eleven of the suspects were later let off. Police officials said thorough investigations are in progress in the case by the crime branch. Interestingly, the situation in Melauli remained largely peaceful on Friday, as the villagers, who have been squatting on the main road in protest for the last four months, were not seen sitting at this site. The villagers were, instead, scattered in the forest area of Melauli. Shel-Melauli locals have been protesting against the project of permanent IIT campus, for which 10 lakh sq sof land has been earmarked. The locals have been sitting every day at the main entry point to the village for months now to prevent surveyors from entering Melauli to carry out the demarcation work. On Wednesday, the villagers clashed with police, with injuries reported on either side. The locals have been booked under several criminal offences. Since the past four days, Valpoi town has turned into fortress as hundreds of police personnel from across the state were deployed in the IRB camp and other locations at Valpoi. An official at the Community Health Centre in Valpoi said that all the injured police personnel were discharged on the same day of the incident on Wednesday after treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-quiet-but-tense-as-police-keep-close-watch-on-movements/articleshow/80179327.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Congress: Shift IIT to Bicholim, taluka requires development||Bicholim: Bicholim block Congress members have urged the state government to shift the IIT project to Bordem in Bicholim taluka. This comes in the face of rising opposition from villagers of Melauli, Sattari, to the project. Stating that the 2.75 lakh sqm of land earmarked for a cricket stadium in Bordem is ideal for the IIT campus, they said a project like this would usher in much-needed employment opportunities in Bicholim. Bicholim block Congress committee president Meghshyam Raut said the land on the plateau at Lakherem in Bordem, acquired for construction of a cricket stadium, has been lying unused for some time now. He said the area is devoid of tree cover and bringing the IIT project here will not affect the environment. “The land is a vacant area. Also, it is situated adjacent to Bicholim town, with good connectivity. The government will not face any difficulty in building new roads and other facilities as this is an already developed area. I urge the government to consider this request positively,” Raut said. The IIT project will boost already existing small and medium scale industries in the area and provide employment to hundreds of youth from across the area, Congress members said. Raut said it is high-time the government respects the sentiments of Melauli locals. “Presently, they have come out in full strength to oppose this project. The government should give up its stubbornness and bring the project to the Bicholim site. If the project comes up here, it will not be opposed by any party,” Raut said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-shift-iit-to-bicholim-taluka-requires-devpt/articleshow/80179313.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Classes for 1st, 2nd year degree, engineering students to open after Sankranti||BENGALURU: The state government has decided to reopen colleges for the first and second year of degree, PG diploma and engineering courses soon after Makara Sankranti on January 14. With this, colleges in the city are set to welcome back more than 3 lakh students on campus. Classes were restarted for final-year degree students on November 17 and similar to those guidelines, first-year and second-year degree students will also be given a choice to continue online classes, official sources said. This decision was taken at a meeting of deputy chief minister CN Ashwathnarayan and vice-chancellors and registrars of the universities on Friday. Ashwathnarayan is also the minister for higher education. He said classes for final-year students were proceeding smoothly and college authorities showed instant willingness to restart regular classes for others as well. Confusion over bus pass to be cleared soon: DyCMVice-chancellors have been asked to submit a report on the matter and a date will be fixed for reopening on January 14. “Offline classes for finalyear students are running successfully. Taking this into account, it has been decided to open the remaining classes also. All measures will be taken as per UGC and Covid guidelines,” Ashwath Narayan stressed. There was also deliberation about starting academic year 2021-22. Ashwath Narayan said the higher education academic calendar will be framed taking into account exams for II PU students that are set to be held in the second week of May. On conducting exams, registrars and vice-chancellors at the meeting, including Prof Karisiddappa of VTU, said it would be better to hold offline exams. “The government will consider this seriously. As per UGC norms, the exam needs to be completed in March. But the syllabus is not over in several universities. So, the government is mulling conducting the exam process in April or May,” Karisiddappa said. Ashwath Narayan said the confusion over students’ bus pass will also be cleared soon after discussions with deputy CM Laxman Savadi, who is transport minister. There is confusion on whether students can use their old bus passes or new ones are required. He said hostel facility will be provided for students of SC/ST communities once classes begin and that the social welfare department has responded positively to this. Nothing to fear, says BU VCBangalore University vice-chancellor Prof KR Venugopal said there is nothing to fear and parents must send children to colleges with confidence. “Covid-19 cases have come down. It does not mean that we can relax; there are the cases of the new strain. But with sanitisation, social distancing and wearing of masks, problems can be averted,” he said, adding the vaccine is also around the corner. Venugopal said BU will take forward blended learning, but online classes have their own setbacks. “Students can’t focus and will have shorter attention spans. Offline classes will help teachers complete complex parts of the syllabus as well as the practical components,” he said. Need for better management: AuthoritiesSome college authorities said reopening of classes must be accompanied with stricter management. They alleged that safety SOPs “have already been ignored” even with a limited number of students and they fear it will become worse. “There are two students in each hostel room now. How will they accommodate more while following all the SOPs? The government must either forego the SOPs or bring in stricter management. Otherwise, it is hypocrisy,” said a college lecturer. He said the inspection squad cannot do much to enforce rules on campus as there is no sanitisation and students become careless after some days. “There are 3-4 students sitting together, not wearing masks. When asked they say, ‘sir we are negative’,” he said. Some lecturers also asked the government to make offline classes mandatory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/classes-for-1st-2nd-yr-degree-engg-students-to-open-after-sankranti/articleshow/80180758.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru gets governance law: More wards, zones||BENGALURU: A separate law for Bengaluru’s governance and to solve the city’s civic and infrastructure problems will come into force on Monday. The state government on Friday notified the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Act, 2020 nearly a month after governor Vajubhai Vala gave his assent. Until now, Bengaluru, like other cities in the state, was governed by the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976. The new law, which was vetted by a joint legislature committee, was passed by both Houses of legislature in the three-day winter session held in December. Wards will increase from 198 to 243The number of wards will increase from 198 to 243 and the existing municipal limits will be extended by a 1-km radius. The mayor and deputy mayor will have 30-month tenures instead of one year terms. MLAs from the city will get more powers as they head the new constituency consultative committees to overview developmental works. New zonal committees to be headed by a councillor will be formed. New posts of zonal commissioners reporting to the chief commissioner will be created. “Bengaluru is one of the fastest growing cities in the world and it needs an exclusive law for governance. Hopefully, this will go a long way in making the city one of the world’s best,” said Uday Garudacahar, an MLA from the city and member of the joint select committee that scrutinised the bill before it was tabled in the legislature. However, some civil society groups and politicians are not content with provisions in the new law as they rue it was introduced without public consultation. “The new law may not be effective simply because it was drafted without taking feedback from the public,” said PR Ramesh, an MLC from the city and member of the select committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-gets-governance-law-more-wards-zones/articleshow/80180761.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru leads in December air traffic recovery rate||BENGALURU: Bengaluru airport has shown the best signs of recovery in air traffic in December compared to the country’s major airports of Delhi, Mumbai and Hyderabad, according to analysis by the Airports Authority of India, reports Petlee Peter. The AAI has also predicted a full recovery in terms of Air Traffic Management in March, pinning hopes on vaccine distribution. At present, 80% of domestic operations are under way, apart from international sectors connected via bubble agreements. Recovery to pre-Covid levels expected by MarchThe AAI report released on Thursday captures the change in total ATMs for December 2020 for six major airports. Bengaluru shows the best recovery, recording just 30% less air traffic than in December 2019. The recovery rate of air traffic handled in other airports was 42.4% in Mumbai, 34.8% in Delhi, 41.5% in Hyderabad, 36.9% in Kolkata and 43% in Chennai. Despite the promising recovery, Bengaluru is the third busiest airport in India after Delhi and Mumbai. KIA saw 14,541 flights as part of Bengaluru ATM last month. According to the report, air traffic recovery to pre-Covid levels, both domestic and international, is estimated by March 2021. The report says that Air Traffic Flow Management measures came into force at Bengaluru airport on five occasions in December 2020 due to a scheduled runway maintenance. As a result, the average aircraft take-off time compliance rate was 80% and 51% of arrivals experienced a delay of 10 minutes or less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-leads-indec-air-traffic-recovery-rate/articleshow/80180763.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai mayor invites 150 VIPs for son’s wedding reception with time slots||MUMBAI: Mayor Kishori Pednekar has invited 150 VIPs for her son’s wedding reception on Sunday. Pednekar said she has not invited party workers and others due to Covid. Maharashtra government guidelines stipulate a limit of 100 guests. “Many are upset as I have not invited them. I invited only ministers and MLAs, and guests have been given time slots, so there is no crowding. NCP chief Sharad Pawar will come at 8pm. All other NCP guests will come during that one-hour slot,” she said. The marriage ceremony, reception and other functions are being held at Andheri Sports Complex. On Wednesday, Pednekar hosted the sangeet and mehendi ceremony at the complex. “I had invited 40 female corporators, of which 22-23 came alone. There were 50 close family members from our side and 35-40 from the bride’s side,” she said. Sources claimed there were around 300 invitees, besides 150 staff and security. Pednekar said she sent out limited invites. “On many invitation cards I have written that they not being present would be the best blessing. We all have to take care of our health,” she said On Sunday, for the marriage ceremony in the morning, Pedenkar said 150 have been invited, but for the evening reception, there will be no guests from the bride’s side. “I told them they could host a separate reception for their guests. Though the complex lawn allows seating for 1,500 guests I have restricted the number of guests invited,” she said, adding guests have to sit two chairs apart with masks. “With so few guests the reception will be an easy time for me. We have ordered for food for 200-250 people, and most VIPs don’t stay long,” she told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-mayor-invites-150-vips-for-sons-wedding-reception-with-time-slots/articleshow/80177706.cms||Clara Lewis
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Nurse gets first shot of dry run in Indore||INDORE: Covid-19 vaccination dry run started early on Thursday morning, with transportation of vaccines from the focal points in Indore district. Three chosen sites are adjacent to the focal points in the district except Apollo hospital, which was supplied the vaccine from Aranya dispensary in scheme 78. A female nurse who underwent the first symbolic vaccination shot around 9 am at Hukumchand polyclinic, had to go through a defined process before that. She was first screened for temperature, oxygen level and details like travel history, Covid infection etc were sought from her. This was done after matching her name from the list of the participants and the verification was done with the help of identity cards. After this, details of the nurse were uploaded on COWIN app. The health workers finally called her, gave her a symbolic Covid-19 shot and sent her to the observation room. A team of doctors and supervisor checked on her condition for the next 30 minutes. Afterwards, she went to work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/nurse-gets-first-shot-of-dry-run-in-indore/articleshow/80176666.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC seeks replies on petition over rape survivors’ identity||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Friday sought responses of Delhi government, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube and several other media houses on a plea seeking action against them for allegedly disclosing the identity of rape survivors and victims, including in the Hathras gang-rape case. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices on the petition and sought replies from the websites and media houses by February 5. The petition has also sought direction to Delhi government to ask the social media platforms and media houses to take down or withdraw any material, news article, social media post or any such information on the details of identity of the victim in Hathras gang-rape case or other similar cases. Petitioner Manan Narula has alleged gross violation of Section 228 of the IPC and sought lodging of FIR against those who have violated the right to privacy of the victim by disclosing her identity. According to the plea, all the named publications, portals, and news organisations “published information relating to the victim” that disclosed her identity to the public at large. “The actions of such disclosure of the identity of the victim of rape is an offence under Section 228A of IPC, 1860,” it said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-seeks-replies-on-petition-over-rape-survivors-identity/articleshow/80178061.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Drop Melauli land process, says Sardinha||Margao: South Goa MP Francisco Sardinha on Friday demanded that the government drop the proposed acquisition of land at Melauli, Sattari, for the IIT project in view of opposition by the locals there. Sardinha, who was addressing reporters at the Congress district office at Margao, urged the government not to suppress the voice of the people by using police force against them. He further lauded the sugarcane farmers of Sanguem for their “consistent” protests, which he said compelled the government to accept their demands. He urged the government to start the Sanjivani sugarcane factory at the earliest and to clear the dues of cane cultivators “as early as possible so that their happiness lasts forever”. He also voiced his disapproval over the latest clearance granted by the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) for the railways’ track doubling work on the Karnataka side of the project, even as he reiterated his demand that the South Western Railway’s track doubling project be stopped as “people don’t want it”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drop-melauli-land-process-says-sardinha/articleshow/80179354.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Bird flu rumours bring chicken price down across Kolkata markets||KOLKATA: The chicken price has started dropping across the city market, with some farmers resorting to distress sale of chicken with bird flu rumour rampaging across the city and state in the backdrop of pandemic. In the last four days, chicken prices dropped more than 20% with sales plunging more than 30% across retail markets in the city. In some parts of the city, dressed chicken was sold at Rs 150/kg on Friday. Significantly, only five-six months ago, chicken price rose to a record Rs 300/kg in Kolkata. However, across major markets in the city, chicken price hovered around Rs 160-170/kg on Friday, which was Rs 220/ kg even a week ago. The avian flu, which was first reported in Rajasthan over the last weekend, has been reported to be severe in Kerala, where more than lakh birds, including ducks and chicken, were culled. Haryana, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh have also reported cases of bird flu. No human has been affected by the flu in India. “Even though there hast not been a single case in the eastern India. Our industry is susceptible to rumour. At the beginning of the pandemic, people stopped consuming chicken as there was a rumour Covid may spread through birds. By the time the rumour was dispelled, many poultry farms emptied their farms resorting to panic sale and finally shut down their farms,” said Madan Maity, secretary West Bengal Poultry Federation. Maity said the bio-security across farms in Bengal have been enhanced and there is no reason to get scared. However, the farm gate chicken prices in north 24 Parganas, Nadia and part of Hooghly dropped to Rs 40/kg from from Rs 72.5/kg in January after rumours on social media linking chicken consumption with Covid-19, a poultry farm association sources revealed. The poultry farmers have made statements issued by WHO handy: “It is safe to eat properly prepared and cooked poultry and game birds,” a statement on the WHO website reads. The virus is said to be heat sensitive; hence cooking your food in at least 70°C (normal cooking temperature) can kill the virus in your food. The animal husbandry department officials said they have kept a close watch on the poultry sector. We have asked poultry farms to report unusual mortality rates — any change of colour like turning purple at the time of death. “We are going to follow all orders of the animal husbandry department. We are in touch with each other and have already started an awareness programme with bird sellers so that they can maintain cleanliness and keep their birds away from any sort of infection,” said an owner of a poultry farm south 24 Parganas.F The scare has its cascading impact on the eggs as well. The egg price has dipped slightly from Rs 7/piece to Rs 6/piece on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bird-flu-rumours-bring-chicken-price-down-across-city-markets/articleshow/80180757.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Civic employees’ strike enters day 2; services hit||NEW DELHI: The indefinite strike announced by the confederation of corporation employees’ unions entered its second day on Friday. Issuance of birth-death certificate, property tax deposition and OPD services were affected due to the strike. Hindu Rao Paramedical Staff Association president Tajender Singh said that all the paramedical staff deployed in the five big hospitals run by the north corporation had not been paid for the last three months. “Despite several protests, nobody has been able to find a permanent solution to our problems. So over 800 nurses and paramedic staff have joined the strike,” he added. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash visited the protesting nurses in Kasturba Hospital and urged them to resume work. “We have released one-month salary to the sanitation workers. I am in contact with all the unions and a solution will soon be found to bring workers back to work,” said the mayor. While OPD services are no longer functional, dry run for Covid-19 vaccination was carried out in Kasturba hospital on Friday. Municipal Safai Kamgar Congress president Subhash Karalia said that non-permanent workers were facing massive problems. AP Khan, the convener of the confederation, said that the strike would continue unless their demands of regular salaries were met. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/civic-employees-strike-enters-day-2-services-hit/articleshow/80178082.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||TN: Two caught smuggling 3.2kg of meth on bike from AP||CHENNAI: Sleuths from the Narcotics Intelligence Bureau CID (NIB-CID) at Red Hills on Friday arrested two people smuggling 3.2kg of methamphetamine from Andhra Pradesh on their two-wheeler . A court later sent them to jail. Based on a specific tip, a police team intercepted the bike the two were riding on and examined a bag they had. Four packets of methamphetamine were found and seized. During questioning, the two accused — Sathish, 32, and Ganesh, 31 — told police they acted only as carriers of the drugs. The seized drug was sent to a lab for quality test. Police said they were looking for other members involved in the smuggling. During interrogation, investigators came to know that the drug was procured from Burma and moved to Tamil Nadu, and was meant to be smuggled into Sri Lanka and other south-east Asian countries. “Only when we nab the others will we know about the exact origin of the narcotic,” an investigating officer said. The Chennai NIB-CID unit had seized Rs 13 crore worth drugs and contraband in 34 cases in 2020, a release said. At least 65 were arrested, and about 700kg of ganja, 4.03kg of meth, 4.39g of LSD stamps, 2.5kg of charas were confiscated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/two-caught-smuggling-3-2kg-of-meth-on-bike-from-ap/articleshow/80178091.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Seven samples of birds sent to Bhopal for tests; three more die||Thane: A day after government maintained there was no outbreak of bird flu in the state, animal husbandry department on Thursday sent samples of seven dead birds to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death. This came as a pond heron, a migratory Eurasian vulture and a crow were found dead in Thane, taking the toll in Mumbai metropolitan region to 24. Anup Kumar, principal secretary (animal husbandry department) said over 800 birds in Thane, Mumbai, Dapoli, Beed and Parbhani died in the last few days and they had sent few samples for analysis to NIHSAD. Dr V V Limaye, joint commissioner, disease investigation section, AHD Pune, said they received remains of few birds, of which they sent bodies of four egrets, a parrot and two crows for testing. “There is no confirmed case of bird flu death in the state. We have sent few specimens for further confirmation to NIHSAD. Reports from NIHSAD may take two to three days,” he said. The department appealed to poultry owners, forest department and citizens and report unusual bird mortality in their vicinity. “People must not touch dead birds and not conduct any autopsy or bury them. The public can call 18002330418,” said Kumar. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/seven-samples-of-birds-sent-to-bhopal-for-tests-three-more-die/articleshow/80179387.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Pedal power: New Town to host Kolkata’s first velodrome||KOLKATA: The Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) has come up with a plan to set up an outdoor cycle velodrome in New Town, which is touted to be the first of its kind in the state. The authorities on Friday initiated the process to engage a consultant to prepare a concept plan and design the proposed velodrome. Officials said that as per plans, the velodrome will be set up in Action Area IIE, close to Eco Park at one end and City Centre II at another. It would have a 250-meter-long circular cycle track for holding cycle-racing events. The arena will also have facilities for skating in the central open area on the ground floor. The cycle tracks will run around it. “The aim of the project is to set up a facility for cycle enthusiasts to participate in cycling events within a global standard velodrome facility. This type of facility is seen at many places abroad but would be the first of its kind not only in the city but in the state as well,” said an official. The consultant that will be engaged will come up with a detail concept and a masterplan for setting up the velodrome, along with the project cost estimation. The design drawing would be scrutinized from either JU, IIT or any equivalent government institution. Cycle enthusiasts were elated with the plan to have a velodrome in New Town. “It would be wonderful to have a velodrome where bicycle racing and other cycle events can be organized,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of the New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO. NTFN have been participating in a number of bicycle events in New Town. Officials said that New Town is being developed as a green smart city and the velodrome would be one of the smart features. NKDA authorities have been taking several initiatives to promote and encourage people in cycling during the ongoing Covid pandemic. New Town already has a dedicated 17-km-long bicycle track and an app-based public bicycle sharing scheme was relaunched last year with 100 cycles hitting the street along with docking stations and cycle stands. The cycle tracks are being extended and a mobile cycle repair clinic is coming up. NKDA have also issued a notification to have dedicated free bicycle parking zones at high-rises in the township.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pedal-power-new-town-to-host-citys-1st-velodrome/articleshow/80178093.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||NH-66 phase-II works hit another roadblock||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) officials’ target to finish the phase-II of Kazhakkoottam–Karode national highway-66 by April 2021 is unlikely to happen with the works meeting with yet another roadblock, this time in the form of a permit needed to excavate red soil that is needed for the highway landfilling. The request for quarrying permit on the private lands acquired by NHAI for the construction of the highway has been turned down by the mining and geology department citing a rule that requires them to secure consent of adjacent land owners to carry out the works. NHAI authorities were hoping to complete the remaining works of the phase-II of the NH stretch by April 2021. “We call the period between January and April as our work season as it the time we have most favourable climatic conditions, without any rainfall,’’ said a senior official of NHAI. With the stance taken by the mining and geology department authorities, the NHAI officials will now have to spend time convincing land owners to borrow area (spot from where sand has to be excavated) to give their consent. They believe that this will result in further delay of completion of the works. The official added that they had filed the request for permit in September 2020. Then, the processing of the application took time and eventually it was put aside when the model code of conduct came into force in connection with the local body polls. After the model code of conduct was lifted, an application was filed again. It was then, the NHAI officials met with this new roadblock. According to sources, the mining and geology department started enforcing this rule a few years ago in a bid to curtail illegal excavation which was rampant in construction sector. Right from the beginning of the works of Kazhakkoottam–Karode NH-66 stretch, the NHAI had been facing difficulties in procuring sufficient amount of red soil free of clay particles for landfilling purposes. After environmentalists blocked the excavation at Akkulam, they had to look for alternate locations. The borrow areas identified for phase-II are in Karode, Kottukal and Neyyatinkara villages. Kazhakkoottam-Karode NH-66 stretch has a total length of 43 kilometres. The works were carried out in two phases with 26.7km-long Kazhakkoottam –Mukkola stretch being phase-I and 16.5km-long Mukkola–Karode being phase-II. The works of the phase-I was completed and was inaugurated by the minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari in October last. The NHAI sources added that they have completed works of 11km in the phase-II and only over 5km are remaining unfinished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nh-66-phase-ii-works-hit-another-roadblock/articleshow/80176684.cms||Rejith Balakrishnan
January 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Archives centre to boost preservation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said the international archives centre coming up on Kerala University Kariavattom campus would give a fillip to scientific preservation of archives in the state. The centre was would be useful to national and international researchers and history students, the chief minister said during the foundation-stone laying ceremony of the centre. “Historical documents, relics and monuments should be protected and preserved for the benefit of the posterity. It’s this thought that led to the plans for such a grand project. The centre, once completed, would be able to host national, international seminars and organise discussions in the field and assimilate the new trends,” he said. Vijayan said archives are the basic materials for the truthful recording of history. They work as invaluable knowledge repositories and traditional wealth. Archives department safe-keeps documents of historical value. The department has in its custody over one crore palm leaf manuscripts of immense value. The chief minister said the archives department helped a lot in reconstructing important documents that were lost due to the floods the state encountered in the recent years. Finance minister Thomas Isaac urged the university to set apart more space to the centre. Higher education minister K T Jaleel said the protection and preservation of history and tradition in all its purity was important. University vice-chancellor V P Mahadevan Pillai, city mayor Arya Rajendran were among those attended the programme organised at the Aquatic biology hall on the campus on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/archives-centre-to-boost-preservation/articleshow/80176726.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Eight college principals move NGT against highrise||NEW DELHI: Citing the concerns of pollution, depletion of groundwater, the area being a seismic zone and safety of students, the principals of eight colleges in Delhi University’s North Campus have written to the National Green Tribunal (NGT) chairperson appealing for intervention against the highrise being constructed near Vishwavidyalaya Metro Station. The letter signed by the principals of St Stephen’s, Daulat Ram, Hindu, Shri Ram College of Commerce, Kirori Mal, Hansraj and GTB Khalsa College stated, “We would like to appeal to the tribunal to protect the sanctity of the Ridge and the campus from being encroached upon and concretised in the name of providing housing to the public.” The 39-storey housing project was given the nod for construction in December 2020. The principals said there would be an increase in vehicular pollution, which the campus was already facing from the existing traffic on Ring Road, Patel Marg and Chhatra Marg. The other concern included affecting the ecological balance of Kamala Nehru Ridge. There were also fears about depleting groundwater levels as the area already faces water shortage issues. “The proposed residential complex will have the capacity to accommodate at least 5,000 people. In addition to this, there would be service staff. This will contribute significantly to noise pollution,” the letter said. Talking about the safety of students, the letter mentioned that the highrise would overlook at least six colleges and hostels for women.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/8-college-principals-move-ngt-against-highrise/articleshow/80178096.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Union Budget session will commence soon; run for full course: LS Speaker Om Birla in Doon||Dehradun: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who was in Dehradun on Friday for an outreach and familiarization programme for Panchayati Raj institutions, said the Union Budget session will start soon and will be “normal and run its full course”. The session is expected to start on January 29 and last till April 8, with the Union Budget to be presented on February 1. The Speaker said that all precautions will be taken to avoid the spread of Covid-19. When asked about inoculation of lawmakers before the session, Birla said, “The government will issue the procedure and guidelines for the vaccination of parliamentarians before the commencement of Budget Session”. The Winter Session had been cancelled after the ruling BJP cited Covid-19 concerns. “The spurt in the number of positive cases (of the coronavirus) was a major challenge (in the previous session). Now, the session will begin on time and be of the same duration as it used to be earlier. There will be a question hour and all matters be discussed. The preparations are comprehensive,” Birla said. Speaking about the new parliament building, Birla said, “It will be ready soon”. The programme, themed “Panchayati Raj System: Strengthening the Decentralised Democracy” in Dehradun, was also attended by Panchayati Raj minister Arvind Pandey and state assembly speaker Premchand Agarwal. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat attended the event through a video conference. The event aims to familiarise panchayat members with the functioning of Parliament and democratic principles and ethos. “It is important to boost the self confidence of ground-level leaders. We have started this outreach programme of sensitizing panchayat members about democratic values from Uttarakhand. Panchayati Raj institutions are the strongest pillars of democracy. Their members are elected by the people, who have high expectations and aspirations from their representatives. The gram sabhas should be stronger and people should know their rights. Authorities concerned should be present at every gram sabha meeting and elected representatives should know how to take up issues related to the common man,” said the Speaker. Birla added that due to its difficult topography, Uttarakhand’s panchayat members were expected to cover vast areas. A total of 405 panchayat representatives, including 26 zila panchayat chairpersons and deputy chairpersons, 109 block panchayat pramukhs and 270 nominated gram pradhans attended the event. In addition, 376 zila panchayat members, 3,201 block panchayat members and 7,791 gram pradhans attended the programme virtually. Birla lauded the turn out. “The enthusiasm shown by the gram panchayat members for the programme is praiseworthy. We will also hold a two-day seminar in Delhi for Zila Panchayat chairpersons and urban local bodies,” added Birla. The CM, who attended virtually from Delhi, said that panchayats are fundamental units of democracy and “play a key role in economic and infrastructural development of villages”. “Uttarakhand is a strategically located state and gram panchayats are an integral part of its development,” Rawat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/union-budget-session-will-commence-soon-run-for-full-course-ls-speaker-om-birla-in-doon/articleshow/80176700.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: New Town to get smart park with Wi-Fi, work benches||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is setting up a smart plaza off the main arterial road close to Biswa Bangla Gate at Narkelbagan More. A garden is being developed that will have features like laptop tables and benches for people to work in an open air, Wi-Fi facilities and gazebos. Officials said that the smart plaza is being developed from where the smart street ends. “The idea behind the place is that people can spend quality leisure time and can also do their work in the open air without the need to confine themselves inside houses. The initiative is a part of developing New Town as a green smart city,” said Jan official. Authorities who recently inspected the progress of work said they were trying to complete setting up the plaza by January 26. The garden is being set up on a few cottahs and will also have decorative flowering plants. The Metro alignment passes by the plaza and some of the pillars under the tracks have vertical gardens to complement the scenery. The benches and laptop tables in the garden will be made of granite and there will be open-air LED display and lighting, as well as a container toilet facility for visitors to the place. There will also be decorative gazebos around the park. With working from home becoming the new normal, Hidco authorities are already planning to set up neighbourhood work cocoons in a few open-air places in New Town where one can sit with their laptops and work in a home-like environment, but outside their own houses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-to-get-smart-park-with-wi-fi-work-benches/articleshow/80178108.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 9, 2021||India||Gujarat & Haryana confirm cases, avian influenza now in 6 states||Bird flu was confirmed in Gujarat and Haryana on Friday, taking the total number of states affected by avian influenza to six, even as the Union animal husbandry and dairying ministry asked the “unaffected states” to keep vigil on any unusual mortality among birds so that preventive measures could be taken quickly to check the possible spread of the virus. The ministry said samples taken from two poultry farms in Haryana’s Panchkula district and of migratory birds in Gujarat’s Junagadh district tested positive for the H5N8 virus at the Bhopal-based ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (ICAR-NIHSAD). Samples of crows taken from Sawai Madhopur, Pali and Jaisalmer of Rajasthan also tested positive, indicating the spread of the virus. The other states where avian influenza has been confirmed are Kerala, MP and Himachal. Gujarat was put on high alert after the confirmation of bird flu and the state ordered closure of four bird sanctuaries – two in Ahmedabad and one each in Porbandar and Jamnagar. Animal husbandry minister Kunvarji Bavalia said bird flu was limited to migratory birds and so far there is no confirmed case in poultry birds. .Haryana animal husbandry and dairying minister Jai Parkash Daral announced that birds within 1-km radius of Kheri and Ghanauli villages in Panchkula will be culled as ICAR-NIHSAD had confirmed bird flu in two poultry farms in Barwala and Raipur Rani. The virus has already killed 4.4 lakh chickens in the two farms over a span of nearly one month. The Barwala belt is said to be the second largest poultry producer in Asia, housing around 122 poultry farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gujarat-haryana-confirm-cases-avian-influenza-now-in-6-states/articleshow/80180843.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Aurangabad||All India Marathi literary meet to be held in Nashik||Aurangabad: The Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal (ABMSM), an apex literary body, on Friday, stamped its seal on Nashik as the venue for the 94th All India Marathi Literary meet. Stating that following Covid norms will be the priority while charting out detail programme, Kautikarao Thale-Patil, the ABMSM president, said it is obligatory to hold the event before March-end, failing which, the government funds will get lapsed. “We have scheduled a meeting with Lokhitwdi Mandal, the organisers from Nashik, on January 23, during which different Covid prevention norms will be discussed. The decision on limiting the attendance, if need be, gaps between two sessions to facilitate sanitization drive and other safety measures will also be discussed in the meeting,” he said.Thale-Patil said the government provides fund worth Rs 50 lakh for holding the All India Marathi Literary meet. “While the official funding proves inadequate in holding the event, it would pose financial difficulties if the sanctioned funds get lapsed due to the postponement of the meet after the end of the current fiscal year. Moreover, there is a gradual decline in fresh Covid cases, which is a positive sign for us,” he said. The 94th literary meet is scheduled to be held in the second half of March with detail schedule expected to be out after a meeting between ABMSM and Nashik organisers.Besides Nashik, ABMSM said they have received proposals from Amalner in Jalgaon and Selu from Parbhani to hold the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/all-india-marathi-literary-meet-to-be-held-in-nashik/articleshow/80176146.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Aurangabad||Common trinket snake with albinism found in Aurangabad||Aurangabad: A common trinket snake with albinism was found in Aurangabad city on Wednesday (December 6) , causing excitement among wildlife experts and environmentalists. Albinism refers to a genetic disorder, where there is less or no production of the pigment melanin, which determines the colour of the skin of some creatures. Nitesh Jadhav, a snake rescuer, said it was a rare sighting of an unique reptile in Aurangabad in the last few decades. “The common trinket snakes are usually dark brown in colour, but the one found with albinism is yellow. The reptile was spotted near one of the houses in Shendra area by one of the residents, who gave a call for rescue,” he said. The non-venomous snakes are slender as compared to many other snakes. They smooth and glossy scales. The diurnal reptile, who feeds on rodents among other creatures, is found throughout India inhabiting in plains and hills with forests and plantations. Varad Giri, a noted herpetologist, said the sighting of common trinket snake with albinism is rare. “Just like humans, some snakes develop albinism due to genetic defects. While the percentage of such albino snakes cannot be ascertained scientifically, such snakes are rarely spotted as they are few in number,” he said. The common trinket found in Aurangabad, which is a female, had not developed red eyes yet, which is considered a case of partial albinism. The rescued snake will be released into the natural habitat in presence of forest department officials on Saturday, said Pushpa Jaiwal, a snake rescuer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/common-trinket-snake-with-albinism-found-in-aurangabad/articleshow/80176148.cms||Prasad Joshi
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||3 held with mephedrone worth Rs 5 lakh||Rajkot: Three persons were arrested with 52 gms of mephedrone worth Rs 5.2 lakh from Rangmati Society at Kalavad Naka in Jamangar on Thursday night. Police said that the accused Imtiyaz Kherani (23), Tohid Khalifa (26) and Salim Lodin (42) used to bring these drugs from Mumbai and sell it to youngsters. According to the police, the drugs were seized from Imtiyaz’s house following a raid by the local special operations group (SOG). On questioning, the accused told the police that they were into drug peddling business since the last three months. “Imtiyaz made at least two trips to Mumbai in the past two months to buy these drugs. The accused used to target youngsters and the affluent people in Jamnagar,” said SOG police inspector, S S Ninama. “They were nabbed on the basis of specific information about their operations,” added Ninama. Police have also seized Rs 3,870 cash, one weighing scale and three mobile phones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/3-held-with-mephedrone-worth-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/80176708.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka to get 14 lakh vials in first tranche: K Sudhakar||BENGALURU: Karnataka is expected to receive 13.9 lakh vials of vaccine against Covid-19 in the first tranche, and the shots could be administered in the coming week, health minister K Sudhakar said on Friday. Visiting a private hospital here during the nationwide dry run for Covid inoculation, Sudhakar said the shots will be first administered to 6.3 lakh registered healthcare professionals in the state. “We’ve requested those who are left to register,” he said. Persons with comorbidities, those above 60 years and police and revenue personnel working against the pandemic will be given shots next. Sudhakar said the vaccine vials will be distributed to all districts on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-to-get-14l-vials-in-first-tranche-min/articleshow/80177772.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||MahaRERA asks builder to pay buyer Rs 60 lakh for delay||MUMBAI: MahaRERA in a recent order directed Conoor Builders to pay the owner of a flat in its Gateway project at Andheri west interest at marginal cost lending rate of SBI plus 2% for a nearly three-year delay in possession. The flat buyer’s lawyers pegged the amount at around Rs 60 lakh. MahaRERA member, Vijay Satbir Singh, in his order has also stated the builder cannot shift its statutory liability to the land owner as there is no privity of contract between the complainant and the land owner since it is not party to the registered sale agreement executed between the complainant and the respondent. Sushant Karkera booked a flat valued at approximately Rs 2 crore in 2014. The builder was liable to hand over possession on or before December 31, 2016. However, the complainant, through his representative chartered accountant Ashwin Shah and advocate Sandeep Manubarwala, stated the builder, without giving any intimation, extended the project completion date to December 2019, which was further extended till December 2020 while registering the project with MahaRERA. Respondent Conoor Builders, represented by advocates Anil D’Souza and Saroj Agarwal, pointed out the project got delayed due to genuine and unavoidable difficulties attributable to land owner, AH Construction. The respondent also stated the complainant was aware that AH Construction was owner as well as promoter-owner of the property as the sale agreement clearly mentioned AH Construction has all obligations to procure requisite permissions for the said building. However, the complainant contended he had no privity of contract with AH Construction and that he had paid money for the flat to the respondent. The complainant also relied upon earlier SC judgments in case of Vaidehi Akash Housing Pvt Ltd and Goregaon Pearl CHS and stated the owner is not liable to pay interest for delay in possession. MahaRERA member Singh’s order also stated the complainant was no way concerned with the dispute between the land owner and the respondent. The order stated if the project was getting delayed, then the respondent should have informed the complainant and should have revised the date of possession in the agreement by executing a rectification deed or should have offered a refund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharera-asks-bldr-to-pay-buyer-rs-60-lakh-for-delay/articleshow/80179440.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
January 9, 2021||Goa||Traffic plan drawn up for Vice-President Venkaiah Naidu’s visit||Panaji: During the visit of the Vice-President of India Venkaiah Naidu to Goa from January 9 to 16, the traffic police cell has said that members of the public should not park their vehicles along the VVIP route. “It is brought to the notice of the members of public that to facilitate smooth passage of VVIP carcade, traffic will be stopped at various points well in advance from security point of view. Public are requested to cooperate with the police and follow the traffic signals during the visit of the Vice-President. Any vehicle found abandoned on the road during the VVIP movement will be towed away,” SP traffic, A K Gawas said. The VVIP route will be from the INS Hansa Museum Gate to the Raj Bhavan in Dona Paula. Along the way, the carcade will pass through Bogmalo junction, airport junction, Chicalim circle, Cortalim junction, Agasaim junction, Siridao, GMC Bambolim, Merces Circle, KTC, Divja circle, D B Marg, Miramar circle, Jack Sequeira Road and NIO circle. On Saturday and January 12, no vehicle should be parked from Raj Bhavan to O’Coqueira Circle via NIO Circle, passing along the way through Miramar circle, DB Marg, Divja Circle, Old Mandovi Bridge, Hero Honda circle, NH66 and Jevottam Mutt in Porvorim. Traffic snarls were witnessed on Friday causing much inconvenience to commuters as the police conducted a rehearsal along the highway. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/traffic-plan-drawn-up-for-naidus-visit/articleshow/80179443.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||‘Madgaum Urban covering defaulters’ acts of malfeasance’||Margao: The shareholders of The Madgaum Urban Cooperative Bank Ltd, which has been placed under severe restrictions by the RBI, have expressed their displeasure over the refusal of the bank’s board of directors to disclose the names of major loan defaulters. At the general body meeting of the bank held on December 26, the shareholders had demanded that the bank disclose the list of major defaulters before the meeting was adjourned to January 10. However, the bank later refused to disclose the defaulters’ list citing statutory provisions. Some of the shareholders, on Friday, said that the bank’s refusal to furbish the list of defaulters smacked of malafide intentions to cover the acts of malfeasance. “We want to know where has our hard earned money deposited in the bank gone? We had demanded the list of persons who had taken loans of above Rs 10 lakh and had failed to repay, so that we could take steps to recover the money of the poor depositors,” a shareholder D Sardinha said. Another shareholder Ashish Kamat alleged that huge amounts of loans were given by the bank without securing adequate collateral security, which resulted in bad loans leading to huge non-performing assets (NPA). “The bank now wants to sell its assets to cover up the fraudulent acts,” Kamat said. The shareholders have urged the intervention of chief minister Pramod Sawant to help them recover their hard-earned money from the bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/madgaum-urban-covering-defaulters-acts-of-malfeasance/articleshow/80179475.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Ease of biz: GIDC vows easier documents||PANAJI: In a step towards ease of doing business reforms, Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) on Friday introduced a step-by-step process for industrial units to obtain construction permits and occupancy certificates. GIDC has also assured entrepreneurs that the permissions will be issued within a “tentative time frame” of 30 days following the online application process. Further, GIDC has introduced a single window system so that entrepreneurs do not have to approach various departments in order to obtain construction and occupancy permissions. GIDC has been working with Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) and Goa State Industries Association (GSIA) to formulate standard operating procedures for various services, chairman Glen Ticlo said. Industry representatives are working with GIDC to formulate similar process for land allotment, transfer, handing over possession of plots, sublease and execution of the lease deed. Department for promotion of industry and internal trade, in the Business Reform Action Plan (BRAP) for 2020 stipulates that construction permits should be provided within 30 days while occupancy certificates should be issued within eight days. GIDC has also listed out the process to obtain the permissions, the application format and the list of documents to be submitted by industrial units. “GIDC has an intention to provide the enlisted permissions within a tentative time frame of 30 to 40 days,” Ticlo said. Ticlo also said that he hopes these reforms would help the state achieve a higher ranking among states in the ease of doing business rankings. Goa, which was placed at no. 19 in 2018, slipped five places to 24 in 2019 after it failed to bring in much-needed reforms to improve the investment environment. Though Goa introduced several policy reforms, most of them remained on paper as departments continued to use red tape to stall file movements. Confederation of Indian Industry, GSIA and CII had criticized the government in September for slow file movement process and had demanded that files should stop going to ministers and heads of departments and should be cleared at the level of the dealing hand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ease-of-biz-gidc-vows-easier-docus/articleshow/80179477.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: CISF reunites deaf-&-mute youth with family||KOLKATA: An 18-year-old speech- and hearing-impaired youth who was found roaming aimlessly outside the Kolkata airport was rescued by CISF officers and reunited with his family on Thursday evening. Md Farhan Afsar, a resident of MN Chatterjee Sarani in Narkeldanga, had gone missing from his home on Saturday evening. His family had been looking for him since then. “We had lodged a missing diary on Saturday night and had searched everywhere in vain. We got a call from the airport on Thursday and rushed there to find our son. We are thankful to the officers for their help,” said Ehsan Ul-Haque, Farhan’s father. An airport official said two CISF officers — inspector Sushil Kumar and SI Sujit Kumar Jha — spotted Farhan loitering outside gate 3C in the departure area. “A local cab driver told us the youth had been roaming in the area for three days. The officers checked his identity and found a badge mentioning his condition and the mobile number of his father, whom they called,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cisf-reunites-deaf-mute-youth-with-family/articleshow/80178125.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Bagbazar depot ready for vaccine arrival||Kolkata: The excitement among the employees of the state-owned Central Family Welfare Stores at Bagbazar — the biggest depot for vaccines in Bengal — at the prospect of handling a new vaccine was palpable on Friday. Though the vaccine is yet to arrive, they were busy receiving the consignments of other vaccines, equipment and consumables, storing and despatching them to other smaller warehouses or hospitals in the city and districts. “We are ready to handle the Covid-19 vaccine like the way we handle other vaccines. Since the consignment will be of a new vaccine this time, we are all excited,” said a source at the storehouse in Bagbazar. Five walk-in-coolers (WICs) and four walk-in-freezers (WIFs) have been kept ready to store the vaccine doses. Sources in the health department said that WICs and WIFs can store together 30 to 40 lakh doses at a time, depending on the size of the vial. While WICs are used for storing vaccines that require a temperature between 2 and 8 degrees, the WICs are used for storing vaccines that requires a temperature of around -20°C. “We have enough space to store the vials of the Covid-19 vaccine before they are despatched to their respective destinations,” said a health department official. Since the outbreak of the pandemic, the warehouse has been busy taking care of PPE supply chain in the state. For about two weeks the employees have been busy despatching 0.5 ml syringe needles, which would be used for Covid vaccination, to the districts. In addition, 125 ILR (iced lined refrigerator) have also been sent to different vaccination sites from the Bagbazar depot in the past few weeks. In anticipation of the first consignment of a Covid vaccine landing in Kolkata on Friday, the health department had already kept four vehicles ready to ferry the consignment from the airport to the depot at Bagbazar. While three of these specialised vehicles are from the health department, the other belongs to the Bagbazar depot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bagbazar-depot-ready-for-vaccine-arrival/articleshow/80178130.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 9, 2021||Goa||CM calls Melauli locals to Panaji, BJP accuses them of having mob mentality||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Friday that he has invited villagers from Melauli for a discussion on the IIT-Goa issue, and alleged that “NGOs and political parties” are instigating protesters. “I don’t want to trouble them, and they should come meet me to solve the issue,” he said. “I have invited them to Panaji.” Sawant alleged that the locals had agreed to come to Panaji, but “some people” instigated them not to do so. “Whatever I have spoken to them is in the public domain,” he said. Meanwhile, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said Sawant shouldn’t go to Melauli. “Why should he go there again?” He is the CM and has already been good enough to go twice. I myself will tell him not to go.” He also accused the villagers of having a “mob mentality”. Tanawade said that the opposition would be resolved amicably. Sawant said the villagers should allow the government to conduct the demarcation survey. “Protestors attacked police with sharp weapons at the time of demarcation,” he said. “The Bicholim PI was injured. They have even thrown masala water at police. Goans should not have this sort of attitude. We should sit across the table and discuss the issue.” Defending his decision not to go to Melauli, Sawant said the sugar farmers had (earlier) wanted him to visit Sanguem, but they came to Panaji and the issue was resolved. The CM also said that the IIT is an issue of development, and that parties. “NGOs are here to stop all development,” he alleged. When asked what action would be taken against NGOs, Sawant said that NGOs themselves are filing cases against the government. “People should know the NGOs and not go along with them.” Sawant was also asked why health minister Vishwajit Rane was not trying to sort out the issue. “Rane said that being education minister and chief minister, I should handle the issue and that is the reason I am looking into it,” he said. Meanwhile, the CM said that over the past couple of years, some villagers have been cultivating crops on government land. “Only 17 families of Melauli were cultivating on government land, and this project will not only benefit 17 families but the entire village,” Sawant said He added that even if demarcation wasn’t done over the past two days, government officials visited Melauli for basic information, and added that attempt to murder cases haven't been filed against any children. The CM was also asked if the government would withdraw the FIR against protesters, and said that they should first come forward to discuss the issue. Also, reacting to former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar's allegation that BJP is in a conspiracy against his son who has been arrested in Melauli, Sawant said, “Who asked Shailendra to go to Melauli?” He also said it is “not right” for people to go to Melauli and instigate the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-calls-melauli-locals-to-panaji-bjp-accuses-them-of-having-mob-mentality/articleshow/80179478.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Spirits fly high as Gujarat HC refuses to ban kite flying||AHMEDABAD: Here’s some good news to lift your spirits high. You will not have to miss out on Uttarayan fun this year. The Gujarat high court on Friday refused to ban kite flying this Makar Sankranti as demanded in a PIL. However, it advised caution and approved the state government's guidelines to keep the spread of Covid-19 under check. According to government guidelines, the Makar Sankranti festivities will be restricted. No flying of kites will be permitted in public places and open grounds. People present on terraces will have to wear masks and follow social distancing norms. Only close family members will be allowed to celebrate the festival on their terrace, and no guest will be allowed. If any outsider is found, the chairman of that particular society will be held responsible and action will be initiated against him. No loud music or DJs will be permitted on terraces, to prevent a crowd from gathering. While night curfew will be strictly enforced, surveillance will take place through CCTV and drones. Police personnel will also be deployed for the purpose of regulation. A PIL demanded complete prohibition on kite-flying and related activities to prevent a surge in Covid-19 cases the way it was witnessed during Diwali. Against this, the kite makers’ association approached the court and requested them not to ban the activity or else their livelihood would be adversely affected. Advocate General Kamal Trivedi submitted that the government did not intend to prohibit the sale of kites and prohibiting the festivities would be practically impossible. He also told the court that the government was aware that the kite-making business had a turnover of around Rs 625 crore last year, and nearly 1.25 lakh families find sustenance in this business. Moreover, Uttarayan is like “one-time crop in a year in this business”. The bench of Chief Justice Vikram Nath and Justice J B Pardiwala also made it clear, “There has to be sustenance for all. We don’t want to deprive anyone of their livelihood.” The state government told the court that it would not be feasible for it to fix the number of people on terraces as the sizes of terraces vary from building to building. However, the guidelines it has drawn “would discourage people from the western part of the city to shift to the Walled City areas in the afternoon on Uttarayan day”. The government added that it would follow the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) directions in that Chinese lanterns, Chinese manjha, and glass-coated manjha will remain prohibited. People will also not be allowed to write comments on kites that could hurt another person’s sentiments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/spirits-fly-high-as-hc-refuses-to-ban-kite-flying/articleshow/80178134.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||Class X student ends life in hostel||Rajkot: A Class X student of Swaminarayan temple in Junagadh allegedly committed suicide in the hostel on Thursday night.Utsav Thummar, 17-year-old son of a farmer in Pipariya village near Bagasara town of Amreli, was found hanging by the temple head JP Swami on Friday morning. He got anxious as Utsav did not turn up for the 'mangala aarti' on Friday morning and went to check on him in the room. A-division police sources said that till Thursday night, Utsav was chatting normally with JP Swami and others and did not show any signs of being disturbed. “His uncle Arvind had also come to meet him last week,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/class-x-student-ends-life-in-hostel/articleshow/80176793.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Eight years after she was rescued from Navi Mumbai, NGO helps homeless woman reunite with her son||NAVI MUMBAI: A lost and homeless woman who was rescued from APMC market area in 2013 has finally been reunited with her family. Police had admitted Basanti Pal Sharma (50) to Social and Evangelical Association for Love (SEAL) shelter home in New Panvel after she was found injured while loitering aimlessly in the city. “At SEAL, she underwent psychiatric treatment for many months, but she could not recall her home address and other details. However, recently, Basanti suddenly remembered the name of her village and said it was near Kharagpur in Bengal. On January 2, she walked up to our founder, Pastor K M Philip, and said ‘Papa I want to go home’,” said social worker and project coordinator, A Jainamma. Based on the location names —Gokulpur and Kharagpur —provided by Basanti, SEAL members contacted Kharagpur police who then managed to trace her address. Her son, Ashish Pal Sharma (26), is now based in Goa and works for an online food delivery service. Ashish reached Panvel earlier this week to take back his mother. Social activists said long-term medical and mental care had helped Basanti regain her memory. “This is our 409th reunification of a rescued homeless person. However, hundreds of others on the streets are not as lucky,” said pastor Philip. Talking to TOI, Ashish said Basanti had come from West Bengal to Goa to be with his older sister who was pregnant then. However, on her return journey in Amravati Express, she went missing. “My sister and I had searched a lot, but couldn’t find her. I had lost hope,” said Ashish, thanking SEAL and the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/8-yrs-after-she-was-rescued-ngo-helps-homeless-woman-reunite-with-her-son/articleshow/80179498.cms||Vijay Singh
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Train on trial run ran over MBA, ITI grads and pharmacy student||DEHRADUN: An MBA postgraduate at the top of his class, a pharmacy student and two ITI graduates — these four young and promising lives were cut short by a train doing a trial run on tracks that had been unused for over two years. For years, Shashipal had put together every penny from the dhaba he ran to put his son through business school. Mayur, 23, took that responsibility seriously. He got his MBA degree from the Gurukul Kangri University last year. Also from his university was Vishal, 24, a BPharm student, whose father works at the Nagar Nigam. Praveen, 22, whose father is a farmer, and Happy, 22, whose father is a contractual worker, had just graduated from ITI. They’d meet at the abandoned railway tracks in Jamalpur Kalan often, talking about government job openings and preparations for those. On Thursday, around 6.30pm, while they were engaged in discussions about their plans for the future, the train sped through the tracks, crushing them. “The train didn’t sound a horn, there are no walls around the tracks. Two big villages are right next to it, but there was nothing to indicate a train would suddenly run,” said Vineet Chauhan, corporator of Sitapur village, where all four were from. On Friday, angry locals blocked the tracks for three hours. Three separate investigations have been launched in response — police have lodged an FIR on the basis of a complaint by the families, the Haridwar DM has ordered a magisterial probe which has to submit its report in 15 days, and the railways has ordered its own inquiry. But it offered a defence at the same time. “Train tracks are property of the railways. We don’t need anyone’s permission or consent to do a trial run,” said Moradabad divisional commercial manager Gaurav Dixit. “The trial was a planned one. Every security protocol was followed. The chief commissioner for railway safety, Sailesh Pathak, was on board the train. It was running at 120kmph and our trial was successful.” The government has announced a Rs 2-lakh compensation for the families. “Four lives were lost. Rs 2 lakh won’t solve anything. We want a fair inquiry and punishment for the guilty,” said Sachin Chauhan, Vishal’s brother-in-law. Because for the families, it has been an irreparable loss. “Who will bring my son back? I am on the verge of retirement. He was trying so hard to land a job just to help me out,” said Pramod, Happy’s father. “Even if they were doing a trial, they could have scheduled it for midnight or early morning. Why after sunset?” For those who knew them, it was a loss of youthful promise. “Vishal was an all-rounder. Losing a boy like him feels like a personal loss,” his professor, Rahul Singh, said. Professor VK Singh from the Gurukul Kangri University added, “Mayur was one of our finest. We were encouraging him to appear for higher management diplomas from IIMs. He would have cracked it, but the high fees had reined in his efforts.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/train-on-trial-run-ran-over-mba-iti-grads-pharmacy-student/articleshow/80175956.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Uttarayan enthusiasts laud verdict, set to enjoy festival||AHMEDABAD: After long, celebrations of a given festival appear to be inching towards normalcy. As the Gujarat high court announced that Uttarayan festivities will not be impacted, but can be continued with precautions, kite flying enthusiasts will rejoice this festive season. “Finally, a festival feels like a true festival in times of the pandemic. I am happy there are no restrictions at least on family-level celebrations. Uttarayan has been a festival that I have celebrated every single year without fail, and while I understand the precautions that need to be observed for preventing spread of Covid-19, I was at least hoping that my son and I can fly a kite at home,” said Bhavesh Desai, a Vejalpur resident. Uttarayan celebrations in Ahmedabad however typically mean celebrations in the pol. But this time, kite flying in the pols will be dominated by residents of the pols themselves, as terraces are not being rented out. “Terraces are not to be given on rent this Uttarayan. We have elderly and kids in the family and therefore, we want to keep the festivities limited to our home only. We don’t know who would drop in, and whether they will take precautions. Therefore, we don’t intend to give our terrace on rent. The trend will be more or less the same across the pols,” said Jagdip Mehta, a pol resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uttarayan-enthusiasts-laud-verdict-set-to-enjoy-festival/articleshow/80178151.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Chintan case: Tempo shutter gone missing, says witness||MUMBAI: A panch witness on Friday identified a tempo, considered evidence in the double murder of artist Hema Upadhyay and her lawyer H Bhambhani. Special public prosecutor Vaibhav Bagade completed evidence in chief, where the witness said its structure had changed as the shutter was missing. The witness is being cross-examined by the defence lawyer. Hema’s artist husband, Chintan Upadhyay, is an accused in the case and was denied bail last year by Bombay high court. Additional sessions judge D D Khoche said the ‘muddemal property’—the tempo—be kept at Dindoshi police station till cross-examination is over and adjourned the matter for the witness cross-examination by accused Vijay Rajbhar’s lawyer to continue on January 12. The lawyer during cross-examination suggested that the witness was a professional panch and was not liable to be believed. The witness denied it. The trial is going on in the December 2015 case. Police had earlier this week produced the ‘missing’ vehicle, allegedly used to dispose the bodies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chintan-case-tempo-shutter-gone-missing-says-witness/articleshow/80177701.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Halls to have house-full option: CM||Kolkata: At the inaugural ceremony of the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) on Friday, chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that a notification will be issued allowing 100% occupancy in theatres. With this announcement, Bengal will be the second state after Tamil Nadu to allow 100% occupancy. However, on Friday, Tamil Nadu’s AIADMK government had cancelled 100% occupancy in movie theatres after the Centre objected to it and asked the state to scrap the order. Back in Kolkata, Banerjee’s announcement made the film industry as happy as the virtual presence at the inauguration of KIFF’s chief guest and Bengal brand ambassador Shah Rukh Khan who “missed” hugging Didi and promised to physically come down to Kolkata during Raksha Bandhan with “a lot of gifts”. “It is time to do some social work, whether through our own entertainment or going on the ground and helping great leaders like didi and everybody else near our houses to put forth message of peace, happiness, harmony and love,”Khan he said. Among the three short films directed by Premendu Bikas Chaki that were screened at the inauguration, one was dedicated to Soumitra Chatterjee. Titled ‘Journey of a Legend’, the film brought back memories of the icon. While remembering the legends lost last year, Banerjee said, “I can never forget the last conversation I had with Soumitra-da. I was at a meeting in Midnapore. He had told me: ‘I am well. You are calling me from a meeting…’ I never thought we would lose him.” Her emotions were shared by everyone in the audience of the Nabanna Sabhaghar, including Goutam Ghose, Ranjit Mallick, Dev, Raj Chakrabarty, Poulami Bose, Satabdi Roy, Rituparna Sengupta, Kaushik Ganguly, Kaushik Sen, Sudeshna Roy, Ananya Chakraborti, Paoli Dam, Arindam Ganguly, Arindam Sil, Indrani Halder, Sohini Sengupta and Kanchan Mallick. Banerjee also acknowledged the presence of director Anubhav Sinha, who will be delivering the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on Saturday. A special adda session about Soumitra has been organized on Saturday on Nandan premises. KIFF chairperson Raj Chakrabarty said, “Saturday’s adda on Soumitra Chatterjee will feature his family members along with Goutam Ghose, Rituparna Sengupta, Sohini Sengupta, Suman Ghosh and Sudipta Chakrabarty. I have also requested Prosenjit Chatterjee to attend it. Along with Goutam Ghose, he will be inaugurating the exhibitions at 2 pm on Saturday,” he said. On the decision regarding 100% occupancy during KIFF screenings, he said, “Till we get notification, we will have to go by alternate seating arrangement. Online bookings will be stopped from January 11 onwards. Those with guest cards will be allowed entry keeping in mind the hall capacity.” During her speech, Banerjee reminded movie-goers to use masks and hand sanitisers. Welcoming everyone to the people’s festival, Banerjee also said not everyone is e-ticket savvy. “They might not be able to watch movies if we suddenly ask them to use e-tickets. Those who get cards should be entitled to watch the movies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/halls-to-have-house-full-option-cm/articleshow/80178146.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 9, 2021||Goa||Govt plans media blitz to improve ease of doing biz image||Panaji: Disappointed with previous ease of doing business rankings, the state government has planned a media blitz this time around to “inform potential users” about the reforms introduced in Goa. Departments have been asked to issue “extensive newspaper advertisements” and to “leverage” social media accounts such as Twitter and Facebook to reach the maximum number of people. A circular issued by the industries department to heads of all departments and secretaries said that awareness needs to be created about the government’s online services for which extensive newspaper advertisements may be published over a period of time. The circular also recommended that “regular social media content may be published to create awareness and connect” with the online users. The recommendations also include helplines for various social media platforms. “The main objective of such a campaign will be to promote the use of online single window system for availing various government clearances and renewals,” said industries secretary J Ashok Kumar, who issued the circular. “Each department having online services may publish at least one advertisement showcasing their online services,” Kumar said. Kumar’s also recommended that Twitter and Facebook helplines may be created for users to inform IPB about hurdles in real time so that corrective steps can be taken. The gap between the reforms and the feedback given by the private sector is “worrisome”, said Kumar as he pushed government departments to help improve the feedback from the private sector. In the ranking report published by the Centre’s department for promotion of industry and internal trade in 2019, despite having an implementation score of 91%, the state received nil feedback score, resulting in a rank of 24 among participating states. Goa Investment Promotion and Facilitation Board (IPB), had held several rounds of consultations with industry representatives to understand the reasons for the bad feedback. Based on the interactions, IPB identified lack of awareness, poor technological infrastructure, downtime of the Goa Online portal and absence of departmental support for online services as the reasons for the poor response. “The state has devoted time, manpower and financial resources to this exercise (ease of doing business reforms) with the objective of creating an investment-friendly environment,” said Kumar in the circular. “Since the feedback score is obtained directly from the target beneficiaries, it is a poor reflection on the fulfilment of the said objective of ease of doing business.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/govt-plans-media-blitz-to-improve-ease-of-doing-biz-image/articleshow/80179539.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||SSP suspends ten constables for dereliction of duty||Rudrapur: As many as 10 police constables were suspended for dereliction of duty in Udham Singh Nagar on Friday. The suspended constables include eight posted at the ITI police station in Kashipur and two at Transit Camp police station in Rudrapur. Daleep Singh Kunwar, senior superintendent of police (SSP), Udham Singh Nagar, issued the suspension orders. The SSP urged all the police officials to strictly follow guidelines laid down by the police department and maintain discipline while on duty. He also warned that the department will take strict action against officials found guilty of negligence and those indulging in corrupt practices. The senior police official asked the personnel to work with dedication and improve the image of the department in the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ssp-suspends-ten-constables-for-dereliction-of-duty/articleshow/80175973.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Less than 100 patients under treatment in Washim now||Nagpur: Vidarbha continued to record 800-plus Covid-19 cases, for the 4th consecutive day on January 8, while 741 patients recovered in the day on Friday. More than 50% of Vidarbha’s Covid-19 caseload accounts to Nagpur district alone. Other districts in the region, however, are showing good control over curbing the spread of the virus. On Friday, Washim became the first district in the region to have less than 100 patients under treatment since the Covid-19 peak. With only 3 new cases in a day and 9 recoveries, Washim now has only 96 patients under treatment. Except Nagpur and Akola, all other districts in Vidarbha have less than 500 patients under treatment. Apart from Washim; Gondia and Gadchiroli have less than 300 patients under treatment. Overall, 7,745 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha, which is 3% of the total cases reported till date. Nagpur alone accounts for 4,471 of these cases. Remarkably, more than 65% of the under-treatment patients are recovering under home isolation. On Friday, 14 deaths were reported in the region. These include Nagpur 7, Bhandara 2, Chandrapur 1, Amravati 1, Yavatmal 1, Buldhana 1, and Washim 1. Out of seven deaths in Nagpur district, 4 are patients from outstation / other districts. Total 4,000 deaths have happened in Nagpur so far due to Covid-19. This number is nearly 60% of Vidarbha’s toll, which is 6,680. Vidarbha’s case fatality rate continued to be at 2.58%, which is more than state and national average. Day’s 869 new cases came from Nagpur 456, Amravati 80, Yavatmal 71, Akola 52, Wardha 51, Chandrapur 48, Bhandara 44, Gondia 30, Buldhana 21, Gadchiroli 13, and Washim 3, while 741 recoveries came from Nagpur 358, Amravati 81, Yavatmal 57, Chandrapur 56, Gadchiroli 44, Buldhana 35, Bhandara 32, Wardha 30, Gondia 23, Akola 16, Washim 9. Now, out of total 2.58 lakh cases in the region, 2.44 lakh have recovered. Recovery rate is 94.4%. Washim: The district reported only 3 new cases in a day while 9 patients recovered. Now, Washim has 6,745 cases, 6,497 recoveries and 151 deaths. Total 96 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Eighty-one recoveries as against 80 new cases took the total recoveries to 19,492 and caseload to 20,206 on Friday. The district reported one Covid death that took the toll to 401. This left 313 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: Forty-eight people tested positive on Friday, while 56 were discharged. There was a solitary death reported during the day and the toll rose to 377. Cumulative Covid figure has now climbed to 22,604, while total recoveries increased to 21,897. There are now 330 patients under treatment in district. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 67-year-old man from the city on Friday. Of the 349 test reports received today, 71 were positive. Currently, there are 423 patients under treatment in the district. Out of 13,098 patients treated so far, 12,268 have recovered. Wardha: With the addition of 51 new Covid cases on Friday, the district’s caseload reached 9,428. Also, 30 persons discharged in the day, taking the number of recoveries to 8,807. At present, 343 patients are under treatment in the district. No death was reported on Friday. Akola: The district reported 52 new cases, and 16 recoveries on Friday. Now, the district has 10,818 total cases, 9,910 recoveries and 323 deaths. No death was reported on Friday. Akola has 585 patients under treatment. After Nagpur, Akola is the only district to have more than 500 patients under treatment in Vidarbha. Buldhana: With 21 new cases, and 35 recoveries in a day, Buldhana also reported a death of 69-year-old man on Friday. Now, with total 12,864 total cases and 12,382 recoveries, the district Covid-19 toll is at 157. Total 325 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 30 new cases, while 23 patients recovered on Friday. No death was reported in Gondia. With 266 patients still under treatment; the Gondia district has 13,874 total Covid-19 cases, 13,429 recoveries and 179 deaths. Bhandara: The district has reported 2 deaths of Covid-19 patients in a day on Friday. Bhandara has reported 5 deaths in last 3 days. The district also reported 44 new cases, and 32 recoveries. Now, the district has 12,709 total cases, 11,966 recoveries, 301 deaths and 442 patients under treatment. Gadchiroli: With 13 new cases and 44 recoveries, Gadchiroli’s total Covid caseload reached 9,152 on Friday. Out of these, 8,895 have been recovered. No death was reported in a day. Total death toll is 104. Total 153 patients are under treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/less-than-100-patients-under-treatment-in-washim-now/articleshow/80178186.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Nominations for local body elections go online||GANDHINAGAR: Due to the exceptional circumstances arising out of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state election commission (SEC) has for the first time, decided to accept nomination forms online for the forthcoming local body elections. The step has been taken to avoid overcrowding during the process of filing nominations for the elections next month. Sanjay Prasad, commissioner, state election commission (SEC) said, “Due to the Covid-19 outbreak impact, the SEC is taking various measures to make the local body elections safe.” He added that both Covid-19 positive candidates, as well as voters, will be allowed to take part in the election process under strict medical protocol. However, they will have to personally bear costs of PPE kits and other requirements under the SOP. Prasad said about online nominations, “In a bid to minimize crowding during nominations process, for the first time, online submission of nomination forms will be allowed. Candidates can file physical nominations, but we will encourage online filing of nominations.” SEC has planned to take other measures also in consultation with state government’s health & family welfare department. Prasad said, “We will issue a detailed Covid-19 SOP (standard operating procedure) shortly in consultation with the health department.” “We will even allow Covid-19 positive candidates to contest under strict medical protocol as well as allow Covid-19 positive voters to cast their vote under strict protocol,” he added. Over 25,000 candidates are expected to contest the 8,104 seats for municipal corporations, municipalities, district panchayats and taluka panchayats . The official added that Covid-19 positive candidates as well as voters will require a medical certificate that they are asymptomatic and not facing any health complications, before they are allowed to participate in the election process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/nominations-for-local-body-elections-go-online/articleshow/80178157.cms||Kapil Dave
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||KIFF to screen documentary on history of contemporary China||KOLKATA: The 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF) will screen Jia Zhang-ke’s Chinese documentary, ‘Swimming Out Till The Sea Turns Blue’ at Nandan on January 14. Directed by one of China’s prominent filmmakers, it traces the history of contemporary China through the lives and writings of the country’s prolific literary figures. Sources said Zhang Wei’s Chinese film —‘The Empty Nest’ — had applied for being considered in the competitive section. But, the film that is based on how a lonely widow falls prey to a phone scam didn’t make it to the competition. Raj Chakrabarty, the 26th KIFF chairperson, said the bilateral relations between India and China didn’t come in the way of deciding to screen this documentary. “Cinema knows no borders. Jia Zhang-ke is one of the most revered directors internationally. I’m eagerly looking forward to watching this 112-minute documentary,” said Chakrabarty. Jia Zhang-ke’s ‘Still Life’ won the Golden Lion in Venice in 2006 while ‘A Touch of Sin’ won the Best Screenplay prize in Cannes in 2013. ‘Mountains May Depart’ and ‘Ash is Purest White’ competed in Cannes in 2015 and 2018 respectively.  ‘Swimming Out Till The Sea Turns Blue’ has featured at the 70th Berlin Film Festival in 2020. It begins with prominent Chinese writers gathering in Shanxi, the hometown of Jia Zhang-ke. This kicks off with an 18-chapter symphony about Chinese society since 1949. Narrated by three important novelists born in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s respectively, telling their own stories with literature and reality, it weaves a 70-year-old spiritual history of Chinese residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kiff-to-screen-docu-on-history-of-contemporary-china/articleshow/80178154.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP MP tells Telangana tribals to ‘hunt tigers’, sparks row||HYDERABAD: Forest officials in Telangana are up in arms against BJP MP from Adilabad, Soyam Bapu Rao, after he was caught on video asking tribals to hunt tigers. While forest officials claim that the MP, talking in Gond language, asked tribals to hunt the big cats, the MP said that he told tribals to apply to the forest department for permission to legally kill man-eaters. Rao reiterated to TOI that because man-eater tigers are killing people in the state, he asked people to petition foresters to hunt the big cats if the forest department failed to hunt them first. The state forest department, however, has decided to complain to the National Tiger Conservation Authority and ministry of environment and forest against the MP. The controversy has been raked up at a time when two people have been killed by tigers in Telangana. Both deaths took place in November in Asifabad. Forest officials have found it difficult to track the suspected man-eaters because the tribal regions share a border with Maharashtra and the animals often enter the neighbouring state after making a kill. MP instigating tribals: Senior forest officialRao told TOI, “Apart from people being killed, tigers have been spotted in Khammam, Warangal, Adilabad, Nirmal and Asifabad districts. It is clear tiger numbers are increasing. There have been instances where they have been found sleeping on roads. A man-eater tiger has to be caught within 24 hours, but forest officials failed. I told people to apply to the forest department for hunting man-eaters.” Although Telangana has very few tigers in its wildlife sanctuaries, their numbers have gone up in the Kagaznagar Tiger Corridor, which links Telangana to Mahatrashtra. On November 11 in Didiga mandal of Asifabad district, a man-eater tiger mauled a youth and killed him. Two weeks later, a tribal girl was killed in Kondapally of Penchikalpet of Asifabad district. A senior forest fficials told TOI, “The MP is instigating tribals. He not only asked them to hunt tigers, but also told them to cultivate Podu crops on forest land. We are concerned that such talk would affect tiger conservation efforts.” The villagers are upset with the forest department as they are afraid to go to their fields because of the fear of the man-eater.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-mp-tells-tribals-to-hunt-tigers-in-t-sparks-row/articleshow/80178192.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||A’bad sero study published in BMJ||Ahmedabad: The British Medical Journal has published the Ahmedabad Sero Survey study carried out by AMC’s health department to study the Covid outbreak. O P Machra the deputy municipal commissioner, health, said, “It is a matter of pride for Ahmedabad that the Ahmedabad Sero Survey study got its place in British Medical Journal. BMJ is a global journal and it has published the AMC study as original public health research. Very few studies from India have got chance to get this kind of recognition,” he said. The sero study stated that a total of 30,054 blood samples were collected for the purpose of this study, of which 1,511 samples were collected from the three AMC hospitals while the remaining 28,543 samples were collected from the 75 urban health centres. A total of 163 samples were rejected for various reasons. Results were available for the remaining 29,891 samples A total of 24,197 tests were negative while 431 test results were reported as indeterminate. Thus, a total of 5,263 results were positive for the specific antibodies against Covid-19 giving an overall crude positivity of about 17.61%. The study stated that the results of sero-surveillance suggest that the population of Ahmedabad is still largely susceptible. People still need to follow preventive measures to protect themselves till an effective vaccine is available to the people at large. The data indicates the possibility of immunity vanishing over time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/abad-sero-study-published-in-bmj/articleshow/80178182.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Eye on the sky: Kolkata tracks cargo flight movement throughout the day||KOLKATA: Cargo flights that hardly anyone bothered about at Kolkata airport have suddenly become the cynosure of all eyes with airport officials and state health department staff scanning the sky in a bid to home in on a flight carrying one of the most anticipated consignments in recent times. All through Thursday and Friday, enquiries poured in on movement of cargo flights as the city waited with bated breath for the first batch of Covishield vaccines to arrive from Serum Institute of India, Pune. But till reports last came in, the flight and its precious cargo remained elusive. “Since morning, we have been periodically receiving calls from anxious state health officials inquiring about the flight carrying the Covid-19 vaccines to Kolkata. But we have not yet been able to offer any definite information as we are as clueless as everyone on the issue. There has been no communication on the subject from Pune since Wednesday,” an official at Kolkata airport said on Friday evening. Three flights did arrive at Kolkata airport from Pune on Friday, passenger aircraft operated by SpiceJet, GoAir and IndiGo. They also carried cargo in their belly. But they did not include boxes measuring 2ft × 1.5ft × 1ft. That is the dimension of the carton that will carry 1,200 vials. Each vial will contain 10 doses. Bengal has requisitioned 50 such boxes to vaccinate 6 lakh frontline workers. After a couple of months, it will require another consignment of 50 boxes to administer the second dose to each of the vaccine recipients. On Friday, Kolkata received six cargo flights: four international and two domestic. While the international cargo flights operated from Dhaka, Dubai, Doha and Hong Kong, the domestic flights arrived from Delhi and Mumbai. In addition, there were 160-plus passenger flights that touched down at Kolkata till Thursday evening. But none had the boxes that everyone’s waiting for. Sources said the vaccines were likely to arrive in either a special Indian Air Force aircraft or an unscheduled chartered flight. The Union health ministry had on Thursday evening written to the state health department assuring that the vaccines would reach Kolkata on Friday. Following the communique, senior state health officials had inspected the state government’s Central Family Welfare Stores in Bagbazar that will serve as the depot for storing the vaccine doses once they arrive in the state. The vaccines will subsequently be dispatched from here to other cold chain centres for the inoculation programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-on-the-sky-kolkata-tracks-cargo-flight-movement-throughout-the-day/articleshow/80178197.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||As US sanctions loom over Russia deal, India says we follow an independent foreign policy||NEW DELHI: With the threat of US sanctions looming over India for the impending purchase of S-400 surface-to-air missile system from Russia, the government on Friday reminded the US that India has always followed an independent foreign policy. The foreign ministry said while India and the US have a comprehensive global strategic partnership, India has a special and privileged strategic partnership with Russia. "India has always pursued an independent foreign policy. This also applies to our defence acquisitions and supplies which are guided by our national security interests," MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. A US Congressional report had recently warned that India's purchase of the Russian-made S-400 air defence system may trigger American sanctions. Prepared for members of the US Congress for them to take "informed decisions", the report said, "India''s multi-billion dollar deal to purchase the Russian-made S-400 air defence system may trigger US sanctions on India under the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA)." Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev had said recently both India and Russia saw as illegal all sanctions other than those imposed by the UN Security Council. The US recently imposed CAATSA on Turkey for "knowingly engaging in a significant transaction" with Rosoboronexport, Russia’s main arms export entity, by procuring the same S-400 system. It also called its action a clear signal that it will not tolerate "significant transactions" with Russia’s defence and intelligence sectors. Kudashev had said that the proposed deal for supply of S-400 to India was "advancing well".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/as-us-sanctions-loom-over-russia-deal-india-says-we-follow-an-independent-foreign-policy/articleshow/80180861.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nashik||MSEDCL announces power cuts in some parts of city today||Nashik: The Nashik Urban Division-1 of Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has announced that there will be power outage in various parts of the city on Saturday between 9 am and 5 pm. According to Vika Adhe, spokesperson of MSEDCL, the company has undertaken the maintenance and repairs of feeders that start from Maharashtra State Electricity Transport Company Limited’s (MSETCL) 132/ 33 KV and 33/11 KV Ambad substation during the period. “Since we have decided to undertake maintenance and repairs of various feeders coming out from Ambad sub-stations of MSETCL the major areas that will be affected include parts of CIDCO, Pathardi Phata and Ambad on Saturday,” he said. According to the officer, the Ambad-2 feeder supplying power part of industrial units in Ambad, rural feeder supplying power to adjoining rural areas, besides the feeders providing water power to Gangamai Complex and Siemens area, Ashwin Nagar feeder supplying power to Ashwin Nagar, Pathardi Phata, Mahendra Colony area along with Uttam Nagar 11KV feeder providing power to Uttam Nagar, Sixth Scheme, Bhadrapad Sector, Upendra Nagar 11KV feeder providing power to Manik Nagar, Shubham Park, Ganesh Colony and CIDCO-11 feeder providing power to areas in Pathardi Phata, Hotel Garva, Pandav Leni will remain closed on Saturday. The MSEDCL has regretted the inconvenience caused and appealed to the citizens to bear with the company during the maintenance and repair work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-announces-power-cuts-in-some-parts-of-city-today/articleshow/80176880.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Positivity rate stagnant, despite fluctuating Covid case numbers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 685 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 2.5 lakh. The state had carried out 49,952 tests in 24 hours, giving the positivity rate of 1.4% (positive cases per 100 tests conducted). In the first eight days of January, irrespective of the number of tests conducted, the positivity rate remained the same — indicating rise in cases while more tests were conducted, and vice versa. The pace of the positive cases remained the same, reveal analysis of each 50,000 cases — from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh and from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh cases, it took Gujarat 45 days each. To put the figure in perspective, the first 50,000 cases had taken 125 days, the subsequent 50,000 had taken 44 days and from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh it took 37 days. However, the death rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) increased from 0.7% between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh to 0.9% between 2 lakh and 2.5 lakh. Of the 685 cases recorded in 24 hours, two-thirds or 66.6% were recorded in four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Out of the three deaths recorded in 24 hours, two were from Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/positivity-rate-stagnant-despite-fluctuating-covid-case-numbers/articleshow/80185068.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Nashik mulls token to vaccine beneficiaries as a reminder||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare said that the vaccine beneficiaries would be given a token, which they will have to maintain till the complete vaccination process is over. After the vaccination dry run on Friday, Mandhare said, “The dual authentication was stressed on. The beneficiaries should not miss their second dose.” The dry run was conducted in Nashik district at civil hospital, sub-district hospital at Trimbakeshwar, at Bytco Hospital at Nashik Road (Nashik Municipal Corporation) and at primary health centre at Sayyad Pimpri (District Health Office). The collector was of the view that the CoWin application was there to inform the beneficiaries of the vaccination programme and about their repeat dose after the interval but the people generally tend to overlook the SMS coming on their phones. Hence, the token could play a major role in reminding them about the next dose. “People tend to overlook SMSes these days. There are many who may not be accustomed to the use of mobile – when it comes to general public vaccination programme,” Mandhare said. He added that during the actual vaccination programme, they had decided to strengthen the trauma care arrangements and establish strong network of ambulances to meet the requirements in case of emergency. The dry run was also well organised in Ahmednagar, Dhule and Jalgaon districts. Ahmednagar district collector Dr Rajendra Bhosale visited the Topkhana urban primary health centre, where he observed the complete process of vaccination and expressed satisfaction over the performance. “We are ready for the final vaccination programme and the training of all the vaccinators and assistant staff has also been carried out,” said the collector. Similarly, Jalgaon district collector Abhijeet Raut said that a mock drill of emergency was also conducted in Dhamangaon primary health centre. “We considered a situation that after vaccination a person felt uneasy and hence saw for the first assistance in the form of oxygen support and then called for ambulance to quickly move the persons from that PHC to bigger hospital. The time required for the same was also calculated. The dry run was successful,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-mulls-token-to-vaccine-beneficiaries-as-a-reminder/articleshow/80176859.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Six-yr-old tiger to be translocated from Corbett to Rajaji||Dehradun: Days after a five-year-old female tiger was translocated from the Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to western Rajaji, another six-year-old male tiger is to be transported from CTR. The male tiger was to be translocated on Friday night and preparations were being made regarding the same till the time of filing this report. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand, confirmed to TOI that the translocation may start on Friday night itself. The translocation is being done by the Wildlife Institute of Indian (WII) scientists and the Uttarakhand forest department officials. To recall, a five-year-old tigress was translocated from Corbett National Park on December 24, 2020, as part of a project to repopulate Rajaji Tiger Reserve’s western part. Incidentally, the sprawling 177 sq km area of western Rajaji houses just two tigresses while its eastern part has 35 tigers. The forest officials had been working for the past several years to translocate the tigers from Corbett Tiger Reserve, which houses tigers beyond its capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/six-yr-old-tiger-to-be-translocated-from-corbett-to-rajaji/articleshow/80176042.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Exam proctors harass Mumbai management students||MUMBAI: In the first such reported case in the city, at least nine girl students from a premier management institute in the suburbs have alleged harassment by online proctors, raising serious concern about data sharing and privacy in times of online exams amid the pandemic. The students, whose semester-end exams started on January 2, said they were shocked when persons claiming to be their exam invigilators stalked them online and posted comments about their physical appearance. The institute has taken cognisance of the incident, but is yet to initiate independent action. Students are upset about their contact details being shared with the agency proctoring the exams. Screenshots of messages shared by the students went viral on Thursday. TimesViewTo ensure the sanctity of online exams, institutes may be forced to rely on external sources in these difficult times. But it is also important to ensure there is a thorough background check done on the companies that are being roped in to conduct these online exams.Students who took to social media about the harassment received mails from the institute’s controller of examinations and the proctoring agency. One of the victims told TOI the proctors sent messages on WhatsApp and that they may have managed to get their phone numbers from the college identity cards. Another student took to social media to say a person claiming to be her exam invigilator sent her messages commenting on her looks and hair. A message from a student said, ‘While it is important to maintain the integrity of exams during such tough times, colleges need to make sure they hire trusted proctors after a proper background check.’ Students from the institute have been protesting against online exams. Speaking to TOI, a student said only nine cases have come to the fore, but there are likely to be more. “No girl should have been put through this. We have been told action has been taken against the accused proctors and they have been debarred,” said the student. An institute official said they had received mails from students regarding proctors invading their privacy, “which is absolutely unacceptable from our end and against the institute’s code of conduct and values”. The institute claimed it had raised the issue with the agency which was taking stringent steps, including police action. “Due diligence was followed while engaging proctors. However, there were unscrupulous elements that crept into the system. Another step which has already been taken is to hire female proctors for forthcoming exams,” said the statement, adding personal data of students captured by the service provider would be deleted. At the time of going to press it was not known if an FIR had been filed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/exam-proctors-harass-city-mgmt-students/articleshow/80180230.cms||Yogita Rao
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Positivity rate stagnant, despite fluctuating Covid case numbers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 685 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 2.5 lakh. The state had carried out 49,952 tests in 24 hours, giving the positivity rate of 1.4% (positive cases per 100 tests conducted). In the first eight days of January, irrespective of the number of tests conducted, the positivity rate remained the same — indicating rise in cases while more tests were conducted, and vice versa. The pace of the positive cases remained the same, reveal analysis of each 50,000 cases — from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh and from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh cases, it took Gujarat 45 days each. To put the figure in perspective, the first 50,000 cases had taken 125 days, the subsequent 50,000 had taken 44 days and from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh it took 37 days. However, the death rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) increased from 0.7% between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh to 0.9% between 2 lakh and 2.5 lakh. Of the 685 cases recorded in 24 hours, two-thirds or 66.6% were recorded in four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Out of the three deaths recorded in 24 hours, two were from Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/positivity-rate-stagnant-despite-fluctuating-covid-case-numbers/articleshow/80178204.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Positivity rate stagnant, despite fluctuating Covid case numbers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 685 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 2.5 lakh. The state had carried out 49,952 tests in 24 hours, giving the positivity rate of 1.4% (positive cases per 100 tests conducted). In the first eight days of January, irrespective of the number of tests conducted, the positivity rate remained the same — indicating rise in cases while more tests were conducted, and vice versa. The pace of the positive cases remained the same, reveal analysis of each 50,000 cases — from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh and from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh cases, it took Gujarat 45 days each. To put the figure in perspective, the first 50,000 cases had taken 125 days, the subsequent 50,000 had taken 44 days and from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh it took 37 days. However, the death rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) increased from 0.7% between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh to 0.9% between 2 lakh and 2.5 lakh. Of the 685 cases recorded in 24 hours, two-thirds or 66.6% were recorded in four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Out of the three deaths recorded in 24 hours, two were from Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/positivity-rate-stagnant-despite-fluctuating-covid-case-numbers/articleshow/80185066.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Positivity rate stagnant, despite fluctuating Covid case numbers||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat in 24 hours ending 5pm on Friday added 685 Covid-19 positive cases, taking the state tally to 2.5 lakh. The state had carried out 49,952 tests in 24 hours, giving the positivity rate of 1.4% (positive cases per 100 tests conducted). In the first eight days of January, irrespective of the number of tests conducted, the positivity rate remained the same — indicating rise in cases while more tests were conducted, and vice versa. The pace of the positive cases remained the same, reveal analysis of each 50,000 cases — from 1.5 lakh to 2 lakh and from 2 lakh to 2.5 lakh cases, it took Gujarat 45 days each. To put the figure in perspective, the first 50,000 cases had taken 125 days, the subsequent 50,000 had taken 44 days and from 1 lakh to 1.5 lakh it took 37 days. However, the death rate (deaths per 100 positive cases) increased from 0.7% between 1.5 lakh and 2 lakh to 0.9% between 2 lakh and 2.5 lakh. Of the 685 cases recorded in 24 hours, two-thirds or 66.6% were recorded in four major districts – Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot. Out of the three deaths recorded in 24 hours, two were from Ahmedabad city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/positivity-rate-stagnant-despite-fluctuating-covid-case-numbers/articleshow/80185067.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Cortalim, Quelossim water shortage will be resolved within a month: PWD||Vasco: After the recent protest by Quelossim and Cortalim residents, PWD’s water supply division carried out an inspection of the supply network in the villages and the officials have assured the locals that their problem would be resolved within a month. Residents of Quelossim and parts of Cortalim had taken a morcha to the PWD office in Baina, alleging that the pressure of water supply is low for the last six months and for nearly three months the upper areas had not received a drop of water. “We found that about 8-10 houses on the hillock are facing acute water shortage. Below, the houses and buildings have increased in number and more water is being consumed there. We will be adopting the new distribution network and suitable changes will be done,” PWD assistant engineer for Dabolim-Cortalim area, Vishwambher Bhende, said. A new pipeline will become functional for the area shortly and is likely to ease the problem further, he said. Bhende inspected the area along with his technical staff and checked the distribution pattern and the valves. During the protest, the locals had demanded the PWD to take immediate steps to address their water issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cortalim-quelossim-water-shortage-will-be-resolved-within-a-month-pwd/articleshow/80179549.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||AIMIM looks to spread base in urban areas of Gujarat||Ahmedabad: Having announced an alliance with the BTP (Bharatiya Tribal Party) to contest in the forthcoming local body elections in Gujarat, the AIMIM (All India Majlis-E-Ittehadul Muslimeen) is now looking to spread its base in urban areas. Party leaders Waris Pathan and Imtiyaz Jaleel will visit Ahmedabad in the coming days to explore the possibility of joining hands with like-minded parties to contest in the urban local body polls.Pathan, the AIMIM’s national spokesperson, told TOI that he and other leaders will visit Ahmedabad just prior to Uttarayan or immediately afterwards to work out a poll strategy.This will be the AIMIM’s first contest in local body polls of Gujarat. Local conveners of the AIMIM said several meetings have been planned between the AIMIM’s national leaders and local intellectuals. “We will have detailed discussions on the possible wards and areas where the AIMIM can put up candidates for the AMC election,” said a local worker of the party. The AIMIM has gradually been building a supporter base in Ahmedabad and other cities over the past couple of years. The AIMIM had claimed that after the 2017 assembly elections, a number of disgruntled Congress leaders from the minority community were in touch with it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/aimim-looks-to-spread-base-in-urban-areas-of-gujarat/articleshow/80178217.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Your friendly neighbourhood school may soon turn corporate||HYDERABAD: Soon, a bulk of schools across India might be run by a small group of corporates who seem to be on shopping spree across the country. After metropolises, they have now forayed into tier 2 and 3 cities — Nagpur, Nashik, Indore, Gwalior, Patna among others — where neighbourhood K-12 (Kindergarten to Class 12) schools are struggling to stay afloat post the lockdown. The trend, industry insiders say, is likely to lead to a consolidation of this sector – much like the healthcare sector – with the majority of small, standalone schools being managed by a cluster of large educational organisations. Agrees Vishal Goel, partner, Cerestra Advisors (a private equity fund) that has brought 17 schools under its wings, most of them from tier 2 cities, in the last three months alone. Aim is to improve standard of educationThe group that has launched a specialised arm to manage these schools, Crimson Education Management Services, is confident of controlling 50 schools by the end of 2021. “This trend will help enhance the quality of education here while ensuring that the fee structure – mostly in the Rs 50,000 to Rs 1 lakh per annum bracket – remains unaffected,” claimed Goel. According to him, over a 1,000 schools across India are looking at moving to this model. “Using the latest innovations in education technology coupled with world class infrastructure, our aim is to improve the standard of education experience to deliver better outcomes for students and schools alike,” said Akash Sachdev, managing director of Foundation Holdings, part of a joint venture with Ryan Group, operating Ryan EduNation. The brand recently launched the ‘manchise’ programme, designed exclusively for partnering with budget schools in tier 2 and tier 3 cities. “We are currently in the process of finalising partnerships with over a dozen schools across India,” Sachdev added. Also, in “various stages of negotiation” with many such schools is EuroKids International Ltd, which already has over 30 K–12 schools in India. “Apart from Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, within Maharashtra we are looking at Nashik and Nagpur and evaluating various possibilities,” said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder and Group CEO. “Consolidation of the K-12 segment is a distinct possibility and will have a positive impact on India’s education sector. Partnerships with schools in smaller cities – that are showing a fair deal of interest – will help in improving quality of curriculum, teacher training programmes, student learning outcomes among other things,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/your-friendly-neighbourhood-school-may-soon-turn-corporate/articleshow/80178230.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Vaccine dry run passes off smoothly in central region||Trichy: The vaccination dry run went off smoothly in the central region on Friday. In Trichy, it was held at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial (MGM) government hospital, government head-quarters hospital at Manapparai, urban primary health centre at Ramalinga Nagar, primary health centre at Inamkulathur and Apollo Hospitals. Trichy collector S Sivarasu inspected the process at MGM in which hospital dean Dr K Vanitha and others participated. A five member team trained by the health department was involved in the process. The first member of the team allowed the beneficiary registered on co-WIN to the vaccination room. The second member verified the details. A nurse administered the vaccine to the beneficiary while the fourth and fifth members were assigned to monitor the recipient for 30 minutes to check for adverse effects. All the five centres conducted the dry run 25 beneficiaries each. Collector Sivarasu said that the government will issue the standard operating procedure (SOP) for administering the vaccine to frontline workers. “After the frontline workers, the government will issue the schedule for providing the vaccine to the general public,” said the collector. The collector also issued a statement stating that 5,542 frontline workers from all government health centres have been registered in co-WIN and 6,553 frontline workers out of around 7000 in private hospitals have been uploaded. Out of 3,126 angawadi workers, 2,728 have been included. The rest will be added in a couple of days. Karur, Pudukottai, Ariyalur, Perambalur, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam and Mayiladuthurai districts also conducted dry run on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/vaccine-dry-run-passes-off-smoothly-in-central-region/articleshow/80178212.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||3 months on, no FIR in alleged rape of 2 minor sisters in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: Over three months after two minor Dalit sisters alleged rape by their employer, a 65-year-old man, police in UP’s Pilibhit district are yet to file an FIR. The minor girls, aged 13 and 15 years, had first approached police on September 23, but no complaint was taken and no case was registered, the family alleged. The girls and the family visited the police station several times in the last three months, and returned home hopeless. With the hope, the crucial evidence needed to nail the accused was also lost as no medical examination was conducted on the girls. On January 5, the victims approached Pilibhit’s superintendent of police (SP) on the ‘Tehsil Diwas’ and filed a complaint. Taking note of the complaint, the SP ordered a probe by a circle officer (CO). The SP, Jai Prakash Yadav, said, “An inquiry in the matter has been ordered to the CO of Puranpur circle, Pramod Kumar, and any further legal action will be subject to his findings.” In the complaint, the girls have said that they, along with their parents, were working as labourers for the contractor, who had also provided accommodation to them on his farm. “The contractor used to rape the elder sister while threatening to kill her parents. When her health deteriorated, he raped the younger sister in September,” the complaint said. On his part, the accused told police that the two girls had leveled false allegations of rape against him as he had expelled them along with their family from the work. But, after a gap of three months, finding out the truth will be a tad difficult, experts said. “If the victims go through the medical examination now for the confirmation of rape, it is almost impossible for the medical officers to trace any evidences of rape,” said Dr Anita Chaurasia, chief medical superintendent of the district women hospital at Pilibhit. Lawyer Babita Saxena, who is also a well-known social worker in Pilibhit, said, “The delay in taking the cognizance of the crime by police clearly implies that they intentionally averted legal action against the accused to protect him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/3-months-on-no-fir-in-alleged-rape-of-2-minor-sisters-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80176844.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Cops nab 2, seize 5 rare tortoises||The SewrI police arrested two persons near Reay Road and seized five rare Indian star tortoises worth Rs 1.5 lakh.  The two have been booked under the Wildlife Protection Act,1972.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-nab-2-seize-5-rare-tortoises/articleshow/80179576.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Trichy||35-year-old woman arrested for running prostitution racket in Trichy||Trichy: The anti-vice squad (AVS) police on Thursday busted a prostitution racket at Periyamilaguparai near Trichy collector office and arrested one person. The accused has been identified as N Pushpavalli, 35 of Periyamilaguparai. A search is on for another pimp Banu who absconded. Police also rescued a 31-year-old woman from Trichy who was forced into prostitution. The action was taken based on a complaint from a 54-year-old man in whose house the prostitution was taking place. AVS sub-inspector Rama said on Friday evening that the two women took the house on rent one month back and were running the racket. Police registered a case against the two women under sections of The Immoral Traffic (prevention) Act. Both the rescued woman and Pushpavalli were handed over to the government protective home for women at Kajamalai for rehabilitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/35-year-old-woman-arrested-for-running-prostitution-racket-in-trichy/articleshow/80178220.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Jewellery worth Rs 5.5 lakh stolen from 4 shops||NASHIK: Thieves broke into four jewellery shops in Pimpalgaon Baswant market area on Friday and decamped with jewellery worth Rs 5.5 lakh. According to police, the crime was committed between midnight and 5.30 am. The police have collected the footage from a closed-circuit television camera outside one of the shops that has spotted four thieves breaking the shutter of the shops — three next to each other while the fourth was at a distance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jewellery-worth-rs-5-5l-stolen-from-4-shops/articleshow/80176895.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||17-yo mentally-ill rape survivor dies of pregnancy related complications in Bareilly||Bareilly: A 17-year-old rape survivor, who was mentally-ill and seven months pregnant, died of pregnancy related complications at the district hospital in Bareilly on Thursday night. The doctors said she was admitted on January 6, Thursday and suffered septicaemia possibly due to the "death of the foetus". The girl later died of "multi-organ failure". Her body has been sent for post mortem.The deceased’s parents are poor labourers who used to leave her at home while they went out to work. A local youth took advantage of this situation and allegedly raped her on numerous occasions. This went on for months but the parents finally came to know about it on December 4 when the girl complained of stomach pain and was rushed to a hospital. There the doctors confirmed her pregnancy. Following this, an FIR was registered at Fatehganj West police station in December and the accused was sent to jail. Speaking to TOI the girl’s father said, “My mentally-ill daughter was raped for nearly six months in our absence by a local. After we filed an FIR a few community members even forced us to compromise in the case but we didn’t withdraw the complaint,” he said.According to the father, on January 6 the girl was feeling unwell in the evening and later lost consciousness at night. “We took her to a local doctor who suggested that we take her to the district hospital. The next morning at the district hospital we came to know that she had an infection and her baby was aborted. The doctors gave her medicine but she passed away on January 7,” the father said.Talking about the case, senior consultant physician Dr R K Gupta said, “The girl was extremely critical and gasping. We gave her necessary treatment but she couldn’t be revived, and succumbed.”Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “The death of the girl is really unfortunate. The autopsy was conducted on Friday which revealed the girl died of septicaemia. The viscera were also preserved for further lab tests to check if she was given any poisonous substance. We will probe her death and take necessary action. Earlier, we had acted promptly on the complaint. The FIR was registered under the sections of rape and POCSO Act. The accused was sent to jail and a charge-sheet was filed in the court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/17-yo-mentally-ill-rape-survivor-dies-of-pregnancy-related-complications-in-bareilly/articleshow/80176849.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Will allocate funds for projects keeping in mind state’s finances: CM||Nagpur: Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said funds may be needed to complete ongoing infrastructure projects in the state but the allocation will be only done considering the state government’s financial position. The CM on Friday visited the sites of Gosikhurd dam project in Bhandara and Chandrapur. He said the project will be completed in the next three years and assured that enough fund allocation will be done. Thackeray is reviewing projects under way in the state by visiting the sites. He had started off last month ith Samruddhi Mahamarg connecting Nagpur and Mumbai. It is the pet project started by former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. The CM also stressed that the state government will try to finish the projects in time overcoming all the hurdles. “This is because delays will only increase the burden on the state’s exchequer,” he said. He directed the officials to submit a report on the planning and money needed for the works on the basis of which funds would be allocated, said a press release issued by the state’s directorate of information. The CM also issued strict instructions to ensure that the Gosikhurd waters are not polluted by the flow from Nag river. The work on the project was further delayed due to Covid, said source. The Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) needs Rs1,500 crore a year on an average to complete the project. This financial year, however, the corporation got Rs834 crore only. Sources in VIDC said the projects can be completed in time without any further cost escalation if sufficient fund allocation is made for time to time. Thackeray directed the VIDC officials to resolve the issues of project affected persons (PAPs). The project has affected more than 14,000 families out of which 11,000 have been rehabilitated, the officials told the CM. The compensations to PAPs have been granted as per the laws and if at all there are any demands it may be over and above, a source told TOI. The CM’s visit was also marked by protests by a group of farmers led by Congress activist Govind Bhendarkar, who stopped the cavalcade. They were protesting against the delay in completion of the Ghodazari canal which is a part of right canal of Gosikhurd project. It is located at Nagbhid taluka of Chandrapur district. Thackeray got down from his vehicle and assured the protesters that their concerns will be addressed. Bhendarkar said the work on the canal had started in 2006, “yet 14 years down the lines hardly any irrigation has happened”. The canal is supposed to irrigate 34,000 hectares of land. A number of contractors have left leaving the work midway, he said. Chimur BJP MLA kept out of CM visit targets Wadettiwar Kirtikumar Bhangadia, the BJP MLA from Chimur, has alleged that he was deliberately kept out even as the chief minister was visiting the Gosikhurd project sites located in his constituency. Bhangadia alleged this happened at the behest of his political rival Vijay Wadettiwar, the Congress leader who is the relief and rehabilitation minister in the MVA government. Bhangadia had filed a complaint against Wadettiwar alleging that he had not disclosed criminal cases against him while applying for a passport. This has led to Wadettiwar’s passport being impounded. The BJP MLA said it was a breach of protocol to have not called him and would be taking this up with the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/will-allocate-funds-for-projects-keeping-in-mind-states-finances-cm/articleshow/80178261.cms||Shishir Arya
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun horror: Main accused arrested from same village, close to where the crime took place||Bareilly: The main accused in the alleged gang-rape and murder of an anganwadi worker, 50, was on Thursday night found hiding just a few metres away from the crime spot in the Budaun village. Several teams of Special Task Force (STF), which were looking for Satyanarayan for the last three days, finally managed to arrest him after a tip-off by locals. He was then interrogated for over 14 hours. Sources in Budaun police told TOI that Satyanarayan claimed to have taken the injured woman to two private hospitals, but they refused to admit her. “He then returned and dumped her outside her home,” a source said. However, there was no official confirmation on this. The two co-accused have already been arrested. Later, Satyanarayan was produced before a court which sent him to jail. Local police said that it would seek his remand after verifying all the information given by him. Two women, aged 40 and 45 years, have also been detained for questioning. But the police didn’t tell the reason and the nature of the questioning. They are said to the disciples of the priest. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) of Badaun, Sankalp Sharma, told TOI, “We have summoned a few more suspects for questioning, which is part of the investigation. There are certain facts that cannot be disclosed at this moment. Action is likely against those who provided food and support to him.” When asked if the accused was arrested with the support of a few villagers, the SSP said, “Satyanarayan was hiding in a crop field while our teams were searching for him in the residential areas and they tipped us about him. After he was arrested, few villagers even tried to assault Satyanarayan but our team took him out of the village safely.” Munish Kumar, a local villager, said, “Satyanarayan alias Satyaveer Singh looked after a temple built on land donated by villages. He also claimed to have the treatment for childless couples.” The woman was allegedly gang-raped, brutalised and murdered inside the temple on sunday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-horror-main-accused-arrested-from-same-village-close-to-where-the-crime-took-place/articleshow/80176857.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Two held for raping woman at knifepoint||Trichy: A 40-year-old woman was raped at knifepoint by two people after being forcefully taken to a secluded place. The incident took place in Vandipettai in Nagapattinam district on Wednesday night. The Velipalayam police arrested M Appas alias Arunraj, 25 of Vandipettai near Velipalayam and K Ananth, 24 of Akkaraikulam. The duo, who were known to the woman, was booked on charges of raping her, abusing her in obscene language and criminally intimidating her under sections of the IPC. The woman was working as a labourer. The crime came to light when she lodged a complaint with the Velipalayam police on Thursday night. According to police, the woman was on her way to her sister’s house around 9pm on Wednesday when the accused, who were following her, confronted and forced her to sleep with them. As she refused to budge, they forcefully took her to close to a Vinayagar temple at Vandipettai and raped her. The accused also threatened her with dire consequences. They fled the place after leaving her behind. The woman managed to reach home and brought the matter to her family members before bringing it to the notice of the police. The woman was admitted to hospital. Police said that the accused had no previous cases pending against them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/two-held-for-raping-woman-at-knifepoint/articleshow/80178236.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Dalit man, 65, succumbs after month-long hunger strike in UP||BAREILLY: A 65-year old Dalit man, who was on a hunger strike for nearly a month over encroachment of his property by a few people, died in Uttar Pradesh’s Moradabad on Friday. Family members and locals kept the body at the SSP office gate and created a ruckus, alleging police inaction in the case. The man, identified as Sher Singh, a resident of Dheemri under Majhola police station, had been on a fast since December 15. The family informed that after a local, identified as one Mahendra Pal, allegedly acquired his property illegally, Singh sat on an indefinite hunger strike demanding justice from district administration and police. And also action against the accused. The deceased’s wife, Leelawati, said, “My husband was shocked after learning that one Mahendra Pal has illegally occupied our property. Ever since, we were running from pillar to post and repeatedly visited police officials to take cognizance of the issue.” Leelawati added, “After several failed attempts, my husband, who was already weak, sat on a hunger strike from December 15 onwards, demanding local administration to declare the accused as a ‘land mafia’ and take legal action. However, nothing was done.” The family alleged that they had approached Moradabad police several times. “His health condition deteriorated. We again reached out for help on January 1. He stayed at home while I was making efforts to meet the officials. His health further worsened on Thursday and he passed away,” Leelawati said. Moradabad district hospital authorities said that Singh was brought dead to the hospital by the police on Friday. The body was sent for postmortem and a report is awaited, according to AK Singh, staff at district hospital. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad superintendent of police (SP) Amit Kumar Anand said, “A case was registered at Civil Lines police station in 2015 and FIR was lodged under various sections of IPC against the accused Mahendra Pal. At present, there is a stay in the case and it is pending in Allahabad high court and, therefore, police cannot intervene in the matter." Moreover, Sher Singh’s health condition was already unstable and he was suffering from serious breathing difficulties and even undergoing treatment at a private hospital, Anand added. He, in fact, died while he was undergoing a chest X-ray at a private hospital and the actual cause of death will be ascertained once the autopsy report arrives, the SP (city) said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dalit-man-65-succumbs-after-month-long-hunger-strike-in-up/articleshow/80176868.cms||Maria Khan
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Man tries to kill girl, 11, in UP after brutalising & raping her||BAREILLY: A 22-year-old man raped and brutalised a little girl, nearly half his age, at a crop field and later tried to strangle her to death in order to conceal his identity in the Tilhar area of Uttar Pradesh’s Shahjahanpur on Thursday night. He fled the farm when locals closed in on him. The traumatised girl, who is a daughter of a marginal farmer and studies at a government primary school, was fortunately saved by the locals. The 11-year-old went missing after going out to play at 5pm on Thursday. When she didn’t return for a while, her worried parents and other locals started looking for her. They heard loud cries of pain and went straight to a standing wheat field and found the accused, identified as one Ramesh Kumar, "trying to kill her". The girl was lying without clothes and had sustained multiple injuries with bite marks on her face. Police were immediately informed and the minor was taken to hospital for treatment. “We rushed to the spot and started probing the case. The girl was sent to the community health centre for treatment at night. She had sustained visible injuries. Her condition is now said to be stable," Praveen Solanki, the Tilhar SHO said. Her clothes were recovered from the spot and an FIR has been registered under relevant sections, the SHO added. The accused has been booked under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 376 (rape) of the IPC and the Pocso Act. He was arrested on Friday morning and sent to jail. "We will file a chargesheet in this case soon," the SHO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-tries-to-kill-girl-11-in-up-after-brutalising-raping-her/articleshow/80176876.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Solar power park to be expanded under smart cities mission||Trichy: With the phase I of its solar power park at Panjappur on the Trichy-Madurai national highway nearing completion, Trichy corporation has proposed to expand the green energy production facility under the smart cities mission. The mission’s board has approved the proposal for phase II expansion at a cost of Rs 37.5 crore. While the existing solar power park has a capacity to generate 2.4MW power, phased II will have 7.2 MW capacity. It will come up at about 3 to 5 kilometres from the existing plant situated near Madurai road and Trichy-Madurai NH intersection. About 26 acres of land has been earmarked in the expansion proposal and fencing as well as other amenities will be provided. A sum of Rs 2.9 crore will be allocated for developing supporting infrastructure such as roads, CCTV camera and power room. Pile foundations will be established on the land chosen for phase II atop which panels will be positioned to harness sun rays. The local body will supply the electricity generated from the solar plant to Tangedco’s power grid. While electricity from phase I will go to Tangedco’s E Pudur substation in Trichy city, phase II feed will be supplied to the Manikandan substation. “Phase I has underground electricity transmission cables. Phase II is most likely to have overhead cables to supply the electricity to the substation,” a source involved in the project said. Trichy corporation will get an equivalent sum deducted from the electricity bills it is supposed to pay as part of the city’s operational and maintenance expense in lieu of the power supplied to Tangedco. “The smart cities mission board has approved the plan and once we get the technical sanction, a tender will be floated,” an official source with Trichy corporation said. The expansion project is estimated to be completed in two years. Meanwhile, about 90% of the civil work for phase I of the solar power park has been completed and the facility is expected to open in a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/solar-power-park-to-be-expanded-under-smart-cities-mission/articleshow/80178244.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Sewage overflowing onto road irks E Pudur residents||Trichy: Ever since the monsoon started, the residents and owners of commercial establishments in E Pudur situated on Madurai road are facing sanitation issues due to the overflowing sewage. Although the state highways department had constructed storm water drains in the area recently, a stretch near Kaliamman Koil street in E Pudur was ignored leaving sewage to mix with rainwater and overflow into shops and houses. The wastewater from Kaliamman Koil street that has over 300 houses flows along the Madurai road and passes through Krishnapuram to reach Koraiyar river. E Pudur does not have an underground drainage (UGD) connection and sewage dissipates into the open storm water drain. The storm water drains were constructed as the state highways department had widened the Madurai road recently, However, drains were not constructed for close to 200 metres in Kaliamman Koil street. While other parts of the road passing through E Pudur have a proper drain, the area passing through Kaliamman Koil street lacks one, causing the sewage to overflow. “Recently, when the chief minister visited the city, the roads in other parts of the city were reworked in a couple of days. We have been facing the sewage menace for months but neither corporation nor the highways department bothered to address the issue,” H Ghouse Baig, a resident said. Trichy corporation sources said that an UGD is the permanent solution for arresting the sewage overflow in the locality. “We have temporarily postponed the UGD work due to rain. Once the UGD chambers are facilitated, we can stop the overflow of sewage,” an official with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sewage-overflowing-onto-road-irks-e-pudur-residents/articleshow/80178254.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Notification issued to adopt Centre’s tightened public procurement criteria for border countries like China||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand government on Friday issued the notification to adopt Centre’s tightened eligibility criteria for public procurement or contract invited by the Union government or states from bidders of nations sharing land borders with the country, including Pakistan and China. Earlier, the state cabinet which had met on December 9, 2020, had given its nod for the proposal. An amendment has been made in the Uttarakhand Procurement Policy 2017 to adopt the changes made by the Centre. The changes under rule 144 of General Financial Rules, 2017 of the Centre mentions, “Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, Department of Expenditure may, by order in writing impose restrictions, including prior registration and/or screening, on procurement from bidders of a country or countries, or a class of countries, on grounds of defence of India, or matters directly or indirectly related thereto including national security, no procurement shall be made in violation of such restrictions.” The Union government in October 2020 had tightened the eligibility criteria for public procurements of contracts which were invited by Centre and states from bidders of nations sharing borders with the country like Pakistan and China. As per the provisions, the firms of countries, which share a land border with India, would have to provide details of outsourced parts, goods and sub contracted works and services, technical issues, country of origin and specification of manufacturers. Notably, Uttarakhand, which shares an international border with both China and Nepal, had in the past passed orders to ban the use of Chinese products in its official works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/notification-issued-to-adopt-centres-tightened-public-procurement-criteria-for-border-countries-like-china/articleshow/80176054.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Consider Covid situation while deciding fees: DDE||Nashik: Deputy Director of Education Ravindra Upasani on Friday asked schools in the district to consider Covid-19 situation while deciding fees to be charged for students. “The schools can decide their fees. We have no say in it. But, we have asked them to consider charging fair fees during this particular year because of Covid-19 situation and help children get education,” said Upasani. Upasani had called a meeting of Nashik Parents’ Association and authorities of various schools after the association had demanded that the schools should take rational fees for the academic year 2020- 21. “The meeting was held in a cordial atmosphere. We have asked the school authorities to ask the PTA members to decide the rational fees to be charged for this particular year. The PTA and the members will thereafter appeal to the parents to clear their dues,” Upasani said, adding that he hoped that the schools and parents would cooperate with each other. Upasani also out that the schools have been directed to ensure that they do not block the students from appearing for Class X or Class XII examinations due to non-payment of fees. Nilesh Salunkhe of the Nashik Parents’ Association said that the solution provided by the Deputy Director of Education was much required and in the interest of parents as well as teachers. “Since the parents had spent money on laptops and mobiles, the schools should consider the same and charge only tuition fees this year. We now wait for the schools to take their steps,” said Salunkhe. The Association of Nashik Schools (ANS) has pointed out that they had received guidelines from the DDE and, accordingly, they had already asked the PTA members to decide the fees and other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/consider-covid-situation-while-deciding-fees-dde/articleshow/80176939.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Nashik||NMC utilises used tyres, bottles to beautify gardens||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has utilised used tyres and water bottles to beautify two gardens in Nashik Road area of the city. The Nashik divisional office of the NMC has painted the used tyres, filled it with soil and planted flower plants it in. They have also painted used bottles and placed them on the fence to make the garden more attractive. “We have utilised around 100 used tyres that were collected in garbage vans. Sometimes, rainwater is accumulated in tyres and it becomes a breeding spot for mosquitoes, which then causes viral diseases like dengue,” said Dilip Menkar, the divisional officer of Nashik Road division. Menkar said he has taken the initiative of utilising used waste like tyres and bottles to beautify the gardens. “We are implementing this project under Swachh Survekshan: 2021,” he said. When the trees and plants will grow, the tyres will also work as a tree-guard, he added. NMC is prepared for the Swachh Survekshan: 2021 and the central government teams are expected to visit the city in the second half of January as part of the survey. Last year, Nashik city was 11th in ranking among clean cities in the country. This time, NMC aims Nashik to be among the top five clean cities in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-utilises-used-tyres-bottles-to-beautify-gardens/articleshow/80176925.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rickshaws get entry to rly station||Ahmedabad: Autorickshaws got permission to ply in the Kalupur railway station premises with the Gujarat high court on Friday directing police and the railway authorities to adhere to their parking and traffic regulation policy. While an auto drivers’ association complained that the authorities permit buses and taxis inside the railway station premises, entry was prohibited for autos. The state government and the railways denied the claims and the government placed photographs of autos plying in the premises on early Friday morning. Petitioner association’s advocate K R Koshti disputed the claims and submitted that the authorities allowed entry to the autos only after the PIL was filed. Following the conflicting versions, the high court said that like other vehicles, the autos can also ply in the premises, but they must not be allowed to stay inside the premises for more than 10-15 minutes before re-entry so that vehicle movement doesn’t get clogged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rickshaws-get-entry-to-rly-station/articleshow/80178246.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||U’Khand HC stays denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve||Nainital: In a major blow to the state government, the Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday stayed the denotification of the Shivalik Elephant Reserve. The state wildlife board in its meeting in November 2020 had taken the decision to denotify the reserve and argued that it would pave the way for development works including expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport. The Shivalik Elephant Reserve was notified in 2002 through a government order. However, the state government now argues that the notification of the reserve was done only through a government order and no cabinet approval was secured for the same. The state government said that denotification of the reserve, which spans across over 5,400 sq km and covers both Kumaon and Garhwal regions, will help pave way for the development projects. The government plans to expand the Jolly Grant Airport by procuring around 87 hectares of forest land and felling around 10,000 trees. Environmentalists and locals have been opposing the government’s decision from the very beginning and on Friday the court heard a Public Interest Litigation (PIL) filed by Doon based conservation activist Reenu Paul. After hearing the PIL, the bench of the newly appointed Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Lok Pal Singh stayed the denotification process and issued notices to the Centre, state, state biodiversity board, state wildlife board as well as chief wildlife warden. The court has given all the respondents four weeks’ time to file their replies after which the court will hear the case next. Speaking to TOI, Abhijay Negi, counsel appearing for Paul said that they had cited the recent decision of the Supreme Court, delivered by the bench headed by Chief Justice SA Bobde, where the apex court passed several guidelines for elephant conservation, and that the decision of the state wildlife board was in the “teeth of the apex court’s guidelines”. “We had also cited provisions of the Biological Diversity Act 2002, the Wildlife Protection Act 1972 and argued that it was not open to the state wildlife board to denotify the Shivalik Elephant Reserve in such a summary manner without assessing its ecological impact,” Negi said. Interestingly, the HC had earlier this week taken suo motu cognisance of the denotification and issued notices to the state as well as the Centre. The bench of then acting Chief Justice Ravi Malimath and Justice Alok Kumar Verma however had not stayed the decision. The central government, too, had asked the state to look for any other land space for the expansion of the airport but the state government responded saying no such alternative is available.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-stays-denotification-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve/articleshow/80187610.cms||Prashant Jha
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Police seize nylon manja worth over Rs 70,000||Nashik: With city police taking strict action against the sale of nylon manja, more people are being booked every day for being involved in sale or storage of this banned material. On Thursday, the crime branch unit 1 of city police seized nylon manja worth Rs 35,000, while the unit 2 conducted two raids in Satpur and Ambad wherein manja worth Rs 36,000 were seized. The crime branch unit 1 got information about sale of nylon manja in an apartment in the Suchita Nagar area of Indiranagar. A police team subsequently raided the apartment and seized 62 bundles of strings worth Rs 37,200. The manja was found in possession of a minor boy who was detained by the police and handed over to the Mumbia Naka police for further action. Ananda Wagh of crime branch Unit 1 said their unit has so far seized nylon manja worth Rs 73,000. Meanwhile, unit 2 of the crime branch led by police inspector Ajay Shinde got information about a person selling nylon manja in the Maharana Pratap Chowk under the Ambad police station. A team led by Sinde laid a trap and detained a person from whom they recovered 26 bundles of manja worth Rs 16,200. The manja seller was then handed over to the Ambad police station for further investigation. At the same time, another team of the crime branch unit 2 recovered manja worth Rs 19,400 from Pimpalgaon Bahula under the Satpur police station after getting information about a seller.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/police-seize-nylon-manja-worth-over-rs-70000/articleshow/80176949.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||New ROB to come up at Doon; GO issued for 2 Atal Utkrist Vidyalaya in each block||Dehradun: An amount of Rs 44.58 crore has been approved for a Rail Over Bridge (ROB) in Bhandari Bagh area of Dehradun. Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat released the first installment of Rs 4.50 crore for the project, which is expected to be completed in the next two years. The state government has released 10% of its share. The project will help people moving towards GMS road and Saharanpur road and it would also end the long traffic holdovers near the Aadhat Bazaar. Meanwhile, a government order for two Atal Utrisht Vidyalayas in each block was issued on Friday. A total of 190 schools, affiliated with the CBSE board, are to be opened across the state. The schools would have state-of-the-art facilities and quality education would be ensured for students, say officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-rob-to-come-up-at-doon-go-issued-for-2-atal-utkrist-vidyalaya-in-each-block/articleshow/80176063.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||PIL seeks nod to cremate||The Gujarat high court on Friday sought reply from the state government in response to a PIL that seeks permission for the relatives of Covid-19 victims to cremate their bodies by adhering to all precautionary norms. At present, the Covid-19 protocols for disposal of dead bodies require cremation or burial of the dead by a special team which follows the norms laid down, so that the infection does not spread among those who dispose of the bodies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pil-seeks-nod-to-cremate/articleshow/80178267.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Karur man was another victim of caste killing, says Evidence||Trichy: Two days after the murder of a 23-year-old man in Karur district by relatives of an 18-year-old girl with whom he was in a relationship, Evidence, a Madurai-based human rights organisation, has alleged that it was a case of caste killing. The organisation’s executive director, A Kathir, said their fact-finding team had found that the parents of the girl were opposed to her relationship with a man from a lower caste. Hailing from Therku Theru in Karur town, J Hariharan, an engineering graduate, was stabbed to death by some people in broad daylight on Wednesday. Belonging to the most backward class community, he was running a salon near his house and was in love with a girl in his neighbourhood who belonged to a backward class community. Trichy district superintendent of police P Pakalavan said the girl was in a relationship but stopped talking to him in recent months after being scolded by her parents. “Hariharan was found to have disturbed the girl on a few occasions though she asked him not to do so, which we came to know by analysing their phone conversations. But Hariharan continued to disturb her which prompted her relatives to call him and warn him,” he said. However, an altercation ensued which turned violent with one of her relatives stabbing Hariharan with a knife on his abdomen and back which eventually led to his death. The incident seems to have happened due to a sudden provocation, said the SP. Saying that it is a clear case of caste killing, Kathir said the girl was in love with Hariharan for the last three years and had even called Hariharan’s mother and expressed her wish to marry him. Hariharan was attacked by not less than 12 people but police have booked only five. They should also be included in the case, he said. Pointing out nine deaths related to eight cases of caste killing in the state during the lockdown, Kathir urged the government to frame policies to ensure the safety of inter-caste couples marrying against their parents’ wish. He also sought creation of special laws as directed by the central government to prevent such killings as mandated by Supreme Court in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-man-was-another-victim-of-caste-killing-says-evidence/articleshow/80178263.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Villagers terrorised as officials refuse to pay pvt dog catchers to trap stray dogs that mauled a teenage girl||Pilibhit: The animal husbandry department has failed to make any arrangement to trap feral dogs in village Bagwa under Jahanabad police station that mauled a 13-year-old student of Class IV on January 5, while she was returning home from her father’s agricultural field. District magistrate Pulkit Khare had issued orders for their immediate trapping and release at a distant place. But, despite the atmosphere of fear in the village, the animal husbandry department declined to spend the mere Rs 10,000 that a Bareilly-based team of professional dog catchers had demanded. “It is unfortunate that a sum of Rs 10,000 is more important for the animal husbandry department than the lives of villagers,” reacted villagers, preferring to remain anonymous. Chief veterinary officer Dr Akhilesh Garg has now written a letter to the deputy director of Pilibhit Tiger Reserve, to provide a dart gun to tranquilize the strays. Veterinary officer Vishwas Singh, who has been assigned by the government the responsibility of getting the strays trapped, said, “As there is a lack of expert manpower and equipment to trap strays in Pilibhit, a private group of professional dog catchers had been approached. But they demanded Rs 10,000, which was not possible for the department to pay due to its assigned limitations.” “We’ll tranquilize the dogs by using a dart gun with the assistance of Dr S K Rauthaur, another government veterinary officer,” he said. PTR deputy director Naveen Khandelwal said he has received a letter requesting for a dart gun. “Although the gun is exclusively meant for use on wild animals, but for the sake of saving human lives, we can lend it to the animal husbandry department. But the chief veterinary officer will have to arrange for sedatives from the market, as the forest department can’t spare any,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/villagers-terrorised-as-officials-refuse-to-pay-pvt-dog-catchers-to-trap-stray-dogs-that-mauled-a-teenage-girl/articleshow/80176898.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Guv asks Manisankar to continue as BDU VC||Trichy: Within hours after P Manisankar handed over charge to the vice-chancellor committee of Bharathidasan University (BDU) on Thursday, the governor’s office asked him to continue as VC till further orders. The four-member VC committee was constituted in the special syndicate meeting held on Tuesday to run the administration. The committee was headed by higher education secretary S Apoorva as convenor. Director of collegiate education (DCE) K Vivekanandan and syndicate members V Nithya and M Selvam were the three members in the committee. The governor has also asked the vice-chancellor of Alagappa University to continue, whose tenure ended a few days back. While there is no clarity on how long the vice-chancellors will continue in their post, the vice chancellor search committee headed by P Ramasamy, former vice-chancellor of Alagappa University, has started the section process. The committee is expected to recommend three names to the governor who will take the final call.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/guv-asks-manisankar-to-continue-as-bdu-vc/articleshow/80178266.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||District hospital without anti-rabies vaccine for weeks as stray dog & monkey attacks rise||AGRA: Cases of attacks by feral monkeys and dogs are on the rise in Agra district, but for over three weeks, anti-rabies vaccine (ARV) is out of stock at Agra district hospital. Other government centres are also out of stock, even though doctors say anti-rabies injections must be provided to victims within 24 hours of being bitten by dogs or monkeys. Across Agra district, the number of cases of monkey bites has increased by 50% in recent months. On average, 200 cases of dog and monkey bites are being reported at out-patient departments (OPD) of government health facilities, of which, 80 cases are of wounds caused by monkeys. Superintendent in-charge of district hospital Satish Verma said, “Anti-rabies injection is not available as there is no supply since December 14. The matter has been brought to the notice of higher authorities. We’re regularly attending monkey and dog bite cases at the OPD here.” Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr R C Pandey, said, “Efforts are being made to ensure availability of ARV at government centres. A demand for its supply is pending with the headquarters. Very soon, ARV injections will be made available to district hospital and other government centres.” Fatehabad resident Mukesh Verma said, “My grandson was attacked by monkeys on Thursday morning. He was scratched by monkeys all over the body. We went to the district hospital, but they said the anti-rabies injection was unavailable. Now I am trying to make alternative arrangements.” Malpura resident Shivprakash said, “A stray dog bit my wife on Wednesday. I took her to the local community health center, but they had no ARV. I went to the district hospital, but they too did not have it. Authorities should try to understand that everyone can’t afford private healthcare.” According to sources, ARV injections at district hospitals are given to patients free of cost. In the market, its maximum retail price is Rs 380, but claiming shortage of supply, shopkeepers charge Rs 500-600. A senior consultant at the district hospital OPD said, “We don’t have ARV but provide proper guidance to patients. A person who is exposed and has never been vaccinated against rabies, should get four doses of the vaccine — one dose right away, followed by additional doses on the 3rd, 7th and 14th day.” “On average, 60 vials of the vaccine are used at the district hospital every day. Three to four patients can be vaccinated from one vial,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/district-hospital-without-anti-rabies-vaccine-for-weeks-as-stray-dog-monkey-attacks-rise/articleshow/80176916.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 9, 2021||Trichy||Spas, parlours told to register with corpn||Trichy: The Trichy Corporation has asked spas and beauty and massage parlours functioning in the city to register with it. A licence from the corporation has been made mandatory for salons and beauty parlours. Corporation officials said that people operating the salons and spas can approach any one of the four zonal offices or main office of the civic body to avail the application forms. A sum of Rs 300 has to be paid while submitting the application affixed with photograph ID and address proofs. After receiving the applications, the health department will conduct field inspections to ascertain the operations of the salons and spas to award licence. The commercial establishments were told to apply for the licence before February 6. The civic body said that owners of commercial establishments would face legal actions under the provisions of the Trichy City Municipal Corporation Act 1994 if they failed to do so. The move has come after a section of spas and beauty parlours were caught running a prostitution racket in disguise. To tackle this, the city police and district administration had directed the civic body to regulate the presence of salons, massage and beauty parlours. So far, the civic body has not carried out such a process to enumerate and streamline the salons and spas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/spas-parlours-told-to-register-with-corpn/articleshow/80178257.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun gang rape case: SHO & SI booked for not filing the FIR on time||BAREILLY: Police in UP’s Budaun district on Friday booked its own station house officer (SHO) and an outpost in-charge after finding them guilty of not taking prompt action in the alleged gang-rape and murder of an anganwadi worker. The 50-year-old woman was allegedly gang-raped, brutalised and murdered on the premises of a temple in a village in Budaun district. The alleged incident took place on Sunday night. However, an FIR was registered on Tuesday evening after the post-mortem examination revealed that the woman had sustained multiple injuries, including several on her private parts. SHO Raghvendra Pratap Singh-- now under suspension-- allegedly tried to hush up the matter and had told his seniors that the woman died due to some accident. IG of Bareilly range, Rajesh Kumar Pandey, told TOI, “After speaking with the family members and taking other facts into consideration, it was clearly evident that the SHO and local police outpost in-charge didn’t acknowledge the family’s complaint which is why I have ordered to file an FIR against them.” An FIR under IPC section 166-A (public servant disobeying direction under law) has been registered against SHO Singh and police outpost in-charge Amarjeet Singh. Amarjeet was also suspended for not taking action after the family approached him with a complaint. Meanwhile, there was uproar in the district police after the alleged leakage of post mortem report in public. Budaun DM Kumar Prashant ordered a magisterial inquiry into it. The anganwadi worker had left home on Sunday evening to offer prayers at the temple that she frequented. A few hours later she was brought home, profusely bleeding, in a serious condition, by three men in a car. They sped away after leaving her there. The woman died barely a few moments later. All the three accused including the temple priest have been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-gang-rape-case-sho-si-booked-for-not-filing-the-fir-on-time/articleshow/80176894.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Allahabad||RT-PCR report must for enteringMagh Mela area: UP Govt tells HC||Prayagraj: Individuals visiting the defined Magh Mela area of Prayagraj would be allowed entry only if they would have a negative RT-PCR report within five days of entering Prayagraj district. This was stated by the chief secretary of Uttar Pradesh in the programmes and instructions submitted by him before the court hearing the PIL relating to Covid-19 on Thursday. While taking the submission and programme of chief secretary on record, a division bench comprising Justice Siddhartha Varma and Justice Ajit Kumar observed, “After having gone through the instructions, we are not convinced, at all, that the steps which are being taken by the state, would be sufficient to stop the infection if it came through someone who entered inside Prayagraj with it.” However, while fixing as January 12 as the next date of hearing of this PIL, the court directed the state government that by the next date, it may come up with foolproof methods by which it intended to control the spread of the infection. “They may keep in mind that such congregations during month of Magh are very large in number and if even one infected person sneaks inside the city he can create havoc,” the court added. The court further directed the state government to place before it a definite date and intended programme before the court as to when and how the vaccination for the elimination of Covid-19 would be done in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The court passed this order when upon a question being put to state counsel as to when the vaccination programme for elimination of Covid-19 would be started in the country, he requested for time to take instructions. Besides, the court also directed the chief secretary to inform the court by means of an affidavit as to how and in what manner such places of worships which had been constructed over the public land had to be removed. The court passed these directives on January 7.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/rt-pcr-report-must-for-enteringmagh-mela-area-up-govt-tells-hc/articleshow/80176865.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Meerut||UP: Inter-state gang busted, illicit liquor & raw material worth crores recovered, 13 arrested||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a major crackdown on illicit liquor trade in the region, 2,400 litres of spurious liquor and a huge cache of packaging material worth crores of rupees, was recovered in a raid from a factory in the district. Thirteen people were arrested in the raid and 28 cases registered. According to police, the gang used to supply illicit liquor across UP and neighbouring states. According to police, 55,000 empty bottles, 82,000 wrappers, 20,000 caps, 45,000 bar codes, 500 boxes and equipment for making illicit liquor and sealing bottles were also recovered in the raid. Later, the official handle of the UP home department tweeted: “A reward of Rs 2 lakh is being given to the team for their exemplary work, by ACS Sri Awasthi Awanishk.” Police sources said, with gram panchayat elections in the state forthcoming, two of the accused — Vishal and Sonu — who worked in a Muzaffarnagar liquor factory and know how to make liquor, saw an opportunity to make quick money and set up the illegal liquor plant in Mansoorpur. More people joined them later. Police have sent a sample of the liquor for testing, to find the percentage of alcohol in it. The Muzaffarnagar SSP also ordered the crime branch and police to dig further in the matter and locate places where this liquor had been supplied. All six arrested have several criminal cases registered against them. According to Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav, “The members belong to the same gang that was busted last year and sent to jail. After their release on bail, they have resumed making and selling illicit liquor. Due to the forthcoming gram panchayat elections, raids against illegal liquor are being conducted across the district. Following the drive, on Monday, crime branch and Mansoorpur police raided an isolated location and arrested 13 other members of the gang. Further probe is being conducted in the matter.” In November 2019, police had busted the same gang and arrested 12 accused, recovering 5 lakh fake barcodes, 30 lakh bottle caps, 25 lakh wrappers of branded liquor, along with huge quantities of spurious liquor and three cars in the raid. The accused used to smuggle cheap liquor from Haryana and Punjab, re-label the bottles with wrappers of branded liquor and supply in various states. A crime branch source said, “West UP districts of Muzaffarnagar, Meerut, Bijnor, Saharanpur, Hapur, Amroha are the primary market for this liquor, though it has been traced to locations as far as Uttarakhand and West Bengal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/inter-state-gang-busted-illicit-liquor-raw-material-worth-crores-recovered-13-arrested/articleshow/80176510.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||Agra acid attack survivor battles govt apathy in hope of aid||AGRA: Ever since she was discharged from hospital in August 2019, Nisha Verma, an acid attack survivor, has been making the rounds of various offices to claim monetary assistance provided to people like her. But till date, Nisha, whose husband poured acid over her, has not received a single penny. With a five-year-old daughter, three-year-old son, an aged mother and a handicapped brother dependent on her, she is on the brink. Talking with TOI, Nisha said, “I am fed up making rounds of government offices. Despite much delay, I have not received any government help meant for acid attack survivors. I am not able to arrange for medicines and further treatment. I can’t see or hear properly. My kids are suffering. I cannot provide milk to them.” She said, “My mother’s pension has stopped, and my brother is disabled. We are surviving on the mercy of relatives and subsist on one meal a day. I am trying to arrange for money to go and meet chief minister Yogi Adityanath and request him for help.” The UP police Mahila Samman Prakoshth, a unit within the police department dedicated to the security, dignity and empowerment of women, has approved her case file. But the file is stuck in the district probation department. District probation officer Luvkush Bhargava said, “There is provision to provide Rs 3 lakh to 10 lakh monetary assistance under the state government scheme for acid attack survivors. The amount is determined on the basis of doctor’s report. The victims can be helped in other schemes as well. I will look into Nisha Verma’s case. She can come and meet me in the office.” Nisha suffered at the hands of an abusive alcoholic-gambler husband, Mukesh Verma of Bodla locaility, for five years. Then, on April 4, 2019, he poured acid over her. She was admitted at SN Medical College. Later in May, she was referred to Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi. She was discharged in August but had to make several trips to Delhi for surgeries and post-operative care. In between her hospital trips, Nisha began to submit applications for aid under government scheme for acid attack survivors at the office of the district magistrate, sub-divisional magistrate, senior superintendent of police and district probation officer, but to no avail. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “I am not aware of the entire matter. The acid attack survivor will be suitably helped. Time-bound action will be ensured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/agra-acid-attack-survivor-battles-govt-apathy-in-hope-of-aid/articleshow/80176929.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Patient in hosp despite testing -ve for UK strain||Nagpur: The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) did not discharge one of the five suspected patients of UK variant of novel coronavirus for a day despite testing negative in genome sequencing. The National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, is delaying results of two of the remaining four suspected patients, thus prolonging their discharge though they have completed 15 days in the special ward at GMCH. The patient who tested negative for the UK strain is a resident of Vitthalwadi, Hudkeshwar Road. “I came to know about testing negative from news reports. The NIV has sent the report to GMCH on Thursday. Despite talking to many from GMCH, nobody confirmed it. I was not given discharge on Friday,” he said. The man’s father is a cancer patient and requires some diagnosis immediately. “I am helpless because I have been admitted at GMCH since December 30. I am also incurring financial losses,” he said. The GMCH on Monday had discharged three suspected patients within two hours of receiving reports from NIV. Their swab samples were not taken for genome sequencing as they had tested negative in RT-PCR tests. One had completed 12 days, second nine days and the third patient five days at the special ward. The man from Vitthalwadi has completed nine days. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “I have directed GMCH to discharge the patient whose reports are negative from NIV.” Dean of GMCH Dr Sajal Mitra did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. Sources from GMCH said, “The medicine department which is treating suspected patients is yet to receive copy of the negative report of the particular patient from either office of dean or medical superintendent.” A mother (42)-daughter (16) duo from Deendayal Nagar have completed 15 days in the special ward. The NIV has not send their reports. The civic chief convened a meeting of the urban task force on Friday. “It was decided that suspected patient will be discharged if genome sequencing report from NIV is negative and RT-PCR test done here is also negative. In case NIV results don’t come, patient will be discharged if RT-PCR tests done on 15th and 16th day are negative,” he said. “The director of health services has assured to talk to NIV and ensure results in a day or two. We will implement decisions taken in the meeting if no response from NIV and director of health services,” he said. Directorate of Medical Research and Education (DMER) had already cleared that suspected patients will not be discharged till NIV reports are received. RT-PCR test of woman was conducted on Thursday (14th day) and results were positive. Results of daughter were negative, so samples were collected for second test on Friday and the result will come on Saturday. As per NIV, genome sequencing of one of the remaining two suspected patients — father (35)-son (6) duo – was not done as quantity of sample sent by GMCH was not sufficient. The man had completed 12 days and his son nine days at GMCH. Radhakrishnan said, “They will also be discharged once decisions of urban task force are implemented.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/patient-in-hosp-despite-testing-ve-for-uk-strain/articleshow/80178282.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Health dept to set up 17 Covid-19 test centres at Haridwar for Kumbh Mela||Haridwar: A total of 17 special Covid-19 testing centres will be set up in Haridwar by the Uttarakhand health department for the pilgrims arriving in the religious town for the upcoming Kumbh Mela. The centres will be established at border checkpoints and railway stations. According to the officials, both rapid antigen and RT-PCR tests will be done at these centres. Dr AK Sanger, Kumbh Mela health officer, told TOI, “We have decided to set up 17 Covid-19 testing centres at the Kumbh Mela for the pilgrims. All the entry points — railway stations and bus stops — will be covered by the health department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/health-dept-to-set-up-17-covid-19-test-centres-at-haridwar-for-kumbh-mela/articleshow/80176074.cms||MS Nawaz
January 9, 2021||Agra||Taj Mahotsav cancelled due to Covid, preparation for mini-kumbh in Mathura commences||Agra: In absolutely contradictory stands, while the Agra administration has cancelled its yearly 10-day cultural extravaganza ‘Taj Mahotsav’ due to the scare of Covid-19 spread, Mathura administration has started preparations for organising the ‘mini-kumbh’ next month, an event that happens once in 12 years. Traditionally called the ‘sant samagam’, mini-kumbh is basically a meeting point for all the prominent ascetics before the main kumbh event. Confirming the cancellation of the Agra event, district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said that the decision has been taken due to fear of the virus spread. “We can, however, think of organising it after a few months, if Covid cases remain low,” he said. On being asked about the mini-kumbh being organized in the adjoining district during the same period, Singh, said that it’s a traditional event unlike the Mahotsav and has a fixed time period. Interestingly, the Agra administration has allowed the functioning of night bazar from January 8 to 17 at the Kothi Meena Bazar ground. When contacted, Mathura district magistrate Navneet Singh Chahal said that the administration is fully prepared for the mini- Kumbh. “A dedicated medical team will be in place to collect samples of visitors and isolate them, if required,” he said, adding that all safety protocols for Covid-19 will be followed and dispensaries and hospitals will also set up for the event. Chahal said that this is a spiritual event, where saints organize a collective meeting, prior to the Haridwar kumbh. However, a large number of devotees also come from far-off places in the mini-kumbh, especially at the time of Shahi Snan. Mathura SSP Gaurav Grover told TOI that around 3,000 police personnel will be deputed for security purposes at the mini-Kumbh, which will be held from February 16 to March 28 after 12 years. In contrast, the cancellation of the annual carnival which has been organised for the past 30 years in Agra without a break, has disappointed the tourism industry, tourists as well as the artisans, who come from different parts of the country to set up stalls in Shilpagram to showcase their talent. Tourism Guild of Agra’s vice-president Rajiv Saxena said that the cancellation of Taj Mahotsava is yet another body blow to the tourism industry in Agra. “We could have implemented SOPs and curtailed the number of visitors for a safe and secure Mahotsav experience as it’s a calendar event. However, the administration has given permission for a night bazaar, which will attract huge crowds.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/taj-mahotsav-cancelled-due-to-covid-preparation-for-mini-kumbh-in-mathura-commences/articleshow/80176933.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Congress leaders too are ‘bhakts’ of Sambhajiraje: Sanjay Raut||NASHIK: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Friday said that Congress leaders and functionaries too are ‘bhakts’ (followers) of Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje and that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has not taken any decision against the renaming of Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. Raut was speaking to reporters here during a ceremony to induct local BJP leaders Sunil Bagul and Vasant Gite into the Sena. “Sambhajinagar is Sambhajinagar and will remain so. Congress party is opposing the renaming of the city, but their leaders are bhakts (disciples) of Sambhajiraje. They cannot be the ‘bhakts’ of Aurangazeb as he was not a secular person,” said the Sena leader. He also reminded the BJP that Aurangabad city was named Sambhajinagar by none other than the late Balasaheb Thackeray, founder of Shiv Sena. Raut dared the BJP to decide on the renaming of Aurangabad in Bihar after a Hindu personality. “Bihar chief minister (Nitish Kumar) has made it clear that the district’s name will not change. Our chief minister has, however, not taken any such stand.” Maharashtra Congress chief and state revenue minister Balasheb Thorat has made it clear on social media that the renaming of Aurangabad was not part of the common minimum programme (CMP) of the MVA government. Asked about Thorat’s stand, Raut said CMP is limited to food, shelter, education, development and related issues for running of the government. It does not restrict anybody from taking decisions based on people’s demands or sentiments. Two days back, the Maharashtra CMO, in one of the tweets about cabinet decisions, had mentioned the city as Sambhajinagar. However, Thorat had objected to it saying that the Directorate of Information and Publicity should not rename cities on its own and that it should remember that official work is a legal document.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/raut-cong-leaders-too-are-bhakts-of-sambhajiraje/articleshow/80176069.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Nashik||NMC to bring new residential properties under tax net||NASHIK: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has sought details of all residential buildings constructed in the city in the last three years for which the builders have not taken Building Completion certificates (BCC), but have given possession to the buyers. Such residential buildings are to be brought under the net of property tax. Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has directed divisional officers of all six divisions of the city body to identify properties which are yet to get BCCs, but the possession has been given by builders to buyers. Speaking to TOI, Jadhav said that there are several properties in the city which are not listed in property and water tax. “We have decided to bring such properties under the net of property tax. Directives have been given to all divisional officers to gather information about such residential buildings,” said Jadhav. “NMC will identify all such properties which will generate additional revenue to the tune of Rs 100 crore. We have taken up the issue on priority basis since revenue generation has dropped due to Covid-19 pandemic and we are unable to complete the projects due to cash crunch,” said Jadhav. “We are facing shortage of manpower to distribute and collect property and water tax dues. We require staff of around 600 people and at present, we have only staff of 100,” said commissioner, adding that the civic body is currently focusing on maximum recovery of property and water tax for the current financial year. The property tax collection of the civic body during the first nine months (April-December) of the current financial year has declined by 25% due to Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-bring-new-residential-properties-under-tax-net/articleshow/80176960.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Athawale says RPI(A) will remain with BJP||Nashik: Republican Party of India president Ramdas Athawale on Friday said that his party will support BJP during the forthcoming elections. During his day-long visit to Nashik city, Athawale addressed several issues and down played Vasant Gite and Sunil Bagul deserting BJP saying that they will not affect the party much. “We are standing strong with BJP and will continue to support the party even during NMC elections. We have large number of ‘incoming’ from Vanchit Bahujan Aghadi not only in Nashik but across the state,” said Athawale. Speaking about the renaming of Aurangabad city after Chhatrapati Sambhaji Raje, Athawale said, “We have no issues whatever the name of ‘that’ town is. We only want the airport of that city to be named after ‘Ellora’ caves as it is a tourist attraction across the world.” He however quipped that the ‘renaming’ of the city could pave way for BJP (and RPI-A) forming the government given that Congress would step out from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leading to its fall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/athawale-says-rpia-will-remain-with-bjp/articleshow/80176955.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Goa||Panaji mkt encroachment crackdown evokes day-long bandh by traders||Panaji: Members of the Panaji municipal market tenants association held a day-long market bandh on Thursday in protest against the Corporation of City of Panaji’s (CCP) crackdown on encroachment. The CCP drive, on Wednesday, had seen parts of some shops dismantled. The corporation, however, stood its ground stating that the whip was cracked based on recommendations of the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA), which had inspected the market on Tuesday. The market will open as usual on Friday. After the FDA found gutka, rodent and bug infestation and unhygienic conditions at the market on Tuesday, CCP on Wednesday removed the wooden encroachments on the ground floor, which were attributed to be the reason for the vermin infestation. “This wooden encroachment is a vertical structure that fits well within the premises. Where is the question of illegalities? All this while no one from the CCP raised an objection to the wooden structure,” secretary of the association, Dharmendra Bhagat, said. “If we have violated some rules, the CCP should have given us a warning or issued notices asking us to remove the structures. Instead, there was a raid wherein our livelihoods were disrupted and the saleable items of the poorest of the poor tenants were confiscated,” another member of the association said. In protest, the tenants and businessmen observed a bandh on Thursday and kept their kiosks closed for most part of the day. Mayor Uday Madkaikar defended the CCP’s move claiming that it was done in a bid to keep the market clean following the FDA’s inspection. “None of the sopo vendors have been removed from the premises. We have only removed the encroachment so that there is free passage for customers. The wooden structure is supposed to be 1.5m, but they have encroached by making it 2m or 2.5m. We will ensure that there are no such encroachments in future,” he said. Congress Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar and AAP’s Valmiki Naik met with the tenants on Thursday and condemned the actions of the CCP. Naik gave the CCP a 48-hour ultimatum to return the vendors’ confiscated goods failing which he threatened to protest at the market complex.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/panaji-mkt-encroachment-crackdown-evokes-day-long-bandh-by-traders/articleshow/80275842.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Agra||Will get vaccinated only after Modi takes a shot, says Tej Pratap Yadav||AGRA: Former Bihar health minister and elder son of Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) chief Lalu Prasad Yadav, Tej Pratap Yadav, who reached Mathura on Thursday, said that he would get himself vaccinated for Covid-19 only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi takes a shot. Interacting with reporters in Vrindavan, Yadav said that he had been visiting the temple town for years, as he gets “energy from Krishna darshan”. Adding that he totally supports the agitating farmers and their stand on the new farm laws, Yadav said, “The government should accede to their demands.” Yadav’s comments add to the skepticism expressed by many other politicians over the Covid vaccine. Earlier, former UP chief minister and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav had said that he would not take the vaccination shot as he did not trust the BJP. “I cannot take the BJP’s vaccine,” he had said in a press conference in Lucknow, adding if his party came to power in the state, he would provide a free vaccine to everyone. Congress leader Manish Tewari has also raised questions on the reliability of the vaccine. “The BJP government has politically misused the Covid-19 pandemic in its entirety. The controversy over the vaccine is its latest manifestation. Who is going to get himself vaccinated with a vaccine that has question marks on its reliability,” Tewari had told a news agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/will-get-vaccinated-only-after-modi-takes-a-shot-says-tej-pratap-yadav/articleshow/80176940.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 9, 2021||India||India to chair crucial UNSC panels on Taliban, terror||NEW DELHI: After it took over as a non-permanent member of the UNSC, India will chair three crucial subsidiary committees, namely Taliban and Libya sanctions committees and also the Counter-Terrorism Committee, the government announced on Friday. India began its two-year tenure at the UNSC as a non-permanent member on January 1. "The UN Security Council establishes subsidiary bodies on specific issues, including on the sanctions regimes," said India's Permanent Representative to UN T S Tirumurti. He said the Taliban sanctions committee, also known as the 1988 Sanctions Committee, had always been a high priority for India, keeping in mind the country's strong interest and commitment to peace, security, development and progress of Afghanistan. "Our chairing this committee at this juncture will help keep the focus on the presence of terrorists and their sponsors threatening the peace process in Afghanistan. It has been our view that peace process and violence cannot go hand in hand," he said. The foreign ministry said India, during its tenure as a UNSC member, will be guided by a commitment to promote responsible and inclusive solutions to international peace and security, a new orientation for a reformed multilateral system and a world view anchored in India's ethos of "Vasudhaiva Kutumbakam". "With regard to Afghanistan, India and Afghanistan as contiguous neighbours share a natural historical relationship. Our strategic partnership and long-term commitment to the development of Afghanistan reflects this time-tested partnership. We have invested heavily in peace and development in Afghanistan and we support all efforts to bring peace and stability there," said spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. "Our position on the peace process has also been articulated. The peace process must be Afghan-led, Afghan-owned and Afghan-controlled. As an an important stakeholder, we look forward to working towards a peaceful, prosperous, sovereign, democratic and united Afghanistan," he added. Tirumurti said India will also chair the Counter-Terrorism Committee in 2022, which coincides with the 75th anniversary of India's independence. "The chairing of this committee has a special resonance for India, which has not only been in the forefront of fighting terrorism, especially cross-border terrorism, but has also been one of its biggest victims," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-to-chair-crucial-unsc-panels-on-taliban-terror/articleshow/80180875.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC forgets hand-wash facility during dry run||CLEARED. QUOTE EXPECTED Aurangabad: The dry-run for Covid-19 carried out by Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) passed off smoothly, barring the lapse of logistic arrangement of setting up hand-wash facility at the entrance. A lapse to this effect was recorded by Aurangabad unit of the National Public Health Surveillance Project, a joint collaboration of Government of India and World Health Organization. In its feedback report, the aforesaid authority hailed the micro-planning and other arrangements in the form of human resource and facilities during the dry-run. AMC health officer Neeta Padalkar said one can follow hand wash with soap water or use sanitizer as per guidelines. "Wherever hand-wash basin is not available you can use sanitizer which is equally effective. And we used hand sanitizer," she said. Meanwhile, attractive rangolis, selfie-points and catchy display of Information, Education and Communication material were some of the characteristic features at health centres in rural and urban areas of Aurangabad. In rural areas, the dry-run was held at Bhagatsing School in Bajaj Nagar in presence of Aurangabad district collector Sunil Chavan, who appealed to citizens and other stakeholders to cooperate as and when the actual vaccination drive begins. Dr Mujeeb Sayyed, one of the resource persons associated with the aforesaid project, said it was minor issue which was brought to the notice of civic authorities during dry-run. “Even if the hand-wash facility was absent at the entrance, the authorities provided sanitizer, which was in keeping with the Covid appropriate behaviour. The hand-washing facility was available in observation room,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-forgets-hand-wash-facility-during-dry-run/articleshow/80176966.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolhapur||‘Must ensure vial is used in 4 hours’||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: The dry run of the Covid-19 vaccination process was held Kolhapur Municipal Corporation-run Panchganga hospital and at primary health centre at Shiroli without major logistical problem. KMC’s health officer Amol Mane said that along with the Co-WIN application, three hard copies of the details of the beneficiary with status of the vaccination have to be kept handy. “One stays with the registration panel, second is given to the vaccination panel and third is handed over to staff assigned in the observation room, where each beneficiary has to stay for 30 minutes,” he said. Mane said that there may be a challenge to ensure that once the vial is opened it must be used within four hours and during this period, doses prescribed on the vial needs to be given. “We will ensure adequate registration of the beneficiaries so that such challenges can be overcome. We are going to start vaccination centres at 11 family welfare centres across the city. We have cold chain points at all these centres and if planned microscopically, every thing will go on smoothly,” said Mane. In Solapur, dry run was conducted at Darasha Hospital in Solapur city in presence of senior officials including district collector Milind Shambharkar. Apart from Solapur city, dry run was conducted at three other places including Barshi, Akluj and Hotgi. Solapur zilla parishad chief executive officer Dilip Swami said that each participant took average five minutes for the vaccination. In the first phase, 30,184 health workers in the district will be vaccinated. In Satara district, dry run was conducted at three places including Satara, Karad and Patan. District guardian minister Balasaheb Patil said that administration had completed all the preparations for the vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/must-ensure-vial-is-used-in-4-hours/articleshow/80176972.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Election to executive committee of DMC held||Dehradun: After the culmination of the one-year term of the incumbent executive committee of the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC), elections were held to elect the six members of the panel on Thursday. Similar to last year’s election, candidates were elected unopposed this year as well.The newly-elected six members of the executive committee comprises four BJP members while the remaining 2 are from the Congress. After deliberation with all the stakeholders, city mayor Sunil Uniyal Gama decided to accommodate two councillors from the Congress as well. Notably, the executive committee has 12 members but after the completion of one year, six members were removed through the lottery system while in order to fill the vacant spots, elections were held. The newly elected members of the committee are Anita Garg (ward 22), Satendra Nath (ward 11), Meena Bisht (ward 28), Sachin Thapa (ward 96), Ramesh Kala (ward 38) and Sushila Rawat (ward 58). As of now, the new executive committee has nine BJP councillors while the remaining three ward councillors are from the Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/election-to-executive-committee-of-dmc-held/articleshow/80176091.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Ghar wapsi: 2 BJP leaders join Shiv Sena in Nashik||Nashik: The Nashik unit of Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP) on Friday suffered a big jolt as two of its prominent leaders — former MLA Vasant Gite and Sunil Bagul — joined Shiv Sena in the presence of senior leader and MP Sanjay Raut. “Both the leaders, who were once Shiv Sena functionaries, have now returned to the party-fold. The party is happy to have them back and will give them appropriate responsibilities,” said Raut while welcoming the two leaders. “These are the leaders of Nashik and all the Sena leaders in the city and rural areas warmly welcome them back,” he added. Raut also expressed confidence that the entry of these two leaders would pave way for further development of the party and ensure that Nashik once again became the Shiv Sena bastion. “Elections to the local civic bodies were important for the growth of the party and its functionaries. Hence, we have appealed to our members to ensure that Sena was in power. As far as seat sharing is concerned we will take it up as elections approach,” Raut said. Speaking on the occasion, both Gite and Bagul expressed unhappiness while working with the BJP. “We want to work for the society. Despite having worked for the party, I faced strong opposition from the newly elected and appointed members in the BJP. I know Shiv Sena and also know that I have lot of scope for serving the people,” said Gite. “We (along with Gite) are the ones who have worked for Sena for a long time. The work culture in BJP is not good. We are not given challenges and want to work for the people,” said Bagul.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ghar-wapsi-2-bjp-leaders-join-shiv-sena-in-nashik/articleshow/80176086.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Sikar youth slits cousin’s throat in public to revenge uncle’s ‘abuse’||JAIPUR: Abused allegedly by his uncle for being poor in his studies, a 21-year-old youth took to the extreme and slit his 10-year-old cousin's throat and killed him in broad daylight at Karad village near Khachariawas under Dataramgarh police station area of Sikar on Friday. The criminal act was recorded on video by onlookers who didn't prevent the accused until it was too late. The victim was seen in a pool of blood and later succumbed to his injuries. The accused, identified as Kailash Chandra Raigar, had been preparing for competitive exams. Before killing the uncle's son, he thrashed the boy. Police said that it was a well-planned cold-blooded murder by the accused who was angry with his uncle for scolding him for not doing well in studies. The accused was caught and handed over to the police by villagers. According to police, the accused took his cousins-Uttam Raigar and his seven-year-old brother- to the school saying that he was taking them for the mid-day meal at 1pm. “On the way to school, he started thrashing Uttam. And as Uttam fell down on the ground, the accused took out a blade and slit his throat. Shockingly, witnesses kept making videos of the incident instead of preventing the crime. The victim was already seriously injured with blood oozing out from his neck,” said a senior police officer of Dataramgarh police station Police stated that the videos provided clear evidence of the incident. “We took the boy to the hospital where he was declared brought dead. The accused was later nabbed by the onlookers and we arrested him,” said an officer. When contacted, Kunwar Rastradeep, superintendent of police, said, “The accused has been arrested and we have enough evidence against him.” In the video that went viral, the accused claimed, “My uncle, Gopal Lal Raigar, used to thrash me since I was weak in studies. Some days ago he even slapped me. I will give this as a reason of murder before the police.” Police stated that the accused had also planned to kill the victim's younger brother who managed to flee as soon as he saw him thrash his elder sibling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sikar-youth-slits-cousins-throat-inpublic-to-revenge-uncles-abuse/articleshow/80179611.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Thane||Seven samples of birds sent to Bhopal for tests; three more die||THANE: A day after government maintained there was no outbreak of bird flu in the state, animal husbandry department on Thursday sent samples of seven dead birds to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal to ascertain the cause of death. Anup Kumar, principal secretary (animal husbandry department) said over 800 birds in Thane, Mumbai, Dapoli, Beed and Parbhani died in the last few days and they had sent few samples for analysis to NIHSAD. Dr V V Limaye, joint commissioner, disease investigation section, AHD Pune, said they received remains of few birds, of which they sent bodies of four egrets, a parrot and two crows for testing. “There is no confirmed case of bird flu death in the state. We have sent few specimens for further confirmation to NIHSAD. Reports from NIHSAD may take two to three days,” he said. The department appealed to poultry owners, forest department and general public to spot and report unusual bird mortality in their vicinity. “As a preventive measure, we have urged people and government agencies to keep tabs on unusual deaths of birds in their areas. People must not touch dead birds and not conduct any autopsy or bury them. The public can call 18002330418,” said Kumar. As Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department, confirmed preliminary reports of birds for MMR were negative, a pond heron, a migratory Eurasian vulture and a crow were found dead in Thane, taking the toll in Mumbai metropolitan region to 24. Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane district, said the remains from Thane will be sent for testing to the disease investigation section, Pune. Manoj Badgeri & Shrutika Sukhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/7-dead-birds-samples-sent-to-bhopal-for-tests/articleshow/80177707.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: BJP suspends Christian leader over Bandi Sanjay Kumar remark||HYDERABAD: A day after he spoke against Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar, party’s Christian leader David Andrew Xavier was suspended on Friday. Confirming the suspension, BJP minority morcha president Afsar Pasha told TOI that BJP is not against any religion, but Xavier has crossed the party line by attacking Sanjay openly. “We sent a message to him that he has been suspended. He misconstrued the remarks of our state party chief on Christian community,” Pasha said. Asserting that the party fully supports Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas’ agenda, he said Xavier’s remarks that BJP does not stand with every religion were far from the truth. While his suspension looked inevitable, Xavier claimed he was in line for a bigger role at the state level before the axe fell on him. “Just a few days back, the party leadership had sent me a message that I will be given a bigger role. And now, they are telling me that I was suspended from the party,” Xavier told TOI. He said he cannot undermine the community leaders’ sentiments, taking exception to Sanjay’s remarks that “only one religion (Christianity) seems to matter in Andhra Pradesh”. Xavier said he has no choice now. “I will discuss my suspension issue with the community leaders. We will soon have a meeting,” he said. Sanjay had recently attacked the YSRC government in AP for “allowing desecration of Hindu gods’ idols”. Xavier’s suspension comes close on the heels of suspension of another minority leader Firat Ali Bakri from the party on grounds of indiscipline. “Though he did not speak anything against the party, his conduct was not in tune with party’s protocol,” Pasha said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-suspends-christian-leader-over-bandi-remark/articleshow/80176976.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||Call ASI if you can’t manage: Doshi to IIM-A||Ahmedabad: Noted architect, planner, and Pritzker laureate B V Doshi said the structural safety issues raised by the IIM-A relating to the dormitory buildings on its old campus were unfounded. He said that the present team of architects on the institute’s board was capable of restoring these structures. Doshi criticized the institute for announcing its plans to raze most of the dormitories on the campus designed by the legendary American architect, Louis Kahn. Doshi said the institute should allow the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) to step in and take over the conservation of the campus buildings if the institute management found it beyond its capabilities. He said this in a recent letter to Kumar Mangalam Birla, the chairman of the board of governors for the IIM-A. The country’s premier institute found itself at the centre of a controversy after it released an expression of interest inviting architects and designers to demolish 18 dormitories designed by Kahn. The institute’s management cited multiple problems such as earthquake damage, leaks in the roof, dampness in the walls, and leaks in toilet walls to justify the decision to demolish most of the dormitories. It had planned to build new structures in their place. “I urge you to reconsider your plans and avert the irreparable harm the demolition of the dormitories would cause, not only to the IIM-A’s internationally celebrated campus but also to your institution’s well-deserved reputation as a custodian of modern architecture and the heritage of humanity,” wrote Doshi. “…I can only say that if the IIM management feels it is beyond their ability to restore these very unique and culturally significant buildings then perhaps they should hand them over to the ASI which has great expertise in managing monuments that are much older,” he wrote. Doshi said he was shocked when he learnt about the IIM-A’s decision to raze the dorms. The work of renovation of IIM-A buildings including a library and dorms was given to Mumbai-based Somaya & Kalappa (SNK) Consultants. “I have seen the renovation work they have done on the Vikram Sarabhai Library and I had commented upon seeing it that it now ‘looked as good as new’,” wrote Doshi. “I was very pleased that the long-due renovation work on the Louis Kahn campus was now moving ahead slowly but surely.” He went on to say: “The architects were awarded a Unesco heritage award for their work on the library. They have also successfully renovated one of the most dilapidated dorms (Dormitory 15) which I understand has also been appreciated by many experts.” The IIM-A management did not ascribe any details of why the restoration work failed at Dormitory 15. The “limited life of expensive restoration” was one of the many factors that finally led to the decision to demolish all the dormitories. “There are many reasons vaguely alluding to structural safety, lack of availability of skilled contractors etc,” Doshi said. He added that he had a conversation with an internationally renowned structural heritage expert from IIT-Chennai who has been involved with the restoration and conservation effort. “He assured me that the structural safety issues being raised are unfounded,” Doshi wrote. Doshi introduced himself as the person who had invited Kahn to take up this project in 1962. It was initially commissioned to Doshi by Vikram Sarabhai and Kasturbhai Lalbhai. “I don’t know if you are aware that Louis Kahn spent 12 years of his life working on this most significant project, without an agreement, without any payment except his travel, purely on faith,” wrote Doshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/call-asi-if-you-cant-manage-doshi-to-iim-a/articleshow/80178308.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Aided vernacular schools struggle to arrange transportation for students||Nagpur: Even though schools have reopened in the city, there are many vernacular medium institutes which are finding it difficult to bring students all willing students back on campus. With limited seating in autos and school vans, it has become financially unviable for these grant-in-aid (granted) schools to provide free transportation to students. This free transport was one of the biggest incentive for securing admissions in their Marathi/Hindi medium schools, where enrolment has been declining every year.Since the number of students enrolled has a direct impact on the number of teachers to be hired, every school in the last decade has been trying multiple methods to lure students. In schools, where enrolment dips below a certain level, teachers are marked as ‘excess’. They can then be transferred anywhere in the city, district or state in that order. Since no teacher wants to be shunted to a far flung place, it’s a common practice to offer free transportation, school bags, shoes, water bottles, uniforms and books to students. Parents too agree as vehicles pick up their kids right from the slums and drop them back. Midday meals are an added bonus. Principal of a Hindi medium school said, “All those students willing to come back need transportation like before. But earlier, six to seven kids would come in an auto, and more could be accommodated in vans. But plying those many students is not possible now due to Covid-19 restrictions. And hiring more vans to meet the demand is not financially viable for us.”Another principal, whose Marathi medium school is off Kamptee Road, said, “These children come from such economically poor families that the impetus for pursuing academics is very low. So, the more they stay away from school, higher are the chances of them dropping out. Hence, we are genuinely concerned about how to bring all of them back to school.”Dilip Bose, principal of a Hindi Medium School said he is looking for people willing to donate bicycles. “STD IX-XII students are old enough to ride a bicycle to school, but their financial condition is not good enough to purchase one. We would be glad if people donate old bicycles for such students. This way they can continue their education,” said Bose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aided-vernacular-schools-struggle-to-arrange-transportation-for-students/articleshow/80177013.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||VMC to vaccinate 20,000 every day||Vadodara: The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) is gearing up for the massive Covid-19 vaccination drive in the city. If the estimates of the civic body are to go by, it can vaccinate over 20,000 persons in a day. The civic body has already prepared a list of healthcare workers and frontline workers who will be receiving the vaccine in the first and second phase. The survey of senior citizens as well as persons with comorbid conditions has also complete. Officer on special duty for Covid-19 and education secretary Vinod Rao said that around 17,000 health workers will be inoculated first followed by 20,000 frontline workers. He added that around 3,00,000 senior citizens as well as those with comorbidities will receive the shot next. Sources said that while the civic body is prepared for mass vaccination, the number of people that will be vaccinated per day will also depend on the number of doses available. There is no clarity regarding the supply so far. VMC’s medical officer (health) Dr Devesh Patel said that around 100 persons will be vaccinated at the 205 sites. He added that over 250 vaccinators will be roped in by the civic body for the process. The civic body will have the capacity to vaccinate 20,500 persons a day. Rao said that the training of vaccinators and other staff had been undertaken and cold chain management was also in place. “VMC has done micro-planning for vaccination across 205 identified centres,” said Rao.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vmc-to-vaccinate-20000-every-day/articleshow/80176199.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||Girl jumps to death from 7th floor||Vadodara: A 21-year-old final year physiotherapy student of Sumandeep Vidyapeeth allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the seventh floor balcony of her hostel room in Waghodia on Friday morning. Shruti Nayak, a resident of Surat, was alone in her room and she jumped off at around 8:30am. “Her roommate had left for the classes as Shruti told her that she would join her later,” said Jagdish Bangarva, assistant commissioner of police (IPS probationary). The hostel warden rushed to the spot after he heard a loud thud. Shruti was rushed to a hospital immediately but she died during treatment. “We took statements of her teachers, friends, roommate and even her parents. But none of them were aware of any problem that Shruti was facing. We checked her mobile phone as well to get some clues,” Bangarva added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/girl-jumps-to-death-from-7th-floor/articleshow/80176222.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||7 held for selling duplicate items||Rajkot: Seven persons were arrested for selling duplicate milk products and cosmetic items of known brands on University Road in Rajkot on Thursday night. The racket was unearthed following raid at milk parlours near Panchayatnagar Chowk following complaint by Dhaval Parikh, an employee of Gopal Dairy in Rajkot. The duplicate items were supplied to the small stores in Rajkot by Shriram House Agency owned by Ganatra family. Police raided three shops and seized 113 pouches of ghee (500ml each), bottles of shampoo, washing powder and soap and tobacco, together worth Rs 1.55 lakh. Those arrested include Archan Kapuria (22), Jaydev Chhaiya (33), Nilesh Boradiya (38), Dev Ganatra (21) his father Umesh Ganatra (47), uncle Nilesh Ganatra (49) and another uncle Deepak Ganatra (43).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/7-held-for-selling-duplicate-items/articleshow/80176753.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Dead doctor’s wife moves Bombay HC for Rs 50 lakh Covid cover||MUMBAI: The Centre told the Bombay high court on Friday the Rs 50 lakh insurance for coronavirus warriors under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojna is applicable only to private doctors who were requisitioned for Covid-19 duties and died while performing them. It was responding to a petition by Koparkhairane resident Kiran Surgade. On March 31, her husband, Dr Bhaskar Surgade, had received a notice from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation to open his clinic to treat patients and was warned of prosecution if he did not. He then opened his clinic at Turbhe and even treated Covid patients. He contracted the infection and died on June 10. On September 7, New India Assurance Company rejected the wife’s claim for Rs 50 lakh compensation under the Yojna, saying he did not serve in an hospital designated to treat only Covid-19 patients and was a private doctor. A bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla was informed by NMMC’s advocate Sandeep Marne that Dr Surgade was not requisitioned for Covid duty. The Centre’s advocate Sandesh Patil said the policy covers a doctor who is requisitioned for Covid duty below the age of 55 years. “He was 56 years old. It is not applicable at all,” said Patil, adding there is no pleading that Dr Surgade had been requisitioned by a hospital and contracted Covid-19 there. Surgade’s advocate Ajit Karvande said the scheme does not differentiate between a public and a private doctor. “It is an afterthought that I am a private doctor,” he added. The judges said it will ultimately be an issue of interpretation. “On humanity grounds, if there are five or 10 such doctors after they opened the dispensary, can we do something for them?” asked Justice Kathawalla. Patil though said, “There will be thousands of them all over India.” When asked for the numbers, Patil replied that insurance companies which receive claims will have the statistics. “Ask them to give you data of those who opened their dispensaries, treated patients and thereafter passed away due to Covid-19,’’ said Justice Kathawalla. Patil pointed out that insurance companies will have data of only those doctors who were requisitioned as per the policy. The judges then asked him to put the Centre’s reply on an affidavit and adjourned the hearing to Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dead-doctors-wife-moves-hc-for-rs-50l-covid-cover/articleshow/80176391.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||It’s official: Gujarat hit by bird flu||SURAT/RAJKOT: Around 17 crows were found dead at a graveyard in Bardoli town on Friday, forcing the local authorities to swing into action. The district animal husbandry department has collected the samples from the carcasses which will be sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for testing for avian influenza. Official sources said that the crows were spotted by the caretaker of Memon Kabrastan located near the Jamnaba Hospital and he alerted the local authorities. A team of the animal disease investigation of the Surat animal husbandry department rushed to the spot. On Wednesday too, four dead crows were found in Bardoli but the bodies were highly decomposed. Assistant district animal husbandry officer, Dr Nilesh Patel, told TOI: “Of the 17 carcasses, 15 were highly decomposed.” The district administration of the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) has banned the entry of all poultry and non-poultry birds from the states of Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to contain the spread of avian influenza. Meanwhile, nine peahens and one partridge were found dead on the outskirts of Olak village of Lakhtar taluka in Surendranagar district on Thursday evening. Vishnu Desai, deputy conservator of forest (social forestry), Surendrangar said, “Though postmortem confirmed deaths due to food poisoning, we have sent samples to Bhopal laboratory for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/its-official-gujarat-hit-by-bird-flu/articleshow/80181527.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Ex-MLA, Nashik neta quit BJP, return to Sena||The BJP Nashik unit on Friday suffered a jolt as two leaders—former MLA Vasant Gite and Sunil Bagul—joined Shiv Sena in the presence of MP Sanjay Raut. Both were once Shiv Sena functionaries. “The party is happy to have them back,” said Raut. He expressed confidence that the entry of the two leaders would pave the way for further development of the party. Gite and Bagul expressed unhappiness working with BJP. “I know Shiv Sena and also know that I have lot of scope for serving the people,” said Gite. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ex-mla-nashik-neta-quit-bjp-return-to-sena/articleshow/80179657.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 9, 2021||Kolhapur||NCP cautious over entry of Sena leader from Solapur||KOLHAPUR: The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) is treading with caution on admitting prominent Shiv Sena’s Solapur leader, Mahesh Kothe, into the party to avoid bitterness with its ally in the state government. Kothe met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar in Mumbai on Friday, but he was not officially admitted to the party. “Mahesh Kothe has been taking efforts to complete unfinished works of Solapur city and all of us will surely support him,” tweeted Pawar. The NCP’s guarded response to Kothe comes as the party leaders fear that Sena would not take it lightly. He had announced on Wednesday night that he would join NCP in the presence of Pawar in Mumbai, drawing sharp reaction from Sena leaders in Solapur. Sources in the NCP said, “The Sena leader was sent the message when he was going to Mumbai on Thursday. Accordingly, he, along with his supporters, met Pawar in Mumbai but did not join the party.” Earlier in the day, Solapur city Sena chief Purhottam Barde announced the expulsion of Kothe from the party and also slammed the NCP in strong words. Barde said he announcing Kothe’s expulsion at the instructions of top party leader. Kothe, son of late Congress leader Vishnuanna Kothe, had rebelled against the Sena candidate from Solapur City Central Assembly constituency as he was denied party ticket. HE was later expelled from Sena. However, Kothe continued to be in contact with Uddhav Thackeray. He had met Thackeray on two occasions, sending feelers about his intention to rejoin the party. The NCP has been keeping a low profile since July last year when five Sena councillors from Parner in Ahmednagar district joined the party in the presence of deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar. The Sena had strongly objected to the move, creating tension between the two parties. The five councillors were later asked to return to their parent party by the NCP leaders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/ncp-cautiousover-entry-ofsena-leaderfrom-solapur/articleshow/80176107.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jaipur||Former BJP secretary floats new platform: Vasundhara Raje for Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: There's still a few years to go for assembly elections, but a group of people claiming to be supporters of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje has floated a platform called ‘Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan (VRSR)’ to bat for her as the next CM candidate of the BJP in 2023. The non-political platform, Team Vasundhara Raje, was formed in November and was renamed VRSR in December. It has executive bodies in 25 districts as on January 8. Former secretary of BJP legal cell, Vijay Bhardwaj, formed the platform with 80-90 core members, including current MLAs and former MLAs. “Raje is the soul of Rajasthan,” he said. “Our aim is to promote the developmental works of Raje during her two stints as the CM. The platform will reach out to people in every nook and corner of the state, from assembly segments to booth level, presenting her as the CM candidate in 2023,” he said. The letter pad of the group has the pictures of Raje and her mother Vijaya Raje Scindia along with that of Bhardwaj with saffron and green colours, making it similar to the BJP official letterhead. Bhardwaj claimed he was an active BJP party worker with support from several BJP leaders. When asked to share the name of former MLAs and present MLAs supporting the move, he refused and stated that they would come to the fore when they feel like it. Calling the move not an anti-BJP one, Bhardwaj said that BJP workers have created fan pages for PM Narendra Modi and party ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyaya. So, the supporters of Raje have created this platform. “This move will only strengthen BJP,” he said. Bhupendra Singh Rajawat, in-charge of VRSR, Jaipur, clarified the motive of the organisation. “This group is open for those who wanted to see Maharaniji (Raje) as the CM candidate. None of the appointees or supporters have doubt that Satish Poonia is our party president but for CM Maharaniji is our candidate,” he said. Reacting to the development, BJP state president Satish Poonia said the central leadership was aware of the development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-for-cm-former-bjpsecy-floats-new-platform/articleshow/80179613.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 9, 2021||Surat||It’s official: Gujarat hit by bird flu||SURAT/RAJKOT: Around 17 crows were found dead at a graveyard in Bardoli town on Friday, forcing the local authorities to swing into action. The district animal husbandry department has collected the samples from the carcasses which will be sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for testing for avian influenza. Official sources said that the crows were spotted by the caretaker of Memon Kabrastan located near the Jamnaba Hospital and he alerted the local authorities. A team of the animal disease investigation of the Surat animal husbandry department rushed to the spot. On Wednesday too, four dead crows were found in Bardoli but the bodies were highly decomposed. Assistant district animal husbandry officer, Dr Nilesh Patel, told TOI: “Of the 17 carcasses, 15 were highly decomposed.” The district administration of the union territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli (DNH) has banned the entry of all poultry and non-poultry birds from the states of Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan to contain the spread of avian influenza. Meanwhile, nine peahens and one partridge were found dead on the outskirts of Olak village of Lakhtar taluka in Surendranagar district on Thursday evening. Vishnu Desai, deputy conservator of forest (social forestry), Surendrangar said, “Though postmortem confirmed deaths due to food poisoning, we have sent samples to Bhopal laboratory for further investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/its-official-gujarat-hit-by-bird-flu/articleshow/80176407.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||‘Extortionist’ cop now flouts Covid, traffic rules||Vadodara: Police constable Ramesh Galsar who was arrested for extortion has landed in yet another controversy. A video of Galsar travelling in a car with other passengers without wearing a face mask went viral on Friday. Galsar had gone live on his Facebook account wherein he is seen enjoying a regional song with his friends in a moving car.Galsar said in the live telecast that he doesn’t have his mobile phone, so he is tagged by some other person. Galsar, who shooting the live telecast, was tagged by an account named Kala Badshah on FB live. He wasn’t wearing a face mask as is mandatory under the Covid-19 guidelines if there is more than one passenger in a four-wheeler. Galsar, who was on the front passenger seat, wasn’t wearing a seat belt either. City police commissioner Shamsher Singh said that it is not clear if the vieo is recent or old and cyber crime cell has been asked to probe.Galsar was booked for extorting money Amit Kumar, a Mumbai-based consultant, when he was travelling in his car near Chhapad village in November last year. He intercepted Kumar’s car and found two liquor bottles during the checking. Instead of filing a case, Galsar extorted Rs 38,000 from Kumar and also siphoned his mobile phone and a smart watch from the car.When Kumar returned to Mumbai, he realized that his phone and watch were missing. He then wrote an email to ACP F-division and narrated the incident. An inquiry was conducted and an offence of extortion was filed against Galsar apart from Prohibition Act and Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA). He was arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/extortionist-cop-now-flouts-covid-traffic-rules/articleshow/80176142.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Dry run prepares Vid dist admins for Covid vax drive||Nagpur: The Covid vaccination dry run in Vidarbha to assess preparedness of the respective local administrations was successful on Friday as the mock drill passed on without any glitches. Deputy director of health services for Nagpur division Dr Sanjay Jaiswal told B “The dry run was successful in all five districts of the division — Chandrapur, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara. It was all about trial of Co-WIN application and time consumed for completion of the process to administer vaccine to 25 dummy beneficiaries.”In Wardha, four centres were set up one each at district general hospital in city, Acharya Vinoba Bhave Rural Hospital, Sawangi, rural hospital at Selu and primary health centre at Kharangana (Morangana).After one of the participants complained of dizziness, doctors at the centre immediately checked his blood pressure, pulse rate and administered an injection. As there was no relief to the person, he was shifted to Kasturba Hospital at Sewagram. (Civil surgeon Dr Sachin Tadas himself played the role of the affected person).District health officer Dr Ajay Dawale said, “The vaccination app functioned perfectly. The only concern, however, remains about the network issues in rural areas because we might have to face Internet problem to receive the one-time password (OTP).”In Yavatmal, civil surgeon Dr Tarangtushar Warey participated in the dry run and went through the three steps successfully. The mock drill at Yavatmal and Darwha centres was over in 3 hours, while the work at Savargad PHC was over in two-and-half hours.On Friday, dry run was not conducted in Nagpur district as similar exercise was conducted here at three centres on January 2.In Amravati, the dry run was conducted at Nursing School campus and PDMC hospital in city, rural hospital at Teosa and PHC at Anjangaon Bari. Guardian minister Yashomati Thakur said that the mock drill worked without any flaw.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dry-run-prepares-vid-dist-admins-for-covid-vax-drive/articleshow/80177057.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 9, 2021||Ahmedabad||E-Classical for the streaming generation||Ahmedabad: When Pandit Vishwa Mohan Bhatt plays with his son Salil Bhatt, musical tradition glides from one generation to the next with the ceremony of a raga marking all its rites de passage on their slide guitars. Pandit Bhatt, the Mohan veena maestro, has a place in the Hindustani pantheon. So he shows the equanimity of a guru even when a raga, beaming and breathless, runs towards fulfilment. Satvik veena exponent Salil Bhatt lets his classical education ride on his flamboyance. In the faster moments of a composition his long hair flies about, recalling the sight of an entranced sadhu. On Friday, the Bhatts performed at Saptak. The festival is India’s longest classical music conference and is held in Ahmedabad every year from January 1 to 13. This year, it is streaming online because the corona crisis made gatherings impossible. “We presented raga Bihag, a dhun on raga Jog (a Grammy-winning work), a Kirwani dhun, and the bhajan, ‘Vaishnav jan to’,” Salil Bhatt told TOI. “We also rendered the ‘Raghupati Raghav’ bhajan.” The repertoire was extensive and one senses that Salil Bhatt missed the befitting hubbub of a big audience in front of him. “I feel the aura of live music and stage concerts is unparalleled,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/e-classical-for-the-streaming-generation/articleshow/80178327.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||WEH Kandivli flyover to be partially closed||MUMBAI: The Thakur Complex flyover on Western Express Highway (WEH) in Kandivli (E) will be partially shut while it undergoes repairs, said city traffic police on Friday. The north-bound arm of the flyover will remain shut from 11pm on Friday to 7am on Monday for all vehicles. From Monday to January 18, the flyover will be shut from 11pm to 6am every day. Alternate routes for north-bound motorists would be Malad subway and Rajguru flyover in Kandivli (E) to reach Link Road and SV Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/weh-kandivli-flyover-to-be-partially-closed/articleshow/80179725.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: More schools to open from Monday after sluggish start||PUNE: The reopening of schools on Monday saw a slow start in both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporation areas which did not pick up pace till Friday. There are 600 schools in the PMC’s jurisdiction and 282 in the PCMC areas. Schools were still collecting consent forms and also waiting for the RT-PCR test reports of their staff members.  Authorities said by next week they would be better prepared for the reopening. The attendance had improved as compared to Monday on the last working day of the week, according to PMC education officer Shivaji Daundkar. He said the next week will be promising as the school inspection will be done and parents will get confident after knowing that the first week was a success despite low attendance. Daundkar said, “Parents who are not so sure about sending their children to school usually look at peers and classmates and take the decision to send their children too.” Of the 44 PMC schools that had got permission to reopen, 43 were functional till Friday, and collectively, the attendance had improved to nearly 25%. Daundkar also said that private schools in the city had also shown a good response and the inspection of 352 schools was completed so they would also reopen from next week onwards. The VIBGYOR group of schools is resuming physical classes at all their campuses in Pune on January 11 for standards IX to XII. Peshwa Acharya, the group’s chief marketing officer, said, “The school will have strict protocols in place. Students will be permitted to attend class only if it is authorised in writing by their parents, and the class size will be limited to 15 students. All will be required to wear masks, and those with Covid-infected family members will be advised to continue studying from home.” The response to the resumption of academics in the Pimpri Chinchwad civic limits, according to the secondary education officer Parag Mundhe, is increasing each day. The weather has played spoilsport for the past two days, but the number of students present in the civic body's 18 schools has increased to 45%, which is 1,200 students, on Friday. On the first day, the number of students was 813. “All safety and security protocols are being followed without fail across the 18 civic schools. Students are conscious about the new normal and carry their own sanitizer, mask, and water bottle,” he said. Budha Nadekar, principal of Annasaheb Magar Madyamik Vidyalaya in Pimple Saudagar, said the alternate-day presence of students is working. Many parents were eager for schools to reopen, as the resources for online access have been limited. Hanuman Dalwi, principal of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation secondary school in Kasarwadi, said the number of students is increasing and they were sure more parents will gain enough confidence to send their wards to school next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/more-schools-to-open-from-monday-after-sluggish-start/articleshow/80178313.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Only 20-25 out of 380 trees to be saved in Empress Mills road project||Nagpur: Out of nearly 380 age-old trees that are to be felled at Empress Mills land, around 20-25 trees will be saved. As per the civic officials, only one-or-two representatives turned up for public hearings whereas more than 800 objection letters were filed.TOI was the first to report about a 15-metre proposed wide road for which the administrative officials of the mill sought permission to chop down 380 trees in the lush green area.Following this development, green lovers across the city had come forward in large numbers to object against the road project, on the lines of the ‘Save Bharat Van’ public movement.However, in this case, the trees could not meet the same fate. Over two months ago, TOI had reported that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) officials were calling up individuals and organizations who opposed the project, asking them to come for individual hearings. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, NMC had decided not to hold a large gathering of people.Members of NGO Green Vigil Foundation were probably the only ones who turned up for the meeting. “We tried contacting as many people as we could. We even gave them a time period to visit us but nobody came. A lot of the objection letters were filed by students,” said officials of NMC’s garden department. Recently, officials of Gandhibagh zone carried out a survey and decided to save around 20-25 trees. “Around 315 trees are of subabl specie, which, as per many, is detrimental for the environment. We had requested NMC to save them as they are habitat to various bird species and also save the maximum number of remaining species of trees,” said Kaustav Chatterjee,” founder of Green Vigil.On the poor turn out of citizens, the activist added that it forms a negative impression of city’s environmental movement. “Hundreds of people had strongly objected to the project but unfortunately nobody followed-up. This time, NMC had given us enough time and a fair chance to put forth our concerns,” said Chatterjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-20-25-out-of-380-trees-to-be-saved-in-empress-mills-road-project/articleshow/80177067.cms||Manka Behl
January 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Eminent educator P C Shejwalkar dies||PUNE: A pioneer in management education in Pune and eminent educator P C Shejwalkar passed away on Friday due to old age. He was 92. He is survived by wife, a daughter and son-in-law. Shejwalkar was the founder-director of the Institute of Management Development and Research (IMDR) and has written 30 books in Marathi. He was known as a management expert. He was the director of Maharashtra Sahitya Parishad, taught at Savitribai Phule Pune University for 60 years and also headed the management department. He has been a guide to over 80 students for their doctorates in philosophy, and director of Pune Stock Exchange. Shejwalkar was a pioneer in bringing commerce education in Marathi language. Director of IMDR, Shikha Jain, said, “His pioneering work and teachings in management education will inspire us. Under his direction, a roster of professionals from industry, academic experts, and thought leaders teamed up to ensure that the two years of learning at IMDR would go a long way in creating a solid foundation for aspiring managers and entrepreneurs.”  His idea of management by practice and learning by doing are popularly accepted by business schools through experiential learning formats. “IMDR found its glory from its formative years through his ideas and direction. He kept abreast of all developments and happenings till he breathed his last,” Jain added. Established in 1974, IMDR trained and developed many managers and business leaders under him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/eminent-educator-shejwalkar-dies/articleshow/80178320.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: PCMC school students may get tablets||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The education board in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation has approved tablets for students of civic schools.  The proposal will need administrative approval, and after that, a nod from the standing committee. Administrative officer Jyotsna Shinde said many of their students do not have access to online education, and most rely on textbooks and visits or calls from the respective teachers to get their doubts cleared during the pandemic. According to Shinde, even if offline studies resume for primary classes, the tablets will be useful to them. “They can get familiar with the technology pretty early with the help of interactive audio-visual lessons,” she said. Activist Maruti Bhapkar, said secondary school students should be given tablets too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-school-students-may-get-tablets/articleshow/80178318.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nashik||Minister promises Rs 8 crore for Shahu Samadhi work||Kolhapur: Minister of urban development Eknath Shinde on Friday said that the state government will approve Rs 8 crore for works related to the second phase of Shahu Samadhi Sthal at Nursery Baug. The minister reviewed the development works proposed by the KMC and assured all necessary financial assitance. In the first phase, without any financial assitance from the state government, the KMC completed the work of developing the resting memorial place of legendary king and social reformer Rajarshi Shahu Maharaj. “The KMC has proposed funds to develop a memorial gallery at the site. Soon, the decision to sanction the funds for the next phase works will be granted by the government,” Shinde said. Shinde also sought a fresh proposal of merging the fringe villages in the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) limits after the civic authorities emphasised that the extension of civic limits will help increase the revenue of the civic body. Talking about the latest development, Shinde said, “First let the fresh proposal come in from the KMC. We will ponder over it as early as possible.” Civic cheif Kadambari Balkawade said that since there has been no extension of the civic limits the development of the city has been hampered. The civic body had proposed merger of 17 villages under its jurisdiction, but the move was oppsed by the villagers. Following this the last government tried to find a middle ground and formed a development authority for 40 villages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/minister-promises-rs-8-crore-for-shahu-samadhi-work/articleshow/80176139.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Clandestine felling robs Ambazari of tree cover||Nagpur: Not just age-old green cover, the city is also losing recently done compensatory afforestation by government agencies. Mysterious felling of trees that were planted inside Ambazari garden has been brought to the fore by alert citizens.Regular morning walkers recently noticed stumps of different trees lying near a temple inside the garden premises. According to them, a group of unidentified miscreants have been felling the trees slowly and discreetly at odd hours when the garden remains isolated.As per citizens, these trees were planted around two years back by government agencies as part of the state’s ambitious plantation drive. “Earlier, the entire garden was open for visitors and hence we could roam around freely. These trees are being felled in the area where entry is now restricted,” said Ajay Kadu, a private sector employee and a green lover.To avoid public attention, the left-over stumps of the trees are being burnt. “They first cut the timber in pieces for easy transportation. Then, they burn the stumps and other remains to ensure no evidence is left,” added Kadu.As reported by TOI, the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC) has taken possession of the city’s biggest park from the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC). Citizens suspect the trees are deliberately being cut for some commercial agenda. “What is the point of planting new trees if we can’t protect them? Authorities should inspect the area and keep it under strict vigil. They need to create fear of punishment to stop the illegal tree felling,” said Kadu.NMC garden department officials said no permission to cut trees inside the garden had been granted. “We have received complaint regarding the felling. We will soon conduct an inspection of the area and try to identify the offenders,” they told TOI.The lush green pockets owned by government agencies in the city continue to get destroyed due to poor protection. Earlier, TOI had reported about similar disappearance of nearly 288 trees on land owned by the Maharashtra Animal and Fishery Sciences University (Mafsu) in Bharat Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/clandestine-felling-robs-ambazari-of-tree-cover/articleshow/80177080.cms||Manka Behl
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh girl pedals K2K on one leg||BHOPAL: Remember the 1999 Cricket World Cup when Master Blaster Sachin Tendulkar had to leave in the middle of the tourney after he lost his father in Mumbai and stunned everyone when he returned within a couple of days to join Team India again. History repeats itself, but this time it is a para cyclist who has done it. India’s only female para cyclist, MP girl Tanya Daga recently pedalled 2800 km from J&K to Kanyakumari in 42 days. She lost her father when she was on her expedition, so she went back for a week and resumed her journey and completed her mission. She was a part of the expedition Infinity Ride K2K 2020 - a brainchild of Aditya Mehta Foundation (AMF), supported by BSF. She was the lone para cyclist in the 30-member expedition. It was a charity mission to raise money and create awareness about para sports across India. Her life had changed two years ago. “I met with an accident after which I lost my left leg. I was bedridden for over six months and it was like losing my life. In such a situation it was my father who encouraged me to prove that losing a part of a body can’t stop you from achieving your target in life,” said Tanya. “I had started my expedition on November 19, 2020. But life tested me again on December 18, 2020 when I lost my father Alok Daga. I was in the middle of an expedition in Hyderabad. I came back and stayed with my family,” she said. Tanya went on to add, “It was my father’s dream that I complete the mission. I wanted to fulfil his dream. Though I was completely shattered after his death, I joined the expedition to live his dream. He was my idol.” When asked about her future goals, Tanya said, “I will keep working for para cyclists and spread awareness that anyone can achieve anything in life.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-girl-pedals-k2k-on-one-leg/articleshow/80178341.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 9, 2021||Pune||Army chief inaugurates new Southern Command hospital||PUNE: Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane on Friday inaugurated the Rs380-crore newly constructed Southern Command Hospital at Wanowrie, off Kondhwa Road. It is a multi-speciality tertiary hospital focused on providing medical support to troops deployed in operational areas and veterans of the armed forces. The army chief visited the facility along with senior army officers of the command. As of now, the existing Command Hospital is a 1,082- bed, tertiary care hospital horizontally spread over 108 acres. “With advances in modern healthcare technology and ever increasing healthcare requirement, a need was felt to construct a modern vertical hospital to provide highest standards of quality medical care to serving and retired armed forces personnel. It is one of the largest hospitals in the southern theatre of the army,” said a senior army officer, who did not wish to be named. “It will take a few months to operationalise all departments of the hospital at the new facility. Some infrastructure related work is in the last stages of completion,” the officer added. The then defence minister, AK Antony, had laid the foundation stone of the project in 2013 and it was to be completed by 2016. However, a legal tussle between the Military Engineering Services of the Command and a private firm resulted in delay in construction work. The hospital will also act as a research and referral centre. Besides providing healthcare to its dependent service and retired clientele, it would also remain associated with the armed forces medical college (AFMC), the army sources said. Southern Army Commander Lt Gen C P Mohanty received the army chief at the headquarters of Southern Command for a review meet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-chief-inaugurates-new-southern-command-hospital/articleshow/80178331.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||150 chickens die in Warangal village, set off bird flu scare||Hyderabad: Even as animal husbandry officials have ruled out bird flu in Telangana, nearly 150 country chicken birds died at a village farm in Bheemadevarapalli mandal in Warangal district raising a fresh scare on bird flu. Senior officials rushed to Koppur village, took the samples and sent them to the Veterinary Biological and Research Institute (VBRI) in Hyderabad and also to a lab in Bengaluru. “There are no symptoms of bird flu as per our preliminary investigations. An autopsy of the first few samples sent by us has revealed broken bones and ruptures in the birds,” district veterinary and animal husbandry officer K Venkat Narayana told TOI. The incident occurred on Thursday in a farm belonging to G Saraiah. The officials went to the farm on Friday again and took more samples and sent them to VBRI. The officials also inspected other farms in and around the village and the district and said no unusual death of birds was noticed. They appealed to people not to believe in rumours about bird flu. Saraiah said he would lodge a police complaint after the post-mortem had revealed broken legs and bones. While a cat or a dog may have entered the country chicken enclosure, Saraiah did not rule out the possibility of unidentified persons harming the chickens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/150-chickens-die-in-warangal-village-set-off-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80177091.cms||Roushan Ali
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||BMC chief denies Somaiya’s claim of Mahakali caves road TDR nod||MUMBAI: Municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal had approved the recommendation of granting of Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) for Mahakali Caves Road on November 27, BJP’s Kirit Somaiya alleged on Friday. But Chahal denied Somaiya’s statement as “incorrect and not true”. “The document Somaiya is referring to is a legal opinion, and my signature merely indicates I have seen it. It does not mean I have approved allotment of TDR, as claimed by Somaiya. Unless the letter of allotment is issued these internal file notings mean nothing. No TDR against Mahakali Caves has been granted or will be granted,” said Chahal. Somaiya released documents signed by the municipal commissioner and chief engineer (development plan), wherein the latter recommended that TDR was a viable option, but no monetary compensation for Mahakali Caves Road can be given without following procedure laid down under Land Acquisition Relief and Rehabilitation Act, 2013. The note mentions that an initial request from Mahal Pictures Pvt Ltd was for granting of TDR for the road. “The road has been in existence and in use for long. But the demand from the applicant to grant monetary compensation as per LARR Act, 2013, cannot be considered as it is not a case of compulsory acquisition,” the note stated. A demand for compensation of Rs 74 crore under LARR Act, 2013, was made by Mahal Pictures Pvt Ltd, an associate of D B Realty, claiming ownership of the land. Somaiya released excerpts from the affidavit filed by Archaeological Survey of India before Bombay high court in 2016, refuting ownership claims of MPPL. The affidavit states that the 99-year lease for Mahakali Caves land expired and the notice issued by Special Land Acquisition Officer in 1967 had been canceled by the commissioner, Bombay division, by a notification in the gazette in 1969. The affidavit refers to BMC’s letter to MPPL’s purchase notice for acquiring the land since it is not the appropriate authority for monuments and land for which the purchase notice had been served falls within 300 metres from Mahakali caves. “The developer made similar requests in the past and each time it was rejected. This time, the case was opened following a letter from Shiv Sena MLA Dilip Lande,” said Somaiya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-chief-denies-somaiyas-claim-of-mahakali-caves-road-tdr-nod/articleshow/80177738.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Senate meet to take up syllabus cut||Pune: A proposal to reduce the syllabus by 30% in the wake of the pandemic for the end-semester exams will be discussed at the senate meeting on Saturday and Sunday at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Senate members put forth the proposal as a result of online classes and the haywire academic schedule. The University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines have also instructed the universities about a reduction in syllabus. Senate member Motiram Deshmukh has proposed that the syllabus of various courses can be reviewed and reduced. “However, an expert committee must be set up to look at what topics can be cut and decide,” he added. Exam fees, affiliation fees, strengthening of IT facilities, Covid vaccination for teaching and non-teaching staff in SPPU will also come up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senate-meet-to-take-up-syllabus-cut/articleshow/80178322.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 1.5 lakh angawadis, schools to get tap water by March||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday said, the target of one crore Functional Household Tap Connections (FHTC) in the state should be achieved quickly. The goal to supply tapwater to schools and anganwadis is part of a 100-day campaign. During the period from January to March 2021, 1.5 lakh anganwadi centres and schools in the state will have tap connections. Under this, about 75,000 tap connections will be provided in anganwadis. Similarly, connections are being provided in about 75,000 schools in three months. Chouhan said, “the target of providing quality drinking water to the residents of MP through domestic tap connections by 2023, at the rate of 55 litres/person should be achieved.” It was informed in the meet that the target is to provide 26 lakh domestic connections in 2020-21. Similarly, the target is to provide 33 lakh connections in 2021-22, 28 lakh in 2022-23, and 14 lakh in 2023-24. Based on the amount received from the Centre and the expenditure incurred, MP ranks second among the big states where an amount of Rs 378 crore has been spent. Reviewing the works of Jal Jeevan Mission on Friday, Chouhan said that the work of approved schemes should be completed at a rapid pace to provide clean and adequate drinking water to the rural population. Under the Jal Jeevan Mission, 4,347 villages will benefit through ten schemes which will be implemented in Guna, Ashoknagar, Shivpuri, Singrauli, Agar, Dewas, Sagar, and Dhar. Chouhan also reviewed the implementation of source-based group water supply schemes under Jal Jeevan Mission works at his residence.  The works conducted under the schemes of quality affected settlements and MP Adarsh Gram were also reviewed during the meeting. Additional chief secretary Malay Shrivastava gave information about the mission’s work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1-5l-angawadis-schools-to-get-tap-water-by-mar/articleshow/80177095.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Gold ornaments & cash stolen from Mandai Ganapati temple in Pune||PUNE: An unidentified man stole 220.5gm gold ornaments of the deities in the 127-year-old Akhil Mandai Ganesh Mandal temple at Mandai in Shukruwar Peth and Rs10,000 from the donation box between 1.30am and 2am on Friday. Gold ornaments worth Rs43.48 lakh were stolen from the temple on July 8, 2015. The police had then arrested the thief within two days and recovered the ornaments. Friday’s theft came to light around 6am when the priest arrived for the daily ritual and found the locks o the temple door broken. Mandal president Anna Thorat told TOI, “CCTV footage revealed that the man had jumped over an iron gate and entered the temple premises. He then broke the locks on the wooden door of the temple and stole 220.5gm gold ornaments worth Rs 6.65 lakh of the Ganesh and Sharda Devi idols. The man also stole broke open the donation box and decamped with around Rs10,000.” He said, “From the CCTV footage, the man looked like to be in his early 30s. We have shared information of the incident and the CCTV footage with the Vishrambaug police.” Deputy commissioner of police (zone 1) Priyanka Narnavare said, “The temple authorities had not appointed any security guard. We have inspected the temple and are working on certain clues. Night patrolling was in place at the time of the incident.”  Temple manager Shripad Kulkarni has registered an FIR under relevant sections of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gold-ornaments-cash-stolen-from-mandai-ganapati-temple/articleshow/80178337.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Drill passes real-time test, all systems ready for rollout||Bhopal: Dry run conducted across 51 districts of the state on Friday, followed all the protocols that will be followed during the real vaccination process of Covid-19. The beneficiaries (health workers in this case), were sent SMSes on their cell phones a day before, i.e., on Thursday. The SMSes contained details about the date, time slot and venue of the vaccination centre where they will be vaccinated. Upon reaching the vaccination centre—with each centre divided into three rooms, waiting room, vaccination room and then observation room—they were provided sanitizers, their thermal scanning was done then their identity cards were checked online, After that, they were sent to vaccination rooms, and administered vaccines. Post-vaccination, participants were made to sit in the observation room, where they were observed for 30 minutes before allowed to leave the centre. Sources said that this was a dry run exercise, when the vaccination will start, 100 people will be provided vaccines at each centre everyday, but these people will be called in separate lots and in different time slots, like, 9am to 11 am, then 11 am to 1 pm etc, so that there is no crowd at the vaccination centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/drill-passes-real-time-test-all-systems-ready-for-rollout/articleshow/80178369.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Dhanori, Lohegaon to get Bhama water soon||Pune: Dhanori and Lohegoan in the eastern parts of the city would first get water through the Bhama Askhed pipeline project, most likely in the first-half of the next week. The water supply department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Friday said the storage tanks distributing water to Dhanori and Lohegaon areas would start getting supply from Saturday. A source said it would take a couple of days to fill up the tanks, after which the basic checks would be conducted. The actual supply to houses might start in two-three days after that. Local MLA Sunil Tingre said a meeting was held to review the project’s progress in which it was decided to go ahead with water distribution in phases, starting with Dhanori-Lohegaon areas. Aniruddha Pavaskar, the head of the PMC’s water supply department, said, “We shall start filling the water storage tanks from Saturday. In the initial phase, water will be distributed to Dhanori and Lohegaon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dhanori-lohegaon-to-get-bhama-water-soon/articleshow/80178340.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Kangana Ranaut alleges torture, records statement||MUMBAI: Bollywood actor Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel recorded their statements with Bandra police in a case of sedition, filed on orders of a Bandra court on October 16, 2020, after Bollywood casting director and fitness trainer Munawwar Ali Sayyed filed a complaint. Kangana and her sister had filed a petition before Bombay high court to quash the FIR against them. It gave interim protection to them and told both to be present at Bandra police station on January 8 between noon and 2pm. Sayyed had complained that Kangana, in tweets and TV interviews, defamed Hindi film industry by portraying Bollywood as a hub of nepotism, favouritism, drug addicts, communally biased and murderers. Police had summoned both on October 26 and 27, then on November 9 and 10 respectively, but they said they were busy with a family function at their home town. Both reached the police station around 1pm and left around 3.45pm after they replied to questionnaires. A police officer told TOI, “All tweets and video statements she posted on social media as part of the list they put for her to answer.” Their statements will be sent to a high-ranking officer, who will decide if both should be called again. Police said they will decide about it after January 11. Kangana’s lawyer, Rizwan Siddiquee, said her statement had been recorded as per an HC order. Before heading to the police station, Kangana tweeted a 1.30-minute video stating she was targeted for expressing her opinion on issues related to the country’s welfare. “Why am I being mentally, emotionally and now physically tortured? I need answers from this nation.... I stood for you, it’s time you stand for me... Jai Hind”. “My house was demolished illegally. When I talk about welfare of farmers, cases are registered against me almost every day. For instance, there is a case against me because I laughed,” she claimed. She mentioned in the video post a case against Rangoli for speaking against attacks on doctors during initial days of lockdown. “Even my name was added in that case, even though I was not even on Twitter at the time.” She tweeted around 5.30pm, ‘If you are anti-India you will find lot of support, work/rewards, and appreciation. If you are a nationalist then you will have to stand alone, be your own support system and appreciate your own integrity. After hours of grilling at police station on my way to Bhopal.” Bandra police registered a case on October 17, 2020, after Sayyed lodged a complaint referring to tweets and other statements of Ranaut and her sister that they posted that could lead to a communal problem. Kangana and Rangoli were booked under Indian Penal Code sections for common intention, sedition, promoting enmity, deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kangana-alleges-torture-records-statement/articleshow/80177704.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 9, 2021||Pune||Tax rebate lost over waste norm violation||Pune: The civic administration has reversed the property tax rebate offered to 3,081 establishments because of their failure to comply with the solid waste management norms. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) offers 5% discount in property tax to the housing societies and big commercial establishments for segregating and processing waste within their premises. A recent survey conducted by the civic administration revealed that 3,081 of the 75,038 establishments were availing the tax benefit without complying with the norms. “Besides reversing the discount on property tax, the civic administration will also take action against the bulk waste generators and fine the owners of such establishments.,” PMC additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar said. He added that the erring establishments have till March 31, this year, to comply with the norms of setting up a garbage disposal at source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tax-rebate-lost-over-waste-norm-violation/articleshow/80178339.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Cargo of high-end car parts & black pepper declared as scrap||Ludhiana: A team of city-based zonal unit of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) on Thursday night seized a container—declared as carrying scrap—coming from Dubai and found it filled with components for high-end cars, like BMW, and a huge quantity of black pepper. It was seized moments after it entered the Container Corporation of India Ltd (CONCOR) inland container depot (ICD) located in Dhandari Kalan. One person has been arrested for questioning. Highly-placed sources in the department said only the area near the cargo door of the container was stuffed with scrap to deceive the officials, but as DRI had specific inputs about the contents, it was thoroughly scanned. Sources said misdeclaration of contents was done to evade the heavy customs duty on high-end automotive components (about 30%) and black pepper (from 51% to 71%). Scrap customs duty was in the range of 2.5% to 5%, they added. The action was taken under the instructions of additional director general Nitin Saini. The estimated value of the black pepper and the automotive components being smuggled is said to be more than Rs 50 lakh. Less than a fortnight back, the DRI had found 10 mis-declared containers at another ICD in Ludhiana. Bogus billing case: Rs 60 lakh foundIn a recent raid by the directorate general of GST Intelligence (DGGI) on a scrap dealer on Overlock Road, Rs 60 lakh cash was found from his business premises. The accused allegedly committed bogus billing of Rs 65 crore, involving Rs 5 crore to Rs 7 crore input tax credit (ITC). Department officials were tight-lipped about the case, but sources said around 10 firms based in Ludhiana were being investigated in connection with this case as they had business links with the firms of the accused. However, it is yet to be established whether all the firms under the scanner belong to other businessmen or the accused was running them in their names.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cargo-of-high-end-car-parts-black-pepper-declared-as-scrap/articleshow/80177169.cms||Mohit Behl
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||‘We have made clean Buddha Nullah a movement’||With a renewed focus on making Buddha Nullah garbage free, Puran Singh, project director of Swachh Bharat Mission, Punjab is leading the Buddha Dariya cleanliness drive. For catching hold of the defaulters where civic officials and some volunteers from city colleges are sent in field for awareness drive, Puran goes to localities around drain for checking and also caught hold of some defaulters while throwing garbage in Buddha Dariya. Excerpts from a conversation between him and TOI correspondent Nidhi Bhardwaj. Do you think Buddha Dariya cleanliness drive will leave any impact and solid waste will be stopped in drain? This time we have made this drive a movement where government had brought plans for solving the problem of liquid waste in drain. A parallel campaign has been started to stop people from throwing garbage or other waste in Buddha Dariya. We are sending students in the field and 28 nodal officers are appointed for regular monitoring. The challans are being issued because only by awareness we cannot stop people. The public will stop when there will be strict action against violators. The government is serious in curbing pollution in drain and departments are also putting their best to deal with violators. With this awareness drive do you feel some change has come in usual practice of throwing waste in drain by people? We have started witnessing the change at ground level. We cannot say we have become 100% successful but certain people have started accepting the pleas not to throw garbage in drain. Some even volunteered to be part of this campaign. I have also talked to many residents around drain during early morning drives and I feel it is a paradox where every person wants drain to be cleaned but still people throw waste in drain. Anyhow we will become successful in changing habits of people, it might take time but we will become successful. This drive will end in 15 days, what will happen after this drive? This awareness drive was scheduled just to give a chance to people for changing their age-old habits. We are not going to stop here. The officials are assigned the job to clean existing garbage from drain. Once the awareness drive will get over, the challaning will increase and penalty of Rs 5,000 will be imposed on violators. Also we have kept the provision to get FIR registered against offenders who will not mend their ways even after issuing challans. We will clean the drain at any cost. Then side by side project to develop micro forest around Buddha Dariya has kicked off and in next few days beautification will also start. The encroachments will also be removed and we are committed to provide a clean Dariya to public but for that people will also have to support us. In the next two months, Swachhta Survekshan will also take place. Where do you rank Ludhiana among other districts of state? Last year Ludhiana got better ranking and also an award, which shows that city has improved at many factors. Still, there are certain shortcomings like 100% source segregation is yet to be achieved, but door to door garbage collection has improved a lot. As far as survekshan is concerned we have divided cities in three categories on the basis of population and Ludhiana is in a category of population above 10 lakh where only one city Amritsar is in competition from Punjab. We have ODF+ certification and we will try for ODF++ certification in 2022 when sewerage treatment plants will become fully operational. NGT panel had imposed bank guarantees on civic body for its failure in achieving the set targets for solid waste management. Do you think these bank guarantees will be seized? The committee formed by NGT for Buddha Nullah rejuvenation and even solid waste management had set certain deadlines for the civic body to achieve. When due to certain reasons deadlines got missed and bank guarantees were imposed but I do not think situation will come where those bank guarantees will be seized. The civic body is working hard to achieve the targets but picture will become clear when committee members will once again review the deadlines and works done at field.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/we-have-made-clean-buddha-nullah-a-movement/articleshow/80178393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Hellhole existence for people of Jiyaguda dumpyard: Student||Hyderabad: A law student from Osmania University said it was unbecoming of Telangana State Pollution Control Board and GHMC to not respond to burgeoning woes of people residing in the vicinity of Jiyaguda dump yard. In a letter to Telangana high court, K Sai Pawan highlighted how life has become a living hell for the residents thanks to the heaps of garbage dumped in the area. Converting Pawan’s letter into a public interest litigation, the high court on Friday directed the municipal administration department and TSPCB officials to file a status report within four weeks on the steps taken to save the residents from the stinking smell emanating from the dump yard. Pawan in his letter said the quality of life of people is worsening with each passing day. “The quantum of garbage, consisting of human excreta from septic tanks, animal carcasses and litter from various divisions in the city, is also rising. Hundreds of trucks, filled to the brim with waste, continue to make their way to the dumping yard,” he said. He further said several families live in and around the dump yard and their health is seriously getting affected on account of this. He also lamented that scores of representations given to the GHMC and TSPCB have not yielded any response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hellhole-existence-for-people-of-jiyaguda-dumpyard-student/articleshow/80177103.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No evidence UK strain more severe, say experts||NEW DELHI: An analysis of severity of Covid-19 in UK returnees and their direct contacts undergoing treatment at Lok Nayak Hospital shows very few of them have mild or severe symptoms. Barring two out of 60, all of them are asymptomatic or have very mild symptoms. “We plan to discharge some of them as soon as their genome sequencing results are in,” said Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital. Sources said the swab samples of all these patients had been sent for genome sequencing. As on Friday, the results of genome sequencing conducted on 31 swab samples had arrived. Of them, 13 (42%) were positive and 18 (58%) negative. “The positivity rate among the suspected patients is very high, which is worrying. It confirms our fears about high transmissibility of the virus. However, on the brighter side, we are seeing that very few people who have tested positive for the mutated strain or those who are awaiting results have severe symptoms,” said a source. Among those found positive for the mutated strain of the virus, only two had mild symptoms. “The condition of one of them, who is 35 years old, has improved significantly. The other patient with the mutated strain, a 47-year-old man, continues to have mild symptoms for which antiviral drugs are being administered,” the source said. Dr Rommel Tickoo, associate director, internal medicine at Max Superspecialty Hospital, Saket said, “There is nothing to be alarmed about as yet. The mutated strain may be more infective, but there is no evidence to suggest that it causes more severe symptoms than the original strain. However, to prevent the healthcare infrastructure from getting overwhelmed once again, we need to screen anyone coming from countries affected by the mutated strain of SARS-CoV-2. Also, measures such as wearing a mask, washing hands regularly and maintaining physical distance should be strictly adhered to.” Since the beginning of the pandemic, experts say the novel coronavirus has undergone multiple mutations. But the mutation found in the UK in September for the first time has become a cause for concern because it is more infectious than the original strain. Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology at CMC Vellore, who is also the vice-chair of the board of Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations, a global partnership seeking to proactively develop vaccines for epidemics, said there was no evidence to show increase in severity. In a webinar at AIIMS, Kang warned that when a virus circulates unchecked and immunisation rates are low, the probability of mutations increase. She called for early identification of mutations and mitigation strategies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-evidence-uk-strain-more-severe-experts/articleshow/80178386.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Gap between recoveries and new cases widens in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: With only 614 new positive cases of Covid-19 in the state on Friday and a healthy recovery count, the war against Covid is giving hope to everyone. With these new cases, tally of Coronavirus patients reached 247436 in state. Apart from the fresh cases, 9 deaths were also reported in MP as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services, taking Covid death toll to 3691. The districts where these deaths were reported include Indore where 2 deaths were reported, and one death each was reported from Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur, Khargone, Morena, Barwani and Damoh districts. On Friday new cases were reported from 45 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Friday include Khandwa, Bhind, Alirajpur, Umaria, Ashok Nagar, Niwari and Agar Malwa districts. Of these 45 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from 11 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal where 168 tested positive, followed by Indore where 148 tested positive, Jabalpur where 46 tested positive and Khargone where 25 were found positive. On the brighter side, 809 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these the count of people who have recovered so far in the state reached 235521. As on January 8, the cumulative recovery rate in the state was 95.18 percent. A total of 25324 samples were tested on Friday, out of it 614 tested positive, thus positivity rate—which is number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—on Friday stood at 2.4 %.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/gap-between-recoveries-new-cases-widens/articleshow/80178396.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||120 post office Aadhaar centres to offer services in Telangana||HYDERABAD: In order to help people keep their Aadhaar cards up to date, the India Post (postal department) has started operating 120 post office Aadhaar centres in 28 districts in Telangana. These centres will undertake fresh enrolments free of cost on submission of proof of identity and address, according to assistant director, Hyderabad Region, J Srinivas. On Friday, postal department officials said that 120 post offices in Hyderabad region had been identified for this purpose. “Aadhaar card holders can get a colour print of their Aadhaar card on A4 paper by providing their biometric details and Aadhaar number, at the cost of Rs 30 per print,” an official release said. Another facility being provided is the mandatory biometric update for all children at the age of five and 15. This will be free of cost, Srinivas said. The department has also contacted headmasters of government educational institutions to help speed up the process, an official press release added. Regarding Aadhaar card related services, the assistant director said that the Aadhaar card holders can avail updating services too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/120-post-office-aadhaar-centres-to-offer-services-in-t/articleshow/80177134.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||41 more test positive, case count tops 25k||Ludhiana: No death of a Ludhiana resident due to Covid-19 was reported for the third consecutive day on Friday. However, two patients from outside the district succumbed to the virus at the city hospitals. As many as 41 residents and nine outsiders have tested positive.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district fatality figure stood at 969 and that of outsiders has increased to 458.To date, 5,54,546 persons have been tested.Of the 41 new cases, 12 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), 12 positive cases’ contacts, 11 from OPD, five through tracing process, and one pre-operative case. The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,012 and that of outsiders 3,748.So far, 23,751 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.95% of the total cases.There are 289 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 932.On Friday, 37 persons were quarantined and 2,329 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government at CMCH.Three patients are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/41-more-test-positive-case-count-tops-25k/articleshow/80177185.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Interstate vehicle lifters’ gang busted, 2 held||Ludhiana: With the arrest of two persons, the Crime Investigation Agency (CIA)-II of the Ludhiana police on Thursday claimed to have busted an interstate gang of vehicle lifters. They also recovered six stolen cars from their possession.According to the police, the accused would steal vehicles from Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal and Delhi and sell them in the city on forged documents. The police recovered two Toyota Innova cars, two Maruti Suzuki Brezza and one Baleno cars, and one Mahindra Scorpio car from their possession.The arrested accused have been identified as Loveraj Singh, 40, of Karamwala village of Ferozepur Cantt and Ankush Kumar, 31, of Mahuana Bodla village in Fazilka. According to police officials, Loveraj is the kingpin of the gang and has many accomplices in various cities. DCP (investigation) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said following a tip-off, the CIA-2 personnel arrested the accused near Tibba crossing. They were travelling in a Mahindra Scorpio vehicle bearing a fake registration number. The DCP said during their interrogation, the accused confessed that they had stolen the vehicle from Bhopal and wanted to sell it in the city using forged documents. On their information, the other cars were recovered.Talking about the modus operandi of the accused, DCP Dhindsa said, “The accused used to manage registration, chassis and engine numbers of genuine vehicles and prepare forged documents of stolen vehicles. The police also suspect involvement of the employees of the transport department of different cities, from they used to get the details of the registered vehicles. The gang members in different states used to steal vehicles, after which Loveraj and Ankush would travel by air there and drive the vehicle back to the city.” The DCP further said as Loveraj and Ankush were already into the business of second-hand cars, they could easily sell the stolen vehicles. The police are further questioning the accused to know total how many stolen vehicles they have sold so far. A case under IPC sections 379 (theft), 411 (receiving stolen property), 473 (making or possessing counterfeit seal etc to commit forgery), 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuables security, will etc), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 471 (using fake documents as genuine papers) has been lodged against the accused at Tibba police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/interstate-vehicle-lifters-gang-busted-2-held/articleshow/80177187.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Woman returns 2-bhk, wants to help the needy||Hyderabad: In a humanitarian gesture, a woman who was allotted a double bedroom house by the state government in Siddipet district chose to forgo the benefit by asking the authorities to give the dwelling to someone else who may be in dire need of it. The woman, Racha Laxmi, handed over the keys of the house and also the documents to finance minister T Harish Rao and Siddipet district collector P Venkatrama Reddy on Friday. At a function at Siddipet where 272 beneficiaries were handed over double bedroom houses at KCR Nagar, Racha Laxmi did the unexpected. Laxmi’s husband Krishna Murthy had passed away some time ago. Since she was economically poor, she had applied for a double bedroom house and got it. However, Laxmi did some rethinking. She said she has a daughter and when she gets married, she would go away. “Why would I need such a big house for myself when I would be the only one staying there,” she said. Laxmi lives with her younger brother Nagesh’s family at present. Laxmi’s only daughter is studying engineering and was introduced to the gathering by Harish Rao.  At KCR Nagar, 1,567 families have already occupied their houses after doing the housewarming.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-returns-2-bhk-wants-to-help-the-needy/articleshow/80177116.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||UPA sanctionedITIR: Sampath||Hyderabad: All India Congress Committee secretary S A Sampath Kumar on Friday said it was the previous Congress-led UPA government that had sanctioned the Information Technology Investment Region (ITIR) to provide direct and indirect employment to lakhs of youth. “The letter written by KT Rama Rao to the Centre for setting up of ITIR project is a politically motivated move in view of ensuing elections to two Graduate MLC seats, Nagarjuna Sagar by-poll and local bodies elections,” Sampath alleged. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upa-sanctioneditir-sampath/articleshow/80177182.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||GATE 2021 admit cards now online||MUMBAI: IIT-Bombay, the organising institute of GATE 2021, has uploaded admit cards for the exam. They can be downloaded from the portal https://appsgate.iitb.ac.in. A total of 9.1 lakh admit cards have been generated, of which 1,775 are provisional. Students who have registered for two papers, need to download two separate admit cards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gate-2021-admit-cards-now-online/articleshow/80179776.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||One killed in eway accident||Pune: A 25-year-old man was killed after a light commercial vehicle he was travelling in crashed into the rear portion of a stationary container parked near the Urse toll plaza on the Pune-Mumbai Expressway around 7.15am on Thursday. Deceased Shamshad Khan of Uttar Pradesh was heading from Mumbai to Pune with the commercial vehicle’s driver Dharmendra Yadav. “Yadav lost the control of the vehicle and rammed the container. Khan died on the spot, while the driver suffered injuries,” senior inspector Bhaskar Jadhav of the Talegaon Dabhade police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-killed-in-eway-accident/articleshow/80178343.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray moves to Varsha as renovation on at Matoshree||MUMBAI: More than a year after taking over as Maharashtra chief minister, Uddhav Thackeray last week moved to Varsha, his official residence at Malabar Hill in South Mumbai. While he held meetings at Varsha over the last year, he preferred living at Matoshree, the Thackeray family residence in Bandra’s Kalanagar. A senior Sena functionary said there was minor renovation going on at Matoshree, so the CM had moved for ew weeks. While the CM has stayed over at Varsha in the past, this is the first time he is living at the official residence for more than a week. The CM and his family, including wife Rashmi and son, environment minister Aaditya, have spent more than a week at Varsha, cutting travel time between Bandra and South Mumbai, where Mantralaya and Sahyadri, the state guest house where most meetings take place, are located. Thackeray had indicated he preferred to stay at Matoshree and was traveling between Bandra and South Mumbai since he took over as CM in November 2019. “It was decided early on that he will only go to Varsha for key meetings. Officials said it will be better if he moves into Varsha as it will be easy to hold meetings there and at Sahyadri,” a Sena functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhav-moves-to-varsha-as-renovation-on-at-matoshree/articleshow/80177390.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Custodial death: Kin seek contempt proceedings against Ludhiana cops||Ludhiana: The family of recovery agent Deepak Shukla, who had died in police custody last year, has filed an application in the court of sessions judge to initiate contempt of court proceedings against the Ludhiana police for non-submission of the status report of the case lodged against the three cops, despite a local court order.Earlier, after the court orders, the Division No. 5 police had registered an FIR against the three cops on August 14, 2020 for committing contempt of court by keeping the victim in police custody, though the court had ordered to send him to judicial remand.A month later, the kin had sought the status report of the case through the court, but the bereaved family claims that they are struggling to get the same even after passage of five months.The city had witnessed a series of protests in February-March last year after the death of Deepak Shukla, 26, in custody. It is alleged that Shukla was brutally tortured in the lockup by then Division No. 5 SHO SI Richa Rani, then in-charge of Kochar Market police post Jaskaran Singh, ASI Charanjit Singh and constable Mandeep Singh, following which he died on the night of February 26.The police had arrested Deepak on February 22 in a case of vehicle theft and was produced before the court, which had sent him to a two-day police remand. On February 24, when Deepak was again produced before court, it had ordered for his judicial custody. But, the police took him back to the police post, where he was allegedly tortured, and sent him to jail on February 25. A day later, he died.The kin of the deceased have alleged that the cops were demanding Rs 1.25 lakh from them for releasing Deepak, but as they failed to oblige them, they had brutally beaten him Deepak.Deepak’s uncle Rakesh Shukla said, “After a long struggle, we managed to get an FIR lodged against SI Richa, ASI Jaskaran and ASI Chiranjit, but that was for contempt of court. The cops were suspended, too, but later Richa was reinstated. As for ASI Charanjit and ASI Jaskaran, we are not sure if they were reinstated. Mystery still shrouds the death of Deepak.”BOXKin want murder case again copsDeceased Deepak’s uncle Rakesh Shukla said that the family has also approached a local court and then the Punjab and Haryana high court to get a murder case registered over the custodial death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/custodial-death-kin-seek-contempt-proceedings-against-ludhiana-cops/articleshow/80177194.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Now, 24/7 monitoring for violators||LUDHIANA: After the civic body launched drive around Buddha Dariya to curb dumping of solid waste, the violators are throwing waste into the drain in the night. The officials claimed that earlier they were throwing garbage during the day or early morning. But since teams remain vigil during the day, it has become impossible to throw in the night, so they are waiting till midnight to do the deed. However, to check this practice too, the civic body is taking help from PCR cops and some civic employees are also deputed on the task at night time. On Friday, the officials came across a person who was dumping waste in the drain but he claimed that he was unaware of the ban on throwing waste in drain. However, when officials checked the municipal corporation (MC) teams, it came to light that the team had already visited his house and proper information was also passed on. He was let off this time with a promise that he will not do the same in future. The 14km long stretch of the drain, falling within the MC limits and around 28 bridges fall at drain, which are under supervision of 28 nodal officers. Nodal officer Maheshwar Singh said, “The change has come and we can say there is 70% benefit of this awareness as well as challaning drive, which is going on for the last few days. But still 25 to 30% of violators are not mending their ways and if we check during the day they have started throwing garbage at night time.” He said now they are keeping vigil at night time as well with the help of staff and PCR cops. Meanwhile, on Friday, the volunteers from Arya College carried out awareness rally in areas like Deep Nagar, New Deep Nagar, Vrindavan Road, Jhandu Chowk up to Damoria bridge in ward number 83. The volunteers warned the residents and shopkeepers about dumping garbage in drain and pamphlets were also distributed. Also 200 volunteers from Government College for Girls, SDP College for Women and Kamla Lohtia SD College visited around 1,200 houses/shops in areas under zone A. The volunteers made people aware of ban on dumping garbage in Buddha Dariya, segregation of waste, no burning of solid waste and use of swachhta mobile application and citizen feedback.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/now-24/7-monitoring-for-violators/articleshow/80178409.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: System in place to handle vaccination side effects||LUDHIANA: Ahead of the start of Covid-19 vaccination drive in Ludhiana district, the health department has put in place a system for post-vaccination monitoring of the people, though it does not expect any major adverse aftereffects of the vaccine shots. The move is significant in view of the rumours of possible ‘side effects’ of the vaccine doing the rounds, which may pose a challenge to the health officials in drawing people to the vaccination centres. District immunisation officer Dr Kiran, who is also the nodal officer for the vaccination process in the district, said after a person is given the jab, he would be kept under observation. A nodal medical officer (MO) present at each centre would observe the person after vaccination. In case of mild side effects, like headache or slight pain, the nodal MOs would take care of the person concerned. According to immunisation officials, one ambulance each has been attached to the vaccination centres. In case any major reaction is seen in a vaccinated person, he/ she will be shifted to the district, sub-divisional or private hospital of his choice, where the doctors will take care of him/ her. “Each vaccinated person will be given the contact number of the MO concerned, so that if he has any problems even after leaving the vaccination centre, he can call the MO to seek necessary medical guidance,” said an official involved with the immunisation process. “In case of some vaccines, we have heard that most common side effects have been injection site pain, headache, muscle pain, joint pain or even fever. But, that happens in very few vaccinated people,” he said. Dr Saroj Aggarwal, president of the Ludhiana wing of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), however, felt that the apprehension of side effects of vaccination should not be any major deterrent for the people. “Few side effects, including muscular pain and fever, can be only expected after any vaccination. So, it is up to a person to decide whether to get vaccinated or not. These are manageable side effects and one can have paracetamol for two days for such conditions,” she said, adding that the benefits of taking the vaccine are far greater than these minor side effects. The Ludhiana IMA chief said it is good that the health department is deputing observers at vaccination centres. Keeping ambulances ready at such sites is also a good decision, as the person developing any side effect could be immediately rushed to the hospital, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/system-in-place-to-handle-vaccination-side-effects/articleshow/80177209.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Punjab: Trade unions protest in support of farmers||LUDHIANA: A massive protest was staged here on Friday against the central and state governments by several trade unions and Anganwadi workers in support of the farmers protesting against the new agriculture laws. The protest call was given by the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu). The police had a tough time tackling the protesters, who had gathered outside the mini secretariat, and minor scuffles were also witnessed between them. Traffic movement was affected briefly as the protesters came on the main road to stage a march. Subash Rani, district president of Anganwadi Mulazam Union, Punjab, said, “The Centre is misusing its powers to help some corporate houses. On one hand, Prime Minister Narendra Modi boasts of Make in India mission, while on the other, he is selling one after another public undertaking to Adani and Ambani. On the pretext of bringing bullet trains in the country, attempts are being made to sell even the railways to the corporates. “The voice of our farmers, who are our Anndatas, is being suppressed to safeguard the interests of big companies. It has been three months that the farmers are protesting for their rights, but their pleas are being ignored and they are being made to sit at the borders of Delhi like aliens in their own country.” Asha Rani, another representative of the union, said, “The Punjab government is also not behind central government in its anti-people policies and its biggest evidence is that starting October 2018, it has been making a huge cut in the 40% share in the allowance being given by the Centre for us. While our chief minister claims to be a well-wisher of the poor workers like us, his own government is not ready to give us our rights. Another big concern is that the government has done away with four codes under the labour laws, which has made the future of the workers insecure. Our fight against both state and Centre will continue like this until all our demands, including rollback of the three farm laws, are met.” Others present at the site included Dheeraj Bala, Nirmal Kaur, Anju Mehta, Parminder Kaur, Rajni Bala, Aarti, Jasbir Kaur and Baljit Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trade-unions-protest-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/80178411.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||BJP to move court for action against Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu||LUDHIANA: The BJP will fight a legal battle against Congress MP Ravneet Singh Bittu, because the police have failed to take any action on their complaints against his unlawful actions, party’s district president Pushpinder Singal said on Friday. Issuing a press release here, Singal claimed that first Bittu took the responsibility of attack on state BJP president Ashwani Sharma and then he threatened to pile up dead bodies in Punjab if farm ordinances are not rolled back. He said they had given written complaints in both cases to the police commissioner, but no action was taken. Singal said they had staged a protest at Shingaar Cinema Road to show their anger against the Congress government and Bittu, and then decided to go ahead with a continuous protest at Clock Tower Chowk. But, on the instruction of the state government, the cops disturbed the entire market area, so that their protest ends prematurely. For the sake of businessmen and common public, they shifted the venue to the police commissioner’s office, but even there they were not allowed to sit, he said. Then they started their protest outside the mini secretariat. On Thursday, when they were going to gherao the CP office, the cops manhandled many of the BJP workers, including females, and they were detained from the spot, he claimed. Having seen all these incidents, they are convinced that no action would be taken against Bittu, so now they would fight a legal battle against him and file a case against him shortly, Singal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bjp-to-move-court-for-action-against-cong-mp-bittu/articleshow/80178412.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Deceased fireman’s wife gets appointment letter||LUDHIANA: After almost three years of the fire incident, in which a building had collapsed in Suffian Chowk, killing 16 people including nine firefighters, the wife of a deceased fireman Sukhdev Singh was on Friday handed over the appointment letter by mayor Balkar Sandhu and municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal. The government had announced jobs for the kin of each firefighter, who died battling the fire, and six beneficiaries were also given jobs after a few months. But, in case of three firemen, some technical issues had cropped up, which delayed the appointment of their kin. In the case of Sukhdev Singh, the issue was that he was hired through Punjab Ex-servicemen Corporation (Pesco), so the government had raised some objections. Later, the municipal corporation House passed an agenda that the employees hired through Pesco would also be given jobs, which facilitated the appointment of Sukhdev's wife.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/deceased-firemans-wife-gets-appointment-letter/articleshow/80178413.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana zoo to promote animal adoption to make up for losses||LUDHIANA: Having suffered a loss of nearly Rs 36 lakh due to the shutdown caused in the wake of Covid-19 outbreak, the Ludhiana Zoo and Tiger Safari finally reopened for the visitors on December 17. To make up for the loss incurred during the closure period, the zoo authorities are now planning to promote adoption of zoo animals. The zoo has about 250 different species of birds and animals, and it is likely to welcome more exotic birds by the summer this year. The zoo authorities said although it has reopened after a long gap, they are yet to see the usual earlier rush, as people are still wary of visiting places with large gatherings. The divisional forest officer (DFO), wildlife, Neeraj Kumar, said, “From Ludhiana zoo, we used to collect approximately Rs 4 lakh per month or Rs 48 lakh per annum. But, due to the pandemic outbreak, the zoo remained closed for nine months. This caused us a loss of approximately Rs 36 lakh.” Almost 80% of the money earned from the visitors has to be spent back on the zoo itself, including on its maintenance and treatment of animals. “During the lockdown, we did get funds for the feed of the animals, but the loss of Rs 36 lakh is huge. Therefore, this time, our approach will be to cover the loss by promoting animal adoption,” he added. The DFO said they have already spoken to some industries in Ludhiana and asked them to adopt animals from the zoo, especially the tigers. “I am hopeful that the industries would come forward for this. We have a tiger Chirag, besides Himalayan black bear, deer, sambar and other animals and birds. By the summer, some more exotic birds will be added to the zoo family. Further, for the promotion of animal adoption, I will soon meet deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma, so that it can get a boost at the district level.” Ludhiana zoo in-charge Narinder Singh said the approximate expense on a tiger is Rs 1.5 lakh per month. The people, who earlier adopted animals, got tax rebates and their names were also displayed in the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ludhiana-zoo-to-promote-animal-adoption-to-make-up-for-losses/articleshow/80177231.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Seven-day quarantine in Delhi must for those back from UK||NEW DELHI: Everyone arriving in Delhi from the United Kingdom will require seven days’ institutional quarantine followed by seven days of home isolation even if they test negative for Covid-19 on arrival, Delhi government announced on Friday. The measure is meant to check the new coronavirus variant prevailing in the UK from spreading in the city. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted on Friday, “To protect Delhiites from exposure to virus from UK, Delhi government takes important decisions. All those arriving from UK who test positive will be isolated in an isolation facility. Negative ones will be taken to a quarantine facility for 7 days followed by 7 days home quarantine (sic).” On Friday, Delhi Disaster Management Authority had ordered, “As a matter of abundant precaution in view of the increased transmissibility of the new variant, it is decided that all travellers coming from the UK to India would be mandatorily subjected to self-paid RT-PCR tests on arrival at the airport. Those who are found positive shall be isolated in an institutional isolation facility as per laid down protocol. Those who are found negative shall be kept in a compulsory institutional quarantine for a period of seven days followed by seven days of home quarantine.” Kejriwal has requested the central government to extend the ban on the UK flights imposed on December 23 till January 31 after flights were allowed to resume on Friday. Delhi government is worried about another surge in infections because Delhi, being the capital, is the final destination or the staging area for flyers from the UK to proceed to other places. A separate isolation zone has been created at Lok Nayak Hospital for UK arrivals who test positive. For those preferring private hospitals, similar isolation facilities have been created at Max Hospital (Saket), Batra Hospital & Research Centre, Fortis Hospital (Vasant Kunj) and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. A government facility will offer free isolation to negative passengers, while two hotels have been denoted to cater to those desiring paid quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/7-day-quarantine-must-for-those-back-from-uk/articleshow/80178410.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Burglars break into shop, flee with cash||LUDHIANA: Five unidentified miscreants broke into a shop in Kesarganj Mandi and made good with an unspecified amount of cash in the wee hours of Friday, the police said. The CCTV installed at the shop has captured the burglary. The matter came to light on Friday morning when shopkeepers started reaching the market. Gajinder Singh, 35, who owns a shop of polythene and gift packing materials there, said he had locked the shop at around 9.30pm on Thursday and left for his home. On Friday morning, he received a call from a shopkeeper, who told him that the shutter of his shop was broken. On reaching there, he found the shop ransacked and cash stolen. Gajinder said the CCTV installed in the shop has captured the five accused, who entered the shop around 5.30am. The accused used an iron rod to lift the shutter and then escaped with the cash. He said he would check his accounts to know the exact amount stolen. Assistant commissioner of police-central Waryam Singh said a complaint has been lodged in this regard and further investigation is on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/burglars-break-into-shop-flee-with-cash/articleshow/80177236.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Shock & awe for UK returnees on Day 1 of flight resumption||NEW DELHI: There was chaos at Indira Gandhi International Airport on Friday after stunned passengers from the United Kingdom were told they would have to go into seven days of quarantine even if they tested negative for Covid-19. This hitherto unannounced procedure caught the travellers unawares and many refused to leave the airport premises after undergoing their tests. Friday was the first day when flight operations from the UK were resumed after a suspension due to the detection of a new strain of Covid coronavirus in that country. The Air India AI112 flight landed before noon on Friday and 256 people disembarked. Of the 236 adults, 10 infants and 10 crew members, only two tested positive. Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder and director, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, the lab conducting the Covid tests at the airport, said, “We took extra precaution in conducting the tests on Friday because the new Covid strain is more virulent than the earlier one.” Dr Agarwal added, “The passengers were unaware of the revised mandate of the Union health ministry requiring all travellers and crew members arriving from the UK to undergo self-paid RT-PCR tests on arrival. There was further confusion because Delhi government announced that everyone arriving from the UK would be sent to seven days' institutional quarantine before home isolation even if they tested negative.” An airport source said a commotion broke out when the first batch of people being tested found out about the mandatory quarantine even if uninfected. “People were reluctant to leave the area, and shifting them out took several hours,” said the source. Tweeting the picture of an infant sleeping on the airport floor, Gouri Shankar Dash tweeted, @ArvindKejriwal, I am one of the passengers of flight AI112 from London with my 4.5 months old daughter. You locked everyone of us. At least bacche pe to rahem karte. There is no food for my daughter & they didn't let me get my stroller. How cruel you guys are (sic)?” Passenger Harprit Takkar posted, “@HardeepSPuri Just came from London AI112, it’s absolutely manic at Delhi Airport. Asking us to go for institutional quarantine even with negative PCR test. Didn’t mention this on your SOP. @airindiain (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shock-awe-for-uk-returnees-on-day-1-of-flight-resumption/articleshow/80178420.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Air quality drops with rise in garbage, overflow at landfills||MUMBAI: As the problem of open burning rages across the city despite complaints, urban local bodies like BMC are coming under greater scrutiny for solid waste management and redressal mechanisms. Introducing liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) in the kitchens of the poor under a government scheme is one solution that has helped reduce burning of biomass like wood and coal to an extent in recent years. However, as waste continues to swell in volume, its disposal remains a challenge. Satish Sinha, associate director of Toxics Link, a Delhi-based NGO said, “Urban local bodies need to provide resources to citizens to ensure that waste is disposed of in the right manner. Currently, waste collection isn’t available at the last mile in several pockets of the city. The civic body must provide for compost of dry garden waste which is often burnt every few days. Once there is a provision for disposal, the civic body can take penal action against those who do not use it.” A frequent hot spot for open burning is near recycling units such as in Dharavi. Hence experts suggest that government provide designated spaces for it. “Unorganised, unregulated units burn all the waste they gather to separate metal from plastic. These fires are very harmful to human health. Instead, government must provide space away from residential areas where recyclers can set up their sheds and carry out their work,” said Vinod Shetty, director, Dharavi Recyclers' Collective. Several non-profits are also aiming for micro solutions. For instance, Pune-based Samuchit Enviro Tech has developed a stove that uses dried leaves and twigs as fuel and emits less smoke. The group has been encouraging housing societies to provide these to security staff that use bonfires to stay warm during winters. Environment activist Sumaira Abdulali said awareness was the key not just among citizens but also authorities. “People must report whenever they see an instance of open burning. Social media could be used to report with pictures as well,” she said. Abdulali, over the last year, monitored air quality near open burning sites in Bhiwandi and found concentration of particulate matter was nearly 100 times the permissible limits. To cut pollution from solid fuels burnt for cooking, the Central mission for 'smoke free' status has gained momentum in the past four years with introduction of LPG in the kitchens of the poor. By replacing more than 3,000 wood-fired stoves with LPG in the state daily since 2016, as many as 44,22,390 households have now said 'No' to smoke and are using clean fuel for cooking. Under Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana (PMUY) launched in 2016, LPG connections were subsidised besides providing a loan to meet the cost of LPG adoption. The scheme resulted in over 44 lakh new connections in Maharashtra, of which over a lakh were in Mumbai metropolitan region. The emphasis was more in rural areas where the problem was severe, but urban households, especially in the slum pockets, were covered, a senior official from an oil marketing company said. Household air pollution caused mainly by burning of solid fuels—firewood, charcoal, coal, dung, and agricultural waste—and ambient air pollution were the factors which led to the government launching the scheme nationwide in 2016 in 715 districts, including 36 in Maharashtra. During the pandemic, the scheme was a huge relief to beneficiaries as government gave free of cost LPG refills to Ujjwala consumers for three months -- April, May and June, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/air-quality-drops-with-rise-in-garbage-overflow-at-landfills/articleshow/80179817.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Drunk driving: 238 booked on Thursday in Cyberabad||HYDERABAD: As many as 238 cases were booked in the special drive against drunk driving checks conducted in Cyberabad for the 11th consecutive day on Thursday. According to the traffic police, most of the violators were found to be two-wheelers followed by cars and other vehicles. “Two-wheelers are more vulnerable to road accidents. Motorcyclists are putting their lives at risk by driving under the influence of alcohol,” an official said adding that all those who were caught in the special drive would have to appear before the court for final disposal of the case. Their driving licenses would be forwarded to the Regional Transport Office concerned for suspension as per law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drunk-driving-238-booked-on-thursday/articleshow/80177227.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Vax arrangements: 63 cold chains set up||LUDHIANA: With the Covid-19 vaccination process set to start soon, the health department is on its toes. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said, “We are making all the required arrangements for the vaccination rollout, which is expected in about a week or more. The process will start after we receive a written intimation.” The health department officials said 63 cold chains have been set up in government and private hospitals. “In the first phase, health-care workers will be vaccinated. The government health-care workers will preferably get the shots at government centres. Cold chains have been set up in private hospitals with more than 100 employees, where their workers will be vaccinated,” they added. The civil surgeon said during a recent meeting with the deputy commissioner, provision of security at the centres was discussed. “Cops will not be posted outside the cold chains,” he added. The department officials said, “The administration wants that one of the vaccination officers should be from the police force so that on the first day of the process, he can play a vital role in handling the crowd like checking, line management and ensuring compliance of Covid-related rules at the centres.” “We have trained vaccination officers and vaccinators. A vehicle will be sent to bring vaccines from the regional centre of the department in Chandigarh. The same vehicle will take the vaccines to each centre,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vax-arrangements-63-cold-chains-set-up/articleshow/80177237.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Sunitha takes charge as women’s panel chief||Hyderabad: Telangana women’s commission’s newly appointed chairperson V Sunitha Laxma Reddy and six other members assumed office in the city on Friday. After a gap of two-and-a-half-years and huge hue and cry by social activists, the Telangana government appointed the chairperson and members of the women’s commission on December 27. Reddy was the former minister for women and child welfare in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh. The new members took charge in the presence of state information technology and municipal administration and urban development minister K Taraka Rama Rao who urged the commission to be tough in dealing with crimes against women. “A dedicated emergency number 181 will be functional for women to register complaints. From domestic violence to discrimination against women, we will be taking up every case for quick disposal,” said Reddy, adding that special women’s courts should be there in place. 181 will not only act as an emergency number but will also connect women to Sakhi centers established in all the districts. “Women’s commission duties are not just limited to reacting and resolving women’s issues but also to suggest the government on policy making and rules that are in the interest of women at large,” said D Divya, special chief secretary to the government .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sunitha-takes-charge-as-womens-panel-chief/articleshow/80177235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Implement common school system’||Hyderabad: G Haragopal, visiting professor at National Law School of India University, Bangalore on Friday said that only by implementing recommendations of the Kothari Commission social justice in education can be achieved. Speaking at the virtual public meeting organised by Telangana State United Teachers Federation as part of its fourth state conference, Haragopal said that common school system should be implemented in the state. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/implement-common-school-system/articleshow/80177238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's IGI airport all geared up for first shipment of Covid vaccine||NEW DELHI: The first shipment of Covid-19 vaccines is likely to reach the Delhi airport from Pune over the next 48 hours. IGI Airport officials said they were prepared to handle and even store the vaccines on the premises, if required. Covishield vaccine, developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and manufactured by Serum Institute, may be shifted to Rajeev Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital’s cold-storage facility. But officials said the two cargo terminals at the airport are also capable of maintaining temperatures up to -20 degrees Celsius. Videh Kumar Jaipuriar, CEO of Delhi International Airport Limited (DIAL), had said the airport was capable of storing at least 27 lakh vials and transporting up to 80 lakh vials every day. The two cargo terminals are equipped with cold-storage facilities capable of handling 1.5 lakh MT per annum. In north India, Delhi and Karnal are the designated hubs to store the vaccines. “The airport facilities have state-of-the-art temperature-controlled zones with separate cool chambers ranging from 25 to -20 degrees Celsius. Both the terminals have been provided with adequate charging points to handle temperature-controlled containers,” said a DIAL official. The airport is still awaiting details of the shipment, including its arrival time. “It should arrive in the next 48 hours,” said the official. “Cool dollies” are in place at runway areas for moving the vaccines to the terminal and back to a flight with an “unbroken” cool chain. The airport is also working on customised solutions to handle vaccines in other temperature ranges. “There are processes being put in place in association with clearing agencies for express movement of vaccines to and from the airport. Our 24x7 operations of the cargo terminals ensure that the services are available round the clock for uninterrupted supply chain and efficient operations,” said a DIAL official. There are separate dedicated gates at the terminals for fast movement of vehicles carrying vaccines in and out of the airport, he added. “There is also a truck slot management system at the cargo terminals where facility is provided to pre-book the arrival of trucks,” said the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/igi-all-geared-up-for-first-shipment-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80178476.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Pick 3 names for state unit chief, Congress tells its flock||MUMBAI: A week after state Congress president Balasaheb Thorat, who is also the state revenue minister, offered to quit, the All India Congress Committee on Friday launched an exercise to elect his successor. If a senior Congress cabinet member is to be believed, AICC secretary H K Patil’s recorded messages have been sent to all the 557 delegates and block presidents of the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee. They have been asked to submit a list of three persons who can be considered for appointment as MPCC president in place of Thorat. “It is a different kind of exercise launched by the AICC, which has developed a new ShaktiApp. Even for the appointment of the Mumbai Congress president, the AICC had taken up the same exercise,” the cabinet member said. In his brief message, Patil has asked for the views of the delegates and as to who should replace Thorat. The AICC is keen to complete the exercise as early as possible, sources said. A week ago, Thorat had expressed the view that in keeping with the ‘one man one post’ policy of the party, he would like to relinquish the organizational post while he would continue as a cabinet member and leader of the Congress legislature party. “I have offered to quit in keeping with the policy of the party,” Thorat had told TOI. For the last three days, H K Patil had been camping in Mumbai for ascertaining views of Congress ministers, ex-CMs and legislators on the new PCC president. He had a prolonged meeting with former chief ministers Prithviraj Chavan and Ashok Chavan (the latter is now public works minister). According to the cabinet member, most Congress legislators informed H K Patil that in the larger interest of the one-year-old MVA government, it would be better not to change the PCC president. Secondly, it was felt that at a juncture when the gram panchayat polls are approaching and municipal corporation polls are just a few months away, it would be wrong to make high- level organizational changes and that AICC should maintain the status quo. RS member Rajiv Satao, assembly speaker Nana Patole, relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur and ex-CM Prithviraj Chavan are emerging as the top contenders for the state Congress chief’s post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pick-3-names-for-state-unit-chief-cong-tells-its-flock/articleshow/80179883.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 9, 2021||Patna||Railways extends period for full refunds to 3 more months||PATNA: In a major policy decision, railways has extended the period for getting full refunds of the booked journey tickets from six months to nine months. This facility is applicable for the regular train services only, for which passengers had booked their tickets in advance but could not get full refunds till now due to some unavoidable reasons after mass cancellation of regular train services across the country caused by the Covid-19 pandemic lockdown since March last. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways had earlier simplified the ticket refund rules due to the cancellation of all mail and express passenger trains, for which tickets were booked between March 21 and July 31, 2020. “Railways had thus extended the period for getting full refunds up to six months from July, 2020 to December 31, 2020. However, railways has extended the period further up to three months more from now for those who could not yet get full refunds due to one reason or another,” he said. Under the new arrangements, railways will now give full refunds of the journey tickets from the passenger reservation system (PRS) counters also, while e-ticket holders are getting auto refunds directly from the IRCTC website in case of cancellation of the journey tickets. “Passengers can get full refunds of their tickets by dialling railway helpline 139 number on which railways has recently provided ticket cancellation facility as well,” he said. Meanwhile, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar has inaugurated a vendors’ development exhibition on the DRM’s office premises at Khagaul. Rare parts and equipment from mechanical, signal and telecom and electrical departments were put on display at the exhibition. “This exhibition is likely to showcase importance of rare parts and equipment being used in railways as vital components to maintain passenger train rakes’ safety as well as help its departments concerned to produce such parts in large numbers to fulfil the needs in the years to come,” the DRM said. Besides, railways has made functional the newly built goods shed at the Chakand yard line near Gaya to benefit most businessmen and consignors to load their consignments easily to far off places. “Railways had sent one full rake of the consignment containing rice crops to Andhra Pradesh on Thursday. Cement, fertilizers, salt, stone chips, iron and food materials are other consignments being dispatched to other places or unloaded at the Chakand goods shed terminal,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-extends-period-for-full-refunds-to-3-more-months/articleshow/80177307.cms||Kumod Verma
January 9, 2021||Bareilly||UP man set on fire by daughter for objecting to her affair, dies||BAREILLY: A 55-year-old marginal farmer, who was allegedly set on fire by his daughter and other members of the family after he objected to her relationship with a local youth from the Wazirganj area in Uttar Pradesh's Budaun district, succumbed during treatment at a district hospital on Friday. In a statement to the police - a couple of days before his death - Mohammed Aamir had said, “When I raised objections to my daughter's affair, she, my son and my wife along with my nephew poured petrol on me and set me on fire. They all wanted me dead.” According to the autopsy report, the reason of death was stated to be septicaemia due to infection in burn injuries. An FIR was registered against certain members of his family under section 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC on the man's complaint. All the accused are absconding. Aamir's funeral rituals were completed by his distant relatives, neighbours and police in the evening. Aamir was a resident of Hatra village. His two daughters are aged 26 and 21, and a son aged 24. On January 5, a police team, after tip-off from locals, had found him lying on the floor at his house - all alone - with around 30% burns. They then shifted him to the district hospital and recorded his statement after preliminary treatment. Wazirganj SHO Amit Kumar told TOI that his burn injuries were not so grave, but patients with such injuries need constant medical attention to prevent infection. "We were expecting him to survive." Murder charges will now be added to the FIR and those involved will be arrested soon, Kumar added. Watch 55-year-old UP man set on fire by daughter for objecting to her affair, dies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-man-set-on-fire-by-daughter-for-objecting-to-her-affair-dies/articleshow/80177303.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 9, 2021||Pune||Truck runs over man, injures scooter rider in hit-and-run accident||Pune: The Pimpri police on Thursday arrested a truck driver on the charge of negligent driving after one person died and another was injured in a hit-and-run incident involving his vehicle. The accident occurred on Wednesday morning, when the truck was headed for Nigdi. Police said the driver, Rajkumar Vachkal (35) of Daund, first ran over a man crossing the Pune-Mumbai highway near Empire Square and drove away towards Pimpri, where he rammed the truck into a scooter, injuring the rider. A traffic police team chased and nabbed him. The police have identified the deceased as Prakash Dodke, a gardener from Chinchwad. The scooter rider, 28-year-old Pravin Rangoli of Mohannagar in Chinchwad, is being treated for his injuries at a hospital. “Instead of stopping the truck after hitting Dodke, the driver accelerated and sped away. Some people began chasing him,” sub-inspector Vaibhav Sonawane of the Pimpri police said. Some distance away, the truck rammed Rangoli’s scooter in Pimpri. “A team of traffic police, who were on the highway, chased the truck and forced the driver to stop,” Sonawane added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/truck-runs-over-man-injures-scooter-rider-in-hit-and-run-accident/articleshow/80178509.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Motorcyclist crashes into vehicle’s open door, severely injures finger||Pune: An online food delivery boy, riding on a motorcycle, sustained injuries to his hand after hitting a car door. The occupant of the car suddenly opened its door without giving a signal at Krishnanagar chowk in Mohammadwadi on Wednesday evening. The victim Amir Jamgir (23) sustained severe injuries to his finger. He has registered an FIR with the Kondhwa police station. Jamgir said, “I was on the way to deliver a food parcel, when I had to overtake a car from the right side and a passenger suddenly opened the rear door, which hit my finger and the nail came out. I somehow gained control over the bike and chased the car driver.” Assistant inspector Pratap Doiphode from Kondhwa police station said, “Jamgir has provided the car’s registration number and we are finding out if the driver or passenger is responsible for the incident before taking action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/motorcyclist-crashes-into-vehicles-open-door-severely-injures-finger/articleshow/80178518.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Govt procures record 52m tonnes of paddy||NEW DELHI: Procurement of paddy for the ongoing kharif marketing season (KMS) has touched 52.6 million tonne, an increase of 27.1% compared to the corresponding period last year. The food and consumer affairs ministry said nearly 39% of the total purchase was from Punjab and about 69.1 lakh farmers benefited from the ongoing KMS procurement operations with MSP value of Rs 99,411 crore. According to the ministry, paddy procurement is going on smoothly in Punjab, Haryana, UP, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Tamil Nadu, Chandigarh, J&K, Kerala, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, MP, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam, Karnataka and West Bengal. Punjab alone has contributed 20.28 million tonne to the total procurement so far. This is for the first time that the government has been coming out with procurement figures on a daily basis in its bid to send a message to the farmers that the Centre is committed to continue the MSP regime. The ministry also said based on the proposal from states, approval was accorded for procurement of 5.2 million tonne of pulses and oilseeds during this season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-procures-record-52m-tonnes-of-paddy/articleshow/80180889.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Dy CM: Pimpri Chinchwad cops facing problems for earlier govt||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the Pimpri Chinchwad police were facing problems on various fronts, including shortage of officers, vehicles, and office and residential space, because the previous state government had hurriedly set up the commissionerate without working on these details.Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function, the deputy chief minister said, “The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate does not have a building of its own. We (MVA government) shall soon shift the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner’s office to its own building. It will be one of the best offices of police commissioners in the state.”He said, “I have discussed the issue of allotment of land for the police commissionerate with the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar. The state government has sanctioned Rs2 crore for buying vehicles for the Pimpri Chinchwad police. We shall also fulfil the other requirements on priority.”Stressing that the police should completely quash criminal activities in the twin industrial townships, Ajit Pawar said there should be no political interference in the police action against criminals. “Criminals have been vandalising vehicles of the common people, having nothing do with any crimes. This should not happen,” he said.Praising the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, for his initiative towards safeguarding the health of his personnel, Ajit Pawar said, “The police are now equipped with smart watch. Now, they should keep a ‘smart watch’ on the criminals.”Earlier, Pawar distributed smart watches (health bands) and bicycles to the Pimpri Chinchwad police personnel and inaugurated the “Gram Suraksha Dal” in the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate.Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Mai Dhore, police commissioner Krishna Prakash, additional police commissioner Ramnath Pokale, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Hardikar and Maval MLA Sunil Shelke were present at the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-facing-problems-for-earlier-govt/articleshow/80178527.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||People are vexed with TRS rule: Telangana BJP chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: Bharatiya Janata Party state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Friday said that the TRS leaders will not be spared by people if they speak just to appease TRS top brass. Addressing a press conference at Khammam he said “People are vexed with TRS rule. This government is not going to be permanent.”  Sanjay said while TRS is robbing the nature of its resources, the Bharatiya Janata Party is always trying to protect it.  He alleged that TRS and other parties are spreading false rumours against BJP that it is a communal party. “While the country has invented vaccine for Covid- 19, people of Telangana invented vaccine of vote against TRS court. They used this vaccine in GHMC and Dubbak and defeated TRS,” Sanjay said.  Eyeing on the Khammam civic polls, Bharatiya Janata Party top brass including TS affairs incharge Tarun Chugh are currently camping here.  The party having almost no presence in the district till now has focused on joining of rank and file from Congress, TRS and TDP. Top leaders including Chintala Ramachandra Reddy, Garikaptai Mohan Rao are given the task to monitor the election and campaigning. Claiming that BJP will be in power in next assembly elections, Sanjay said while TRS is robbing the nature of its resources, the BJP is always trying to protect it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/people-are-vexed-with-trs-rule-sanjay/articleshow/80177308.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Bird flu among humans is rare, but here’s what you can do to stay safe||NEW DELHI: Bird-to-human or human-to-human transmission of bird flu is rare. However, doctors advise precautionary measures, such as avoiding consuming uncooked or partially cooked chicken. Avian influenza can spread to humans through droppings, saliva and secretion of the infected bird, so it is advisable to avoid contaminated surfaces. Dr JC Suri, director, department of pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine at Fortis Hospital, said, “Those involved in the handling of poultry birds, for example chicken, should clean and disinfect any suspected infected areas and wear protective gear, such as gloves.” Another public health expert said people should be alert about birds dying in their localities. “One should not venture near bird carcasses and immediately report any death to the authorities,” added the expert. Centre for Disease Control and Prevention says that US bird flu can infect people when enough virus gets into a person’s eyes, nose or mouth. “This might happen when the virus is in the air and a person breathes it in, or when a person touches an infected surface and then touches their mouth, eyes or nose,” it adds. Most bird flu infections in people have occurred after unprotected contact with infected birds or contaminated surfaces. The illness can range from mild to severe. Signs and symptoms include fever, cough, sore throat, runny or stuffy nose, muscle or body aches, fatigue, headaches, eye redness (or conjunctivitis) and difficulty in breathing. Just like seasonal flu, some people are at a high risk of getting very sick from bird flu infection, including pregnant women, those with weakened immune systems and people aged 65 and above, CDC says. India experienced its first highly pathogenic H5N1 outbreak in Maharashtra and Gujarat in February 2005, followed by a second outbreak in Madhya Pradesh in March 2006. Since then, sporadic cases of bird flu have been reported at periodic intervals from different parts of the country, including an outbreak in Manipur in 2007 and West Bengal and Tripura in 2008. In 2016, culling was carried out in Delhi following reports of sudden death of birds at Delhi zoo, deer park in Hauz Khas and Asola Bhatti sanctuary in Tughlaqabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bird-flu-among-humans-is-rare-but-heres-what-you-can-do-to-stay-safe/articleshow/80178525.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Major Gen Bhaskar passes away||Hyderabad: Major General S N Bhaskar (retired) of the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers who served in the Indian Army for 32 years passed away at his Banjara Hills residence in the city on January 7. The last rites were performed at Swarg Vatika crematorium in Secunderabad following Covid protocols on Friday. A recipient of the Padma Shri award, he was born on November 20, 1924 and was commissioned into the Corps of Electronics and Mechanical Engineers on December 10, 1948. He was awarded Ati Vishisht Seva Medal (AVSM) on 26 January 1979 and retired with distinguished service on November 30, 1980. After retirement from the army, he took over as chairman & MD of Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML). He turned BEML into a successful story for which he was awarded ‘Padma Shri’ on January 26, 1984, according to a defence press release.  “It is rarity to see a man who remained unforgotten in the hearts of so many even four decades after his retirement,” defence authorities0k said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/major-gen-bhaskar-passes-away/articleshow/80177327.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Dy CM: Pimpri Chinchwad cops facing problems for earlier govt||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday said the Pimpri Chinchwad police were facing problems on various fronts, including shortage of officers, vehicles, and office and residential space, because the previous state government had hurriedly set up the commissionerate without working on these details.Speaking to reporters on the sidelines of a function, the deputy chief minister said, “The Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate does not have a building of its own. We (MVA government) shall soon shift the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner’s office to its own building. It will be one of the best offices of police commissioners in the state.”He said, “I have discussed the issue of allotment of land for the police commissionerate with the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner, Shravan Hardikar. The state government has sanctioned Rs2 crore for buying vehicles for the Pimpri Chinchwad police. We shall also fulfil the other requirements on priority.”Stressing that the police should completely quash criminal activities in the twin industrial townships, Ajit Pawar said there should be no political interference in the police action against criminals. “Criminals have been vandalising vehicles of the common people, having nothing do with any crimes. This should not happen,” he said.Praising the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, Krishna Prakash, for his initiative towards safeguarding the health of his personnel, Ajit Pawar said, “The police are now equipped with smart watch. Now, they should keep a ‘smart watch’ on the criminals.”Earlier, Pawar distributed smart watches (health bands) and bicycles to the Pimpri Chinchwad police personnel and inaugurated the “Gram Suraksha Dal” in the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate.Pimpri Chinchwad mayor Mai Dhore, police commissioner Krishna Prakash, additional police commissioner Ramnath Pokale, Pimpri Chinchwad municipal commissioner Hardikar and Maval MLA Sunil Shelke were present at the function.Cops’ running away act condemnedCondemning the two constables of the Pune police for running away after seeing the burglars, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said their act maligned the image of the police department and it could harm the morale of the force. Criminals should be terrorised by the police. There is a need of psychiatric analysis of this incident.“The police should not forget constable Tukaram Omble, who caught terrorist (Ajmal) Kasab with just a baton in his hands,” Ajit Pawar said. CP stresses on personnel’s healthPimpri Chinchwad commissioner of police (CP) Krishna Prakash said the smart watches could monitor the blood pressure and the temperature of the police personnel, among other health parameters.“We have a dashboard in our control room from where we can monitor our personnel. If we trace any irregularities, we can immediately provide medical help to the particular person,” Krishna Prakash said.He said the watches had been purchased using the CSR (corporate social responsibility) funds of different companies and had been given to the Pimpri Chinchwad police personnel, the police commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dy-cm-pimpri-chinchwad-cops-facing-problems-for-earlier-govt/articleshow/80178550.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM K Chandrasekhar Rao to hold meet on Covid vax rollout||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will hold a meeting with his council of ministers and district collectors on January 11 to discuss important issues like finalising an action plan for distribution and administration of coronavirus vaccine to people, reopening of classes in the educational institutions and setting up of tribunals to solve revenue-related problems. Monday’s meeting will discuss the spread of coronavirus and measures taken to contain it in the state. Officials said an action plan will be finalised at the meeting on distributing the vaccine to all the regions and administering it to the people on a priority. The conference will be held at Pragathi Bhavan and ministers, collectors and senior officials have been told to come prepared with all details. As far as revenue matters are concerned, the CM had a meeting recently at Pragathi Bhavan with senior officials and some of the collectors. In the meeting on Monday, pending mutations, Sada Bainamas regularisation, setting up of tribunals, solving land issues under Part-B and other related issues would be discussed. The meeting will finalise the action plan to solve all the revenue issues speedily. The CM will also review the implementation of Palle Pragathi and Pattana Pragathi programmes respectively. The implementation of Haritha Haaram and status of green cover in the state will be reviewed. Discussion will also take place on the measures taken to increase the green cover in the villages and urban areas and the programmes to be taken up in future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-to-hold-meet-on-covid-vax-rollout/articleshow/80177321.cms||Roushan Ali
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||70 dividers illegally damaged on Kandla highway rebuilt||Rajkot: Nearly 70 dividers on the 54 km Gandhidham-Samakhiyali stretch of the national highway connecting Kandla port, which were illegally damaged over the last few years, have been repaired or rebuilt.This is one of the busiest roads which witness continuous movement of vehicles, but the damage to the dividers also resulted in accidents.Sources said that the dividers were broken by few owners of petrol pumps, dhabas and restaurants to facilitate and attract more customers.Superintendent of police, Kutch (east), had issued directions in August 2020 asking all the police stations under him to provide police protection to state and national highway authorities during repair and rebuilding work of dividers. The SP had also directed the police stations to warn the petrol pumps and restaurant owners of legal action.According to L&T, which collects the toll and maintains this stretch, there were 358 accidents between January to December, 2020 of which 36 were major and 18 fatal. On an average, 30,000 vehicles pass through this road daily. Due to broken dividers, small vehicles from villages were using the highway meant for heavy vehicles and at places which are not designated for crossing. Prakash Nayak, project head of this highway said, “The highest number of multi-axle vehicles use this road. It had become an accident hotspot, so as per direction of police and under the supervision of NHAI, we carried out the repair work.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/70-dividers-illegally-damaged-on-kandla-highway-rebuilt/articleshow/80176768.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Tech-driven policing boosts enforcement, detection rate||Vijayawada: Andhra Pradesh is perhaps one of the most prominent states in terms of investing in technological enhancements in policing in the past few years. While the state police have won over 100 awards for their tech-based initiatives, a look at the impact created by them shows a bigger picture. Around 3,200 cases were solved using CCTV footage and 130 cases of house burglaries were detected or foiled using Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS). Interestingly, body-worn cameras on the police also helped in solving 23 cases. Police officials point out that they have built a huge data base which tracks over 8.2 lakh criminals. Out of 1,600 absconding criminals, around 980 were traced and nabbed utilising the database. When it comes to non-crime grievances such as solving missing persons’ case, officials managed to trace 11,440 missing persons out of 17,421 via AP Police Seva App or through the website. Police note that missing person checks are run by the police through their websites, making them easier to trace. Similarly, the same web platforms have been used to trace and identify 32 unidentified dead bodies. Other police services too have quickened, such as passport verification which is now being done in three days instead of the previous one-month-long period. The fingerprints bureau (FPB) which stands number one, according to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB), is the biggest repository of fingerprint records in the country. The state FPB has 49,710 unsolved chance prints in its database. Police explain that the automated finger and palm print identification system gives accurate results with a high matching speed of 10 to 15 seconds. Andhra Pradesh police also started India’s first online surveillance programme against cyber bullies. Since its inception in 2020, police have opened as many as 1,551 cyberbully sheets against miscreants who have been habitually involved in cases of online harassment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/tech-driven-policing-boosts-enforcement-detection-rate/articleshow/80176311.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 9, 2021||Surat||Second edition of India int’l jewellery show launched||Surat: Amid the increasing international demand for gems and jewellery in the post-Covid market, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) inaugurated its second edition of the virtual gems and jewellery event India International Jewellery Show (IIJS) on Friday. Colin Shah, chairman, GJEPC, said, “The first edition of IIJS Virtual saw a record 10,000 plus visitors and we reported a business turnover of around Rs 1,000 crore. This surely has set a benchmark for us and our expectations from the second edition are high and we expect it to surpass the business generated in the first edition.”According to Shah, the gems and jewellery demand is picking up in major export markets as the New Year has brought cheer from coronavirus vaccination to save lives. Jewellery was the highest selling luxury product in China in 2020 and Thanksgiving Day spending in the US rose by nearly 22% year-over-year to $5.1 billion, hitting a new record.“It’s good to see that India’s exports of gem and jewellery back to the pre-Covid levels in November and December. I am sure that couple of months down the line, we will see more stable economic activities across the world which will further boost the gem and jewellery sector’s growth,” Shah added.Council’s VC, Vipul Shah said, “The demand from members for a second edition in quick succession speaks volumes about the IIJS brand’s popularity and influence among industry members. The virtual show’s popularity is growing across the world and we will continue with our endeavour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/second-edition-of-india-intl-jewellery-show-launched/articleshow/80176418.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Eye on polls, Shiv Sena-led BMC plans to solve flooding issue||MUMBAI: In the runup to the civic polls, the Shiv Sena-ruled BMC appears to be wooing Mumbaikars by promising to resolve flooding issues at 386 spots in the city before monsoon. Civic officials said they have already completed work at 171 spots and prepared a detailed plan for the rest. They will soon make a presentation on the issue to chief minister and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. On Thursday, Yuva Sena president and Maharashtra environment minister Aaditya Thackeray along with transport minister Anil Parab took a review meeting of BMC’s preparedness to resolve the flooding issue where they also discussed the possibility of constructing an underground tank. The meeting was organized at the BMC headquarters where the municipal commissioner and his officials made a presentation to the ministers about the measures the civic body has adopted to attend to all the flooding spots. Activists said every year BMC comes up with some “superficial” plan to resolve the issue but fails due to lack of longterm planning despite spending thousands of crores. Meanwhile, Amin Patel, Congress MLA from Mumbadevi, met with Sanjeev Jaiswal, additional municipal commissioner (AMC), earlier this week demanding explanation about heavy flooding in south Mumbai during the previous monsoon and what measures have been adopted to resolve the issue. Heavy rainfall in July-September 2020 caused floods in the city on several occasions and south Mumbai witnessed more waterlogging due to unpreceded rainfall. BMC had said it had fixed the chronic flooding spot at Hindmata by widening the drains, but that too flooded almost during every heavy rainfall and it took hours for water to recede. Similarly, at Gandhi Market in Sion where BMC had put a long overhead pipeline to take flood water till the drainage network nearby with the help of pumps failed to reduce flooding. R Sridhar, who lives near Gandhi Market, said, “A few years ago they had planned to lay an additional drain in my area, but abandoned it midway.” Since the CM’s office is monitoring the work, BMC is trying hard to resolve most flooding spot issues this time. Deputy municipal commissioner Sanjay Darade was given the task to prepare a detailed plan for each of the flooding spots and required measures. He submitted the plan to additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu recently before his retirement on December 31, which will be presented before the CM. Javed Juneja, Congress corporator from Nagpada who attended the meeting, said, “Even Nair Hospital flooded last year, apart from Nagpada.” Meanwhile, Aaditya Thackeray told BMC officials to keep “cleanliness and beautification” aspects in mind while executing any infrastructure works, be it roads, footpaths, brigdes or solid waste management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-starts-fixing-386-chronic-flooding-spots/articleshow/80176305.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 9, 2021||India||Decide on Rajoana mercy pleas before Jan 26: SC to Centre||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court told the Centre on Friday to decide before January 26 the multiple mercy petitions filed by individuals and organisations on behalf of Balwant Singh Rajoana, convicted for the assassination of then Punjab CM Beant Singh in 1995. “Give him a decision before January 26. It is a good day and if possible, pass orders before that day,” a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. The bench told additional solicitor general K M Natraj that this was the last adjournment for the Centre to take a decision. Arguing from Goa through video conferencing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi told the bench that Rajoana had already spent 25 years behind bars, of which 13 were as a death row prisoner. “This itself is enough punishment, in line with the SC judgment in Shatrughan Chauhan case in 2014,” he said. As many as 14 petitions seeking mercy for Rajoana were filed in 2012 before the President, including those by then Punjab CM Parkash Singh Badal, Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee. Four petitions were filed opposing mercy to Rajoana. The home ministry in its recent affidavit before the SC had said, “On the occasion of commemoration of 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev Ji, the mercy petitions received on behalf of Rajoana were examined. However, the competent authority decided that the case may be processed after the decision of the SC in the case of Jagtar Singh Hawara.” Rajoana and Hawara were awarded death sentence by the trial court in 2007. However, the HC had commuted Hawara’s death sentence to life imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/decide-on-rajoana-mercy-pleas-before-jan-26-sc-to-centre/articleshow/80180923.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||More Vizagites place request for LHMS||Visakhapatnam: As Sankranti approaches, the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) is seeing an unexpected rise in demand in Vizag city this year. In fact, given the demand, police may run out of CCTV cameras required for setting up LHMS. City police had urged residents to utilise the Locked House Monitoring System (LHMS) mobile application, the e-surveillance tool designed by police that enables residents to avail free CCTV surveillance of their houses, during the upcoming Sankranti vacation. Police have been receiving at least four requests every day for e-surveillance of houses. With 75 CCTV cameras in its possession, police said they would need to procure more surveillance cameras if demand continues to surge. ACP ( crimes) D Sravan Kumar said many residents of the city return to their hometowns during Sankranti, making it a prime period for burglaries. “But by entering a few details, people can register in the app and just a day or two before going out of town, they can put in a request through the app, with their journey and return dates. Police will install CCTV cameras at the house free of cost and the cameras will be linked to the police control room. We have CCTV cameras and are ready to acquire more cameras for LHMS if the demand is there,” the ACP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/more-vizagites-place-request-for-lhms/articleshow/80176324.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Congress wants 2 BMC commissioners for Mumbai||MUMBAI: Congress MLA and guardian minister of island city Aslam Shaikh on Friday demanded two civic commissioners for Mumbai. He stated that apart from breaking up the big administrative wards like P-North, there was a need to have two BMC commissioners, one for the island city and one for the suburbs. Shaikh said that he was pursuing the matter with the urban development department of the state government. Mumbai has 24 administrative wards headed by the BMC commissioner, and its headquarters is at CSMT. There are four additional municipal commissioners (senior IAS officers) to assist the commissioner. Shaikh said, “The commissioner office is in one corner of the city, and it is not possible for the commissioner to visit another corner like Dahisar. There is a long-pending demand to have a separate civic commissioner for the suburbs (eastern and western), and I am pursuing the matter with the urban development department.” The department recently informed BJP’s Kandivli MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar that the BMC had decided to divide the P-North (Malad) ward, the most populous in the city, into two, along with some other wards in the city. The BMC is still working on the proposal and there is no timeframe for implementing the decision. Meanwhile, Shaikh stated that he will request the government to include the demand for two commissioners also in the proposal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-wants-2-bmc-commissioners-for-city/articleshow/80179934.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 9, 2021||Puducherry||CBCID to probe ‘toxic liquid’ for Puducherry collector||PUDUCHERRY: The CBCID in Puducherry is investigating a special officer’s complaint that the bottled water served to collector Purva Garg at a meeting on Wednesday contained “a toxic colourless liquid”. Director general of police Balaji Srivastava had transferred the case to the CBCID from a local police station. Special officer (revenue and disaster management) A Sureshraj, who lodged a complaint and handed over the one-litre pet bottle to D Nagar police, had said the incident evoked ‘suspicion’ and posed a ‘threat’ to the collector’s life. A collectorate source said the water was turbid and an unpleasant pungent smell was emanating from it, triggering alarm. “The water bottle served to the collector’s cabin by staff personal was found to contain a toxic colourless liquid instead of water. The office of the district magistrate is a public dealing office, such incident evokes suspicion with respect to the authority of the office and also poses personal threat to the officer,” Sureshraj said in his complaint. Terming the incident ‘shocking’, Pondy lieutenant government Kiran Bedi said the DGP ordered a special investigation into the crime. It may be recalled that Garg denied permission to hold protests within 500m of the critical establishments including Raj Nivas, offices and camp offices cum residences of the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues, legislative assembly, chief secretariat, police headquarters and government Covid-19 hospitals. The ruling Congress party and its allies had planned an agitation in front of Raj Nivas, Bedi’s official residence. In February 2019, they had organized a protest for almost a week in front of the Raj Nivas, condemning Bedi for interfering in day-to-day affairs of the elected government, garnering nation-wide attention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/cbcid-to-probe-toxic-liquid-for-pondy-collector/articleshow/80178577.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 9, 2021||Pune||Residents upset as MIDC cuts 275 trees in Pune's Hinjewadi||PUNE: Residents of Hinjewadi are upset with the cutting of 275 full-grown trees along the stretch between Infosys and IBIS at Rajiv Gandhi Infotech Park Phase-II. The residents have claimed that the trees have been cut in an unscientific manner and they are questioning authorities’ claims that the trees would be replanted at an alternative location. On the other hand, the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) has said it has all requisite permissions to cut the threes and the road-widening work is necessary to avoid traffic congestion during the impending work on the Pune metro rail corridor III. Sunita Purushottam, a member of Hinjewadi IT Park Residents Welfare Association (HIRWA), said, “We were told that the trees were cut as per the provision in the Development Plan for wider roads. We were also told that the authorities would plant three times the number of trees cut. However, the concern is about the way it would happen since, most of the time, the newly planted saplings don’t survive.” Tanay Patekar, a volunteer with NGO Angolichi Goli, said “These incidents are rampant, green covers are depleting at an alarming rate across the city. The trees have been cut haphazardly, almost from the trunk with hardly any branches left and they cannot survive relocation.” MIDC executive engineer Nilesh Modhave said, “The area regularly turns into a traffic bottleneck. When work on the metro line will start, the situation will worsen. So, we have to widen the road before the work begins. There was a misunderstanding with HIRWA, which has now been thoroughly discussed and cleared. All trees will be replanted somewhere in Hinjewadi itself.” The Hinjewadi grampanchayat officials claimed to have no idea about the tree cutting. “Elections are underway so we are busy with that. We did not have any intimation about the trees being cut down. I will visit the site and check the situation,” said BR Patil, Hinjewadi gram panchayat’s development officer. The forest department said they received an order from MIDC that sanctioned cutting of 275 trees in the area. Forest guard Sunil Bhujbal said, “I have been getting many calls from various NGOs and activists questioning the cutting. The area is under the MIDC jurisdiction. According to their order, the trees have to be cut down to build the metro rail line in the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/residents-upset-as-midc-cuts-275-trees-in-hinjewadi/articleshow/80178573.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Man accused of stalking gets pre-arrest bail||MUMBAI: Bombay high court differentiated between images that tend to excite lust but not amounting to sexually explicit acts to provide relief to a man who through social media harassed a married woman. Observing that a link sent by a man to a woman on social media by itself did not have explicit content, the HC granted him pre-arrest bail. The man who runs a vernacular weekly had petitioned the HC after a lower court denied him pre-arrest bail. The FIR accused the man of stalking her by sending messages, and on June 6 last year, he sent a link from his social media account to join a ‘public group’. When the complainant opened the link, she saw obscene photographs. He feared arrest by Virar police, who had registered an FIR against him for stalking under section 354D of Indian Penal Code and section 67A of IT Act (punishment for publishing or transmitting of material containing sexually explicit act in electronic form), said his lawyer Aniket Nikam. Two sections of Information Technology Act come into play in such offences. Section 67 pertains to punishment for transmitting obscene material electronically, while section 67A speaks about more sexually explicit material. Justice S K Shinde analysed both sections and observed that they “operate in distinct circumstances’’. Section 67 requires the matter sent to be “lascivious or lewd’’ and appeal to one’s “prurient interest... or deprave a person’’. It attracts up to three years’ imprisonment. The matter could be “video files, audio files, text messaged, animation, etc’’ said the judge. While stalking is bailable, 67A offence was grave, non-bailable and attracts a five-year jail term and a Rs 10 lakh fine. For an offence under section 67A of IT Act, HC said the “prosecution must demonstrate that the accused published or transmitted material containing sexually explicit act”. The court referred to Black’s Law dictionary for definition of ‘sexual activity’, which described it as ‘physical sexual activity or both persons engaged in sexual relations’. Prosecutor Veera Shinde opposed granting of relief. The HC said while his “complicity in common offence of stalking is evident,... it is bailable’’. The HC said though he may be complicit under section 67 of IT Act, he handed over his phone to police and hence custodial investigation was not required. He got pre-arrest bail of Rs50,000 with conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-accused-of-stalking-gets-pre-arrest-bail/articleshow/80177714.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Dehradun||Two members of auto-lifter gang arrested in Roorkee||Roorkee: Bhagwanpur police arrested two members of an auto-lifter gang on Thursday and recovered two stolen trucks from them in Roorkee.According to Bhagwanpur police station in-charge PD Bhatt, they got a call late in the night on January 5 from one Padam Tejpal of Shamli district in Uttar Pradesh, informing that his truck, which was parked near Bhagwanpur-based cement factory, was stolen.The police said the stolen truck had a GPS system installed, but the robbers removed from the vehicle.“We then looked at the CCTV footages of different locations to trace them. Later, with the help of informers, we nabbed one Irfan, a truck diver by profession. During our search operation, we discovered that there was another accused and his aide Dawood who had also stolen a truck. We have recovered two stolen trucks from their possession,” said Bhatt.The police officer said the miscreants were taking the trucks to Muzaffarnagar to sell it to one Sonu, who had promised to pay them Rs 1 lakh for each of the trucks.“We have also formed a team to trace Sonu,” Bhatt added.According to police, the miscreants—Irfan and Dawood —are residents of Nanheda Anantpur and Rampur Tandi villages, respectively, near Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-members-of-auto-lifter-gang-arrested-in-roorkee/articleshow/80171321.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||BMC begins registration of frontliners||With the registration of healthcare workers for Covid vaccination nearing completion, the BMC has begun working on registering the information of frontline workers on the Co-Win app. Civic officials on Friday confirmed that the names and information of 90,000 frontline workers from the municipal corporation has already been uploaded on the app. After healthcare workers, frontline workers, including policemen, state and central police department, armed forces, disaster management volunteers, are next in line to get the Covid vaccination. Across the state, all departments have been asked to submit the details of their personnel. A nodal officer has been appointed in each district to oversee this process. Meanwhile, the BMC plans to understand the feasibility of allowing vaccination drives in private hospitals. “In a few days, we will be sending a questionnaire to major private hospitals on how many vaccinators they have, their storage facilities, etc. This is for hospitals having more than 1,000 beneficiaries,” a civic official said. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that the BMC is gearing to vaccinate upto 50,000 people in a day at 75 centres. “At least nine centres are completely ready and more are being prepped to operate as vaccination centres,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-begins-registration-of-frontliners/articleshow/80178613.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Crime branch raids Silvassa gutka unit, seizes Rs 15-crore items||PUNE: The crime branch of the city police on Thursday raided a gutka manufacturing unit at Silvassa in Dadra and Nagar Haveli and sealed tobacco products, machinery and raw material collectively valued at Rs15 crore. Police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Friday claimed that they have dealt a body blow to the illegal gutka business in the city. “The gutka business has been shut down. We will ensure that it does not flourish again in Pune,” Gupta told TOI. Senior inspector Rajnish Nirmal from crime branch (unit IV) said they arrested two men in Silvasa and brought them to Pune. “We have sealed the manufacturing unit, Kashi Ventures Private Limited. We will question the two men to ascertain their roles. They could also give us leads on other people involved,” Nirmal said. Since November last year, the police conducted 28 raids to crack down on those involved in buying and selling the banned tobacco product. “We recently arrested a distributor from Hadapsar, whose interrogation led to the arrest of a transporter. Under questioning, he told us that gutka was manufactured in Silvassa and Vapi,” Nirmal said. “On November 6, a police team visited Silvasa and identified the manufacturing unit. We then raided the place and seized scented oil, tobacco, katha, menthol and other raw material in huge quantities,” Nirmal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/crime-branch-raids-silvassa-gutka-unit-seizes-rs-15cr-items/articleshow/80178609.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 9, 2021||Pune||Construction worker falls to death at site in Katraj||Pune: The police on Friday arrested a contractor on the charge of causing the death of a construction worker due to negligence after he fell from the terrace of a building and died due to multiple injuries at Chandrabhaganagar at Katraj on Thursday. The deceased Sakharam Vagare (21), who hailed from Malshiras in Solapur, was rushed to a nearby private hospital but he was declared dead by the doctors on arrival.Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar from Bharati Vidyapeeth police station said, “The building contractor Yuvraj Navle (27) from Narhe in Ambegaon was arrested after investigations revealed that he had not taken safety measures to protect his employee from accidents at the workplace.”Kalaskar added, “Navale had taken the contract to repair/paint an eight-storey building and had completed most of the work. On Thursday, around 10.30am, Vagare climbed onto a shed on the terrace to carry out minor repairs. As soon as he stepped on the transparent plastic sheet, it collapsed because of his weight and he fell on the fourth floor from a height of around 40ft. He sustained serious injuries to his head, hands and legs.”“An inspection of the spot revealed that the contractor had not taken security measures, like providing helmet, jacket and rope among other facilities to the victim. An FIR has been registered under Section 304 (A) (causing death due to negligence) of the Indian Penal Code,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/construction-worker-falls-to-death-at-site-in-katraj/articleshow/80178608.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Artificial limbs donation camp helps 43 people||Pune: Inlaks and Budhrani Hospital, the healthcare institution run by the Sadhu Vaswani Mission, held the annual prosthetics and artificial limbs donation camp at the hospital this week, with 43 patients receiving new limbs. The annual prosthetics camp could not be held in 2020 due to the lockdown, and the hospital being designated a Covid-19 treatment facility. A statement issued by the mission said that patients who received the limbs were from Pune and Kolhapur. A camp was held early December to take measurements of patients for prosthetics. Patients of all ages received foot limbs as well as arm limbs with the help of camp. The the patients were also given clothes and hygiene kits, with the entire camp over in three hours, the statement added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/artificial-limbs-donation-camp-helps-43-people/articleshow/80178637.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Artwork by Yerawada slum children on exhibition to raise funds for charity||PUNE: Artist Juhi Sachdev and photographer Apruv Porwandar are hosting an art exhibition at the High Spirits Cafe in Koregaon Park on January 9 and 10 from noon to 8pm, featuring creations by children living in the Yerawada slum. The proceeds from this event would be donated to help those who have lost their jobs and livelihood due to the pandemic. “During the first week of January, young people from different slums were actively engaged in the YUVA Rang 2021 programme organized by the Centre for Youth Development Activities (CYDA) as part of their 22nd anniversary. Around 75 children participated in the event. The CYDA has been working with young people from slum communities to help develop their skills to aid them in earning a livelihood. Paintings by emerging and young artists — including Aniket Chidanand Baglekar, Ayesha Adam Sheikh, Sanghmitra Gayakwad and Pranali Pole from Yerawada — were selected for this art show,” said Sachdev. “Donations received from this exhibition will help support many from the marginalized communities to restart their businesses or sustain themselves while they search for work,” she said. The organizers will also be putting up their own artwork, as well as a number of paintings donated by other artists, including city-based painters Aryan Doshi and Jayesh Sachdev, for sale at this charity event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/artwork-by-yerawada-slum-children-on-exhibition-to-raise-funds-for-charity/articleshow/80178658.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||After Bhandara hospital fire, Covid patient shifted to GMCH Nagpur dies: Relative||NAGPUR: After the fire that broke out in Bhandara district general hospital in the wee hours of Saturday, a Covid-19 positive patient who was undergoing treatment in the ICU there was reportedly referred to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Nagpur. The patient was declared brought dead as per the relatives. Prabhu Borkute, a relative of the deceased, told TOI, “My relative, Alka Dinesh Rohankar, was undergoing treatment at ICU in Bhandara district general hospital for Covid. After the fire broke out, there was chaos in the hospital. My relative and one more patient were referred in one ambulance to GMCH Nagpur. I also accompanied them in another vehicle. She was declared brought dead at GMCH Nagpur,” he said. “Doctors at GMCH Nagpur told us there was no guarantee of handing over body as she was Covid patient,” said Borkute and added that doctors said the funeral will be done in Nagpur as per norms for Covid patient. “Therefore, we requested the driver of the same ambulance to take the body back to Bhandara district general hospital. But the driver refused. We then booked a private vehicle. Now, we are on way back to Bhandara district general hospital with the body,” he said. Borkute also said another patient was admitted to GMCH, Nagpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/after-bhandara-hospital-fire-covid-patient-shifted-to-gmch-nagpur-dies-relative/articleshow/80184984.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||University’s regular exams for 2020-21 session soon: Pro-VC||Nagpur: Nagpur University would soon commence its regular semester examinations for the current (2020-21) academic session. The exams were delayed by a couple of months due to the Covid pandemic. Earlier, the university was waiting for instructions from the Maharashtra government. However, after students got anxious and demanded exams as soon as possible, NU authorities have decided to go ahead. Pro-vice chancellor Sanjay Dudhe told TOI that the proposal will be tabled before the NU administration and approval will be sought from statutory bodies like management and academic councils along with the Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) before finalizing the dates. TOI had highlighted how NU was dilly-dallying with the regular exams dates even six months after the start of the current academic session in June. “Since there are no instructions from the government, we will start with the regular exams of second and fourth semesters without disturbing the academic calendar. We have also planned to hold exams of the first and third semesters on Saturday and Sunday. Anyhow, the exams have to be conducted so that the next academic year (2021-22) isn’t disrupted like the current one,” said Dudhe. Earlier, NU officials were expecting the government nod to conduct exams in the new year. However, plans fizzled after the lockdown was extended till January. “As per the rules, we can conduct regular exams. It’s not clear how these exams would be held. Depending on the Covid situation, we will conduct it offline or online. Our priority is to complete these exams before regular classes begin from June-July,” added Dudhe. Students, who are waiting for the schedule, had told TOI that their papers would have been over by this time in normal circumstances. If exams are delayed further, their entire academic year would be stretched till July-August next year. NU statutory members, too, flayed the administration led by VC Subhash Chaudhari for waiting for government’s instructions when there were no such conditions imposed by it. No physical classes till govt’s orders Putting all speculations to rest, Sanjay Dudhe pro-VC clarified that NU wouldn’t permit colleges to resume classroom teaching till it receives clear directives from the government. Speculations started doing the rounds after Pune University issued a circular to resume physical classes by January 11. However, on Thursday, PU revoked its decision citing lockdown extension by the government. “We can’t take any decision on our own as the Disaster Management Act, 2005, is still in force. We understand that schools have resumed and therefore, college students also want to attend regular classes. Online teaching can't replace physical lectures where students and teachers get connected. It helps them to grasp in a better way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/universitys-regular-exams-for-2020-21-session-soon-pro-vc/articleshow/80189747.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh to genetically sequence 5% +ve samples for new strain||VIJAYAWADA: The health department has issued new guidelines for Covid-19 surveillance, containment and control in the state in view of the recent increase in Covid-19 infections in some states and emerging cases of the new strain of coronavirus.  While many of these guidelines are similar to what the health department had issued in the past, district collectors have been asked to closely monitor case numbers and implement all Covid-19 protocols. The order issued by the principal secretary, department of health and family welfare, Anil Kumar Singhal, stresses on conducting fire audits at all Covid-19 hospitals, including both government and private facilities. Hospital authorities have to obtain NOC (no objection certificate) from the fire department without fail. District collectors have also been directed to ensure strict compliance of orders and invoke penal clauses against violators as and when required in public interest. Covid-19 samples are currently being collected at 1,519 locations in a decentralised manner. The health department has also empanelled several ICMR-approved private laboratories for testing. Officials have been asked to give wide publicity to the same. The health department has also decided to carry out sentinel surveillance for the new coronavirus strain. About 5 per cent of positive specimens detected on a daily basis will be sent to the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics (CDFD), Hyderabad for genome sequencing. The state surveillance unit would coordinate with district units for collecting a representative sample from all positive cases detected the previous day and send this to the designated laboratories. Sentinel surveillance would randomly cover all revenue divisions, age groups, diversified economic and social groups, etc. Data from genome sequencing laboratories will be analysed as per field data trends to study the linkages between genomic variants and epidemiological trends. As per the preliminary analysis based on epidemiological and mathematical models, the new mutant variant of SARS-CoV-2 is significantly more transmissible than the previously circulating variants and has an increased transmissibility of up to 70 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-to-genetically-sequence-5-ve-samples-for-new-strain/articleshow/80176342.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Funds crunch forces Jadavpur University to hold back projects||KOLKATA: Jadavpur University has decided to put on hold all projects, scholarships and stipends under the Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) after the central government allegedly did not release the second installment of almost Rs 61 crore. In 2018, JU became the only university in the state eligible to receive a Rs 100-crore grant under RUSA that the Centre has allocated for varsities with a NAAC score of 3.51 and above for a period of four years. Of the fund, 70% must be used to promote research and academic development and the remaining is to be used for infrastructure improvement, modernizing laboratories and other facilities and buying equipment. The university initiated several projects, including recruitment of doctoral and post-doctoral fellows, modernization of laboratories and green lighting seminars, conferences and research projects. But, in a notification dated January 5, the university has instructed all departments to immediately put brakes on all the projects and submit an assessment of liabilities in respect of committed expenditure for various projects. “We had received a letter from the MHRD department stating that the university will be getting a grant of Rs 100 crore. We received the first tranche in 2019 but the rest has not been released,” said Chiranjib Bhattacharjee, pro-VC and head of the RUSA committee. The central funding flows from MHRD to institutions, through the state governments. The state higher education council is responsible for transfer of central share along with the matching state share. Since the central government has not released its share of funds, the state, too, has not been able to provide its part. According to Manojit Mandal, professor in the department of English and member of the RUSA committee, several doctoral and post-doctoral fellows have lost their jobs due to non-availability of funds. “Almost all departments had started various projects which are now in a limbo. So many research projects are incomplete” he said. Sources said a reason cited by MHRD is the university has not filled up 70% of faculty vacancies. “But this condition was not mentioned before the fund was granted,” Bhattacharjee said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/funds-crunch-forces-ju-to-hold-back-projects/articleshow/80177408.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 9, 2021||Pune||Covishield dispatch now expected to start Monday||Pune: The massive airlift of Covishield vaccine doses from here has been delayed by another 48 hours and is now likely to happen only by Monday. Vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India has dismissed talk of the transportation delay being due to “price negotiations” with the Union government. The vaccine transportation was expected to take place on Thursday and then Friday. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said, “No movement has happened today (Friday) too. As said earlier, we are fully prepared and ready from our end. We can easily handle (the transportation) and are presently handling more than 150 tonnes of cargo in a single day.” An airline representative, refusing to come on record, said, “The transportation has been postponed until Monday. We don’t have any more information on this right now.” Meanwhile, SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Friday dismissed talk that the vaccine transportation delay was because of price negotiations with the Union government. “There is absolutely no price negotiation at all. The rollout will happen in a few days. There are due processes to be followed before we transport the vaccine doses,” he told TOI. Poonawalla has announced that Covishield will be offered to the government at a special price of Rs 200 a dose for the first 100 million doses. It will be available in the market for Rs 1,000 a dose. SII has 50 million doses ready at its Manjari plant in Pune. It has been waiting for the government to place a formal order for the doses before it can undertake the massive transportation exercise. Poonwalla said his company is making 50-60 million doses of the vaccine every month. SII has a fleet of refrigerated trucks to transport the vaccine in cold packs from its plant in Manjari to the Pune airport and also to closer destinations, including Mumbai. “The vaccine doses are ready and wrapped in ice-packs for transport from the airport to the government designated depots,” a senior SII official said. At the Pune airport, authorities are considering options such as changing domestic flights into cargo flights with the permission of the DGCA and opening a special slot for quick transport of the vaccine from the Pune airport, in addition to transporting the vaccine by road, experts and airport officials said. Officials said all options, including creating a special slot for destinations which do not have scheduled flights from Pune and opening the runway for flights during night hours, may be considered as the Pune airport is not operating flights after 8pm at present due to the runway re-carpeting work. IndiGo, in an official statement, said, “In line with our business model and cost leadership strategy, we are happy to evaluate the shipment of the Covid-19 vaccines onboard our aircraft and will promise to contribute to the best of our abilities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covishield-dispatch-now-expected-to-start-monday/articleshow/80178696.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||APPSC plans digital evaluation for Group I main examinations||Amaravati: The Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (APPSC) has opted for digital evaluation of Group-I mains examination, making it the first recruitment board in the country to choose the online mode to evaluate competitive examinations. The new mode is expected to eliminate corrupt practices in the recruitment system. It will be recalled that APPSC had circulated Group-I mains examination question papers through tabs. “We are taking all measures to make the entire system transparent and accountable. We are building the systems in such a way that there will be no scope for questioning,” APPSC secretary and senior IPS officer PSR Anjaneyulu told TOI. Sources said descriptive answer papers of 7,000 candidates who appeared for Group-I mains held last month were scanned after removing the barcode (which has the candidate’s name and number). The scanned papers were first sent to some coordinators appointed by the commission and from there to different subject experts, online. “Neither the coordinator nor the evaluator knows which answer paper belongs to which candidate,” said a source. Similarly, each answer sheet would be sent to multiple experts for evaluation, holding the evaluators more accountable. “The marks would be awarded in a digital format and sent to the coordinators where the process would be again verified before awarding the final score,” said an official involved in the process. The evaluation would be digitally recorded and kept in the commission’s library for future verification, if needed. The commission started the reforms by stopping the printing of question papers. Several instances of question paper leaks from the printing press, transportation from the press to police custody centres and from there to examination halls had been reported in the past. The examination boards were compelled to cancel the examination only after paper leaks came to light. Taking such experiences into account, Anjaneyulu first decided to end the printing of question papers. After consulting experts, he moved a proposal to introduce tab-based question papers before the commission and had it endorsed. The commission first pooled the questions from different subject experts and sent them to an agency of expert academicians to set multiple question papers. These question papers were sent to the coordinators appointed by the commission making it impossible for anyone to track the source and routing point. The coordinators would then release the papers online to the candidates just a few seconds before the start of the examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/appsc-plans-digital-evaluation-for-group-i-main-examinations/articleshow/80176360.cms||Samdani MN
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu withdraws 100% occupancy in theatres order||CHENNAI: The state government late on Friday withdrew its order permitting 100% occupancy in cinema theatres and multiplexes after the Madras high court directed it not to permit more than 50% occupancy. Earlier, the Centre had raised objections to the decision. The state government, citing the high court order, however, said theatres would be allowed to screen special shows. The order comes into force immediately. After the state relaxed the norms on December 4, the Centrehad sent a letter to TN chief secretary asking him to adhere to the standard operating procedures for Covid-19 and withdraw the order permitting 100% occupancy. It may be recalled that actor Vijay had called on chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami last week and requested him to permit 100% occupancy in cinema theatres. The representatives of the film industry also represented the issue. The government came under strong criticism from various quarters, with netizens denouncing the decision on social media. They were also harsh on actor Vijay for requesting the chief minister to relax the restriction on occupancy in the cinema theatres. The MHA wrote to chief secretary K Shanmugam on Wednesday that the decision of the TN government on 100% occupancy was in violation of its (MHA) guideline and instructed it to allow only 50% occupancy as per the existing Covid-19 norms. Meanwhile, president of the Film Federation of India S Thanu wrote a letter to home minister Amit Shah requesting him to permit 100% occupancy in cinema theatres. Thanu, in the letter, said that there were more than 500 films ready for release in different languages across the nation and revenue generated at theatres at 50% capacity is not feasible and economically viable and requested to permit theatres to function with 100% capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-withdraws-100-occupancy-in-theatres-order/articleshow/80178662.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Demands met, tamasha troupes call off agitation||Pune: A collective of tamasha troupe owners and performers has called off fast-unto-death agitation outside the Pune district collector’s office following acceptance of their demands by the state government. The collective, headed by the tamasha performer Raghuvir Khedkar, had organised a sit-in from Friday to protest the decision of the authorities not to allow jatra troupes to perform in rural parts of the state. They had also sought grant for tamasha and other folk theatre groups, which largely operate in rural Maharashtra, to help them survive after several months of almost no work. Despite a steep decline in the number of troupes over the years, around 150 of them still operate across Maharashtra. “I got a call from an official from the state cultural affairs department. The official requested us not to go ahead with the fast-unto-death stir. The government has allowed troupes to travel around villages and perform tamasha. So, we have decided not to proceed with the agitation,” Khedkar told TOI. He also added that the state government has promised to “restore” the grant of Rs 2 to 8 lakh for troupes, depending on the size of each troupe concerned. The grant was initially implemented by former chief minister Vilasrao Deshmukh, but it stopped in 2014, Khedkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/demands-met-tamasha-troupes-call-off-agitation/articleshow/80178663.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||‘Gunthewari regularisation extension not linked to polls’||Pune: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday rubbished the claims that the state cabinet’s decision to extend the date of regularising constructions on Gunthewari land till December 2020 was taken against the backdrop of forthcoming civic elections.“The elections are expected to be held in February 2022. We have just entered 2021. There is still a year to go. The decision was taken unanimously in the state cabinet. Representations were received from various areas seeking an extension. There is no need to connect it to the civic body polls,” Ajit Pawar said, adding that the decision would benefit people from 23 villages around Pune, now being merged into the municipal corporation.The deputy chief minister also rubbished the claim of the BJP that the decision to reduce the construction premiums paid by builders by 50% would benefit the builders only and not the common people. “The construction business was running into loss because of the pandemic. The prices of properties have come down because of our decision to reduce the stamp duty. People will get homes at cheaper rates because of Wednesday’s decision,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gunthewari-regularisation-extension-not-linked-to-polls/articleshow/80178722.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Three nabbed, booty worth Rs 38L recovered||Pune: Three criminals on police records were arrested on Thursday and booty related to 21 cases of burglaries and vehicle thefts in 2020-21, collectively valued at Rs38.13 lakh, were recovered from them. The arrested trio — Kanvarsingh Tak (20), Ajaysingh Dudhani (20) and Jaisingh Juni (27) from Hadapsar and Vaiduwadi — would be in police custody till January 11. Policeman Nitin Munde received information that the three persons were selling a gold chain and cellphones at throwaway prices at Kalepadal. Acting on Munde’s information, a police team led by assistant inspector Sanjay Chavan, under senior inspector Balkrishna Kadam, took the trio into custody from the Kalepadal railway crossing gate, and recovered a chain and seven phones. Kadam in a statement issued on Friday said, “The men during questioning admitted to their involvement in 21 cases — a total of 18 in Pune, one in Pune rural and two in Thane.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-nabbed-booty-worth-rs-38l-recovered/articleshow/80178685.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||‘Simultaneous AYUSH admissions thoughtless’||MUMBAI: Activists are concerned about students blocking seats at multiple colleges with all three admission rounds for AYUSH (ayurveda, homeopathy, unani) going on simultaneously this year. In many cases, students have been allotted two seats in the same college, through the state as well as the all-India process, which makes it a thoughtless exercise, say parents. For the first time, three admission processes for AYUSH colleges are running simultaneously—one for 85% state seats, other for 15% all-India quota seats and 15% for state’s private colleges. While the first two rou-nds happen every year, the third process has been added this year to fill the 15% seats in private colleges, where applications are also being allowed from other states. Separate processes are on simultaneously. The second round for all-India quota ends January 9, while the other two processes on January 12. Muzaffar Khan, a counsellor, said because of these faulty decisions many seats remain vacant throughout. Parent representative, Sudha Shenoy, said 15% institutional quota seats in private colleges were filled as part of the state’s process in the single form till last year. “This year, students had to pay Rs 5,000 more to register for the institutional round. As a result, in the mop-round, the same students will be allotted seats again and there will be more vacant seats in the end, which will all go to the institutes,” she said, adding that there will be no monitoring there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/simultaneous-ayush-admissions-thoughtless/articleshow/80178707.cms||Yogita Rao
January 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||90% of seats filled up at four RGUKTs||Visakhapatnam: A little over 90 per cent of 4,400 seats have been filled up for admissions to the four campuses of Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT). Speaking to TOI, RGUKT convener (admissions) SSSV Gopala Raju said counselling began on January 4 for candidates who qualified in last year’s entrance examination. “As on Friday, nearly 4,000 seats were filled. Counselling will continue till January 11,” Gopala Raju added. RGUKT has four campuses at Nuzvid, RK Valley, Ongole and Srikakulam. Counselling at the Nuzivid campus, launched by education minister Adimulapu Suresh, is underway. Counselling for admissions will be conducted till January 11 for students with ranks up to 20,000. On Saturday, counselling will be held for all BC category candidates with ranks between 4,001 and 5,000. Counselling for BC-C and BC-E would be held on January 10 and for SC and ST candidates on January 11. Students who have secured admissions were asked to report to the directors of the respective campuses by January 17 and classes would begin the next day, Gopala Raju said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/90-of-seats-filled-up-at-four-rgukts/articleshow/80176371.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s vaccine dry run smooth, but time taken to inoculate ‘could improve’||MUMBAI: The city’s first dry run of Covid-19 vaccination on Friday at three centres with 75 beneficiaries went off smoothly, barring a few technical lags. At the state level, the drill at 114 centres covering nearly 2,900 beneficiaries proceeded without any major glitches, although officials highlighted some issues related to vaccine use. Observers of the mock run said that the time taken from entry to actual vaccination -- nearly 10-15 minutes -- had room for improvement. Particularly given that the Mumbai civic corporation has set a target for every team to vaccinate at least a 100 people during a seven-hour shift. A senior civic official said that since the entire operation was through the digital application Co-Win, an average of only 8-10 people could be ‘vaccinated’ in an hour. The dry runs were carried out at Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, the BKC jumbo centre and RN Cooper Hospital in Juhu. TimesViewThe two dry runs in the state, first on a smaller scale and the second across Maharashtra, have not revealed major issues. But the minor ones, including technical glitches, remain, and they must be addressed as quickly as possible so that the vaccination programme goes off smoothly with people getting the shots within the promised timeframe.“We may recommend adding a second vaccinator to the team to speed things up,” said the official. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the teams will become more efficient at using Co-Win with time. Co-Win is running in a restricted format as only the vaccinator modules have been activated for the dry run, said a member of the tech team. The application also accepted refusals in case someone came to the centre but changed his/her mind, he said. On Friday, centres in Mumbai and across the state also found the Aadhar authentication process dragging on Co-Win. In fact, much of the lag seen during the dry run was caused by the delay in Aadhar verification of beneficiaries, a feedback the state has shared with the Centre. State immunisation officer Dr D Patil said that many people also didn’t have their Aadhar and mobile numbers linked or turned up with other identification proofs. “These issues have to be streamlined,” he said. Centres from the rest of the state also reported a few other issues, though internet connectivity was better than the drive of January 2. Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare said since two doses will have to be given, beneficiaries would be given a token. This token will have all details and will have to be maintained till the vaccination process is over. In Kolhapur, local authorities felt there might be a challenge to ensure the vial is used within four hours of opening. Health authorities from Vidarbha said there were no technical problems in the Co-Win application and the dry run for 25 participants was completed in two hours. In Aurangabad, authorities were alerted to the lack of hand-wash facility at the entrance of the vaccination centre, but they said sanitisers were provided within the premises. At Rajawadi in Ghatkopar, medical superintendent Dr Vidya Thakur said crowd management is another aspect that would need more attention. Dr Rajesh Dere, dean of BKC jumbo centre, said they didn’t face any problems and 25 beneficiaries could be vaccinated by 12pm. The drive had started at 10am. (Inputs from Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/citys-vax-dry-run-smooth-but-time-taken-to-inoculate-could-improve/articleshow/80178881.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Cops bust oil adulteration racket, arrest 4||A crime branch team, led by inspector Ninad Sawant, raided an illegal scrap godown in Mandala area, Mankhurd and seized 195 drums filled with adulterated furnace oil. Four men, Mohammed Idrisi, Mohammed Ali Khan, Irfan Masuri and Swaminarayan Dosad, have been arrested. The accused used to collect the oil from garages, refine it using dubious methods and sell them as loose oils.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-bust-oil-adulteration-racket-arrest-4/articleshow/80180022.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag fisherfolk clash over use of ring nets||VISAKHAPATNAM: Tension prevailed along the coast of Vizag on Friday following a clash between fisherfolk who use traditional nets and those who use ring nets. While ring net fishing is banned within eight kilometres from the coast, the practice continues unabated. On Friday, fisherfolk who use traditional nets protested against the use of ring nets at Jalaripeta upon learning that some fishermen from Yendada, Uppada and Mangamaripeta had ventured into the sea in 10 boats at Uppada coast in the early hours and started to fish using ring nets. The traditional fishermen then reached the spot in 50 boats, leading to a confrontation between the two groups. Some ring nets were seized in the altercation and brought to the shore. Police rushed to the area to pacify the fishermen and prevent untoward incidents. Fishermen using ring nets, however, claimed they had permission to use the nets while the other group said ring net fishing has been banned. “If they continue ring net fishing, we will not get any catch and marine products would vanish. Ring net fishing would even catch very small fish. We will not get any catch for almost one month at a certain location if ring net fishing is carried out even once,” Vasupalli Danayya, a fisherman, alleged. Hundreds of fisherwomen too reached the shore and raised their voice against ring net fishing. Dwaraka Zone ACP AVVS Murthy assured traditional fisherman that he would bring the matter to the notice of higher officials. Sources said around 14 fishing villages oppose ring net fishing while Yendada, Uppada and Mangamaripeta fishing villages are carrying out ring net fishing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-fisherfolk-clash-over-use-of-ring-nets/articleshow/80176382.cms||Siva G
January 9, 2021||Pune||32.5mm in 12 hours washes away Pune’s rainfall records for January since 1901||PUNE: The rainfall this January has been breaking records. On Friday, 32.5mm of rain from 8:30am till 8:30pm, as recorded at Shivajinagar, was the highest January rain during a single day in Pune’s recorded history since 1901, India Meteorological Department (IMD) data revealed. The previous one-day record rainfall for the month was 22.3mm in 1948. The city received almost 24mm on Friday in just a couple of hours, from 2pm to 4pm, and the remaining 8.5mm from 5:30pm to 8:30pm. Pune has rarely recorded rain spells in January. The only instances of trace rainfall in January during the last two decades was in 2010 and 2014, at 0.7mm and 0.1mm respectively, in a 24-hour period. The city had already received 3.6mm rain during the 24 hours till Friday morning. This had become the highest 24-hour January rain in the past 20 years. On January 1, 2001, Pune had received 6.6mm rain, after which 3.6mm was the highest 24-hour amount for January. Pulak Guhathakurta, head of the climate research division, IMD, Pune, told TOI, “Rainfall in January is very rare. Long-term data in past researches had shown that winter rain was decreasing in some districts of Maharashtra, especially during the 1901-2011 period. But since the past couple of years, there have been more instances of intense rainfall in Pune not only during the monsoon, but also after that and during the winter months.” Guhathakurta said some of the highest monthly (total for the month) January rainfall amounts so far during the last 100-plus years in Pune were 35.1mm in January 1948, 28.1mm in January 1926 and 17.6mm in January 1995. “After 1995, there has been no occurrence of double-digit January rain in Pune, except this time,” he said. D S Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said, “The moisture availability over parts of Maharashtra has been high during the past few days. During other winters, the weather remains mostly dry. Even parts of north India, like Delhi and Rajasthan, are reporting high moisture levels. Since the past couple of years, moisture availability has been good over Pune and parts of the state on some occasions during the post-monsoon season and winter.” The IMD has forecast isolated to scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorms, lightning over Maharashtra and Goa for another day or two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/32-5mm-in-12-hours-washes-away-citys-rainfall-records-for-january-since-1901/articleshow/80178799.cms||Neha Madaan
January 9, 2021||Kolhapur||Vaccine mock drill passes sans major glitch, app issues linger||PUNE: The statewide dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine went off without any major glitches at 115 centres on Friday, though officials said that some issues related to the Co-Win application needed to be addressed. In Mumbai, the dry run at three centres with 75 beneficiaries went on smoothly, barring a few technical lags. Observers of the mock run said the time taken from entry to actual vaccination — nearly 10-15 minutes — had room for improvement. A senior BMC official said since the entire operation was through the digital application Co-Win, an average of only 8-10 people could be ‘vaccinated’ in an hour. Centres in Mumbai and across the state also found the Aadhar authentication process dragging on Co-Win. In fact, much of the lag seen during the dry run was caused by the delay in Aadhar verification of beneficiaries, a feedback that the state has shared with the centre. Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare said the vaccine beneficiaries would be given a token, which they would have to maintain till the complete vaccination process is over. After the vaccination dry run on Friday, Mandhare said, "The dual authentication was stressed. The beneficiaries should not miss their second dose." In Kolhapur, the local authorities said there might be a challenge to ensure that the vaccine vial is used within four hours of opening. "We will ensure adequate registration of the beneficiaries so that such challenges can be overcome," said KMC health officer Amol Mane. Health authorities from the Vidarbha region said there were no technical problems in Co-Win application and the entire dry run vaccination process for 25 participants was completed in two hours. In Aurangabad, the dry run was smooth, barring a lapse in the logistics arrangement of setting up a hand-wash facility at the entrance of the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vaccine-mock-drill-passes-sans-major-glitch-app-issues-linger/articleshow/80178838.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Budget session to start soon, run full course: Birla||DEHRADUN: Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, who was here on Friday for an outreach and familiarisation programme for Panchayati Raj institutions, said the Union Budget session will start soon and will be “normal and run its full course”. The session is expected to start on January 29 and last till April 8, with the Union Budget to be presented on February 1. Birla said all precautions will be taken to avoid the spread of Covid-19, reports Kautilya Singh. “The government will issue the procedure and norms for the vaccination of parliamentarians before the session begins,” he said. “The spurt in the number of positive cases (of Covid-19) was a major challenge (in the previous session). Now, the session will begin on time. There will be a question hour and all matters be discussed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/budget-session-to-start-soon-run-full-course-birla/articleshow/80180927.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||‘BJP netas who speak for farmers must protest farm laws’||Bhopal: A day after state Congress president Kamal Nath announced he will hit the ground and start an awareness crusade on the Centre’s agricultural laws, Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Friday appealed to BJP leaders who “speak in favour of farmers” to follow the example of Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leader Prakash Singh Badal who left the NDA alliance in support of farmers’ protest.Digvijaya Singh was speaking for the “Kisan ke liye Bole Bharat” social media campaign on Friday. The former chief minister said, “The three anti-farmer laws brought by the Modi government has only one motive. And that is to give entry to the ultra-rich to our Rs15 to Rs18 lakh crore worth of Indian agricultural commodity market. One should see the laws from this angle.”He demanded that law should be passed to make purchase of agricultural produce below minimum support price (MSP) a crime. “Make provision for MSP in law and if anyone does not pay MSP then it should be a criminal offence. I hope the Modi government will accept the demands. I appeal to those in the BJP who have been speaking on behalf of farmers to follow what Prakash Singh Badal and other alliance parties of the NDA have done. They have stepped outside the alliance to protest against the laws,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bjp-netas-who-speak-for-farmers-must-protest-farm-laws/articleshow/80177563.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||‘11-judge SC bench should hear Maratha quota issue’||MUMBAI: Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government wants the Maratha quota case to be heard by an 11-judge bench of Supreme Court. Ashok Chavan, chairman of the state cabinet sub-committee for Maratha quota, said the Centre must take a positive stand at the judicial and constitutional front to retain Maratha reservations and file an affidavit in favour of quota in SC. Chavan said the 28-year-old Indra Sawhney case must be reviewed. “Tamil Nadu has exceeded the limit of 50% reservation, but the Centre has protected it through the Constitution ninth schedule. The economically weaker section (EWS) quota is also pending in SC. Hence, pending cases related to reservation above 50% limit should be clubbed, including TN and EWS, to be heard before the 11-judge bench,” said Chavan. SEBC reservation is pending before a five-member bench. Chavan said the Sawhney case had nine judges. Chavan argued that the verdict by nine members cannot be overruled by five members, so Maratha quota should be heard before an 11-member bench. The SC judgement in the Sawhney case held that reservations should not exceed 50% and could be only in exceptional cases. Chavan, the PWD minister, said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting a positive stand on reservations. He appealed to MPs in Maharashtra to meet Modi as an all-party delegation. “The state chief secretary will be told to correspond with the Union law and judiciary ministry, while the advocate general should try through the attorney general,” said the minister. The former CM appealed to Opposition BJP to make an attempt unitedly as SEBC reservations has been passed in legislature unanimously during the erstwhile BJP-led government. The next hearing on Maratha quota is on January 25. The three-judge bench stayed implementation of Maratha quota on September 9, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-11-judge-sc-bench-hear-maratha-quota-issue-mva/articleshow/80177699.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Tirumala: Thieves decamp with cash from TTD guest house||Tirupati: Thieves broke into a Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) cottage at Tirumala on Friday and decamped with cash belonging to the devotees. A family of devotees from Raichur in Karnataka on a pilgrimage to Tirumala had booked room number 527F at TTD’s GNC cottage. The devotees had locked their room and gone for darshan to the temple but when they returned, the door to their room had been broken. Their room and belongings had been ransacked and the thieves had decamped with Rs 22,000 in cash and one mobile phone. Upon receiving information, sleuths from the TTD vigilance and security department and local police reached the cottage and gathered clues and fingerprints on Friday. Tirumala police, who received a complaint from the devotees, registered a case and launched a search for the culprits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/thieves-decamp-with-cash-from-ttd-guest-house/articleshow/80176395.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 9, 2021||Pune||Indelible ink mark plea for vax-takers||Pune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the state has requested the Union government to consider applying the indelible ink on the fingers of the beneficiaries receiving the Covid-19 vaccine on the lines of identifying the voters after polling. The state conducted a fairly successful dry run across 114 centres on Friday, when the health machinery checked its preparedness to handle the Covid-19 vaccination. “We have requested the Union health ministry to use the indelible ink during the vaccination programme, in the lines of which it is done during election. Once the beneficiary has been vaccinated, his finger should be inked. Even if the Union government doesn't approve it, we will follow it in Maharashtra,” Tope said.— Swatee Kher||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indelible-ink-mark-plea-for-vax-takers/articleshow/80178850.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Bhopal||Please take charge of Jabalpur, Rewa: Vishnoi tells CM||Bhopal: Four days after airing anguish over lack of representation from Mahakaushal and Vindhya Pradesh regions in Shivraj cabinet, senior BJP MLA Ajay Vishnoi, continued to direct questions at chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan. BJP sources said that like many other senior BJP leaders from the two regions, the MLA from Patan in Jabalpur also sought a berth in Shivraj cabinet. Many others like former industry minister Rajendra Shukla may not have expressed themselves, they too share the same feelings, party sources claimed. On Friday, Vishnoi tweeted, “On the occasion of the first anniversary of becoming CM of MP, please give a gift to Madhya Pradesh and as promised please take charge of Jabalpur and Rewa. Yes, the state is waiting for the incharge ministers to resolve small issues of the people.” After the induction of two Scindia supporters in a small expansion of Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet, Vishnoi had tweeted, “One out of 13 BJP MLAs from Mahakaushal and one from 18 in Rewa division are fortunate to become ministers. Expansion of the cabinet is over. Mahakaushal and Vindhya can only flutter but not fly. Mahakaushal and Vindhya have to be happy and keep doing flattery.” Drawing parallel between “imbalances in representation from Mahakaushal and Vindhya region”, he had said in his tweet that every second MLA from Gwalior, Chambal, Bhopal and Makaushal is a minister and every third MLA from Sagar and Shahdol divisions is a minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/please-take-charge-of-jabalpur-rewa-vishnoi-tells-cm/articleshow/80177559.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||29 people take part in dry run in PMC limits||Pune: A total of 29 people participated in the Covid-19 vaccination dry run on Friday, which was organized by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) at Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada. “The testing of software and data entry was carried out and manpower management was also checked,” Vaishali Jadhav, a senior civic official, said. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staff members, who were involved in the process, the dry run was carried out in four stages, including verification, entry in the Co-Win application, vaccination and observation. As per the standard operating procedures for vaccination, those who will take the vaccine will be kept under observation for half-an-hour. “If any symptoms are seen post-vaccination, further treatments will be available under the same roof. Oxygen supply and ventilators will be provided, if needed, at the hospital,” a senior civic official said. The Pune Municipal Corporation has formed teams to carry out the vaccination. Each team will have five people including data entry operators and nursers. Apart from them, doctors and specialists will also be available at the centre. Ambulance and other paramedical staff will be present too, in case of any emergency. The Pune Municipal Corporation has planned to vaccinate people in different phases, based on priority. The healthcare workers of the civic as well as private hospitals and the frontline workers would receive the vaccination first, followed by the general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/29-people-take-part-in-dry-run-in-pmc-limits/articleshow/80178876.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||SPPU gets show-cause notice from higher education department on reopening circular||PUNE: The state directorate of higher education issued a show-cause notice to Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) on Thursday demanding to know on what basis was the reopening for colleges declared through a circular on January 4. The notice stated that neither had the state government decided about the reopening of colleges nor did the University Grants Commission (UGC) guidelines say so. Yet, the university had declared that its departments and colleges in Pune, Nashik and Ahmednagar would open for physical classes from January 11. There are 800 colleges under the university. DHE administrative officer Suyash Dusane said the reason for issuing the circular must be sent to the department at the earliest. Following this notice, the university put out a new circular late on Thursday postponing the reopening. SPPU registrar Prafulla Pawar said, “We respect the communication received from the state higher education department. We are seeking details about the decision for the reopening. We shall soon provide all the information sought promptly to the DHE.” The DHE notice said there are some guidelines issued by the Union government and UGC to be followed by the universities and colleges in the states before reopening. Each state government should have declared the area safe for reopening of educational institutions, and state and private universities should be reopened as per the decision of the respective state governments. The government should prepare a region-specific plan, instead of a uniform plan for the entire state, and issue standard operating procedures to vice-chancellors and principals, it added. When contacted, SP College principal V M Solapurkar said, “We have been preparing for the reopening for a while and have been scheduling classes. The university has to consider hundreds of colleges and their preparedness after which it can allow them to reopen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-gets-show-cause-notice-from-higher-edu-dept-on-reopening-circular/articleshow/80178823.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Winter waterlogging after intense rain spell||PUNE: Puneites on Friday woke up to an unusual intense spell of rain that continued till the evening and triggered a rare winter waterlogging in areas such as B T Kawade Road, Kothrud, Paud Road, Anandnagar and Nal Stop. There were instances of traffic snarls in parts of the city in the evening, while power cuts were reported from areas such as Pashan, Punawale, Hadapsar and Undri. Rishab Arora, a resident of Hadapsar, said, “There was no electricity for over two hours following the rain. Many people are working from home nowadays and long power cuts are the last thing one needs.” Waterlogging proved to be a worry for residents. One Twitter user said, “New year same old PMC. Again water logging at B T Kawade Road (Pune-13). Citizens’ life is in danger and this problem is getting ignored constantly. Due to severe water logging on B T Kawade Road there’s traffic, and an emergency service vehicle got stuck. These are the consequences of ignoring the problem.Even the complaint letter is ignored.” A fire brigade official told TOI that they received a couple of calls related to tree collapse due to the rain. “These two were minor occurrences, involving tree branch collapsing in Karvenagar and Yerawada. No other incidents attributable to the intense rain spell were reported,” he said. The India Meteorological Department has forecast isolated to scattered rainfall with sporadic thunderstorms and lightning over Maharashtra and Goa for another day or two. An IMD official said the wind pattern over Pune district and city was mainly south-easterly. “Chances of light rain in isolated areas with one or two intense short spells and mostly cloudy skies are likely for the city for a couple of days,” he said. D S Pai, scientist and head, climate research and services, IMD, Pune, said, “Currently, there is deep trough in the low-level easterlies from Southeast Arabian Sea to the Gujarat region in lower tropospheric levels. This system is interacting with the western disturbance in the north. The interaction has caused cloud formation and rains in parts of south India as well as interiors of Maharashtra, including Pune.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/winter-waterlogging-after-intense-rain-spell/articleshow/80178884.cms||Neha Madaan
January 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh reports 319 Covid cases, one death||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 319 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,84,490. The toll increased to 7,127 as one more patient from Krishna district succumbed to the disease. As many as 308 patients were discharged from various treatment facilities on Friday. There are currently 2,832 active cases with 8,74,531 cumulative recoveries and 7,127 deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 98.8%. Active cases are less than 200 in six districts. With a 99.3% recovery rate, Vizianagaram district has as few as 42 active cases. Five districts have so far achieved 99% recovery rate. Krishna district recorded 46 cases on Friday, followed by Chittoor (44) and Guntur (39). The remaining 10 districts posted less than 30 cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 59,671 Covid-19 samples on Friday and detected 319 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. Meanwhile, the second dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine was conducted in several districts of Andhra Pradesh on Friday. Speaking at the vaccination drive conducted at a primary healthcare centre in Srikakulam, special officer Dr M Karunakar Rao said recipients were observed for 30 minutes after the vaccine was administered. The dry run tested the planning of the vaccination drive, including beneficiary registration, micro-planning, logistics, supply chain management, preparedness and other components as well as familiarised officers involved in Covid-19 services on all aspects before the vaccine is rolled out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-reports-319-covid-cases-one-death/articleshow/80176420.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers, BJP supporters face off over CM’s programme||Karnal: Tension prevailed at Karnal’s Kaimla village as activists of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) held a protest opposing chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s proposed visit in the village on December 10. The hundreds of BKU activists, including women, assembled at Bastara toll plaza on National Highway-44 in Karnal. Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a local leader of BKU (Charuni), led the protest. Following the meeting, they reached Kaimla village against Khattar’s kisan panchayat, alleging that when the farmers were holding protests, the chief minister’s programme proves the double standard of the ruling BJP. However, farmers were stopped by the villagers and BJP supporters before reaching the proposed venue. The situation remained tense for some time, following which farmers stepped back and sat on a dharna outside the village. Agitated farmers raised slogans against the BJP governments at the Centre and Haryana, while villagers and BJP supporters did the same in support of the saffron party. Earlier, the farmers announced to gherao local BJP MLA Harvinder Kalyan’s farmhouse, who is the organizer of the event. A heavy police force was deployed near the MLA’s residence. But later farmers changed their plan and reached the Kaimla village and started a dharna. Jagdeep Singh Aulakh a farmer leader, said, “Haryana government wants to divide the farmers by holding such an event in favour of the laws when meetings are under way between the Centre and senior farmer leaders. Hence, we will not allow Khattar to hold the programme at any cost.” “There has not been a single incidence of any disturbance by farmers since the agitation started. Farmers’ agitation has been going on very peacefully. Hence, we stepped back from Kutail village while keeping in mind the law and order,” said a farmer leader. Karnal SP Ganga Ram Punia said, “Nobody will be allowed to take the law into own hands and action will be taken against those who will try to disrupt the programme.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-bjp-supporters-face-off-over-cms-programme/articleshow/80178914.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab Congress MPs meet Priyanka Gandhi, to announce stir schedule||CHANDIGARH: Punjab Congress MPs, who have been protesting at Jantar Mantar in Delhi, met with party leader Priyanka Gandhi on Friday. They later announced that the party leadership would soon announce its separate programme for taking to the streets to take on BJP at the Centre in case the deadlock over the farm laws was not resolved. “We discussed the farm laws with Priyanka ji. If the issue is not resolved at the Centre’s meeting with the farmers’ leaders, Rahul and Priyanka will take a big decision that will shake BJP. Till now, it was the farmers’ organisations that were at the forefront to oppose the farm laws. The party will now upfront take on BJP and get the farm laws withdrawn,” said Ludhiana MP Ravneet Singh Bittu after the meeting. “Till now, Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka had maintained that the farmers should be allowed to lead the campaign even as the party did hold a tractor rally. But we got a call that the party leadership is now concerned,” he said. Amritsar MP Gurjit Singh Aujla said even if the farmers didn’t want the party to directly interfere in their agitation, the party could have its own programme. Priyanka said the Congress had always supported the farmers and the only solution to the issue was that farm laws were withdrawn, the MPs said. “There is no other solution to the deadlock,” she told the MPs during the meeting. Khadoor Sahib MP Jasbir Singh Gill said they discussed the concerns of the farmers with at her residence even as the sit-in by Congress MPs from Punjab entered its 33rd day on Friday. MLA Kulbir singh Zira was also present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-cong-mps-meet-priyanka-say-party-to-announce-its-own-protest-programme/articleshow/80178931.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Pune: Day’s cases top recoveries for second straight day||PUNE: Daily Covid-19 cases stayed above recoveries in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) for the second straight day on Friday. The PMR added a total of 610 new cases as against 569 recoveries in the past 24 hours, a report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated. In accordance with the region’s trend, the PMC and rural areas recorded more infections than recoveries on Friday. While the PMC areas added 291 cases as against 249 discharges, the rural areas recorded 168 new infections as compared to 159 recoveries. In contrast, 161 patients were declared cured as against 151 new cases in the Pimpri Chinchwad areas. The total positive caseload of the region increased above 3.68 lakh on Friday, its discharges rose past 3.53 lakh. For last two days, the region had tested over 10,000 samples for Covid-19. The tests dropped slightly to 9,996 on Friday. About 4,555 samples were tested in the PMC limits, 3,525 in the PCMC limits and 1,916 in the rural areas. The total sample testing has reached 19.41 lakh. The sample testing in PMC rose above 9.50 lakh on Friday evening. The report stated that 10 patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Friday, including five in the PMC limits, four in the rural areas and one in Pimpri Chinchwad. Increase in daily cases pushed the region’s tally of active patients 5,741 on Friday. Of these, as many as 1,989 patients were admitted in various hospitals and 3,752 were in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-cases-top-recoveries-for-second-straight-day/articleshow/80178906.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 9, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Medical college to admit non-Covid patients||KOCHI: After months of being an exclusive Covid-19 hospital, the Government Medical College (GMC) Ernakulam will soon start admitting non-Covid emergency patients. The decision was taken at a meeting called by district collector S Suhas with protesting house surgeons of the medical college on Friday afternoon. The students were on warpath from Thursday evening demanding authorities to admit non-Covid patients in the hospital so that they could have clinical training as part of their academic requirements. The medical college was converted into a Covid hospital in the beginning of the pandemic when Ernakulam didn’t have enough facilities to treat Covid patients in the district. Even Kerala Government Medical College Teachers’ Association supported the students’ demands. However, since the medical colleges were reopened last month, most of them have started admitting Covid and non-Covid patients to ensure that the students’ learning is not affected. Also, Kerala University of Health Sciences and directorate of medical education had asked all the medical colleges to ensure that at least 50% patients treated in medical colleges are non-Covid patients as students need to be trained in handling non-Covid patients post re-opening of the college. “By January 31, the Aluva hospital will be a full-fledged Covid hospital providing treatment to Covid patients in the district and then in-patient services can be restarted in the medical college,” said Suhas. The students were informed that funds have been allotted to strengthen Aluva hospital to treat Covid patients. On an average, the district sees around 600 Covid positive cases in a day. Meanwhile, as an immediate relief, the collector has set up a committee to look into how the college can start normal functioning before January 31. Also emergency patients will be admitted to the hospital soon. Since Covid, all emergency patients brought to the medical college were shifted to General Hospital Based on the collector’s promise, the house surgeons have withdrawn the protest. “We have lost many crucial months of education. The college authorities need to understand our problems and start admitting non-Covid patients also,” said Dr Siby Manual Jose, president of house surgeons’ association 2020-21, GMC. If the authorities fail to keep the promise, we will go on protest again, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/med-college-to-admit-non-covid-patients/articleshow/80176451.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Pune||Power bills unpaid in Pune since April by around 6 lakh consumers||PUNE: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Ltd (MSEDCL) is staring at a financial crisis with 5.86 lakh consumers in Pune district not having paid electricity bills amounting to Rs577 crore from April 2020. The distribution company has appealed to consumers to clear the arrears. If previous arrears are added, the total outstanding is Rs1,072 crore from 13.8 lakh consumers. A statement issued by Ankush Nale, regional director, MSEDCL, on Friday said the financial crisis started with the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020. “The company was unable to take meter readings and issue bills from April onwards due to the lockdown. Once unlock started, the company started issuing bills based on meter readings. Altogether 5.86 lakh residential, commercial and industrial consumers did not pay bill from April onwards,” he said. Nale said the number of bill defaulters in Pune district increased by 5.72 lakh between March and October, with bill arrears of Rs 644 crore. He said 39,000 defaulters cleared their dues from November onwards, which was a positive sign, but this needs to improve further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/power-bills-unpaid-since-april-by-around-6-lakh-consumers/articleshow/80178917.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Intermediate classes from Jan 18, colleges get offline admissions nod||Amaravati: Education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh on Friday said Intermediate classes for the current academic year will begin on January 18. The minister said the government has decided to allow colleges to take up offline admissions following the high court’s directive and added that the government will not hesitate to crack the whip against colleges that violate rules prescribed by the board. Speaking to the media here on Friday, Suresh said they have directed college managements to collect only 70 per cent of the fee of the previous academic year keeping in view Covid-19 induced financial troubles of parents. He said they have also reduced 30 per cent of the syllabus for the current academic year due to delay in start of the academic year. The minister said the admission process had commenced on Thursday and will conclude on January 17. Classes would commence the next day. “There is no truth in rumours that examinations will be suspended for first year students. We will release the examination schedule shortly,” he said. The examination schedule will be readied by taking the examination calendar of various boards and national-level entrance examinations into consideration, Suresh said. The government, he said, plans to conduct Intermediate annual examinations sometime around April-May. The minister clarified that practical examinations would be held as usual and examination fees will not be raised. The board has fixed Rs 500 as first year examination fee and Rs 680 for second year, the minister said. Suresh directed college managements to return SSC and other certificates to students after verification. The DGP has been directed to initiate criminal proceedings against colleges holding back certificates, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/intermediate-classes-from-jan-18-colleges-get-offline-admissions-nod/articleshow/80176444.cms||Samdani MN
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||State appoints Mumbai University registrar for 1 year||MUMBAI: The state appointed Ramdas Atram, director of Institute of Science, Nagpur, as registrar of Mumbai University for one year. While the post has been vacant for six months, direct appointment by the state raised several eyebrows in the university. The state can appoint a person on deputation, if circumstances require, for a period of one year, but many have alleged it to be interference by the state in university matters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-appoints-mum-university-registrar-for-1-yr/articleshow/80180032.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kochi||Kochi corporation to prepare demolition estimate||KOCHI: The Kochi corporation would abide by the directive of the Kerala high court which called for the demolition of the temporary bund across Chilavannoor Lake, sealing the fate of the multi-crore Padmasarovaram project.Mayor M Anil Kumar, who visited the project site along with district collector S Suhas on Friday, said officials have been asked to prepare an estimate of the amount required for the demolition of the bund. The structure was built without obtaining permission from the Kerala Coastal Zone Management Authority. The high court had issued directives for demolishing the bund, which caused inundation of properties on either side of the lake during the rainy season. “Even if the bund is demolished, reverting to the original plan of constructing the walkway and cycle track on puramboke land looks difficult as it require sanctions,” said the mayor. The urban local body has already spent Rs 1 crore on the project, which had an estimate of Rs 9.5 crore. The demolition would also require additional expenses. The mayor and the collector also visited Kaloor substation premises which experienced inundation during rains. The local body and the district administration have decided to conduct a short-term study to identify best ways to solve waterlogging issues in the site. “We have decided to take steps to reduce the amount of water that would reach the substation premises,” said Kumar. Setting up a permanent pumping system and construction of a culvert are also being explored. A major issue behind waterlogging in the area was the blocking of Karanakodam thodu and Changadampokku thodu after construction of Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium. The mayor also met GCDA chairman V Salim to sort out the issue related to road access to the land allocated for constructing a memorial in the name of G Sankara Kurup. “GCDA has in principle agreed to provide us with road access to 25 cents, ensuring that the loss incurred by them would be minimal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/corp-to-prepare-demolition-estimate/articleshow/80176459.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra toll nears 50,000; cases up 15-20% in a week||MUMBAI: For the fourth day in a row, the state reported a rise in Covid-19 deaths but reported a slight dip in cases. A total of 3,693 cases and 73 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the total cases in the state to 19,61,975 and the total fatalities to 49,970, very close to the 50,000 mark which the toll may cross on Saturday. On Saturday, the BMC registered 654 new cases, taking the total cases to 2.8 lakh in Mumbai. The daily toll registered was 11, taking the overall toll since March to 11,173. While the number of Covid-19 cases detected daily dropped marginally on Friday in comparison to the previous day, doctors said the weekly count has increased. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state government’s task force on Covid-19, said there has been a 15% to 20% increase in cases in the last one week, possibly due to New Year celebrations and mingling of people. “However, there hasn’t been a huge surge and matters look under control,” he added. However, Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said the Covid situation in the state has been stable. The slight increase in deaths, he said, was due to late addition of deaths that occurred over a week ago. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the state task force, said the “thick tail” -- the number of cases in the decline phase of the Covid curve -- is still there. “Covid-19 has clearly not disappeared, but there has been a dramatic drop in the number of cases and the infection has been contained,” he said. However, he said the next month is crucial due to winter and increasing air pollution levels. “The point is even with an effective vaccine, we have to continue wearing the mask throughout 2021. The face mask, along with Covid-appropriate behavior such as frequent handwashing and maintaining social distance, is the best vaccine against Covid-19,” he said. Meanwhile, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state carried out a very successful dry run to check the preparedness for the vaccine drive on Friday. He said that the state is geared up for the drive. The Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation saw 147 fresh cases and two deaths on Friday, taking the case tally there to 58,301 and the toll so far to 1,114. Only 1,040 patients are still under treatment in Kalyan-Dombivli. In Navi Mumbai, 69 new cases and one death were reported, taking the overall case count there to 51,592 and the total toll so far to 1,067. The PCMC areas reported 73 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases so far in Panvel city to 27,926. The toll there remained at 610.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/state-toll-nears-50000-cases-up-15-20-in-a-wk/articleshow/80181714.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 9, 2021||Goa||Open for talks with Melauli villagers to resolve IIT issue: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday reiterated that he was open for discussions with Melauli villagers over the IIT-Goa campus for an amicable solution. “I don’t want to trouble them. They should come and meet me. I have invited them to Panaji,” he said. Sawant alleged the villagers had agreed to come for discussions but “NGOs and political parties” instigated them not do so. He appealed to the villagers to allow the government to conduct the demarcation survey. “IIT is an issue of development and parties and NGOs are here to stop all development,” Sawant said. Sawant also told the people to look at the track record of the NGOs, who have been filing cases against the government. “People should know the NGOs and not go along with them,” he said. Without giving any commitment whether the FIRs lodged against the protesters would be withdrawn, the chief minister said they should first come forward to discuss the issue and said no attempt to murder cases were filed against any children. “Protesters attacked police with sharp weapons at the time of demarcation. The Bicholim PI was injured. They have even thrown masala water at police. Goans should not have this sort of attitude. We should sit across the table and discuss the issue,” Sawant said. He also defended his decision not to visit Melauli to hold talks with the protesters. “The sugarcane farmers wanted me to visit them at Sanguem, but when I invited them to come over to Panaji, they came and the issue was resolved,” he said. Earlier, BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said Sawant shouldn’t go to Melauli. “Why should he go there again? He is the CM and has already been good enough to go twice. I myself will tell him not to go,” he had said. Tanawade also accused the villagers of having a “mob mentality”. On health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane keeping a studied silence on the issue, Sawant said Rane had already spoken to the villagers and tried to convince them. But when they refused to budge, “Rane said that being the education minister and the chief minister, I should handle the issue and that is the reason I am looking into it,” he said. Sawant said over the past couple of years, some villagers have been cultivating crops on the government land. “Only 17 families of Melauli were cultivating on the government land, and this project will not only benefit those 17 families but the entire village,” he said. He also dismissed former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar’s allegation that BJP is in a conspiracy against his son, who has been arrested at Melauli, “Who asked Shailendra to go to Melauli?” Sawant asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/open-for-talks-with-melauli-villagers-to-resolve-iit-issue-cm/articleshow/80180031.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra toll nears 50,000; cases up 15-20% in a week||MUMBAI: For the fourth day in a row, the state reported a rise in Covid-19 deaths but reported a slight dip in cases. A total of 3,693 cases and 73 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the total cases in the state to 19,61,975 and the total fatalities to 49,970, very close to the 50,000 mark which the toll may cross on Saturday. On Saturday, the BMC registered 654 new cases, taking the total cases to 2.8 lakh in Mumbai. The daily toll registered was 11, taking the overall toll since March to 11,173. While the number of Covid-19 cases detected daily dropped marginally on Friday in comparison to the previous day, doctors said the weekly count has increased. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state government’s task force on Covid-19, said there has been a 15% to 20% increase in cases in the last one week, possibly due to New Year celebrations and mingling of people. “However, there hasn’t been a huge surge and matters look under control,” he added. However, Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said the Covid situation in the state has been stable. The slight increase in deaths, he said, was due to late addition of deaths that occurred over a week ago. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the state task force, said the “thick tail” -- the number of cases in the decline phase of the Covid curve -- is still there. “Covid-19 has clearly not disappeared, but there has been a dramatic drop in the number of cases and the infection has been contained,” he said. However, he said the next month is crucial due to winter and increasing air pollution levels. “The point is even with an effective vaccine, we have to continue wearing the mask throughout 2021. The face mask, along with Covid-appropriate behavior such as frequent handwashing and maintaining social distance, is the best vaccine against Covid-19,” he said. Meanwhile, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state carried out a very successful dry run to check the preparedness for the vaccine drive on Friday. He said that the state is geared up for the drive. The Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation saw 147 fresh cases and two deaths on Friday, taking the case tally there to 58,301 and the toll so far to 1,114. Only 1,040 patients are still under treatment in Kalyan-Dombivli. In Navi Mumbai, 69 new cases and one death were reported, taking the overall case count there to 51,592 and the total toll so far to 1,067. The PCMC areas reported 73 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases so far in Panvel city to 27,926. The toll there remained at 610.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/state-toll-nears-50000-cases-up-15-20-in-a-wk/articleshow/80181713.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: 1,800 health workers line up for vaccine dry run||KOLKATA: A total of 1,800 healthcare workers across 23 districts—they are among the first batch of beneficiaries lined up to receive the Covid-19 vaccine—got a “dummy” taste of the immunisation programme slated for next week as they participated in the second drill held at state-run hospitals and health centres on Friday. In Kolkata, the exercise was conducted at five government teaching hospitals and a primary health centre at Maniktala, where 150 people—25 at each centre—participated in the dry run that lasted around three hours. “We are following certain set rules for the beneficiaries. We are starting with screening them at the entry point. Then, we checked their registration text message and photo ID proof before sending them to a waiting area. As their turn came, each was sent into the vaccination booth, where the personnel mimicked the act of administering the vaccine on the dummy beneficiaries. After that, they were sent to a separate hall, where they were told to wait for 30 minutes for observation before allowed to leave,” said a senior doctor at SSKM Hospital who was part of the team conducting the dry run held on the first floor of the academic building auditorium. “Our plan is to finish the entire process in 45 minutes to an hour for each beneficiary.” SSKM Hospital that will lead the inaugural vaccination programme with 9,000 beneficiaries—the highest number in the state—has set up four vaccination booths on the premises. They have assigned eight vaccinator officers to administer the injections and 30-odd vaccination officers for verifying registration status of the beneficiaries and managing the queues. A host of security personnel and policemen have also been roped in to control crowd and sanitize the premises. Four booths will be set up at SSKM to vaccinate healthcare workers from the hospital and Kolkata Police Hospital. Sambhunath Pundit Hospital will house two booths where the vaccine will be administered on healthcare workers and staff from its own facility, and that from Bangur Institute of Neurosciences, Ramrikdas Haralalka Hospital and PG Polyclinic.  “Our target is to vaccinate at least 600 people a day at the six booths at SSKM and Sambhunath Pundit Hospital, which is SSKM’s annexe unit. That way, we can complete the first dose in the first phase in 15 days. We will, however, keep a few additional days in reserve for those who may fail to appear on the scheduled day,” said an official at SSKM Hospital. At the other four medical colleges in the city—NRS, MCH, CNMC and RG Kar—similar set-ups were created with senior hospital officials overseeing the process as laid down by the Union health ministry. The process, which was followed on Friday for dry run and will be carried out during the rollout, included registering beneficiaries for the dry run, checking text messages sent to them with registration numbers, sanitizing beneficiaries’ hands, screening their temperature ensuring they had masks on, seating them in waiting rooms before sending them one by one to the vaccination rooms. After immunization, the dummy beneficiaries were asked to wait in a separate observation room for 30 minutes in case any adverse side-effects showed up in any. Once the 30-minute period got over, a doctor checked the beneficiaries for their vitals before allowing them to leave. After each vaccination, every beneficiary’s data was immediately uploaded in the Co-WIN system. Within 10 minutes, each person received messages that they had been vaccinated, along with the date and time for the mandatory second dose. Senior health officials from Swasthya Bhavan visited the vaccinations centres to take a note of the staff’s preparedness as well as electric and internet connections. “The dry run at the centres we visited went off more or less smooth. We just suggested the staff to call the beneficiaries into smaller time slots between 9am and 5pm to avoid crowding and to maintain social distancing,” said a health department official visiting Kolkata hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1800-health-workers-line-up-for-vaccine-dry-run/articleshow/80177692.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 9, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: 80-year-old files defamation suit against Kangana Ranaut||BATHINDA: An 80-year-old woman farm activist from Bathinda, who actor Kangana Ranaut had called a protester who had been hired for Rs 100 a day, has fied a defamation suit against the Bollywood starlet. Mohinder Kaur has filed the defamation suit against Kangana for a now-deleted tweet in which the actor had called the former Bilkis Bano of Shaheen Bagh fame and claimed that such women could be hired for protests for Rs 100 a day. Mohinder has filed the complaint under Section 499 (whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending to harm or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation of such person) and 500 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code in the court of Bathinda duty magistrate cum judicial magistrate 1st class (JMIC) Tanvi Gupta. Mohinder has prayed for the complaint to be accepted and Kangana Ranaut be convicted and sentenced with maximum imprisonment for the charges. The court will take up the complaint on January 11 to record evidence to see legality of the complaint. Mohinder’s husband, Labh Singh, said the words used by Kangana had harmed their prestige. The family owns 12 acres of land and said the claims mad by Kangana were intolerable. Mohinder, who is from Bahadur Jandia village, had hogged limelight in November, when a picture of her in which she was holding a farm union flag had gone viral. When Kangana’s tweet on the photo invited a lot of criticism, she deleted it. Later, singer-actor Diljit Dosanjh had alsohit out at Kangana for making the claimsabout Mohinder. Two days ago, Mohinder had gone to Tikri border and addressed from the stage of farm organisation BKU ((Ekta Ugrahan). Mohinder’s counsel, Raghbir Singh Behniwal, said the complaint was filed on January 4.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/now-mohinder-files-defamation-complaint-against-kangana-over-tweet/articleshow/80178939.cms||Neel Kamal
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra toll nears 50,000; cases up 15-20% in a week||MUMBAI: For the fourth day in a row, the state reported a rise in Covid-19 deaths but reported a slight dip in cases. A total of 3,693 cases and 73 deaths were reported on Friday, taking the total cases in the state to 19,61,975 and the total fatalities to 49,970, very close to the 50,000 mark which the toll may cross on Saturday. On Saturday, the BMC registered 654 new cases, taking the total cases to 2.8 lakh in Mumbai. The daily toll registered was 11, taking the overall toll since March to 11,173. While the number of Covid-19 cases detected daily dropped marginally on Friday in comparison to the previous day, doctors said the weekly count has increased. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is a member of the state government’s task force on Covid-19, said there has been a 15% to 20% increase in cases in the last one week, possibly due to New Year celebrations and mingling of people. “However, there hasn’t been a huge surge and matters look under control,” he added. However, Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology cell of the state public health department, said the Covid situation in the state has been stable. The slight increase in deaths, he said, was due to late addition of deaths that occurred over a week ago. Dr Shashank Joshi, another member of the state task force, said the “thick tail” -- the number of cases in the decline phase of the Covid curve -- is still there. “Covid-19 has clearly not disappeared, but there has been a dramatic drop in the number of cases and the infection has been contained,” he said. However, he said the next month is crucial due to winter and increasing air pollution levels. “The point is even with an effective vaccine, we have to continue wearing the mask throughout 2021. The face mask, along with Covid-appropriate behavior such as frequent handwashing and maintaining social distance, is the best vaccine against Covid-19,” he said. Meanwhile, public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state carried out a very successful dry run to check the preparedness for the vaccine drive on Friday. He said that the state is geared up for the drive. The Kalyan-Dombivli municipal corporation saw 147 fresh cases and two deaths on Friday, taking the case tally there to 58,301 and the toll so far to 1,114. Only 1,040 patients are still under treatment in Kalyan-Dombivli. In Navi Mumbai, 69 new cases and one death were reported, taking the overall case count there to 51,592 and the total toll so far to 1,067. The PCMC areas reported 73 fresh cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases so far in Panvel city to 27,926. The toll there remained at 610.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-toll-nears-50000-cases-up-15-20-in-a-wk/articleshow/80178954.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 9, 2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar tells administration to stay more alert as UK strain reaches Maharashtra||PUNE: Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Friday directed the Pune administration to stay more alert and employ all precautionary measures in view of the UK strain of Covid-19 being detected among passengers in the state. “Covid-19 has not gone completely. Citizens should cooperate with the administration,” Pawar said at the Covid-19 review meeting in Pune, while calling for strict implementation of mask and social distancing norms. The meeting was attended by city MP Girish Bapat, MLAs Madhuri Misal, Siddharth Shirole, Sunil Tingre, divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao and top officials from the health and police departments, among others. Pawar said collective efforts were already under way to restrict the spread of Covid-19 infection. “However, additional precautions are needed because of the detection of the new variant, for which the administration should prepare a comprehensive plan,”he said. Rao presented details about the latest preventive measures taken by the administration and the preparations for vaccination. The district collector informed Pawar about the steps being initiated. Follow rules, don’t bypass them Speaking about the UK variant, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar said people returning to India must abide by the quarantine rule and not find ways to bypass them. “As quarantine has been made mandatory after arrival in Mumbai, many people are choosing to land at other airports and then returning to Mumbai by road to avoid quarantine. They are risking the lives of other people too,” he said. Cops’ role lauded Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, while speaking at an event in Pimpri Chinchwad, said when Covid-19 cases surfaced in Pune, no one but the police personnel risked their lives and were on the roads for the safety of people. “Many police personnel have lost their lives during the pandemic. I salute them for their sacrifices,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ajit-pawar-tells-administration-to-stay-more-alert-as-uk-strain-reaches-maha/articleshow/80178942.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Amritsar||Today, Tikri border’s the stage||BATHINDA: To keep farmers protesting on the Tikri border in Delhi in high spirits, a number of noted artistes will perform at the Samyukt Kisan Morcha’s stage on Saturday. A campaign under hashtags of “artistes for farmers” and support for farmers has been launched. Artistes Harbhajan Mann, Jazzy Bains, Kanwar Grewal, Rabbi Shergill, Swara Bhaskar, Aarya Babbar, Harf Cheema, Jass Bajwa, Noor Chahal and Gurshabad Kular are expected to perform on Saturday afternoon. Members of the organising team Ajaypal Natt and Varun Chauhan said they had been proactively supporting the farmers’ cause since Day One. “We have taken many initiatives like starting a newspaper, Trolley Times; setting up Shaheed Bhagat Singh library for providing books to protesters, youth centre for help and trolley talkies to amplify this protest in a global space. As an extension of our efforts, we are trying to bring artists on a single platform to demonstrate how we as a community can bring about a change within the framework of this historic protest, which also happens to be the largest peaceful protest,” said Natt. Many artistes had been reaching the protest in the past as well. Punjabi actor and singer Diljit Dosanjh and Gurdas Mann too had reached the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/today-tikri-borders-the-stage/articleshow/80178947.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||Capt trashes ‘deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers’ charge||Chandigarh: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday said there was no question of deputing police officers to negotiate with farmers protesting at the Delhi border. Pointing out that he had made it categorically clear that the ball was in the Centre’s court, with the Punjab government having no role to play in the negotiations with farmers, Amarinder trashed the charges by Akali and AAP leaders as based on unfounded reports in a small section of the media. With farmer protests going on in Punjab since long, way before the agitation started at the Delhi border, Capt Amarinder said he had naturally asked police officers to give him regular intelligence reports and updates on the situation not just from the national capital but also across Punjab. Amarinder said he dismissed the “twisted and senseless interpretation” being given to the presence of a few Punjab Police personnel at the farmers’ protest site. It was the job of the state police to keep tabs on the evolving situation, and his job, as the CM and the home minister, to remain updated about all developments, he added. “Anyone who believes that a couple of police officers can negotiate with farmers or persuade their leaders to accept the Centre’s suggestions regarding amendments to the farm laws is really naive,” he said. Amarinder said both SAD president Sukhbir Badal and AAP national convenor Arvind Kejriwal, as well as their party colleagues, were resorting to lies and deceit in their desperation to cover up their own failures in the entire crisis triggered by the farm laws. Pointing to Sukhbir’s ridiculous claim that the resolutions passed in the Punjab legislative against the three farm bills had not been sent to the governor, he quipped that the SAD president had clearly lost it. “Or perhaps he is suffering from serious amnesia since his party colleagues, including his own brother-in-law Bikram Majithia, had accompanied me to the governor’s House for submitting the resolution and the three State Amendment Bills,” remarked the chief minister, advising Sukhbir to seek medical help for his problem. Taking a dig at the contradictory remarks of Sukhbir and his wife, former Union minister Harsimrat Badal, on the governor assent issue, Amarinder termed it a classic case of Charles Darwin’s missing link, which the Akalis seem to be suffering from.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-trashes-deputing-police-officers-to-negotiate-with-farmers-charge/articleshow/80178955.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kochi||SC adjourns plea on ‘forced’ confessions||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday adjourned by three weeks a plea challenging alleged ‘forced’ practice of sacramental confessions in the church. The top court was hearing a plea by five women stating that forcing compulsory practice on a believer was violative of the fundamental right to freedom of religion under Article 25 of the Constitution. The plea has arrayed Union of India and Kerala as parties in the case. A bench comprising Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, S A Bopanna and V Subramanian deferred the matter after senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi sought more time. Rohatgi submitted that the case encompasses important constitutional issues such as whether confession was an essential religious practice. “As prayed for, three weeks’ time is granted to the petitioners to amend the instant writ petition. Put up thereafter,” the bench said. The apex court had in December sought responses from the Centre and the Kerala government on a separate plea challenging the validity of alleged practice of forced, compulsory and mandatory sacramental confessions in the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church. The top court was initially of the view that the plea challenging the religious practice should be heard by the Kerala high court. Later, it issued notice in the case on being apprised that the apex court, in a judgment of 2017, had restrained all civil courts and the high court from entertaining any dispute related to the 1934 Constitution of Malankara Association. agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/sc-adjourns-plea-on-forced-confessions/articleshow/80176474.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Govt keen to develop medical tourism in Kondaveedu||Guntur: The government has decided to set up a medicinal plant park in the area around Kondaveedu fort. In a bid to promote medical tourism, the park will be hosting an exclusive Ayurveda healthcare-cum-rejuvenation centre on the hilltop. The reserve forest in and around the fort area is home to several rare medicinal plants and can. Ayush commissioner P Usha Kumari along with 35 senior officials of the department visited the Kondaveedu fort area on Friday. Taking note of the several dozens of rare plants in the region, Usha Kumari decided to depute a delegation of experts in medicinal plants from the department to the area to ready a blueprint for the healthcare centre and medicinal plant park. The Ayush commissioner spent close to three hours in the area and interacted with Kondaveedu Fort Development Society convener Kalli Sivareddy. Speaking to the media, Usha Kumari said Kondaveedu can become a major hub for medical tourism. Setting up an exclusive healthcare-cum-rejuvenation centre would not only attract tourists from across the globe but also help the government add to its revenues, she said and added that Kerala is encouraging Ayurveda-based health centres by tapping into its resources in medicinal plants. “AP has all the strengths to become the biggest centre for medical tourism particularly in the area of Ayurveda. We will promote the concept in a big away beginning with Kondaveedu,” she explained. Botanical experts, she said, have found several plants in Kondaveedu that could prove to be useful in treatment of critical kidney diseases, fevers, spinal disorders and diarrhoea. “The cool green environs of Kondaveedu fort region itself will help improve health by reducing the stress. Allowing people to stay for two to three days where ill definitely make them beat all odds in their life,” said Usha Kumari. Sivareddy explained the significance of various historical structures on the fort to the officials. He said several developmental works were taken up on the initiative of local legislator V Rajani Kumari, finance minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy and principal advisor to the chief minister Ajeya Kallam. He accompanied the team to Yogi Vemana mandapam, the mosque, the dining hall of the 13th century Reddy kings, Puttalamma cheruvu, Mutyalamma cheruvu, Vedulla Cheruvu and the museum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-keen-to-develop-medical-tourism-in-kondaveedu/articleshow/80176458.cms||Samdani MN
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||No word yet on cause of Bhandara hospital fire that claimed 10 babies||Bhandara: Even over nine hours after the fire that claimed the lives of 10 newborn babies at the Bhandara district general hospital, the hospital administration as well as the district authorities are yet to confirm the cause of the fire in the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU). Media was barred from talking to the aggrieved parents while unconfirmed reports claim the bodies have been handed over to them. Some were from Tumasar, Sakoli, Mohadi. It couldn’t be confirmed as authorities refused to answer TOI questions. Lot of police personnel have been deployed on the premises. Refusing to give any exact cause of the incident, state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar who reached the hospital at 11.15am, said a team of NFSC and VNIT would be asked to conduct an inquiry to ascertain the fire trigger. He said in the next cabinet meeting the issue of fire safety at all government hospitals would be taken up. The minister also said the civil surgeon has informed him that a proposal of Rs1.51 crore is pending with the government for installation of fire equipment. The building was inaugurated in 2016 allegedly without any fire compliance. The fire had broken out at around 2am on Saturday. Seven other babies were rescued by the on-duty staff. Civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate told TOI that three to four babies were charred to death while the rest of the casualties happened as oxygen supply was cut. No staffer from hospital was injured, indicating none was present in the ward when the fire broke out. According to chief fire officer of Nagpur and PWD officials, the fire wouldn’t have spread to such an extent had anyone been present in the ward. Former Maharashtra energy minister Chandrasekhar Bawankule, who is at the spot since morning, said the bodies were at the mortuary and he met the parents around 10am. “Rs1.52 crore were needed for fire safety equipment at the hospital. Lack of electrical fittings and safety took the toll,” he claimed. This had been brought to the notice of government, he said, and demanded an inquiry be completed in seven days. “Principal secretary, deputy director of health services and civil surgeon were aware of this proposal as early as May 8, 2020,” said Bawankule and demanded higher authorities must be held responsible. FIR must be filed against the guilty official, he said. Special team of experts has been formed to conduct the post-mortem. The entire process would be videographed, said sources. PWD electrical department too has been asked to form special team to conduct inquiry. The report has been demanded by police. Former energy minister Chandrasekhar Bawankule,who is at the spot since morning, said the bodies were at the mortuaries and he met the wailing parents around 10am. "₹1.52cr were needed for fire safety equipment at the hospital. Lack of Electrical fittings and safety took the toll," he claimed. This was brought to the notice of government he said demanding an inquiry be completed in seven days. Meanwhile ₹5lakh compensation has been announced for the families of deceased. " Principal secretary, Deputy director of health services and civil surgeon were aware of this proposal as early as May 8, 2020,"he said and demanded High authorities must be held responsible. FIR must be filed against the guilty official, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-word-yet-on-cause-of-bhandara-hospital-fire-that-claimed-10-babies/articleshow/80185160.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||A ‘virtual yr’ later, schools plan online annual exams||Kolkata: Most city schools affiliated to CISCE and CBSE will conduct their annual exams online next month, at the end of an academic year, during which classes remained virtual. For the examination, schools are planning to change the pattern of questions, with an accent on testing the students’ concepts and knowledge. Also, instead of assigning 100 marks to each paper, most schools are planning to hold the exams in a staggered manner with an emphasis on projects and viva voce. Sujoy Biswas, principal of Rammohan Mission School, said he was likely to suggest teachers to set the question papers more on concepts. “Instead of the usual questions, students may expect knowledge-based question papers,” Biswas said. At The Heritage School, principal Seema Sapru said that the theory examinations for students up to Class XI would be starting from February 23. The annual examination will be online. “We have incorporated changes in evaluation. Students will not appear in any long-duration test. Instead, teachers will include viva voce, projects and compositions to ease the pressure because a three-hour duration examination is not possible on a virtual medium,” Sapru said. She added that each teacher will engage with a group of students or a single child during the upcoming annual examinations.  T H Ireland, principal of St James’ School, said students would appear for theory papers on the virtual platform, and that each paper would have 50 marks and of a duration of an hour. “Though we are yet to take a call on the timetable of the annual examinations, pen-and-paper tests will affect the students psychologically because they have lost the habit of sitting for exams that are three hours long,” Ireland explained. Another school, which is affiliated to CBSE, will begin the annual examination from mid-February. “We are in the process of finalizing the pattern of questions. But we may decide to hold written examinations and objective-type-questions on separate days, in a staggered manner,” said the principal. “Not even a single face-to-face interaction or doubt-clearing sessions could be held with the students till now after they were promoted to their current classes. If we are not permitted to bring back the students on campus even in March, then we will be forced to conduct the annual examinations online,” said the principal of another school in the city. “We may hold a pen-and-paper test, only if we get an opportunity to conduct physical classes for 45 days before March.” “Looking at the present situation, it is unlikely that schools will open for face-to-face interaction with students up to classes IX and even class XI. Hence, in all likelihood, the annual examinations will be a virtual one,” said another school head.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-virtual-yr-later-schools-plan-online-annual-exams/articleshow/80177713.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 9, 2021||Chandigarh||When will you exercise legal option on 3 state bills: NDA ex-minister to CM||Chandigarh: Former Union minister and SAD MP from Bathinda Harsimrat Kaur Badal on Friday asked Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to tell people how long it would take before the state government exercised legal options to ensure the three agricultural bills — passed unanimously in the Punjab assembly 80 days ago to counter the central farm laws — were forwarded to the President for assent by the governor. “Going by the current scenario, you seem to have even forgotten you initiated the move to get the three bills passed in the state assembly in the same manner in which a resolution rejecting the erstwhile farm ordinances was also passed, but never forwarded to the Centre,” said the Bathinda MP. She described the policy adopted by the CM on pursuing the three bills as “go-slow”. She added this indicated that the CM was purposely delaying action on the issue. “The recent manner in which you have bent over backwards to please the central government and even registered attempt to murder cases against Punjabis speaking out against Punjab BJP leaders gives credence to reports that you are being remote-controlled by the union home ministry for reasons best known to you,” said Harsimrat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/when-will-you-exercise-legal-option-on-3-state-bills-nda-ex-minister-to-cm/articleshow/80178956.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra seeks to ink vaccine-takers||Maharashtra has requested the Centre to allow it to use indelible ink to mark those who have received the vaccine, health minister Rajesh Tope said.  He said the state has also demanded that the vaccine be made available for free to people below poverty line. The decision on the vaccination campaign will be taken by the CM and his deputy after the Centre announces the dates, Tope said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-seeks-to-ink-vax-takers/articleshow/80178960.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ludhiana||Didn’t ask Sikh religious leader to mediate: Farmers||JALANDHAR: Baba Lakha Singh, who created a flutter by meeting Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar on Thursday evening and offering to mediate between the Centre and the farmers’ groups, heads one of the three factions of Nanaksar Dera at Kaleran village near Jagraon in Punjab. He has been a member of the Damdami Taksal chief Harnam Singh Dhuma-led Sant Samaj and has been running a langar at Singhu border. He had even addressed the audience from the main stage at Singhu border and appreciated the coming together of diverse communities for the cause of farmers. Farm union leaders on Friday clarified that they had neither held any meeting with him nor asked him to mediate. He is not among very influential Sikh religious leaders and his influence is limited to a section of followers of the Nanksar Dera. BJP Kisan Morcha national spokesperson Kamaljeet Soi, who accompanied Baba Lakha Singh during his meeting with Tomar, said, “Till date the langar started by him is closest to the stage. He has been very considerate about the farmers who are spending cold nights there and it was his own initiative to talk to the minister for finding a solution.” “Already Sant Ram Singh, who was also from Nanaksar sampardai, has shot himself for the cause of farmers, and Baba Lakha Singh’s main concern is farmers. He made an earnest attempt to diffuse the situation so that both sides can have an honourable solution and farmers are also satisfied,” said Soi, who is known more for his work on road safety. Repeated calls to Baba Lakha Singh’s mobile phone remained unanswered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/didnt-ask-sikh-religious-leader-to-mediate-farmers/articleshow/80178957.cms||IP Singh
January 9, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: Prosperous vegetable farmers too seek MSP safety net||HAMZA (AMRITSAR): Small landholdings have come as a boon for the farmers who chose to cultivate vegetables over traditional wheat and paddy crops and make handsome profits. Yet, they expect the government not only to announce minimum support price (MSP) on vegetables, but also help them find new markets. “We are small farmers, but we have set a precedent before others by going against the common practice of growing wheat and paddy. We chose to grow vegetables and we have been successful as many neighbouring villages have started following in our footsteps,” said Dailbagh Singh, a local farmer while talking to TOI, on Friday. With a population of nearly 2,000, Hamza has around 300 to 350 acres of cultivable land with the majority of farmers having two to four acres of land. He said rotating crops not only keeps the soil healthy, but also prevent underground water depletion which results in high yield. “Everyone here prefers growing vegetables hoping to get the attractive price, it’s rare that the farmers have to suffer losses that too only if there is a glut of particular vegetable in the market,” he said, adding that presently farmers were getting Rs 6 and Rs 10 per kg of beans and peas in the wholesale vegetable market. Giving example of Kerala government for fixing MSP for vegetables, another farmer Davinder Singh opined that the farmers wanted the government to help them find new markets. “Amritsar has the international airport with a cargo facility, we can supply fresh and high quality vegetables to the various international market but the government has to show us the path,” he said, adding that fixing MSP on vegetables would bring a sea change in the cropping pattern of Punjab. Throwing weight behind the agitating farmers on the borders of Delhi, Kanwaljit Singh, a farmer, said there must have been some valid grounds on which farmers and their family members were braving cold on roads. He said growing vegetables had always been profitable. “It’s rare we suffer losses, we don’t have glut of vegetables every year besides we can grow vegetables all through the year, only thing we need is help in marketing and the MSP,” he said. Former chief agriculture officer Dilbagh Singh is of the view that the small and marginal landholdings in this village have come as a boon. “Farmers here own from 2 to 4 acres of land, but they are very hard working. So, they chose to diversify from the traditional cropping pattern to growing vegetables.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/prosperous-vegetable-farmers-too-seek-msp-safety-net/articleshow/80178963.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC tells civic body to reply to PIL on tenders for Covid items||MUMBAI: Observing that prima facie there appears to be a need to look into the tendering process for Covid-related items, the Bombay high court on Friday directed BMC to file its reply within two weeks to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by BJP MLA Ashish Shelar that has sought streamlining of pricing of medicines, disinfectants and sanitisers to prevent profiteering by a few. The PIL said hospital-acquired infection (HAI) should be checked and disinfectant procurement by public hospitals should be of the highest standards to ensure the health and safety of common people, especially the economically disadvantaged sections of society. BMC has failed to evolve a proper framework for procurement of medicines and disinfectants through the tendering process in conformity with applicable norms for civic hospitals, submitted Shelar’s counsel Deepa Chavan before a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. Senior counsel Milind Sathe for BMC questioned the bona fides of the PIL. Chavan refuted his submissions and said the petitioner is a member of legislative assembly (MLA) and was concerned about the safety of people and high standards of public health. Sathe said the tendering process was a technical matter decided by experts from civic hospitals and not an issue that can go into a PIL. The PIL said, “A skewed public procurement process to favour certain manufacturers by diluting the standards of eligibility are germane to seek interference of the HC.” Shelar, it added, had already provided various suggestions to bring in greater transparency and effective approach by the BMC and better regulations. It sought to highlight “vague and incomplete specifications” in the tender form that could lead to “procurement of substandard material’’ which in turn could adversely impact lives of common men and women. The tender form fell short, said the PIL, of the updated international standards formulated by the Directorate of Medical Education and Research and the standard operating procedure (SOPs) through state-level infection control committee for antiseptics and disinfectants. The PIL essentially faults only the civic body for its “lacunae’’ and “ambiguities leaving space for favouritism’’ in the tendering process. The PIL sought orders to ensure adherence to specifications and standard operating procedures evolved by the Infection Control Committee of DMER at the state level, in October 2019 and also to incorporate processes evolved by Haffkine Biopharmaceuticals while procuring drugs and disinfectants. The HC will next hear the matter after three weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-tells-civic-body-to-reply-to-pil-on-tenders-for-covid-items/articleshow/80176484.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||No relief for ex-Sena neta in extortion case||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Thursday rejected the anticipatory bail plea filed by former Shiv Sena corporator from Nalasopara, Dhananjay Gawade (45), accused of using the RTI Act to extort money from builders. Gawade has been absconding for more than two years. Ten FIRs were filed against Gawade by builders between March 31 and April 12, 2018. The builders alleged they were threatened by Gawade, a first-time corporator, who demanded money from them to go “soft” on illegal structures. As the five-year term of Vasai Virar Municipal Corporation ended in June 2020, and fresh elections awaited, Gawade seizes to be a corporator. Judge Sandeep Shinde observed that if a corporator has been absconding for two years, it is a matter of serious concern. In his plea, Gawade said the multiple FIRs were filed against him as he was a whistleblower .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-relief-for-ex-sena-neta-in-extortion-case/articleshow/80180056.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Amritsar||Punjab: ‘Will continue to struggle till demands are met’||BATHINDA: The protest against the central agriculture marketing laws in Punjab completed 100 days on Friday. The protests on railway tracks, toll plazas and business establishments of some corporate houses, apart from the residences of BJP leaders, had started in the state on October 1. Even though the protests shifted to the Delhi borders on November 26, the agitation in Punjab is continuing. Protesting farmers claim the struggle will continue till the central government not agrees to repeal the contentious laws. “Hundred days of protest is no mean thing, but for us it is nothing less than a do or die battle. We are ready to sit for any number of days or months as our only one motive is to get the laws repealed. Nothing less is acceptable to us,” said Gurmukh Singh from Chhiniwal village in Barnala district while sitting at Barnala Railway station protest site. “It is well over three months of indefinite protests in Punjab. Farmers have braved chilly weather but not lost confidence and determination. We still are full of energy and will continue to struggle till our demands are met,” said farmer Karnail Singh at Lehra Bega toll plaza in Bathinda district. “These laws are like a death warrant for us and we will not sit back till these are thrown away,” said BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) Bathinda unit leader Mothu Siongh Kotda. Though the protesters had vacated railway tracks after many days of sit-ins, protests are continuing near tracks either in railway parks or nearby places apart from those at 23 toll plazas, which have incurred losses of over Rs 300 crore during these months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/will-continue-to-struggle-till-demands-are-met/articleshow/80178959.cms||Neel Kamal
January 9, 2021||Surat||Surat yet to receive Rs 65cr under NCAP from central fund||Surat: At a time when the city is facing severe air pollution issues, the central government is yet to allocate the funds promised to improve the ambient air quality under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP). The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has been allocated grant of Rs 65 crore under the NCAP for taking measures to improve the ambient air quality in the city. Under this project, the civic body has proposed five air quality monitoring centres at various locations. At present, Surat has just two air quality monitoring centres at Varachha and Limbayat. In the second phase, the new centres will come up at Rang Upvan at Nanpura, Pandesara Industrial Association (PIA) in Pandesara, water distribution centre at Phulpada, Sanjeev Kumar auditorium at Adajan and Narmad Library in Athwalines. Official sources said that the monitoring system will have the real-time and minute to minute display of the particulate matter (PM) and the Air Quality Index (AQI). Talking with TOI, municipal commissioner Banchhanidhi Pani said, “We are yet to receive funds from the NCAP. The project is under the tender stage.” With the population of over 55 lakh and more than 34 lakh vehicles on roads, Surat has a ratio of one vehicle for every two person. Surat city is spread in 326 sq km area. Recently, Surat’s limit has been expanded by 146 sq km with the merger of two municipalities—Sachin and Kansad—and 27 surrounding villages. According to Pani, the mission behind installing the air quality monitoring system is to reduce particulate matter (PM) 2.5 and PM10 in the city and inform people about their minute to minute position. “This is a transformative project aimed at bettering the environmental standards to make city liveable for people,” said Pani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-yet-to-receive-rs-65cr-under-ncap-from-central-fund/articleshow/80176438.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||Nigerian man, wife cheat Jamnagar teacher of Rs 37L||Rajkot: A 28-year-old school teacher working with a private school was fleeced of nearly Rs 37 lakh by a couple, the man is from Nigeria, who faked his identity and offered to marry her after seeing her advertisement on a matrimonial website. The victim paid the amount in a number of instalments over the past six months. The money was deposited in separate bank accounts. Jamnagar cyber cell sources said the accused John called up the teacher identifying himself as Rahul from the US and made a marriage proposal saying that he had seen her details on the matrimonial website. The duo started chatting regularly and one day, he offered to send her an expensive gift. Meanwhile, the teacher started getting calls from a woman who asked her to deposit some amount in a particular bank for getting the gift parcel released from New Delhi. This continued for nearly six months and the teacher kept depositing money in various bank accounts as asked for by the couple. “However, she realized something was fishy and contacted us. Based on the numbers she shared, we traced the couple's location to a hotel in Delhi and arrested them on Thursday,” said KJ Bhoi, police inspector, Jamnagar cyber crime cell. The cops arrested John and his wife Savita Bhalekar, who is an Indian. She used to call up the teacher identifying herself as Suma Kumari. They seized 13 mobile phones, one tablet, number of sim cards, three pen drives, six memory cards, 14 ATM cards and five government identification cards. “We suspect that the couple has cheated many people using similar modus operandi. More details will emerge after scanning through the data in their gadgets,” said Bhoi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/nigerian-man-wife-cheat-jamnagar-teacher-of-rs-37l/articleshow/80176808.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara startups showcase innovation||Vadodara: Thirteen startups from a wide range of sectors including FMCG, wellness, health tech, ed tech, e-commerce, mobility and electric vehicles among others recently got a platform to showcase their innovations at the Vadodara Startup Demo Day 2020, a flagship startup event of city-based Parul University (PU). The event was organised under the umbrella of Vadodara InnoFest 2.0. Over 4,600 participants joined the event through the virtual platform. A team of eminent jury members carried out review process of the pitching done by the startups. The best performing startup title was awarded to ‘SpeedForce’, ‘Doctor at Doorstep - Nisarg Wellness Private Limited’, ‘My Will’ and ‘UnickBharat Lifestyle Private Limited’. These startups got selected for the launch pad program of PU’s Vadodara Startup Studio for further startup growth acceleration support. Other startups - ‘Vexma Technologies Pvt Ltd’, ‘Nisarg Wellness Pvt Ltd’, ‘Techokids Private Limited’ and ‘The Assist Buddy’ got growth tractions from the industry stakeholders. PU till now has incubated over 125 startups creating 1,079 employment opportunities with total annual revenue of over Rs 27 crore, said PU president Dr Devanshu Patel. The university has also organized over 100 entrepreneurial talks, received funds of over Rs one crore and filed 127 patents and copyrights, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-startups-showcase-innovation/articleshow/80176273.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Trio rapes 50-year-old widow in Jharkhand's Chatra, inserts tumbler in private parts||CHATRA: In a gruesome crime reminiscent of the Nirbhaya case in Delhi, three men gang-raped a 50-year-old widow and inserted a steel tumbler in her private parts at Kobna village in Huntergunj block of Chatra district late on Thursday night, police said on Friday. The survivor is fighting for her life at a government hospital in neighbouring Bihar where the tumbler was removed after surgery. Two of the accused, identified as Bablu Paswan and Bittu Paswan, were arrested and while the third was still on the run till the time of filing the report. SP Rishav Kumar Jha and senior police officers visited the spot after getting information about the crime from the villagers. Jha said, "The name of the third accused and other details of the trio cannot be divulged at the moment as an investigation is on.” In her police complaint, the survivor said the accused grabbed her around 10 pm when she went out of her home to attend to nature’s call. The culprits then took turns to rape her, inserted the steel tumbler in her private parts and threatened her with dire consequences if she reported the matter to the police before fleeing from the spot. When she did not return, her sister-in-law went out to look for her and found her lying in a pool of blood. On Friday morning, she was taken to the Hunterganj community health centre. The doctors there termed her condition as critical and referred her to the government medical college in Magadh of Gaya district in neighbouring Bihar. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)Watch Shocking: Trio rapes 50-year-old widow in Jharkhand's Chatra, inserts tumbler in private parts||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trio-rapes-50-year-old-widow-in-chatra-inserts-tumbler-in-pvt-parts/articleshow/80178265.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Reward amount hiked to Rs 5L in woman beheading case||Ranchi: Police on Friday increased the reward amount to Rs 5 lakh for actionable information in the beheading case of a woman, whose body was found in a forest of Ormanjhi area on the city outskirts on Sunday. This is the second time police had increased the amount after announcing a reward of Rs 25,000 after which it was increased to Rs 50,000. So far, the police are clueless about the identity of the woman and the culprits involved. Ranchi SSP Surindra Jha along with senior police officers and members of the special investigation team (SIT) set up to investigate the case visited the spot again on Friday and held discussions on ways to crack the case. Talking to media persons on the spot Jha said, “We are trying our best to solve the case by deploying technical experts, CID, dog squads and the brilliant officers. Despite our efforts the police are clueless so far. We have now raised the reward amount for information from Rs 50,000 to Rs 5 lakh.” Meanwhile, Shakti Singh, a relative of Bhairav Singh, the main accused of the protest in which pilot vehicle of the CM’s cavalcade was attacked on Monday during protest over the Ormanjhi case, handed over a letter to BJP’s legislative party leader Babulal Marandi and the Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra seeking security. The letter was submitted after Bhairav received a threat allegedly from suspended officer-in-charge (OC) of Sukhdeonagar police station Sunil Tiwari. Singh also submitted audio clippings of the phone conversation in which the OC is reportedly heard issuing death threats to the accused. The phone call was made on Wednesday evening when Bhairav surrendered before the court on Thursday. It may be stated here that Bhairav was in the crowd that staged a protest at Kishoreganj in Ranchi demanding arrest of the culprits involved in the Ormanjhi case in particular and against rising crime in state against women in general. After receiving the letter from Singh, mayor Lakra led a delegation to meet the chief secretary Sukhdeo Singh and state director general of police M V Rao demanding appropriate action against the police officer who allegedly threatened Singh. In a press statement issued by her office, Lakra she said Singh assured appropriate action would be taken and the DGP would be asked to look into the matter. While submitting the memorandum to DGP, Lakra said Rao should verify the suspended police officer’s claims in the clip where he was reportedly claiming that he has killed 50 people. “It is the task of the police to verify when, where and who were killed. The DGP should not protect his guilty officers but must initiate a proper investigation and action,” Lakra said. Reacting to the issue, SSP (Ranchi) Surindra Jha said the veracity of the audio tapes have to be verified first before proceeding further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/reward-amount-hiked-to-rs-5l-in-woman-beheading-case/articleshow/80178027.cms||Sanjay Sahay
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Left parties in Jharkhand seek spl assembly session to junk farm laws||Ranchi: A delegation of Left parties on Friday met chief minister Hemant Soren to demand a special session of the state assembly to reject the farm laws passed by the Centre and also initiate the process for holding the panchayat elections. The six-member delegation comprising leaders from CPI, CPM, Marxist Coordination Committee and the CPI(M-L) submitted a 14-point memorandum on various issues of the state. The leaders also urged the state government to support the countrywide agitation staged by farmers and sought simplification of the procurement process of farm products in the state. Notably, the memorandum contained several other demands, including steps to curb the rising crime graph in the state, free vaccination for preventing Covid-19, giving employment to dependent family members of mob lynching victims in their home districts, conduct of special drives for distribution of forest pattas, raising the minimum wage, stopping the process of privatisation of the health sector and reopening of all schools closed after mergers. Janardhan Prasad of CPI(M-L) said, “We also mentioned that plans to set up elephant corridors would lead to displacement of people and sought an alternative plan or annulment of the scheme.” Meanwhile, around 2,000 members of the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU) staged demonstration and courted arrest in different districts of the state, demanding annulment of the labour laws, withdrawal of the new farm laws, end to privatisation and other demands. In Ranchi, CITU members took out a rally from the zila school and marched to the district collectorate where they sat on a dharna. CITU’s general secretary Prakash Viplav said 254 people were arrested on the spot and all of them were taken to the Jaipal Singh stadium. The members were released later in the afternoon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/left-parties-in-jharkhand-seek-spl-assembly-session-to-junk-farm-laws/articleshow/80178081.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Goa||Goa: 2nd dry run of Covid-19 vaccination conducted at eight centres||PANAJIi: Goa successfully conducted the second dry run for Covid-19 vaccination at eight centres, four each in South Goa and North Goa. Twenty-five participants were selected from each centre for the dry run of the vaccination drive, which was held at the community health centre, Valpoi, primary health centre, Candolim, North Goa district hospital, Manipal hospital in North Goa. In South Goa, it was held at the primary health centre, Quepem, primary health centre, Chinchinim, Margao urban health centre and Victor hospital, Margao. A health official said that though 200 were slated to be vaccinated, the dry run had 180 participants. Their details were uploaded on the Co-Win portal. “Some were left out as they did not turn up for the vaccination,” he said. The entire exercise, the health official said, was conducted in accordance with the guidelines of the ministry of health and family welfare and it was supervised by senior health officials of the health services. After completion of the second dry run, a report was sent to the ministry. He said they haven’t received any information about the launch of vaccination, but eight centres from Goa will be selected for the launch. Health services have been readied for the vaccination which will happen in phases. Healthcare workers will be the first to be vaccinated. Over 18,000 healthcare workers, including from the private health sector, have been registered for the same. The first dry run of the Covid-19 vaccine was conducted last week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/2nd-dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccination-conducted-at-eight-centres-in-state/articleshow/80179002.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||High court raps Jharkhand for ‘providing facilities’ to Lalu Prasad during treatment||RANCHI: The Jharkhand high court on Friday made a stern observation against the state government for “not following the law” while providing treatment to RJD chief Lalu Prasad at Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (Rims). The high court also said that the state ought to practice the norms “rather than provide facilities to people with connections”. The court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh was hearing a petition on the violation of the jail manual in terms of providing treatment to Lalu while he was kept at the Rims director’s bungalow to avoid contraction of Covid-19. The court asked the government whether other options were explored before shifting Lalu to the director’s bungalow and ordered to file an affidavit on it. The case will be heard again on January 22. Meanwhile, the government counsel informed the court that there is no specific norm prescribed in the jail manual about dealing with a prisoner after he is shifted from jail to a hospital. “The government is preparing a ‘standard operating procedure’ for the same which will also be tabled before the high court,” the counsel informed. The manual is also silent on the point as to whether a caretaker can be allowed to help the prisoner during his detention at a hospital. The court had taken note of media reports highlighting the misuse of the jail manual by freely meeting party workers. It was also reported that having been convicted by a court of law, Lalu has a caretaker with him to help him with his daily life in gross violation of the manual.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hc-raps-govt-for-providing-facilities-to-lalu-at-kellys-bungalow/articleshow/80178275.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Ex-edu min slams J’khand govt ‘for failing to strengthen school, college infra’||Ranchi: It took just one year for the Hemant Soren-led government to undo the good work done over a period of five years by the previous BJP-led government, former education minister Neera Yadav claimed on Friday. Speaking to media persons at the state BJP headquarters here, Yadav said, “The chief minister has not uttered a single word about improving the quality of education in government-run schools and colleges yet and neither has he presented any roadmap for strengthening the state’s infrastructure on education.” She further said, “The government has even remained silent on the new National Education Policy (NEP), which was approved by the Centre in July last year and the former did not host the necessary deliberative sessions to sensitise the stakeholders regarding NEP.” She added that very little was done for students living in remote areas of the state during lockdown and many of them could not attend online classes due to the unavailability of smartphones, tabs, etc. “Throughout the lockdown, the girl students were not given iron folic-acid tablets and sanitary napkins and the mid-day meal scheme was also discontinued,” she added. “Although the government has reopened schools for Class X and XII examinees from this month, none of the buildings, which are shut for nearly 10 months owing to the lockdown, were cleaned or sanitized prior to their reopening,” she said. Yadav also claimed that the incumbent government did not undertake any efforts to appoint teachers in primary, middle and high schools and did nothing to fill up the vacant posts of professors in colleges and universities. “During BJP’s tenure, as many as 41,000 teachers were appointed and the demands of para teachers were also addressed,” she claimed. She also highlighted the new institutes which were commissioned during former CM Raghubar Das’s tenure. “We distributed new uniforms to students in government-run schools, provisioned desks and benches and rolled out various schemes to prevent the pupils from dropping out of school,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ex-edu-min-slams-jkhand-govt-for-failing-to-strengthen-school-college-infra/articleshow/80178094.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Min temp to hover around 15°C in Ranchi till Jan 12||Ranchi: For Ranchi’s residents, the winter chill has disappeared shortly after the calendar flipped to 2021. And for those who are looking forward to chilling winter, there is disappointment in store. Weather experts at Ranchi’s India Meteorological Department (IMD) observatory on Friday predicted that the ongoing weather conditions will prevail till January 12. The minimum temperature in the state capital will hover around 15 degree Celsius, thus taking the sheen out of winter. “The minimum temperatures in Ranchi and across Jharkhand have risen above normal owing to western disturbances in north-western India over the past week. At present, there is a western disturbance active over Jammu and Kashmir, which is obstructing the movement of north-westerly winds into Jharkhand,” Abhishek Anand, a scientist at IMD Ranchi, told TOI. Minimum temperature in Ranchi has risen by over 7.5 degrees. On Thursday, Ranchi’s night-time temperature was 17.2 degree Celsius, against its normal average of 9.7 degree Celsius in the first week of January. Day-time temperature hovered at 29.4 degree Celsius, which was 6.3 degrees above its normal. Likewise, Jamshedpur recorded 17.4 degree Celsius, which was six notches higher than its night-time temperature of 10.1 degree Celsius. Experts said cloud cover and slackening of wind speed have added to warmth. “There are chances of mercury levels dropping at night after January 12. However, the drop will not be striking and chances of mercury levels dropping to single digit are slim,” Anand added. IMD said its data collected over 40 years have shown an increase in western disturbance-induced temperature rises in the first week of January since 2000. “From 1980-1999, there were no cases of night-time temperatures rising above normal in Ranchi in between January 1-7. But in between 2000 and 2020, 14 such instances have been documented,” Anand said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/min-temp-to-hover-around-15c-in-ranchi-till-jan-12/articleshow/80178055.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||207 new Cov cases, 2 deaths in state||Ranchi: The state reported 207 fresh cases of Covid-19 against 188 recoveries. Meanwhile, two casualties, one each from Dhanbad and Ranchi, took the death toll due to the virus to 1,043. The number of active cases in the state remained at 1,465. Of 207 fresh infections, 87 came from Ranchi followed by 22 from East Singhbhum. Dhanbad reported 18 and Bokaro 17 cases. The number of active cases in Jharkhand remained 1465. As many as 13 districts of the state reported fresh infections in single digits on Wednesday. While five, including Chatra, Jamtara, Pakur, Ramgarh and Sahibganj, reported zero cases. As per government data, as many as 1,16,436 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,13,928 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 97.84%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/207-new-cov-cases-2-deaths-in-state/articleshow/80178285.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||9 teams formed in Bokaro to detect bird flu||Bokaro: Nine rapid action teams (RAT) have been constituted in Bokaro for detection of bird flu symptoms across the district. The teams will periodically collect samples to keep track of a possible outbreak. Deputy commissioner Rajesh Singh said officials of district health and animal husbandry departments have been asked to remain vigilant. “I have instructed them to ensure the availability of PPE kits, necessary chemicals and earthmovers in advance. Besides, the officers have been asked to send daily reports to the director of the state animal husbandry department.” Singh asked the residents to stay away from dead birds and underscored the need to ensure that people who are into poultry business and raise pet birds are monitored for symptoms of the avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/9-teams-formed-in-bokaro-to-detect-bird-flu/articleshow/80178319.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Goa||Canacona ryots worry rain will affect flowering||POINGUINIM: Most parts of Canacona experienced unseasonal rainfall for two consecutive days, which has left local farmers worried that it may affect their crop output. Officials of the horticulture corporation have, however, allayed such fears. A farmer from Gaondongrim said the rainfall, in the case of plantation crops like cashew and mango, may affect the flowering process, where it has already started, or is likely to delay it. “The unseasonal rains can also spell doom for other crops like onions and cowpeas as well. In the case of mango plantations, the showers may mean flowering does not take place at all,” the farmer said. Managing director of horticulture corporation Sandip Faldesai, however, said that plantations crops like cashews and mangoes are almost on the verge of flowering and therefore there is nothing to fear. “Most cashew plantations are past their flowering stage and such rains are a boon to cashews which have flowered. It is not good for crops in the coastal side of Bardez and Tiswadi, where the land is sandy and water percolation is slow, in which case several crops may be affected. For rabi paddy crop, this rain will have no impact. In Canacona, apart from some plantation crops, there won’t be any harm and farmers need not worry,” Faldesai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-ryots-worry-rain-will-affect-flowering/articleshow/80179041.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Unusual winter showers likely to continue till Jan 10 in Goa||PANAJI: Unseasonal showers lashed the state on January 7, and as per figures shared by the India meteorological department (IMD) Quepem received the highest rainfall at 37mm. The Ponda and Pernem rain gauge stations have reported 17mm and 15mm, respectively. Under the influence of a trough in low-level easterlies, which ran from Karnataka coast to Maharashtra coast, most of the places over Goa received rainfall. The cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea persists over the same region and a trough was seen running from the cyclonic circulation to Gujarat region as of January 8. “Thunderstorm activity with light to moderate rain is expected on January 9 and light to moderate rain on January 10. Dry weather conditions are likely to prevail over the region from January 11 onwards,” IMD scientist, Shambu Ravindren, said. The rainfall could be attributed to the impact of the western disturbance, said Dr M R Ramesh Kumar, meteorologist and former scientist at the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO), Goa. These showers according to the expert are quite unusual as the winter months of January and February receive least amount of rainfall in Goa and they have the least or lowest number of rainy days. “This year January rainfall has been unusual for whole India. Chennai received the heaviest rainfall in the last 100 years. It now looks as if no month is free of rain with rainfall during all four seasons, including winter,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unusual-winter-showers-likely-to-continue-till-jan-10/articleshow/80179044.cms||Nida Sayed
January 9, 2021||Goa||Cong ready for municipal polls: Kamat||Margao: Leader of opposition Digambar Kamat on Friday said that Congress was ready to face the municipal elections even if the government decides to hold them along party lines. “Congress is always ready to face elections. Even if the assembly elections are to be held in the next month, our workers are ready; the party is ready to face the elections. One cannot predict a situation, so we have to be prepared for any type of elections,” Kamat said, in a reply to a query. Ahead of the municipal elections likely to be held within the next two months, Kamat, in the presence of several ex-councillors of Margao municipality, all owing allegiance to him, read out a laundry list of development works carried in Margao and those in the pipeline. Asked if more youths will be fielded by the party in the civic polls this time, the Margao MLA shot back, “We do not differentiate between young and old. Those who have performed and won the trust of the people will be considered (as candidates).” To a query if he would introduce his son into civic politics, Kamat evaded a direct reply. “It is for him to take a call. If he is interested and people want him to contest, he will take a call,” he said. Earlier, listing out the development works in the pipeline in Margao, Kamat said that the construction work of a parallel road over bridge connecting Davorlim to the Quepem road at Rawanfond will commence shortly. He further said that a shelter home will be constructed under the central government’s cyclone relief scheme near Bal Bhavan, Margao. This, he said, will also benefit the nearby government primary school and the Bal Bhavan in utilising the shelter home for conducting classes when not in use.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-ready-for-municipal-polls-kamat/articleshow/80179109.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Mamlatdars to begin process for municipal wards||140 words GFX size: 2x45 Panaji: In view of the upcoming general elections to the municipal councils, the department of urban development has notified that wards for the class ‘B’ municipalities are likely to be increased. The mamlatdars have been directed to start the process of rationalisation of the wards. Presently, ‘B’ class municipalities such as Bicholim and Cuncolim have twelve wards each, Curchorem-Cacora with 14 wards, Quepem council comprises eleven wards and Canacona municipality consists of ten wards. The five municipalities are likely to get one or two more wards each. The mamlatdars have been directed to initiate the process of rationalisation of the wards of municipal councils concerned on the basis of equitable distribution of population/voters and geographical contiguity. They are required to complete the exercise on or before January 12 and submit the report to the department of urban development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mamlatdars-to-begin-process-for-municipal-wards/articleshow/80179075.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Goa||State’s active Covid cases drop marginally||Panaji: With 83 new Covid-19 infections and 105 recoveries on Friday, the state’s tally of active cases dropped marginally to 876. With less than 100 cases reported and 2,087 swab tests conducted, the case positivity rate went down by a point to 4%. There were no casualties reported during the day. Thirteen patients were hospitalised whereas 73 were home isolated. Cansarvanem became the first to have no active cases. Though it is a smaller centre and saw less cases as compared to other centres even during the peak, over the last two months its count had fallen below 20. Mayem also has the least number of cases and its caseload has been below five for over the past month. On Friday, it had two cases. With 52 active cases, Porvorim has the most number in North Goa, followed by Panaji with 48. In South Goa, Margao’s count was 106 followed by Ponda with 56 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/states-active-covid-cases-drop-marginally/articleshow/80179161.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||State env ministry stops felling of 3,200 trees in Ytl||Nagpur: The state environment and climate change ministry has stopped the felling of over 3,200 big trees to widen the road by just two metres between Yavatmal-Darwha-Kukta on state highway no. 282. In July and August last year, TOI had first reported how the tree felling would not only damage the environment but also affect tiger habitat in the area which connectes to Tipeshwar Wildlife Sanctuary. Of the 4,000 trees earmarked to be cut in the 60km patch, 450 trees were already chopped by the public works department (PWD) in the non-forest area in July last year. Another 350 were cut in January. Till now 800 big trees have already been felled. Perturbed by the latest felling of huge trees, a complaint was filed by the members of Swacch Association, Nagpur, with the Aaditya Thackeray-headed environment ministry. Within 24 hours, the Yavatmal district collector was directed to stop the felling. “The road is being widened under a hybrid annuity model (HAM). It was sanctioned four years ago at an estimated cost of Rs 280 crore. The decision was taken by my predecessors, I’m just implementing it,” said superintending engineer Dhananjay Chamalwar. According to Swacch Association, the road stretch is currently wide enough for the traffic. It also sees no major rise in the vehicular movement in the near future as alternative roads are available. “These century-old trees are indigenous and have a a 3-5 metre girth. The lush green cover provides shade and shelter to travellers and is also home for hundreds of bird species and insects,” said Jaydeep Das, a Swacch member. “The trees not only help reduce the temperature in the area during summer but also play a vital role in controlling air pollution and filtering the surrounding air. This is one of the most beautiful stretches in Maharashtra and the last remaining road stretch with green canopy in Yavatmal district,” added Das. Das added that as the road passes through a forest area and a proposal for land diversion under the Forest Conservation Act (FCA) 1980 is pending. “Under the FCA provisions, without getting clearance from the forest department, the PWD cannot start road work on non-forest land,” he said. According to Das, the Supreme Court has directed that the value of oxygen and timber should be compared with the financial cost of the project. “If this considered, it is financially viable to acquire land for a new alignment,” he said. The Swacch Association has demanded that the Yavatmal-Darwah stretch be declared a heritage site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-env-ministry-stops-felling-of-3200-trees-in-ytl/articleshow/80177946.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Come up with policy to give arms licence to foresters: SC||Nagpur: Expressing serious concerns over lack of protection to forest rangers and field staff, the Supreme Court on Friday asked the central and state authorities to come up with a policy to give arms licences to forest staff.Hearing a writ petition filed by Kishor Rithe, member, Nature Conservation Society, Amravati (NCSA), and others, Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Bobde observed, “It is difficult to imagine how any law can be enforced by the forest staff, who are unarmed against poachers, who are likely to be armed. Unlike a policeman in a city, a forest ranger is in a situation where he cannot call anyone for help.”A bench headed by Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramnian observed in an order passed in an application in the ‘TN Godavarman Thirumalpad case’. The bench observed, “We are of the view that we find it difficult to comprehend how forest officials will be in a position to protect forests which are normally vast tracts of uninhabited land and of which poachers take undue advantage for carrying out their nefarious activities.”“We must take note of the fact that there are states, notably Assam and Maharashtra, which have armed some forest officers above a certain rank. We do not know what steps are being taken by other states, where poaching is rampant, for protection of the life of the forest guards,” the bench said.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, amicus curiae ADN Rao, senior advocate Shyam Divan and other counsels stated they will make a joint submission about the measures which can be adopted for the protection of the life of the forest staff. Hence, the matter was adjourned for four weeks.According to an application filed by Rithe through his lawyer PK Manohar, from 1987 to June 2020, in Maharashtra alone 656 foresters have been attacked, including 18 deaths. The situation in other states like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan is further grave.Besides, according to the International Rangers’ Federation (IRF), 162 foresters lost their life in India while on duty from 2012 to 2017. This is the highest in the world and accounts for as high as 31% of the total ranger (frontline) deaths across the world during that period.Concerned over these brutal attacks, Rithe prayed to the apex court to direct the Central government to issue appropriate directions to the respondent states to ensure the protection of the officers and the staff of the forest department and to provide social security, ex gratia and medical treatment costs to injured personnel and legal support and such other benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/come-up-with-policy-to-give-arms-licence-to-foresters-sc/articleshow/80177966.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 9, 2021||Goa||8-Nida-Unseasonal rain in January leads to event cancellations||Unseasonal rain in January leads to event cancellations 300 words Panaji: Unseasonal rain that has lashed Goa despite it being January has played spoilsport for a number of outdoor events that were scheduled in the state this weekend, despite the raging pandemic. The weekly dance party at Anjuna-based Café Prana that starts at 7pm and goes on till midnight was one such event forced to cancel. “There are approximately 100-300 people that attend this event on the weekend. We had no choice but to cancel it due to the weather,” a staffer from the café said. The January showers also dampened the spirit of some organisers who were set to bounce back after taking a backseat during the lockdown. Similarly, The Chronicle, Vagator had scheduled their Russian Christmas party on Friday rescheduled the event to Sunday. The Sunburn beach club also kept its premises shut for this weekend. They however refrained to give a statement on the same. The Goa Collective Bazaar at HillTop – a Friday night flea market – was scheduled to reopen for the first time after the lockdown and had been planning weeks in advance for the January 8 reopening. In the days, leading up to the event, all the stalls and the stage were set up, the tables and chairs were delivered, and the infrastructure was put up with a lot of labour. “The entire team was left disappointed after it rained. All that has gone to waste with the money down the drain. But we took the decision because the vendors were very skeptical after the heavy showers on January 7,” said Asha Rao, founder of The Goa Collective. They have rescheduled the event to January 15, instead. “It is most unfortunate that we had to cancel since we were really looking forward to welcome back the season. However, it is better to be safe than sorry since it is not worth taking the risk. It was imperative to see that the public was not exposed to getting drenched and falling ill,” Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/8-nida-unseasonal-rain-in-january-leads-to-event-cancellations/articleshow/80179201.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Goa||Delhi govt to set up Konkani Academy in national capital||Panaji: In a clear effort to woo Goa, the Delhi government has approved the setting up of Konkani Academy to facilitate the growth and promotion of the Konkani language and culture in the national capital. The decision, which was taken at a cabinet meeting, will be set up under the Delhi government’s art and culture department soon, said deputy chief minister of Delhi Manish Sisodia. Delhi’s department of art, culture, and language, which is headed by Sisodia, will introduce various awards to promote and encourage Konkani language and Goan culture. The government will also provide language courses through this academy. The Delhi government will also celebrate and organise cultural festivals for the Konkani speaking people. Sisodia said that the newly set-up academy will be allocated an office space with all the necessary infrastructure soon. “Goa has a special place in every Indian’s heart. Delhi government’s Konkani Academy will bring forth the best of authentic Konkani culture to the capital,” said Sisodia. AAP had its first taste of electoral victory in Goa in the recently held zilla panchayat elections where its candidate won the Benaulim constituency. In the 2017 assembly elections, AAP came a close second in the Benaulim seat. In 2019, the Delhi government had constituted 14 new language academies under the department of art, culture, and languages. The AAP government said that the purpose of language academies is not only to cater to the speakers of that language but also to reach out to a wider audience. The AAP government said that Konkani is a “very interesting and dynamic part” of the country. Recently, a Tamil academy was also notified and set up by the Delhi government to promote the Tamil culture and languages.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delhi-govt-to-set-up-konkani-academy-in-national-capital/articleshow/80179257.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||GST fraud involving 26 entities busted||Nagpur: Following success of the two-month-long campaign to probe dummy firms registered for the purpose of claiming fraudulent input tax credit (ITC), the directorates of goods and services tax (DGGSTI) will continue the special drive till March. The current drive, which began in November, was supposed to end on December 31. On Friday, the Nagpur unit registered one more case involving 26 entities dealing in goods ranging from supari, coal to even textiles. The firms had registered fictitious transactions worth Rs498 crore to avail ITC worth Rs89.73 crore. Out of this, Rs12.78 crore have been recovered and one person was arrested. The dummy firms on whose names the transactions were carried out were spread across the state. Looking at the number of cases reported so far, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) has asked the directorates of GSTI to not only extend the drive till March but also intensify it, said sources. Apart from system-based investigation, now even human intelligence will be used by the sleuths. The Nagpur zonal unit of DGGSTI alone has unearthed cases involving GST evasion worth Rs315 crore by claiming fraudulent ITC to the tune of Rs1600 crore, said sources. The objective is to mark such fake registration and delete them from the system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gst-fraud-involving-26-entities-busted/articleshow/80177993.cms||Shishir Arya
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Solar Grp tests motor for sat launch vehicle||Nagpur: City’s Solar Group that has partnered with space sector start-up Skyroot Aerospace India tested a sub-scale propellant motor to be used in the country’s first privately developed satellite launch vehicle—Vikram-I. The tests were carried out during the last week of December. This was a static test of a sub-scale model, which is a smaller variant of the actual motor to be used in the launch vehicle. The propellant has been developed by Economic Explosives Limited (EEL), which is a part of Solar Group headed by Satyanarayan Nuwal. Now, there are plans to conduct a full-scale static test by the end of this year. The first commercial flight of the launch vehicle is expected to take place in April next year. This means Skyroot will be launching the first-ever commercial in the financial year. In April next year, EEL hopes to take the flight test of the propellant motor. What was tested was the third stage propellant which is, however, one the most crucial components in the systems. Solar, the largest manufacturer of commercial explosives, has also diversified into defence and lately, the space sector. The company has emerged as the first private entity to have bagged an order to make hand-grenades for the army. In November, the company also tested the enhanced version of Pinaka rockets which have a range of 47.5km. The successful tests make Solar Group the first private company to take part in bids for supplying weapon systems to the army.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/solar-grp-tests-motor-for-sat-launch-vehicle/articleshow/80178012.cms||Shishir Arya
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Reopen Ngp Flying Club in 2 mths: HC||Nagpur: Slamming the Maharashtra government for its failure to revive the Nagpur Flying Club (NFC) for over a year even after its clear instructions, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court directed the government to make the Club operational in two months. “It appears that our request has been taken very lightly. If our pleas are falling on deaf ears, we will have to take a stricter view of the whole matter. We need to initiate coercive measures for making respondents realize the importance of complying with court’s directives,” a division bench comprising Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said. The strictures came while hearing a PIL (No13/2016) by late Flt Lt Shridhar Ghatate through counsel Shriniwas Deshpande, who had knocked HC’s doors, after the prestigious British-era club stopped operating in 2016. Two other petitions filed by petitioner’s wife Sumedha were also clubbed with this PIL. She prayed for directives to the respondents, including the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA), to immediately fill up chief flying instructor’s (CFI) post to pave way for restarting NFC’s operations. “We direct divisional commissioner to take necessary steps to appoint Captain Shiv Jaiswal as CFI as per the assurances given to him within two weeks. We would further request him to place on record information sought very specifically by the court on November 18, 2019. This information, in spite of our pleas, has not been supplied to us,” the judges observed. They noted that since the last hearing on November 18, 2019, nothing had happened to show that there was even an inch of progress in reviving NFC. “It is still in closed condition and all the equipment, machinery and infrastructure are going waste. Meanwhile, certain employees have been removed and it is alleged their removal was illegal and some other persons have been illegally substituted,” the judges said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reopen-ngp-flying-club-in-2-mths-hc/articleshow/80178029.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 9, 2021||Goa||As cops struggle, low-budget tourists sully roadsides||Colva: Little over a week into the new year, Goa continues to see low-budget domestic tourists cooking and defecating by the roadsides even as the police struggle to monitor the influx. On Monday noon, one such group of tourists invited the ire of local residents in Colva. “They parked their vehicle by the roadside, laid a piece of cloth on the ground, set up their gas cylinder and stove and began cooking their meal. Some of them brought out their alcohol as well,” said an infuriated local who warned the group against leaving any garbage behind. Crammed into buses, mini-buses and even private vehicles, such tourists visit the state equipped with rations, cooking vessels, gas stoves and cylinders. They travel and sleep in their vehicles and drink, cook and defecate by the roadside. Tourism stakeholders and locals have long been objecting to such visitors who contribute very little to the state’s revenue and litter the places they visit. In 2017, the nuisance of domestic tourists cooking by the roadsides and in open spaces resounded in the legislative assembly, prompting then chief minister Manohar Parrikar to announce that he would form special squads to curb such behaviour. He had also promised to set up camping sites for visitors, with toilets and facilities for cooking. There has been no headway since. Tourism minister Manohar ‘Babu’ Ajgaonkar has himself been critical of such low-budget tourists and consequently had the Goa Tourist Places (Protection and Maintenance) Act amended in 2019 to include prohibition of consumption of alcohol and cooking in public places. However, this move also seems to have failed to check the nuisance. Tourism director Menino D’Souza said that under the amended act, the police have been given powers to penalise errant tourists.  However, a police official said personnel could not be present at all places, all the time. “But we do initiate action if members of the general public inform us of any nuisance by tourists,” the official said. The issue is seen across the state and in North Goa it is found to be more prevalent in the beach belt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-cops-struggle-low-budget-tourists-sully-roadsides/articleshow/80179291.cms||Nisser Dias
January 9, 2021||World||Biden says Trump decision to skip inauguration a 'good thing'||WILMINGTON: US President-elect Joe Biden welcomed Donald Trump's announcement on Friday that he won't attend the January 20 inauguration, calling it a "good thing." "I was told on the way over here that he indicated he wasn't going to show up at the inauguration," Biden told reporters in Wilmington, Delaware. "One of the few things he and I have ever agreed on," Biden said. "It's a good thing, him not showing up." "He's been an embarrassment to the country," Biden said. "He's not fit to serve," the president-elect added of Trump, who is facing the possibility of being impeached next week for inciting his supporters to storm the US Capitol. "He exceeded even my worst notions about him," Biden said. "He's one of the most incompetent presidents in the history of the United States of America." Biden said Vice President Mike Pence would be welcome at his inauguration. Biden's remarks came after Trump tweeted earlier Friday that he would not attend the inauguration. "To all of those who have asked, I will not be going to the Inauguration on January 20th," Trump tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/biden-says-trump-decision-to-skip-inauguration-a-good-thing/articleshow/80180937.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Varsity finally gets full-time registrar||Nagpur: After more than two years, Nagpur University has finally got a full-time registrar. The state government has appointed deputy registrar Anil Hirekhan as Nagpur University registrar on deputation. The post was lying vacant for more than 2-and-half years as it could not be filled despite NU holding two recruitment drives in the last two years. Hirekhan has been appointed as per Section 8(5) of Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016. The provision allows government to depute an eligible candidate on a post lying vacant for a long duration. Hirekhan will hold full-time charge. The post fell vacant in June 2018 after superannuation of Puran Meshram amid a standoff with the government. He has earlier held additional charge of registrar’s post on a couple of occasions and has been in the race on both previous recruitment drives. LIT professor Neeraj Khatu has been holding the additional charge since 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/varsity-finally-gets-full-time-registrar/articleshow/80178046.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Strictest possible action in Bhandara hospital fire: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh||NAGPUR: Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the state government would initiate strictest possible action against anyone found guilty behind the fire at Sick Newborn Care Unit of the Bhandara District General Hospital which claimed lives of 10 babies in the wee hours of Saturday. He has ordered police inquiry into the tragic accident. Deshmukh, who was in Mumbai, flew to Nagpur and headed to Bhandara to visit the hospital. He is also expected to conduct a meeting of the concerned officials of the health department, hospital and police officers. यह दुर्भाग्यपूर्ण है कि भंडारा में आग लगने से 10 नवजात शिशुओं की मौत हो गई। राज्य सरकार ने इस घटना की उच्चस्तरीय… https://t.co/uwxfJ4jmzQ— ANIL DESHMUKH (@AnilDeshmukhNCP) 1610182443000Sources stated the home minister is likely to issue instructions to inquire into any sabotage angle behind the incident. Deshmukh, who had crucial meetings in Nagpur, cancelled his programme in the morning before rushing to Bhandara. Deshmukh would be accompanied to the hospital by IG Chiranjeev Prasad. State and central intelligence officials too learnt to have reached the place. The home minister said the state government would fix the responsibility after the high-level inquiry. “Whether the fire had started due to short-circuit or any other reason would be unearthed through the high-level inquiry which has been already announced by the state government,” said Deshmukh. Expressing his anguish, he also said the government is with the grief-stricken families of the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/strictest-possible-action-in-bhandara-hospital-fire-maha-home-minister-anil-deshmukh/articleshow/80186093.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||3 of a family killed as car hits truck||Nagpur: Three members of a family were killed near Dhamna village on Nagpur-Amravati road after their car rammed into a stationary truck on the roadside from the rear. The accident took place when the Bhure family was returning from Malkapur to their residence in Dighori. The deceased have been identified as Dr Baburao Bhure, his wife Vanashree and their son Shubham. It’s learnt that Shubham, working with an IT firm in Pune, was behind the wheels. Baburao, who retired as medical officer from Malkapur, was seated beside his son while Vanashree was in the back seat. It’s learnt that Shubham, the youngest of three siblings, was supposed to return to Pune soon. The Bhure family was staying at their Malkapur house for the last 15 days. Police and passers-by had a harrowing time in retrieving the victims from the badly damaged car which had turned into a mangled heap of iron and steel after the accident. Vanashree was learnt to be still alive when taken to a hospital but she too was declared dead. What compelled Shubham to take the vehicle to the extreme left and later, go down where the truck was parked is the question puzzling cops. Family members were alerted by the cops. An offence was registered against the driver of the parked truck at Hingna police station for causing death due to negligence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/3-of-a-family-killed-as-car-hits-truck/articleshow/80178057.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: Kinky sex leads to man’s death by strangulation||NAGPUR: A couple’s bid to experiment with sex proved costly as the man died in a hotel at Khaparkheda in Nagpur district on Thursday. According to police, Ziauddin Ansari, 28, was tied by his neck to a window grill, his hands behind the back and legs to a chair with different ropes. The family of the deceased has alleged that the incident is a well-planned murder by his girlfriend who is in her 20s. However, the police have registered it as an accidental death. As per the initial forensic report, the cause of death is ‘constriction of neck’. There were ligature marks on Ansari’s neck. Ansari was married to another woman a year back and his wife had delivered a boy 22 days ago. “This must have upset his girlfriend,” said a kin. The woman was in the bathroom when she heard the sound of the chair breaking. By the time she tried to cut Ansari free, he was motionless. She tried to flee but was stopped by the hotel owner who called the cops. The couple had brought nylon ropes and blades with them. Police said Ansari, a fire engineer, was in a relationship with the woman, who is a business management graduate, for the last few years. They apparently had a court marriage too. Police found a number of sex videos on the cell phones of the couple, some were of their own. The woman claimed they were planning to go to Mumbai or Pune as their families were against the relationship. SP Rakesh Ola said police will make an in-depth probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/kinky-sex-leads-to-mans-death-by-strangulation/articleshow/80178088.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Bird flu scare in Delhi: Deaths at 3 spots, samples sent for testing||NEW DELHI: Amidst a bird flu scare in some parts of the country, Delhi has reported over 35 bird deaths in the past 72 hours. Samples have been collected from Hastsal and Dwarka's Sector 9 in south-west Delhi and Mayur Vihar Phase-III in east Delhi by the animal husbandry department, said officials. The Hastsal samples have been sent to the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar while the rest have been sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal for testing for avian influenza. The first results are expected by Monday. When bird flu forced closure of Delhi zoo for 3 months in 2016East corporation sources, however, claimed an unusually large number of deaths at the Mayur Vihar Park – over 100 – but there was no official confirmation. The staff at the park told reporters that they had been regularly burying carcasses of crows for the past few days. The H5N8 strain of the avian influenza –- a subtype of the H5N1 avian influenza -- has been reported in India over the past two weeks with six states, including Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat, confirming the presence of the flu. An animal husbandry official said around 16 wild birds were found dead in Hastsal on Wednesday. Late on Thursday evening, residents of Mayur Vihar Phase-III contacted the department to report that a large number of crows had been found dead at a local park. “The samples from Hastsal were collected on Wednesday. On Thursday, we received a call late in the evening from Mayur Vihar and found 17 crows lying dead. Samples from the carcasses were collected on Friday morning. Two crows were found dead on Friday at Dwarka’s Sector-9,” added the official. After the samples had been collected at the Mayur Vihar Phase-III park, all the remaining carcasses were disposed of by deep burial adopting bio security measures and the area was sanitized. Instructions were also given to the attendants at the park to report any further mortality of birds. While bird flu primarily affects domestic poultry, it can spread from infected birds to other winged creatures through contact with nasal and respiratory secretions and also due to contamination of feed and water. “The results of the Hastsal samples are likely to be received by Monday. It could take even longer owing to the increased rush at the centre as samples from other states are also arriving. Results from the Mayur Vihar site and Dwarka could be out by Wednesday,” said Rakesh Kumar, director, animal husbandry department. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia had said on Thursday there were no cases so far in Delhi, and asked officials to maintain a strict vigil on birds at major poultry markets, water bodies, zoo and other potential hotspots. These include the Ghazipur fish and poultry market, Shakti Sthal Lake, Sanjay Lake, Bhalswa Lake and smaller water bodies in DDA parks. Eleven rapid response teams have been set up to monitor the hotspots. The same strain of the influenza had struck Delhi zoo in 2016. The zoo was closed for nearly three months after several birds, including the migratory ones, were found dead inside the zoo. Zoo officials say disinfectants such as sodium hypochlorite, virkon and lime powder are being sprayed across the zoo two times a day as a preventive measure. Kamal Preet, chief wildlife warden, forest and wildlife department of Delhi, said they had carried out field inspections on Friday to check spots where migratory birds descend. “No birds were found dead. If we spot any, we will be sending samples to the animal husbandry department. The birds will be handled wearing special suits and the standard operating procedure has been circulated among the ground staff,” she said. Watch Amid bird flu scare, dozens of crows found dead in Delhi's Mayur Vihar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bird-flu-scare-in-delhi-deaths-at-3-spots-samples-sent-for-testing/articleshow/80180979.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 9, 2021||Surat||35 stolen bikes recovered, two held||Surat: Varachha police arrested Arvind Maradia, a resident of Bhaktinagar in Kapodra area in the city, in connection with the motorbike thefts on January 1. Investigations have revealed that the 48-year-old had indulged in a series of bike thefts. According to the police, he is a native of Khajuri Pipaliya in Kunkavav taluka of Amreli district and works as a labourer in the city. A garage owner, Ashok Koladia, staying in Chamunda residency in Varachha area, who had purchased stolen bikes from Arvind was also traced, Police took the accused to different villages of Amreli and Junagadh, where they sold the stolen motorbikes and the vehicles, and recovered 11 bikes. “So far, we have recovered 35 bikes from different places. The accused were involved in changing number plates, chassis numbers and selling stolen bikes to people,” claimed police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/35-stolen-bikes-recovered-two-held/articleshow/80176488.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Hold solar contract till disposal of plea: Andhra Pradesh high court||VIJAYAWADA: The high court, in an interim order, has directed the state government not to award contract of the ultra-mega solar power project to anyone till disposal of a petition filed by Tata Power Renewable Energy. The government recently invited bids for setting up of the project with an installed capacity of 6400 MW to supply free power to agriculture sector for the next 30 years. Tata Power moved the high court challenging the request for selection (RFS) and draft power purchase agreement (PPA) issued by Andhra Pradesh Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL) for setting up of the grid-connected solar photovoltaic project. The mega project is proposed to be set up in 10 locations spread across four districts. Arguing on behalf of Tata Power, senior counsel D Prakash Reddy told the court that the RFS and draft PPAs issued by APGECL were against the provisions of Electricity Act 2003, and also against the competitive bidding guidelines issued by the Union ministries of power, and new and renewable energy. Reddy said the terms in RfS and PPA suggest the creation of a parallel regulatory framework for the settling of any future disputes when as per the Electricity Act, only the Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC) will have statutory jurisdiction over the settling of disputes. However, in the tender clauses, it was mentioned that the state government will settle the disputes ousting the ERC which is the statutory body. As many as 24 companies including Adani Group, NTPC, Shirdi Sai Electricals and HES Infra submitted bids along with Tata Power. The price bids are yet to be opened. Considering the arguments of Tata Power, Justice M Ganga Rao passed an interim order directing the state government not to enter into any agreement with anyone pending disposal of the petition. Justice Rao, however, said the government can complete the bidding process in the meanwhile and asked it to file a counter affidavit in the matter. Further hearing on the petition has been posted to February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hold-solar-contract-till-disposal-of-plea-hc/articleshow/80177064.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Police give permission for Pawan Kalyan’s public meeting in East Godavari||KAKINADA: The East Godavari police late on Friday night granted permission for Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan’s proposed public meeting near Divis Laboratories Ltd at Kothapakala village in Thondangi mandal. The police had earlier denied permission fearing trouble in the village. Kalyan will address the meeting on Saturday. East Godavari SP Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the police did not give permission for the meeting keeping law and order in mind. He reiterated that Section 144 is in force in the area. He further mentioned that police have intelligence reports suggesting disturbance. He, however, announced in the night that the Jana Sena chief can hold his public meeting in the village that recently witnessed violent scenes over a pharma unit that’s coming up there. It may be recalled that on December 13 last year, over 600 people including farmers, fishermen and Left party activists staged a protest demanding shifting of a pharmaceutical plant. A section of protestors even entered the plant premises and allegedly set some property on fire. Locals are demanding that the plant be shifted citing potential air pollution and water contamination in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/police-give-permission-for-pks-public-meeting-in-eg/articleshow/80177138.cms||Samson Raj
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 30-year-old man held for rape and murder of 75-year-old woman||TIRUPATI: Chittoor police on Friday arrested a 30-year-old man on the charge of raping and murdering a 75-year-old woman at Kothapalli village in Thavanampalle mandal of the district on January 5. Chittoor DSP N Sudhakar Reddy said the old woman was found murdered at a cattle shed on the outskirts of the village last Tuesday. After post-mortem report confirmed that the victim was raped before being murdered, police formed special teams to nab the accused. Chittoor west CI C Lakshminatha Reddy, who headed the special teams probing the case, arrested the accused, identified as Sudhakar, while he was on the move near Modalapalle village in Tavanampalle mandal on Friday. The accused is a habitual offender and has several other cases registered against him at Tavanampalle police station. The DSP said the accused was in an inebriated state when he found the elderly woman sleeping alone in the cattle shed. When the woman tried to raise an alarm Sudhakar strangulated her to death and absconded from the spot. He also took the gold ornaments the woman was wearing. The accused has been booked under sections 302, 380, and 376 of the IPC and been remanded in custody. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/30-year-old-man-held-for-rape-and-murder-of-75-year-old-woman/articleshow/80177183.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||This Republic Day, Lepakshi Nandi to showcase AP’s rich heritage||VIJAYAWADA: The majestic monolithic structure of Lepakshi Nandi will walk through Rajpath showcasing Andhra Pradesh’s rich history and culture this Republic Day. This is the third tableau to find place in the Republic Day parade since the bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh. This year’s tableau reflects the rich architecture of the Vijayanagara period. Lepakshi temples date back to 1583. They were built by Virupana and Veeranna brothers, courtiers of Vijayanagara kings. The grand Nandi idol carved out on a monolithic rock is the main attraction of the temple. This will be replicated in the tableau. The huge idol of 27 feet length, 15 feet height, perfectly proportioned body, finely carved out ornaments and smooth contours is being replicated on the tableau. While the Nandi idol is at the forefront of the tableau, the rear exhibits the architecture of the main temple which has arches, pillars, Mukha Mandapa, Arda Mandapa, the sanctum sanctorum and Kalyana Mandapa built on 38 pillars. Mural paintings of Veerabhadra on the ceiling before the sanctum sanctorum, the largest in India, finds a place in the tableau as well. On the tableau, three groups of traditional artists, four in each group will perform ‘Veeranatyam’ which tells the tale of Veerabhadra during Daksha Yagnam. The theme was designed by joint director of information and public relations department, P Kiran Kumar. He is supervising the works of tableau which are going on in full swing in New Delhi. Kumar said the art form designs have been completed and the wood and fabrication works are underway. “We are planning to complete all works by January 20,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/this-r-day-lepakshi-nandi-to-showcase-aps-rich-heritage/articleshow/80177219.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 9, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 14-year-old girl raped by neighbour||VIJAYAWADA: A 14-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her 37-year-old neighbour under Ibrahimpatnam police station limits. The incident happened two days ago and came to light on Friday after family members lodged a complaint with the police. According to Ibrahimpatnam police, the accused went to the complainant’s house when her parents weren’t around and raped her. Subsequently, the teenager confided in her mother about the incident on Thursday. After which, family members decided to lodge a complaint against the accused with the Ibrahimpatnam police. Cops said that the accused happens to be regular visitor to the house and has had good relations with the family in the past. Trusting him, the girl allowed him inside and soon he began to force himself upon the girl. Cops said that the accused is currently absconding and a team is on the hunt to nab him. Meanwhile, the girl was sent to a local government hospital for medical examination. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/14-year-old-girl-raped-by-neighbour/articleshow/80177232.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Rajkot||Dacoits loot, flee in family’s car||Rajkot: A retired railway employee and his family were looted at knife point by four robbers of gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 5.37 lakh from their house in Mewasa village of Bhanvad taluka after Thursday midnight. The robbers also escaped in the family’s car. Four men barged into the house of Gordhan Paresa (60) at around 1:15am. One of the robbers who sat on Paresa’s chest flashed a knife and also threatened Paresa’s wife Sharda (56). Two others robbers went into the room of Paresa’s daughter-in-law Kajal and also held her and her four-year-old son Yash at knife point. After looting the booty, they locked the four in the house and fled in the family's car. Paresa called up the police for help and all roads in the taluka were barricaded. At around 3am, Lalpur police spotted the Qwid car near Khirsara village and started chasing it. The robbers started pelting stones on the cops before abandoning the car and fleing in the cover of darkness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/dacoits-loot-flee-in-familys-car/articleshow/80176885.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Why not give forest guards guns in place of lathis: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to consult states and consider arming lathi-wielding forest guards to meet the challenges posed by heavily armed poachers. Referring to the large amount of money collected as reforestation charge in the shape of Net Present Value levy for grant of mining leases and setting up of industries on forest land, a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said, “We will see to it that the money is utilised to provide arms and ammunition to forest rangers of certain rank in addition to bulletproof jackets.” The bench also added, “We must take note of the fact that there are states, notably Assam and Maharashtra, which have armed some forest officers above certain ranks.” Referring to the recent seizure of pangolin skin by forest officials, the CJI said, “Some people in China believe it is good for some activities. The green soldiers are up against very powerful organised gangs. Illegal trade in banned wildlife items is worth millions of dollars. These are proceeds of crime.” The bench said solicitor general Tushar Mehta should explore with the government the possibility of creating a special wing in the Enforcement Directorate, comprising upright officials, to check wildlife trafficking. These observations came on a petition filed by Maharashtra’s Amravati-based NGO Nature Conservation Society, which through senior advocate Shyam Divan told the SC that India accounted for 31% of worldwide fatal attacks on forest rangers during 2012-17. It said there was a spurt in the frequency and ferocity of attacks on green soldiers by forest encroachers, timber mafia and poachers. Divan said when foresters resisted, they were not only assaulted but slapped with false cases under stringent provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act to further harass them as happened in Mount Abu wildlife sanctuary in Rajasthan recently. Amicus curiae ADN Rao fully supported the petition and reminded the court about a similar incident involving a woman forest officer in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/why-not-give-forest-guards-guns-in-place-of-lathis-sc/articleshow/80181072.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 9, 2021||Delhi||Delhi records 444 new Covid cases, 10 deaths in last 24 hours||NEW DELHI: Delhi recorded 444 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the seventh time the daily infection count stood below the 500-mark in January, while the positivity rate dipped to 0.59%. The infection tally in the city stood at 6.29 lakh and the death toll mounted to 10,654. In the last 24 hours, officials said, 10 people died due to Covid-19 in the state. The active cases tally on Friday dropped to 3,779 from 4,168 on Thursday. The city had recorded 654 cases on Wednesday with a positivity rate of 0.88%, the only time the daily infection count crossed the 500-mark in the first seven days of January. According to the state health department, out of the total number of 12,380 beds in Covid hospitals, 10,909 are vacant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-records-444-new-covid-cases-10-deaths-in-last-24-hours/articleshow/80181074.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Special Forces Captain goes missing in Jodhpur lake||JODHPUR: Captain Ankit Gupta, 28, of 10 Para (Special Forces), who jumped into the Kalyana Lake in Jodhpur as part of a routine exercise, has still not been traced despite an intensive search operation. Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station SHO Jai Kishan Soni said the search had continued till late evening on Thursday and resumed on Friday morning. “On Friday, a team of NDRF was also roped in to look for the officer along with SDRF, civil defence and private divers, apart from Army teams,” said Soni, adding that death cannot be confirmed until the body of the officer was found. Captain Gupta, a part of the Army’s specialised unit for desert warfare, had got married on November 23, an IANS report said. As a part of the exercise, some jawans had jumped into the lake from a helicopter to hone their skills in saving a drowning person. They were supposed to hold the drowning person and rescue him safely back to the helicopter, said Soni. The para 10 SF personnel initially tried to locate Capt Gupta on their own, but when they failed to do so, they informed their seniors and a search operation involving experts was launched, said the SHO. According to IANS, a few officials said that they believed that Captain Ankit might have got stuck in undergrowth in the reservoir. Meanwhile, his friends and family in Gurugram are posting touching messages on the social media, the IANS report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/special-forces-captain-goes-missing-in-jodhpur-lake/articleshow/80181081.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Disabled sailor denied pension despite AFT order 10 yrs ago||CHANDIGARH: A former sailor of the Indian Navy who is disabled and living in extreme penury has been waiting for the last 10 years for his pension to begin, even after winning his case at the Armed Forces Tribunal (AFT) and the Supreme Court. Instead of releasing his pension, the Navy moved an application in the AFT to again delay the process. This bid was dismissed by the tribunal this week. Mohinder Pal Singh was “invalided” out of the Indian Navy in 1995 with 40% disability for ‘psychosis,’ without any pension. He approached the Punjab and Haryana HC in 2001. The case was transferred to the AFT in 2010. In 2011, AFT ordered the Navy to release his disability pension and arrears of three years prior to filing of the writ petition in the HC. The Navy then filed an appeal in Supreme Court. In 2019, the defence minister directed the defence services to withdraw appeals against disabled personnel and the appeal was “dismissed as withdrawn” by the top court. Despite the dismissal of the appeal, Singh’s pension was not released.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/disabled-sailor-denied-pension-despite-aft-order-10-yrs-ago/articleshow/80181084.cms||Ajay Sura
January 9, 2021||India||Over 50% of Army men are under ‘severe stress’: Study||NEW DELHI: More than half the 13-lakh Army “seems to be under severe stress”, with the force losing more soldiers every year due to suicides, fratricides and untoward incidents than any enemy action on the borders and battling terrorists in the hinterland, says a new study conducted by a serving Colonel for defence think-tank United Services Institution of India. The Army, however, rejected the study, stressing that the sample size for the survey was too “miniscule” to arrive at such “far-reaching” conclusions. “The study has been done by one individual, with a sample size of around 400 soldiers. I don’t know the methodology involved but it does not stand to logic,” said a senior officer. The fact, however, remains that around 100 soldiers take the extreme step of ending their lives every year. The Army has lost over 950 soldiers to suicides just since 2010, as was earlier reported by TOI. Protracted deployments along the borders as well as counter-insurgency and terrorist (CI/CT) operations in J&K and the north-east does take a toll on the mental health and physical endurance of soldiers. Soldiers posted in forward or “field areas” also undergo tremendous stress for not being able to take care of the problems facing their families back home, which could range from property disputes and harassment by anti-social elements to financial and marital problems. The study, conducted by Colonel A K Mor, on its part says there has been “a significant increase in stress levels” among Army personnel during the last two decades due to both “operational and non-operational stressors”. “Prolonged exposure of Indian Army personnel to the CI/CT environment has been one of the contributory factors for increased stress levels,” says the study. While “operational stressors” are well understood, and accepted as integral to the profession, the study notes that “non-operational stressors” are “compounding adverse effects on health and combat efficiency of soldiers, and thus affecting their respective units too”. Officers also experience much higher cumulative stress levels than what is faced by junior commissioned officers (JCOs) and jawans. This requires “urgent interventions from the highest levels of the government”, says the study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-50-of-army-men-are-under-severe-stress-study/articleshow/80181093.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand will soon become Covid-free: Health minister||JAMSHEDPUR: As the country gears up to roll out the vaccination drive for Covid-19, state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Friday expressed confidence that Jharkhand will soon become a virus-free state. “The present recovery rate in Jharkhand is around 98% and it will touch the cent per cent figure soon,” he said. Speaking about his ministry’s vaccination plan, Gupta said, “The health ministry has prepared an order according to which people will be vaccinated – the first ones being the doctors and other frontline staff - followed by policemen and home guards as their round-the-clock vigil increases their risk of contracting the disease. The senior citizens will be next in line for the shots.” He added that once the person receives the vaccine shot, he/she will be monitored for 30 minutes before being allowed to leave the vaccination centre. He added, “As many as 6,000 experts have been roped in for administering the vaccine and 800 will oversee the entire vaccination process. All the arrangements have been done in accordance with the ICMR guidelines.” The ministry has also made arrangements across four districts for storing the vaccine as and when it arrives. “I am in constant touch with the Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) in this regard,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jkhand-will-soon-become-covid-free-health-min-banna/articleshow/80177910.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||TMC worker killed in Cooch Behar||COOCH BEHAR: A 65-year-old Trinamool Congress worker was hacked to death at Dakshin Marichbari in Cooch Behar Uttar assembly constituency late on Thursday evening, sparking a blame game between the TMC and BJP. One person has been arrested so far, reports Pinak Priya Bhattacharya. Minister Rabindranath Ghosh, who met the bereaved family of Nadiram Mandal on Friday, accused BJP of murder. The BJP denied the charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-worker-killed-in-cooch-behar/articleshow/80179463.cms||Pinak Priya Bhattacharya
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Arterial map for vaccine ready, state looks upto center for vaccine variety and arrival||Ranchi: The state government has completed all the necessary arrangements to kick off the vaccination drive and now only one thing remains — the arrival of the vaccine. “We are waiting for the Centre’s decision regarding the vaccine variety and when the consignment will be sent to Jharkhand,” state health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said on Friday. According to health officials, the vaccine manufacturers will send the consignment to the government-run medical store depots in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Karnal (in Haryana). “The manufacturers may send the consignment directly to the vaccine store in Jharkhand or perhaps we will be required to take it from one of the government-run medical store depots, whichever option it is the Centre needs to take a call on it,” the state head of Integrated Disease Surveillance Program, Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, said. The state has its own vaccine store at RCH in Namkum which is connected to the three regional vaccine stores in Palamu, Jamshedpur and Deoghar. Earlier this month (on January 3), the Drugs Controller General of India gave its approval to two vaccines for mass administration in the country — Covaxin, which is being manufactured by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and Covishield, manufactured by Serum Institute in Pune. It is not yet clear which vaccine variant will be given to Jharkhand but whichever is allotted to the state, a cold chain network needs to be maintained so that the vaccines are stored and transported from the depots in the recommended temperature bracket as fixed by the manufacturers. Dr Karn said both the vaccines must be maintained in the temperature range of 2 and 8 degree Celsius. “Earlier, some vaccine varieties were supposed to be maintained at -70 degree Celsius which would have been difficult for us to do. But we have adequate infrastructure for maintaining the aforementioned vaccines and all other arrangements, like storing and delivering them to the vaccination centres, are in place.” The manufacturers use thermal tagging with the vaccine boxes so as to ensure that the cold chain is maintained and the recommended temperature range is not breached during transit. “As many as 245 cold chain points have been made at the community health centres and the primary health centres where we have ice-lined refrigerators which is an electricity-based cold chain equipment,” Dr Karn said. Since the recommended temperature is supposed to be maintained till the end of the chain, 5,505 cold boxes and 41,979 vaccine carriers are kept ready. “There are over 750 deep freezers which will placed in the well-insulated cold boxes which, in turn, will house the vaccine vials when they are ferried to the vaccination centres,” Dr Karn said. He added that even the vans that will transport the vaccines stocks from the regional vaccine stores to the cold chain points will be equipped with 44-layered ice packs so that the internal temperature does not increase in transit. As many as 1.5 lakh healthcare workers, two lakh frontline staff, 33.42 lakh senior citizens, who are suffering from lung diseases and have other co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension, and another 62.97 lakh elderlies, considered to be vulnerable to the Sars Cov-2 virus, have been selected for the first phase of vaccination. More than 1,672 vaccination centres have been set up across the state and over 7,500 volunteers have been trained to administer the vaccine. Elaborate arrangements for taking care of those who receive the vaccine shots, in case they fall sick, have been made as per the standard operational procedures.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/arterial-map-for-vaccine-ready-state-looks-upto-center-for-vaccine-variety-and-arrival/articleshow/80177927.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Bokaro, Koderma keep generators handy at vaccination centres||Bokaro: The district health department has developed 11 cold chain points for storage of Covid-19 vaccines, which are expected to arrive in the next few weeks. New generators have also been installed at each points to ensure uninterrupted supply of electricity as temperature needs to be controlled between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius to keep the potency intact, said Bokaro in-charge civil surgeon Dr N P Singh. The health department received four Ice-Lined Refrigerators (ILR) and two deep freezers for storing the vaccines from the state government, while the others are either those that were used to store other vaccines or have been arranged by the department on its own. An ILR can maintain a temperature between +2°C to +8°C with as little as eight hours of power supply. “If the electricity supply fails, then the ice lining can maintain the temperature at a safe level for the vaccines, but we have not taken any risk and have installed new generators at each cold chain point,” Singh said. At present, there are 11 ILRs in the district where routine immunisation samples are stocked. Of these, eight ILRs are at Primary Health Centres in each of the eight blocks, two are at Bermo and Chas sub-divisional hospitals and one at the sadar hospital. The new cold chain is coming up close to the sadar hospital in the same building where the Covid Care Centre is functioning. Singh said each cold chain will be manned by security guards who will keep a watch round-the-clock. While all preparations have been made to store the vaccines, a dry run was conducted at the ANM Training Centre at the sadar hospital on Friday under the supervision of Chas sub-divisional officer Shashiprakash Singh. In the first phase, 100 persons will be vaccinated on a daily basis in the district. Meanwhile, in Koderma, deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap said the district has sufficient power supply to keep its cold chains going. “In case of power cuts, generator sets are there to maintain the temperature,” he said. (With inputs from Manoj Kumar in Koderma)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bokaro-koderma-keep-generators-handy-at-vaccination-centres/articleshow/80177961.cms||Divy Khare
January 9, 2021||Vadodara||‘Extortionist’ cop now flouts Covid, traffic rules||Vadodara: Police constable Ramesh Galsar who was arrested for extortion has landed in yet another controversy. A video of Galsar travelling in a car with other passengers without wearing a face mask went viral on Friday. Galsar had gone live on his Facebook account wherein he is seen enjoying a regional song with his friends in a moving car. Galsar said in the live telecast that he doesn’t have his mobile phone, so he is tagged by some other person. Galsar, who shooting the live telecast, was tagged by an account named Kala Badshah on FB live. He wasn’t wearing a face mask as is mandatory under the Covid-19 guidelines if there is more than one passenger in a four-wheeler. Galsar, who was on the front passenger seat, wasn’t wearing a seat belt either. City police commissioner Shamsher Singh said that it is not clear if the video is recent or old and cyber crime cell has been asked to probe. Galsar was booked for extorting money Amit Kumar, a Mumbai-based consultant, when he was travelling in his car near Chhapad village in November last year. He intercepted Kumar’s car and found two liquor bottles during the checking. Instead of filing a case, Galsar extorted Rs 38,000 from Kumar and also siphoned his mobile and smart watch from the car. Kumar wrote an email to ACP F-division and narrated the incident. An inquiry was conducted and an offence of extortion was filed against Galsar apart from Prohibition Act and Prevention of Corruption Act (PCA). He was arrested later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/extortionist-cop-now-flouts-covid-traffic-rules/articleshow/80176951.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand will soon become Covid-free: Health minister||JAMSHEDPUR: As the country gears up to roll out the vaccination drive for Covid-19, state health and disaster management minister Banna Gupta on Friday expressed confidence that Jharkhand will soon become a virus-free state. “The present recovery rate in Jharkhand is around 98% and it will touch the cent per cent figure soon,” he said. Speaking about his ministry’s vaccination plan, Gupta said, “The health ministry has prepared an order according to which people will be vaccinated – the first ones being the doctors and other frontline staff - followed by policemen and home guards as their round-the-clock vigil increases their risk of contracting the disease. The senior citizens will be next in line for the shots.” He added that once the person receives the vaccine shot, he/she will be monitored for 30 minutes before being allowed to leave the vaccination centre. He added, “As many as 6,000 experts have been roped in for administering the vaccine and 800 will oversee the entire vaccination process. All the arrangements have been done in accordance with the ICMR guidelines.” The ministry has also made arrangements across four districts for storing the vaccine as and when it arrives. “I am in constant touch with the Union health minister (Harsh Vardhan) in this regard,” Gupta said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jkhand-will-soon-become-covid-free-health-min-banna/articleshow/80183020.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||PM Modi’s virtual address on Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose's 125th birth anniversary||KOLKATA: PM Narendra Modi is likely to make a virtual address on January 23 to mark Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s 125th birth anniversary. He had adopted a similar approach during Durga Puja last year when he inaugurated the Eastern Zonal Cultural Centre pandal online. BJP president J P Nadda, on the other hand, is expected in East Burdwan on Saturday. He will hold a public rally in support of the three central farm laws in Katwa’s Jagadanandapur and later a kilometre’s roadshow from Burdwan Clock Tower to Curzon Gate. Before hitting the road, Nadda will offer prayers at the Radhagobindo temple and eat lunch with a peasant family. Union home minister Amit Shah too is likely to visit Bengal by January-end when BJP hosts a rally at Thakurnagar in North 24 Parganas. Former mayor Sovon Chatterjee and friend Baisakhi Banerjee will take part in a BJP rally in the city on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/pms-virtual-address-on-netaji-birth-anniv/articleshow/80179726.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Eye on elections, Adhir Chowdhury rakes up ‘tardy’ Ponzi probes||KOLKATA: West Bengal Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury looked beyond the usual bickering between the state and central investigating agencies — the CID and CBI — and sought to know the outcome of Ponzi probes, indicating that voters were losing faith in the investigation process. “We are protesting against thriving Ponzi-like schemes across Bengal. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee owe us an answer. Lakhs of people have been robbed of their savings. The CID has done its probe. The CBI has also been investigating the cases. But, what is the outcome?” he said. Chowdhury was on the move on Friday in his bid to cull out a sizeable vote share for the Congress from the Modi-Mamata base. The Lok Sabha leader took time out of his busy schedule to participate in the Kudmi demonstration at Rani Rashmoni Avenue here. The community staged a demonstration a day after the Kudmi Samanway Mancha held road blockades in Jangalmahal to push for recognition of the Sarna dharma and demand Scheduled Tribe status. Later, at a news meet at Bidhan Bhavan, the Pradesh Congress president hit out at the BJP-led Centre over its delay in finding a solution to the farmers’ agitation. “The BJP is creating drama to discourage farmers from protesting against the laws. This does not make any sense to people who have been suffering for long.” Chowdhury also came down heavily on the Trinamool government for “burying all hopes of industrialisation” in Bengal. “The state has seen the flight of capital for long. The government hasn’t been able to effect a turnaround. Industries have shut down; the only booming business here is Ponzi funds,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/eye-on-elections-adhir-rakes-up-tardy-ponzi-probes/articleshow/80179670.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: TMC fills up vacancies in national working committee||KOLKATA: In a clear indication that it is moving beyond the Mukul Roy-Sovan Chatterjee-Suvendu Adhikari phase, Trinamool Congress on Friday replaced their seats in the 21-member national working committee with Chandrima Bhattacharya, Moloy Ghatak and Sobhandeb Chattopadhyay. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who presided over the meeting at her Kalighat residence, also urged leaders to “ignore the defections” and focus on the government’s development agenda. Stepping out of the meeting, party MP Saugata Roy said: “This was a formal working committee meeting. We passed condolences on four party leaders whom we lost. Mukul, Sovan and Suvendu, who had left, were replaced by Chandrima, Moloy and Sobhandeb. We had lost our party treasurer, Tamonash Ghosh, to Covid. Subhasish Chakraborty will be our new treasurer. We adopted a resolution demanding withdrawal of three farm bills. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee will go to Nandigram on January 18 and will leave for Purulia the next day.” The rest were all internal party matters, he added. MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar refused to comment, “It was an internal meeting,” she said. State minister Subrata Mukherjee said, “Nothing to say. This was a party meeting.” According to insiders, party leaders, including the CM, felt the need to take development projects to the people. The leaders also mentioned how ‘Duare Sarkar’ and ‘Parae Samadhan’ were evoking tremendous goodwill. The CM, sources said, also advised leaders to “ignore” the constant narrative “of possible defections and discontentment” in party ranks and reach out to people with “government projects”. A senior leader, however, rubbished suggestions that TMC had a preliminary talk on possible candidates for 2021 polls. Roy, asked if any election strategy or CM’s poll-campaign schedule was discussed, said: “It is too early. The CM will go to Nandigram and Purulia.” Party secretary-general Partha Chatterjee told reporters earlier in the day, “Opposition parties have no agenda. They are here to simply disrupt the development happening across the state. Those who are defecting have no agenda.” Chatterjee, in an attempt to offset BJP’s ‘Sonar Bangla’ claims, added: “The people of Bengal will stand by Mamata Banerjee to further strengthen the promise we have made to establish Bengal on the global stage, to build our Biswa Bangla.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-fills-up-vacancies-in-natl-working-committee/articleshow/80179543.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Special Bengal House session against farm laws on January 27-28||KOLKATA: A two-day special session of the Bengal assembly will be held on January 27 and 28 when the government will table a draft resolution against the Centre’s three farm laws. State parliamentary minister Partha Chatterjee has urged Speaker Biman Banerjee to call the special session. The move is aimed at bringing together all parties other than BJP and draft a letter to the Centre recording the opposition to the farm laws. The draft resolution will also express solidarity with the continuing farmer agitation at Delhi’s borders. “We have proposed a two-day special assembly session when we will table a draft resolution in support of the agitating farmers in New Delhi. We will try to adopt an all-party resolution against the three central farm laws and send it to the Centre. The draft of the letter will be sent to leaders of opposition parties, including CPM and Congress,” Chatterjee said on Friday. Pradesh Congress president Adhir Chowdhury took a step ahead a few days ago and proposed that the state government should explore framing its own laws. The state government, however, is not in a mood to go into the legalities of the issue. Instead, TMC wants to take up the issue at the political level. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/special-bengal-house-session-against-farm-laws-on-jan-27-28/articleshow/80179358.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Ranchi||Second dry run of Covid-19 vaccine completed||Ranchi/Koderma/Chatra: The second dry run for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive was concluded successfully across 188 community healthcare centres (CHCs) in the state on Friday. The exercise was aimed at checking the preparedness of health workers in handling the Covid vaccines as well as the functioning of the Co-WIN application. The second dry run was organised on the directions of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan who had held meetings with health ministers of various states and Union territories on Thursday. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said: “The idea behind conducting a second dry run is to familiarise district and block-level officials with the process of handling Covid-19 vaccines. The drill will also help them in getting familiarised with the Co-WIN digital platform.” Notably, during the first dry run in the state, a total of 13 sites across six districts were selected wherein around 325 healthcare workers had participated. However, the number of centres was much higher during the second drill. The nodal officer for the dry run in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “More than 5,000 persons were engaged in the exercise on Friday. The drive was a success as barring a few centres where technical glitches were experienced, we were able to organise it in a smooth manner.” Prasad added that the second dry run helped the administration in clearing doubts about the vaccination programme among people. In Koderma, the dry run was held at five sites. As part of the drive, 25 health workers received a placebo in the district. Deputy commissioner Ramesh Gholap, who took stock of the dry run at the sadar hospital, said the administration was fully prepared for the roll-out of the vaccines. “Our warehouses can store 2.57 lakh doses of the vaccines, while five cold chain points have also been readied for the purpose,” Gholap said. In Chatra, health officials said they have identified seven storage centres. Civil surgeon Dr Arun Kumar Paswan said: “As many as 3,480 health workers will be inoculated in the first phase.” The seven centres in Chatra where the dry run was conducted were Chatra sadar hospital and Simaria referral hospital, apart from CHCs in Itkhori, Huntergunj, Kunda, Tandwa and Pratappur. Health officials said in the first phase, health workers including doctors, nurses and multi-purpose workers, among others, will be inoculated. Before the vaccines are administered, the identity of each and every beneficiary would be matched from the online portal, Paswan said. He added that in subsequent phases, booths will be set up at the panchayat level for the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/second-dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccine-completed/articleshow/80177887.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC allows home imprisonment for terminally ill||KOLKATA: Calcutta High Court on Friday allowed around 35 terminally ill prisoners to go home and spend their remaining days with family, but with a few checks. The court, observing that the concept of imprisonment is to deprive a person of his/her liberty of free movement, said the police would ensure these prisoners — many of whom are terminal cancer and HIV+ patients — did not leave their homes, apart from emergencies. Each of their families would also have to furnish a bond to the local administration that they would not let them step out. In October last year, the Bengal government had informed the high court that medical officers had certified these prisoners as being terminally ill, with little hope of recovery. “We are of the view that a prisoner suffering from terminal illness should be treated with sympathy and should be permitted to breathe his last in the comforting company of his family and friends, if, and to the extent, possible,” observed the division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. “The whole idea of imprisoning a person is to deprive him of the liberty to move freely,” the bench observed, adding, “For this purpose, in an appropriate case, the government may shift a terminally ill prisoner to his home with a direction that he will be kept confined there.... That way, the prisoner will receive the love and affection from his near and dear ones and end his earthly mission with relatively more peace in mind.... It is now well accepted all over the world that even prisoners are entitled to be treated in a humane manner.” The order will be effective in a week. “This is neither bail nor parole,” said advocate Indrajeet Dey. “The stay at home will be considered their imprisonment.” ‘If deserted, state must assume role of caretaker’The Centre, in a 2010 advisory to states and Union Territories, had suggested that “isolated environment of a prison” only increases the trauma among prisoners staring at impending death. The Centre had, however, left it to the states to formulate their own laws on how best to address the issue, but suggested such patients could be moved to open-air prisons, allowed more family visits and even shifted to specially made medical centres. The Bengal Prison Code allows the prison superintendent to approach courts to allow terminally ill prisoners, who have no hope of recovery, based on medical advice, “the comfort of dying a free man at home”. But this requires amnesty by the state, or the courts to condone the remaining sentences. The HC also factored in state advocate-general Kishore Dutta’s argument that in some cases the families of terminally ill prisoners may not be in a financial position, or for other reasons, may not be able to accommodate them at home. The bench thought this was a “relevant and reasonable” point and said, in such cases, the state would continue to bear their medical expenses in correctional homes, and, if required, may consider shifting them to hospitals or medical centres. “If a terminally ill prisoner has been deserted by his family and friends, the government of our state, which professes to be a welfare state, must rise to the occasion and assume the role of the caretaker of that person,” the bench ruled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cal-hc-allows-home-imprisonment-for-terminally-ill/articleshow/80180215.cms||Saibal Sen
January 9, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta HC advocates e-snan, seeks Gangasagar report on January 13||KOLKATA: Expressing “primary satisfaction” over steps proposed by the Bengal government for Gangasagar Mela, Calcutta High Court on Friday asked the state chief secretary to report on January 13 about measures implemented on the ground to help the court decide whether the annual fair should be allowed this year “keeping in mind the pandemic situation and the paramount interest of public health at large”. A division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee, in their 16-page order, indicated that their apprehensions were mainly on two counts: first, to what extent the measures proposed by the state could be implemented and second, the possibility of the infection spreading when pilgrims take the holy dip in the same water. The HC repeatedly emphasised on the state’s proposed e-snan and e-darshan options to reduce crowding. The bench singled out e-snan that involves doorstep delivery of holy water and webcasting (e-darshan) of Gangasagar Mela for special mention and said: “It cannot be overemphasized that a dip in the water may contaminate the water if the person concerned has infection within him/her and it does not matter how long that person stays in the water. A dip for a second may be enough to cause the damage that is apprehended.” The HC also said: “What is important is that the administration should keep all persons concerned informed about the danger to which they may expose themselves if they enter the water.” While lauding the state’s decision not to charge fees from pilgrims, it suggested that “the state may consider, in larger public interest, to give such incentive as it may decide, to pilgrims who opt for e-snan”. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hc-advocates-e-snan-seeks-gangasagar-report-on-jan-13/articleshow/80179410.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
January 9, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai breathes its worst air since 2016||MUMBAI: The city’s air quality index (AQI) deteriorated to 319 on Friday, the worst since the fire at the Deonar dumping ground on January 29, 2016, when it was 341. Unusually, parts of Mumbai recorded rains in the early hours of the day; in the last decade, the city had seen January rain only in 2014. Track the pollution level in your cityThe System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) said the AQI was 319 in the morning, which improved to 317 by evening. For the second day, the AQI was higher than Delhi’s (221). Meanwhile, IMD’s Santacruz and Colaba observatories logged 0.2mm of rain till 8.30am on Friday. City’s min temperature higher than normal, but dip in maxLight to moderate rain was reported in isolated places in Mumbai, Thane, Raigad, Pune, Satara, Sindhdurg and Kolhapur, among others, in the past 24 hours. Within the MMR, Borivli, Mahalaxmi, Kurla, Thane and Dombivli recorded light to moderate rainfall overnight,” said K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. Between 8.30am and 5.30pm on Friday, Santactuz recorded traces of rain, while Colaba received none. Rain in the city is unusual at this time of the year. Since 2011, Mumbai had recorded traces (less than 1mm) of rainfall only in 2014. The all-time highest January rainfall of 17.8mm was recorded in 1994. “Western disturbances are common during the season, but the interaction of these and the easterly waves happens only when the two weather systems are stronger and deep. Influences of such interactions over Maharashtra are not so common,” said Shubhangi Bhute, director, IMD. While minimum temperatures were higher than normal, Santacruz and Colaba recorded maximum temperatures of 28.8 degree Celsius and 27.5 degrees, both 0.5 degrees and 2.5 degrees below normal, respectively. The IMD has forecast light rain on Saturday and very light rain on Sunday. The rain did not bring respite from pollution, though. An AQI between 301 and 400 is considered very poor and triggers a health warning. “The surrounding parts of the Mumbai region have seen rain and the city has high moisture levels. The temperatures are lower than normal. In addition to this, there is a stagnation of winds. This has resulted in the pollutants being trapped in the city,” said Gufran Beig, project director, SAFAR. The AQI is expected to be in the same range for the next two days. In 2020, the city’s AQI breached the 300 mark only on December 31. The highest-ever AQI since SAFAR began monitoring in 2015 was recorded on January 29, 2016, right after the Deonar dump fire, at 341. Friday’s AQI equalled that on the day after Diwali (October 20) in 2017.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-breathes-its-worst-air-since-2016/articleshow/80181105.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 9, 2021||India||Kolkata HC lets 35 terminally ill leave jail||KOLKATA: Calcutta HC on Friday allowed as many as 35 terminally ill prisoners to go home and spend their remaining days with family, but with a few riders. The order will be effective in a week. The HC, observing that the concept of imprisonment is to deprive a person of his/ her liberty of free movement, said the police would ensure these prisoners — many of whom are terminal cancer and HIV+ patients — did not leave their homes apart from emergencies. Each of their families would also have to furnish a bond to the local administration that they would not let them step out. In October last year, the Bengal government had informed the HC that medical officers had certified these prisoners as being terminally ill with little hope of recovery. “We are of the view that a prisoner suffering from a terminal illness should be treated with sympathy and permitted to breathe his last in the comforting company of his family and friends, if, and to the extent, possible,” observed the division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee. “This is neither bail nor parole,” said advocate Indrajeet Dey. “The stay at home will be considered their imprisonment.” The Centre, in a 2010 advisory to states and Union Territories, had suggested that “isolated environment of a prison” only increases the trauma among prisoners staring at impending death. The Centre had, however, left it to the states to formulate their own laws on how best to address the issue. J’khand broke the law for Lalu, says HCThe court of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh was hearing a petition on the violation of the jail manual in terms of providing treatment to Lalu while he was kept at the Rims director’s official residence to avoid contraction of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kolkata-hc-lets-35-terminally-ill-leave-jail/articleshow/80181110.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: VK Sasikala's relative held for smuggling red sanders||CHENNAI: A police team from Andhra Pradesh accompanied by the local police on Thursday apprehended Baskar, a relative of VK Sasikala -- close confidante of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa -- from his house at Anna Nagar for smuggling red sanders. Baskar is the father-in-law of Vivek Jayaraman, son of Sasikala's brother Jayaraman. Police took him to Andhra Pradesh for further investigation. Police said Baskar alias 'Kattai' Baskar has been facing about 28 smuggling cases in Andhra Pradesh. Baskar opened a furniture shop in the city. After his daughter married Jayaraman's son Vivek, he moved away from the trade and assigned his business to his brother City Raja. Raja was arrested for red sander smuggling and was later admitted at Government Stanley Hospital for his illness. He died in 2018. After his demise, Baskar again joined the illegal trade. Baskar's son-in-law Vivek, son of Ilavarasi, who has been detained in Parappan Agrahara prison in Bengaluru along with Sasikala, after they were convicted in disproportionate assets case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-vk-sasikalas-relative-held-for-smuggling-red-sanders/articleshow/80181113.cms||---
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Putheri lake to come under CCTV camera surveillance||CHENNAI: The Pallavaram municipality would install CCTV cameras around Putheri lake in a week to prevent illegal dumping of garbage into the water body, said municipal commissioner C Mathivanan on Friday. The move comes after ten truckloads of garbage was dumped in the lake at night on December 30. Residents who noticed it informed police and municipal officials seeking action. A protest was also held as residents suspected that it was the waste from the municipality's transfer station. Arappor Iyakkam's David Manohar, an activist and resident of the area, said though they filed a complaint no case was register. "There will be CCTV camera footage from shops and streets around the lake. Why are police hesitating to even conduct an inquiry into this? They have just told us it is the municipality that should take action. But there are environmental laws and the Water Act under which they can file an FIR and inquire," he said. Mathivanan said reports about 25,000 penalty, 1.50lakh compensation and detention of a driver by police were false. "We have no idea who dumped the garbage. Police have checked CCTV camera footages from the nearby areas and said they could not find anything. How can we take action when we do not know who the violators are?" he said. Terming the allegations that the waste was from the municipality baseless, he said if the municipality wanted to dump garbage, they would do so in Pallavaram eri where more than 1.10lakh metric tonne of legacy waste is already dumped. Jayaram Venkatesan of Arappor Iyakkam said the lake was recently desilted and rejuvenated by local NGOs. "It was the duty of police to conduct an inquiry and file an FIR. This is just the beginning. They will fill this lake too and sell it for real estate," he said. He said pollution control board officials too had not taken any action after visiting the site. V Santhanam, an activist, "This is not a one-off case and happening across the city and other municipalities. None of the local bodies take any steps. Just issuing penalties wont suffice," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-putheri-lake-to-come-under-cctv-camera-surveillance/articleshow/80181127.cms||Komal Gautham
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Software malfunction blights Bengaluru leg of statewide vaccination dry run||BENGALURU: Technical issues pertaining to mapping pin codes in the Co-WIN portal marred the Covid-19 vaccination dry run in all eight centres in Bengaluru on Friday. The glitches meant the mock drill could not kick off until about 11.30am, more than two hours past the scheduled start. Eventually, the drill was conducted without using the software, although one of the main objectives of the exercise was to check effectiveness of the software. Developed by IIT-Delhi, Co-WIN helps monitor vaccine delivery to target population groups. It even tracks the temperature at which vaccines are stored and sends out messages to beneficiaries and vaccinators on the schedule. In Bengaluru, the dry run was scheduled at Singasandra urban PHC, Sapthagiri Medical College, Ulsoor referral hospital, KR Puram general hospital, Kengeri community health centre and Kempegowda Institute of Medical College and Aster CMI hospital, besides Vani Vilas Hospital attached to Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. While healthcare workers and vaccinators were ready at 9am, the dry run at Vani Vilas began only at noon — sans the software. “One major aims of the dry run was to get familiar with Co-WIN, but that wasn’t achieved,” said BBMP authorities. However, there were no glitches in other districts. Doctors involved in the dry run said the app wasn’t registering pin codes of institutions and beneficiaries. Officials said they were getting the error message ‘pin code invalid’, because of which the registration process could not proceed. Beneficiaries can visit the session site only after they receive a message sent through the Co-WIN app. Registration and identity card of the beneficiary is then verified at the centre. Thereafter, a one-time password is sent to the beneficiary’s mobile number, which needs to be delivered to the vaccinator to further confirm authenticity. Details in the app are then updated once vaccination is complete. “There was a technical problem in all eight centres,” said Dr BK Vijendra, chief health officer, BBMP. “At some centres, officials got to log on at around 11.30am, but issues persisted. But for the glitch, the rest or run was smooth.” At Aster hospital, the dry run was conducted without using the software. “Since our backend support was prepared, we sent messages to beneficiaries ourselves and carried out the drive,” said Hemanth Kumar, nodal officer for Covid at Aster. Healthcare workers involved in the run said they have enough experience in vaccination drives and the whole process wasn’t very new. “Only the software is new. We will have to see how we manage once the drive proper begins,” said a nurse.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/software-malfunction-blights-bengaluru-leg-of-statewide-vaccination-dry-run/articleshow/80181109.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 9, 2021||India||Akhil Gogoi’s anti-CAA stir terror acts, not satyagraha: HC||GUWAHATI: The Guwahati high court, while rejecting the bail plea of peasant leader Akhil Gogoi on Thursday, upheld the verdict of a special NIA court and ruled that the anti-CAA protests in the state led by him in 2019 were not in line of non-violent “satyagraha” but “squarely falls within the definition of terrorist act as defined in in Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act.” A division bench comprising Justice Kalyan Rai Surana and Justice Ajit Bathakur in its order stated, “By use of violence, the appellant (Akhil)-led mob had brushed aside the noble concept of non-violent protest, which is popularly known as satyagraha and that such conduct of paralyzing the government machinery, causing economic blockade, causing enmity between groups, disruption of public peace an widespread disharmony and dissatisfaction towards the government, are acts which are prejudicial/for national integration and such acts squarely falls within the definition of “terrorist act” as defined in section 15 of the UA(P) Act.” The bench said it does not find any infirmity in the finding returned by the special judge (NIA) that there are reasonable grounds for believing that the accusation of commission of offences punishable under chapters IV and VI of UA(P) Act against the appellant is prima face true. Chapters IV and VI of UAPA deals with punishment for terrorist activities and terrorist organizations. Akhil was first arrested by Assam Police on December 12, 2019 as a preventive measure while protests against the then Citizenship Amendment Bill in the state raged and resulted in violence at several places and the case was transferred to NIA two days later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/akhil-gogois-anti-caa-stir-terror-acts-not-satyagraha-hc/articleshow/80181125.cms||Rokibuz Zaman
January 9, 2021||Chennai||Pongal gift row: Madras HC bans political advertisement at ration shops||CHENNAI: The Madras high court on Friday prohibited banners or other advertising materials promoting any political party inside premises of ration shops in the state while distributing 2,500 Pongal cash gift. As to such banners outside the ration shops, the first bench of Chief Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said, "Gates, arches, cutouts and the like, indeed, are a cause of concern and have resulted in accidents." The court said the order will apply to all political parties and their material and should be implemented uniformly. The court passed the orders on the plea moved by DMK alleging that the ruling AIADMK is putting up such banners inside and outside the ration shops promoting their leaders in total violation of the undertaking made to the court. Senior advocate P Wilson of DMK submitted that no political party should attempt to take mileage out of a government programme by printing its leaflets or other material or circulating the same while making available the Pongal gift hampers from within the ration shops or the precincts of the shops. Accepting to adhere to the conditions, advocate-general Vijay Narayan submitted that the gift hampers are packed in a bag bearing the picture of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa and the present chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. The court said, "At this stage, it may not be feasible to replace the bags. In such circumstances, other than what appears on the bags, no other material indicating any political party or the like should be made over to the recipients along with the gift hamper, nor any leaflet or other political advertisement displayed within the ration shops or the precincts thereof."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pongal-gift-row-madras-hc-bans-political-advertisement-at-ration-shops/articleshow/80181137.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||PM to meet CMs on Monday to discuss Operation Inoculation||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting with chief ministers of all states on Monday to discuss the vaccine rollout that is expected to get underway next week. This came even as Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan said it would soon be a reality to vaccinate the entire population in the country against Covid after prioritising risk groups. “At 4pm on January 11, PM Narendra Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states via video conferencing. They will discuss the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination rollout,” the PMO said on its official Twitter handle. This will be Modi’s first interaction with CMs following the approval of the two vaccines — Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. He has spoken at least six times with the chief ministers through video conferencing following the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. “In the next few days, also in near future, we should be able to give this vaccine to our countrymen prioritising those who are at risk in public and private sectors. The government has already made known the scheme of things,” Vardhan was quoted by PTI as saying. Watch Covid-19: PM Narendra Modi to meet CMs on vaccine roll-out||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-meet-cms-on-monday-to-discuss-operation-inoculation/articleshow/80181136.cms||---
January 9, 2021||India||Biotech seeks nod for trials of Covid intranasal vaccine||After receiving emergency use authorisation (EUA) approval for the indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin, Bharat Biotech has now applied to the country’s drug regulator for permission to conduct Phase I and II trials of its intra-nasal vaccine candidate. It has been codenamed BBV154, reports Swati Bharadwaj. The candidate, being developed in collaboration with the University of Washington School of Medicine at St Louis, is a single-dose vaccine that is slated to be a game changer. The company has said its administration would require only two drops each in each nostril. Sources said the company expects the trials to start by early February and has proposed Phase I trials on around 375 volunteers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/biotech-seeks-nod-for-trials-of-covid-intranasal-vaccine/articleshow/80181152.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 9, 2021||Surat||Gujarat woman’s stem cells save Canadian’s life||SURAT: Life will find its way, believe it or not. A 40-year-old woman from a nondescript village in Patan district has now turned a life saviour for a patient in Canada suffering from fatal blood disorder. The stem cells of Daksha Patel that she donated at a special camp in 2013 have matched with the 32-year-old woman and flown to Canada from Ahmedabad in the first week of January. Patel had registered in a special camp in her village, Aghar in Sarswati taluka of Patan district as a potential donor, not even remotely imagining that one day her swab samples would match with someone in dire need of her life support, that too thousands of miles away. “I received a call from DATRI informing that my samples matched with a patient suffering from life threatening blood disorder. I did not know anything about stem cell donation when I had given my samples in 2013 and so, I paid no heed to the call. However, I was sensitized about the importance of stem cell donation and more importantly, that I am one of the lucky few who can actually save someone’s life. I realised the necessity of my donation and became ready to donate,” Patel, a homemaker, told TOI. A mother of a 16-year-old boy, Patel did her masters in arts while her husband Hasmukh Patel has a business. “My husband and other family members supported me in my decision to donate stem cells,” she added. Jalpa Sukhanandi, head donor recruitment and counselling at DATRI (Gujarat), said, “Daksha has set an example for others by donating her stem cells. Her donation will inspire other women to get them registered with blood stem cell donor registry and help patients save their lives,” said “Through DATRI, total seven women have so far donated stem cells from Gujarat till now while this number is 91 across the country,” Sukhanandi added. Interestingly, 23 of the 91 donated stem cells have saved lives in foreign countries so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/patan-womans-stem-cells-turn-saviour-for-canada-patient/articleshow/80177402.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 9, 2021||Bengaluru||Christ University student uses drone to save four fishermen in Kerala||BENGALURU: An engineering student from Christ (deemed-to-be) University, Kengeri campus, is now a hero in his hometown of Thalikulam, near Thrissur, in Kerala. Three days ago, Dewang Subil’s timely intervention with the help of his drone helped rescue four fishermen who were drowning in the sea, 11 nautical miles off the mainland. This is how the series of events unfolded: The fishermen informed their friends on the coastland around 4am on January 5 that their boat is about to capsize, probably because of the weight of the fish. Dewang, 19, who has been at home since March when his college shut following Covid-19 lockdown, got to know of the incident by 10am. “It immediately struck me that I could use my drone to spot the fishermen. I reached the shore, 4km away from my home, and spoke to the panchayat president who was there. I told her all we need is police permission to use the drone. She immediately alerted the MLA and the permission was quickly granted. But I realised I cannot use the drone from the land as it’s almost 11 nautical miles inside the sea. The drone could travel a maximum of 8km, by which time its battery would drain out. So, I suggested we go in a boat with the drone,” said Dewang. It was the first time that Dewang was venturing into the sea. Equipped with lemon and water to battle seasickness and his drone and controller, seven fishermen took him into the deep waters. “The fishermen had just returned after a six-hour search. But the drone gave them new hope and they guided me. It was tough in the sea. There was no time to think of seasickness, but the strength of the wind was affecting the drone’s flight. We were moving in one direction and the drone in another. We were misled the first three to four times before we spotted the first man swimming. Landing the drone was the toughest task. I almost lost the drone twice in the sea,” he recalled. Once the first man climbed aboard, he guided them to the direction where the others were swimming. “Never in my life will I forget the expression of the first fisherman, who climbed on to the boat. He had been swimming for several hours, yet he told me: ‘You don’t get scared’!” Dewang’s love for drones began in his engineering classroom, where he started making one as part of his first-year project. “I was obsessed with drones, but could not complete the project as it was in Bengaluru, while I returned home to Kerala in March. I’m into aerial photography and got a new drone here to fuel that hobby,” he said. “My parents didn’t know I was going into the sea until they watched news later in the day… Once I get back to campus, I will finish my incomplete drone project,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/christ-varsity-student-uses-drone-to-save-4-fishermen/articleshow/80177462.cms||Sruthy Susan Ullas
January 9, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Police chief’s circular draws flak over law interpretation||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In a bizarre order that seeks to interpret the law separately for government servants and ordinary citizens, state police chief Loknath Behera issued an advisory to all officers asking them to register criminal case against government servants only after conducting a preliminary inquiry in which their explanation is also sought. The instructions that supersede the provisions contained in criminal procedure code was told to be followed in the case of ‘non-specific allegations’ against government servants and PSU employees. “If a non-specific complaint is received against a government employee, it must be inquired into before registering a criminal case. It is desirable that in such cases, a verification is conducted or a preliminary inquiry is conducted before the registration of a formal FIR. During such an inquiry, the concerned government servant or PSU employee must be examined and his/her explanation must be taken into consideration,” said the advisory, which was addressed to all district police chiefs, station house officers and other unit heads last Tuesday. The advisory added that criminal cases are immediately registered against government employees on ‘non-specific allegations’. It said that several government servants, during the discharge of their duties, ‘might have done something, which is neither mala-fide, nor with any personal interest, but may have affected some other persons’. It further said that when cases are registered on the basis of such complaints, it will adversely affect their reputation, career and cause administrative difficulties. Legal experts cited the instruction as grossly illegal. “In Lalita Kumari case, the court instructed to conduct a preliminary inquiry only in complaints covered under Prevention of Corruption Act, matrimonial cases and commercial contracts. Also, this is applicable to everyone and not just government servants. In all other cases, CrPC Section 154 uses the term ‘shall register’, which means that the police officers have no other choice other than to register a case. The protection for government servants is only at the prosecution stage and not when registering FIRs,” said former law secretary B G Harindranath. As per CrPC Section 197, protection is given to government employees at the stage of prosecuting them after an investigation, and is not applicable while registering an FIR. Also, such protection is applicable only if the alleged offence is intrinsically-related to their official duties and not for a criminal act. “Info revealing cognisable offence is the ground for registering FIR. All powers of the police are clearly laid out in CrPC, Police Act or other relevant Act which cannot be diluted by ambiguous circulars. Circulars should give more clarity on existing laws and not confuse them,” said a senior police officer on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-police-chiefs-circular-draws-flak-over-law-interpretation/articleshow/80181165.cms||KP Saikiran
January 9, 2021||India||Vax volunteer dies; officials say not due to adverse effect||BHOPAL: A 45-year old man, who had volunteered for Phase-III human trials of Covaxin in Bhopal, died on December 21, it emerged on Friday. Poisoning is suspected to be the cause of death. Dean of People’s Medical College Dr Anil Dixit said, “It had come to our notice that a volunteer, Deepak Marawi, died. However, death was due to other reasons and not a severe adverse effect (to the vaccine).” Marawi’s son Badal said he was a labourer and had volunteered for the vaccine trial. He was administered the first dose on December 12. It’s not known if it was a vaccine or placebo. The autopsy concluded that poisoning is the suspected cause of death. Viscera has been preserved for examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vax-volunteer-dies-officials-say-not-due-to-adverse-effect/articleshow/80181196.cms||---
