January 10, 2021||Goa||Lanzarote set to replace injured Crivellaro at Chennaiyin FC||PANAJI: Former FC Goa star Manuel Lanzarote is returning to the Indian Super League (ISL), this time with Chennaiyin FC. During his first year in India (2017-18), Lanzarote worked up a delightful partnership with Ferran Corominas at Goa as the team made it to the semifinals under Sergio Lobera. Lanzarote was a crucial player at Goa, scoring 13 goals and providing six assists in 19 matches. He then went on to captain ATK the next season where his success was not as much as in Goa. The Spaniard now returns to step into the boots of Rafael Crivellaro who has been ruled out of the season with injury. “Following assessment by the club’s medical team, it has been learned that Rafael has suffered a ligamentous injury on his left ankle which will rule him out for at least two months. He will now return home to Brazil,” Chennaiyin FC said in a statement on Saturday. While the absence of Crivellaro will be a huge blow to Chennaiyin’s chances of making it to the top four, the former champions are hoping Lanzarote can fill the void left by their captain. According to sources, Chennaiyin have already agreed terms with Lanzarote and the transfer formalities are expected to be completed in the next 24 hours. “Lanzarote will arrive in India very soon. There is a mandatory 14-day quarantine period, so he could only be available for the last six or seven league matches,” said one source who has been tracking the development. Indications are that Lanzarote will have a role to play against Hyderabad FC on January 31. Crivellaro picked up an injury against ATK Mohun Bagan on December 29 when he was replaced by Deepak Tangri with 20 minutes left to be played. “The club is working on signing a replacement player,” Chennaiyin said in the statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lanzarote-set-to-replace-injured-crivellaro-at-chennaiyin-fc/articleshow/80191208.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 10, 2021||India||PDP youth wing chief gets bail in terror conspiracy case||SRINAGAR: A special NIA court in Jammu granted bail to People’s Democratic Party (PDP) youth wing chief Waheed-ur-Rehman Para in a terror conspiracy case on Saturday. Para has been in NIA custody since November 25, 2020, for alleged links with proscribed outfit Hizbul Mujahideen (HM) and even got elected as a district development council member in south Kashmir while in custody. “We have received Para’s bail order and studying the same. An appropriate appeal would be filed after legal counsel,” a top NIA official said. The investigation agency had earlier said it arrested Para based on the statement of suspended J&K DSP Davinder Singh, who was taken into custody along with HM terrorist Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu on January 11, 2020. Para had also allegedly provided Rs 10 lakh to HM terrorists in 2018 to purchase weapons to carry out terror strikes in J&K during the tenure of Mehbooba Mufti. Para was among hundreds of politicians and political workers in J&K who were detained/arrested in the run-up to the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A on August 5, 2019, which paved the way for the reorganization of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. He was released in February 2020, following which he was kept under house arrest. Para was allowed to move freely only a few months ago when the curbs were lifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pdp-youth-wing-chief-gets-bail-in-terror-conspiracy-case/articleshow/80192035.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 10, 2021||India||WHO’s India map ‘separates’ J&K and Ladakh with different colours||LONDON: A map of India on the website of the World Health Organization, depicting the Union territories of Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh in a totally different colour, has evoked angry reactions from the Indian diaspora in Britain. WHO, however, held that it follows UN guidelines and practice regarding maps. The map is on WHO’s Covid-19 situation dashboard that shows the latest pandemic numbers by country. Whilst the rest of India is coloured navy blue, J&K and Ladakh have been marked in grey as if they a separate country. The disputed border area of Aksai Chin is demarcated with grey with blue stripes, the same shade as that of China. Pankaj, 40, an Indian IT consultant from Jharkhand, who lives in London, first saw the map shared in a WhatsApp group. He said: “I was shocked that such a big organisation like WHO with such a big responsibility in the world could do this. Now that India is the chair it is even more important for WHO not to indulge in such activities. I know China gives huge amounts of funding to WHO and Pakistan gets loans from China and wants to keep this topic active. My feeling is that China is behind this as the influence of China on WHO is very high.” The LoC can be faintly seen on the grey segment. “Even if the LoC is there, PoK should be part of India, as should J&K,” Pankaj said. “If they are going to depict states as different colours, every state should have one. This shows they don’t recognise Kashmir as part of India.” Nandini Singh, who heads social media at Reach India (UK), a diaspora group, said: “This demonstrates WHO is in a nexus with China. Instead of thanking India for what it has done to fight Covid-19, including supplying PPE and vaccine to the world, this is a deliberate attempt to hurt India. WHO needs to apologise to India and correct the error.” Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan took over as chair of the WHO executive board last year. “WHO’s approach is to follow UN guidelines and practice regarding maps as far as possible. WHO, as a UN specialized agency, follows the United Nations on representation of territories and boundaries on maps because the United Nations is entrusted with addressing issues involving matters of geo-politics for the UN system” was WHO’s response to TOI’s query on the matter. Overseas Friends of BJP’s UK president Kuldeep Shekhawat said, “I think there is mismanagement within WHO and once it is pointed out they should correct it. This is not an accurate depiction of India.” US President Donal Trump suspended funding to WHO last April after being critical of its handling of the pandemic and its relationship with China. President-elect Joe Biden has pledged to reverse this. Last week China blocked entry to the WHO team studying Covid-19's origins. Last year the Indian government issued a sternly worded warning to Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey after Twitter showed J&K and Leh as part of China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whos-india-map-separates-jk-and-ladakh-with-different-colours/articleshow/80192224.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 10, 2021||World||Meet the desi who shapes policy at Twitter||WASHINGTON: Donald Trump went to battle using Twitter and won Washington. Donald Trump is now going to war against Twitter after losing Washington. Two Indian-Americans are at the heart of the company that on Friday permanently suspended @realDonaldTrump's account, reports Chidanand Rajghatta. It's part of what is shaping up to be a larger conflict between Big Tech, which has many high-ranking executives of Indian-origin, and the fundamentalist Trumpworld. According to Trump and his supporters, it is "Big Tech" that has launched an extreme form of censorship against conservative, right-wing views. At Twitter, the policy is shaped by Vijaya Gadde, the company's head of Legal, Policy and Trust & Safety issues, described as "the most powerful social media executive you've never heard of" by Politico. "You don’t know her face or name because she rules in the shadows," one Trump supporter said. Another called her "Joseph Goebbels in a pants suit (sic)." Executing the policy at the technological end is Twitter's CTO Parag Agrawal. The India-born Gadde has been a prominent face of Twitter, with CEO Jack Dorsey entrusting her with framing and executing policy. "Whenever somebody on Twitter takes issue with the network’s rules or content policies, they almost always resort to the same strategy: They send a tweet to @jack," a recent Fortune profile noted. "But what users don’t know is that they’re imploring the wrong Twitter Inc. executive. While Dorsey is the company’s public face, and the final word on all things product and strategy, the taxing job of creating and enforcing Twitter’s rules don’t actually land on the CEO’s shoulders. Instead, that falls to Twitter’s top lawyer, Vijaya Gadde." “He rarely weighs in on an individual enforcement decision. I can’t even think of a time. I usually go to him and say, ‘this is what’s going to happen.’” Gadde, 45, told the magazine. She accompanied Dorsey during his meeting with Trump in the White House Oval Office and is also credited with not selling political ads on Twitter during the 2020 presidential election despite the financial losses it entailed. Coming to the US as a three-year old, Gadde grew up on Beaumont, Texas, in a ruby red district replete with racism (nearby Vidor was known as one of the most hateful places in Texas where Blacks had to leave town before sundown). She has said that one of her formative experiences is her out-of-work chemical-engineer father being told by his boss to get permission from a local Ku Klux Klan leader to go door to door collecting insurance premiums. In June 2020, Twitter turfed out KKK leader David Duke from the platform. The racist ratpack is now training its guns on Gadde, accusing her of being "hostile to the United States," and relishing her "power to silence" people like Alex Jones, a conspiracy crackpot and a Trump loyalist who claims the White House asked him to lead the march to the Capitol that ended in mayhem. Meanwhile, Trump supporters' effort to decamp en masse to Twitter rival Parler, which allows unfiltered content under the guise of free speech, is also being checkmated by Big Tech. Twitter was joined in its fight to cap extremism by Google, headed by Sundar Pichai, which suspended Parler from its Play Store, saying, "We’re aware of continued posting in the Parler app that seeks to incite ongoing violence in the US." Apple too gave Parler a 24-hour ultimatum to initiate a moderation plan to ban posts promoting extremist violence and illegal activity. Facebook too has begun culling extremist content, including banning Trump's account till January 20. In another move, Google subsidiary You Tube terminated Steve Bannon's War Room podcast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/indian-americans-at-the-heart-of-trump-v-twitterbig-tech-battle/articleshow/80193622.cms||Chidanand Rajghatta
January 10, 2021||Goa||Churchill hunt for good start against young Arrows in I-League||Churchill Brothers will be wary of the challenge that Indian Arrows pose as they open their campaign in the I-League at the Kalyani Municipal Stadium on Sunday. Indian Arrows may appear as a young side with players still in their teens. Yet, Churchill Bros will know just how dangerous they can be, having lost to them last season at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. The young guns have nothing to fear, not even relegation, and their rivals have found them difficult to handle in the past. “It’s important to start well because it gives us confidence right at the start and helps us prepare for the second game. But we have to focus against Indian Arrows and be wary. They are young players who are always up for a fight. “They want to show that they are ready to play in the starting XI, not just in the I-League but for the national team as well. They have been selected to represent Indian football and have a lot to give,” said Churchill coach Fernando Varela. By now, Varela would have known the demands at Churchill where runnersup spots are not appreciated. All that Churchill are aiming for is the title – their third after success in 2009 and 2013 – and with a shortened season, a good start is a must. “We are a balanced team. We have a strong core and will try to show our attacking style, but we also have to be very careful if we lose the ball. We are trying to find a different style than just all-out attack, which is much more balanced,” said Varela. Churchill have four new foreign players this season. There’s Luka Majcen and Clayvin Zuniga as forwards, midfielder Bazie Armand from Real Kashmir FC and Lebanese centre-back Hamza Kheir. The arrival of a few important domestic players like Keenan Almeida, formerly with FC Goa, is also significant. “I’m really excited to be playing again (after injury). I took the opportunity to join Churchill due to it being my home state and me having played here before,” said Keenan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/churchill-hunt-for-good-start-against-young-arrows-in-i-league/articleshow/80192326.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||Cycling in a Covid-19 Year||Cycling groups have been organising tours for years. But 2020 looked like it would be very different. Chethan Ram, director of Tour of Karnataka (ToK), was not sure about holding the sixth edition of the tour because of the Covid-induced uncertainty. However, he thought of organising his other tour Malnad Magic and invited only 12 riders (as against the usual 35) and got a good response. He made them to ride on one day (as against the usual two days) by summiting Mullayyanagiri (at 1,930m, it's the tallest hill in Karnataka) and Bababudangiri. Buoyed by the response to Malnad Magic, Chethan decided to hold ToK-6 too, with all the protocols in place. He opened the registrations by capping the number to 30, given the logistics of accommodating them in hotels. The slots were filled quickly, and he was also forced to increase the number to 37. "Sadly I had to say 'no' to 12 riders over accommodation issues," Chethan said. Though the preparations take six months, he did it in 1.5 months and pulled off the four-day tour from November 25-28. The riders, including those from Pune, Chennai and Germany, - of whom seven were women, rode through Hassan-Chikkamagaluru (via Halebid, Belur, Mudigere); Chikkamagaluru-Kalasa (via Aldur, Balehonnur); Kalasa-Udupi (via Kudremukh forests) and Udupi-Kodachadri (via Kollur). The 500km, 6,000m elevation route comprised mountainous stretches and coastal countryside. "We ensured safety by giving sanitisers and masks to riders on all the days, and ensured that hotels followed protocols," he added. Hotel rooms, luggage sanitisedSantosh Anand of ICycle.in, one of the organisers of the Great Malnad Challenge (GMC), said that they were in two minds on holding the tour. "But five GMCians (regulars) insisted that we do it, and the response was good." Though the 11th edition was delayed by a month, it went off successfully with all Covid-related protocols in place. For seven days starting from November 28, thirty riders (including two women and six doctors) explored Chikkamagaluru, Devaramane, Kalasa, Agumbe (via Kudremukh forest), Nittur (via Mani forest) and Kundapur. "For the 11th edition, we restricted the number of participants to 30 to ensure 2-sharing at hotels. In previous editions, an average of 45 riders stayed at hotels and homestays, three to a room. For safety, we chose only hotels this time," said Santosh, adding that they made sure the luggage and the rooms were sanitised before the check-ins. "Before the flag-off in mornings, we used to check the riders' pulse and temperature. As they all had their own pace, no close riding happened," he said. Let's go local!The organisers of Tour of Nilgirs (TfN) had to abort their 13th edition because of the pandemic as the tour covers three southern states -- Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and. Besides being wary of getting permits from the local administrations, and with no registrations from abroad (35% of TfN riders are foreigners), the organisers had to think of an alternative. As Deepak Majipatil, one of the organisers, and his team had the experience of small-scale tours in 2012 in Uttara Kannada district, they conducted 'Serene Sirsi' ride in December. Thirteen riders rode from Chalageri to the Jog Falls, via Sirsi , Kulgi and Yana, over the course of four days/ Scaling the summitsThe Life is Calling Sports team, led by Sunil P V, will be taking cyclists through the mountains in the Malnad region from January 29 to February 1. Under 'Tour de Malnad' (TdM), they will ride 500km on Bengaluru-Hassan-Kukke Subrahmanya (via Bisle Ghat) route before ending the tour with a loop at Chikkamagaluru, summiting Mullayyanagiri and Bababudangiri. Speaking on touring amidst Covid restrictions, Sunil said they have made sure the chosen hotels follow the SOPs. "Our dedicated hospitality team will run the hotels giving specific instructions to the staff during our stay there," Sunil said, adding that they have capped the number of participants to 40. "We thought of launching TdM despite Covid because of the very pandemic. Many people, who were cycling short distances for fitness, looked around for bigger challenges, and this made us provide them a platform to stretch their limits," said Sunil, adding they are preparing the riders for the four-day grind with online medical/ mechanical workshops and 100km rides ahead of the tour. Corporate honchos bond with nature Among the ToK participants were top officers from Robert Bosch Engineering and Business Solutions: Jacob Peter, senior vice-president, general managers Arun Shankar and Subbaramu Gundurao. Sharing his ToK experience, Jacob said the route had been handpicked for its natural beauty and cycling challenge. "It is not often that we take a break from city life to be with nature. For me, this was a much-needed break in 2020, which otherwise was spent in the confines of our home'" he said. Endorsing a similar view, Arun said ToK, the flagship event of Cadence90, was a welcome relief from the humdrum of routine city life. "For me, it was also a visit to the roots, passing through the village of my forefathers and get soaked in nostalgia by reliving my days spent in Chikkamagaluru," he said. Speaking on why he chose to ride despite the pandemic, Subbaramu said his passion to do different things -- he's a runner and a hiker -- drove him to do ToK. "Also, organisers from Cadence90 had preempted Covid-related fears by giving us masks, sanitizer sprayers, etc. The places of stay were carefully chosen and they followed the protocols," he said, adding they had a wonderful experience of exploring the countryside of malnad region. Anjana Deepak, managing director of an IT company, is all set for TdM in January-end. "Given all that has happened in 2020, I'm looking for a brand-new start to 2021 with this tour," she said, adding that she, being a cyclist for over a decade, is keen on such adventures. Anjana is now training for TdM with strength exercises, yoga and weekend rides of 80-100km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cycling-in-a-covid-19-year/articleshow/80192444.cms||Charan Sadu
January 10, 2021||India||India ready to save world with 2 locally made vaccines: Modi||NEW DELHI: India is ready to help protect the world with not one but two ‘Made in India’ coronavirus vaccines, PM Narendra Modi said on Saturday as he asserted that the world was watching how the country conducts the globe’s biggest vaccination programme. In his address at the inauguration of the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Convention, Modi said: “In the corona era, today India is among the countries with the lowest mortality and highest recovery rate in the world. Today, India is ready to protect humanity with not one, but two Made in India corona vaccines.” He also said India has the most vibrant democracy, days after the violence on Capitol Hill shocked the US and much of the world. In his virtual address on the theme of ‘Contributing to Aatmanirbhar Bharat’, he said: “Being the pharmacy of the world, India has supplied important medicines to all those in need in the world in the past and is also doing so now.” “When India got Independence it was said that such a poor and under-literate country will disintegrate and democracy was impossible here. Today’s truth is that India is united and if democracy is most strong, vibrant and lively anywhere in the world, it is in India,” he said. Modi said he felt very proud about the praise for Indian diaspora and also lauded them for their contributions to the PM-CARES Fund, which has been used to boost health infrastructure in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-ready-to-save-world-with-2-locally-made-vaccines-modi/articleshow/80193224.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||Centre set to launch portal, App to capture data of tribal migrants||NEW DELHI: In a big step towards a central database of migrants, the ministry of tribal affairs is preparing to launch the ‘National Tribal Migration Support Portal’ and a mobile application to capture and upload migration data right down to the village level, an exercise that has gathered steam after the pandemic put the spotlight on an “invisible” population. The data collection exercise is expected to begin soon with Goa set to put up its migration cell later this month and Odisha to begin its data collection process in February. With no central database for migrants, a standardised questionnaire has been developed and integrated with the portal and mobile application by the ministry. Tribal Research Institute (TRI), Odisha, along with civil society organisations, is developing standard operating procedures to gather data across India. A senior official said the ministry has written to all TRIs in 26 states to take up data collection. Besides Goa, Odisha, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Telangana and Sikkim have agreed to start work on data collection. MoTA will analyse the data to address the concerns of tribal migrants through policy and schemes, an official explained. A questionnaire with data collection guidelines will be provided to enumerators in any state that decides to take up the process. The indicators range from basic socio-economic profile of migrating tribals, skill-mapping, migration patterns, work profile, daily income to access to basic services like health, education and food during migration. Goa receives an estimated 4 lakh migrants annually from states like Odisha, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, UP and Karnataka. In a multi-department exercise, Goa will train grassroot workers linked to public outreach schemes like NREGA and National Urban Livelihood Mission to collect data. The data will be uploaded on a portal that will be centrally available to ministries and states for analysis and policy-planning. It is also learnt that the data will be electronically available and visible via dashboards at various levels: village-block-district-state and national level. However, details of migrants surveyed will be kept secure in keeping with data privacy norms, the official said. Commissioned by MoTA, the findings and recommendations of the study ‘Tribal Livelihood Migration’ conducted by civil society organisation Disha Foundation between 2017- 2019 in 12 states are also being studied to address the concerns of migrants. The study covered source states (Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh) and destination states (Punjab, Gujarat, Delhi, Kerala, Goa, Maharashtra, Telangana). The study indicates that mostly migration of tribal population is distress-driven and comparatively higher daily wage rate at destination states was a major factor. For instance, an unskilled labourer in Kerala gets wages two and a half times higher than the prevailing wages in Kota and Varanasi. Driven by vulnerabilities, the migrants are joining the informal labour force as contract labourers in the construction industry and domestic workers in major cities where they face unsafe conditions and wage related harassment among other concerns.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-set-to-launch-portal-app-to-capture-data-of-tribal-migrants/articleshow/80193271.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 10, 2021||India||10 premature babies die in Maharashtra hospital blaze, 7 rescued||BHANDARA: Ten premature babies died — three to four of them charred — after a fire broke out in the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) of the District General Hospital here, about 60km from Nagpur, between 1.30am and 2am on Saturday. The victims included eight girls and two boys. Seven premature babies, all girls, were rescued. All the babies were yet to be named as they had been in special care since birth. Authorities knew names of the mothers of nine out of 10 victims. One name is missing as the child had been abandoned at birth. The rescued babies, including twin girls, were shifted to other units of the hospital. The victims were all in the ‘outborn’ section of the hospital, where those born in other hospitals but in need of special care are admitted. After the fire, a Covid patient admitted in the ICU of the hospital was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital in Nagpur where he was declared brought dead, said a relative. Bhandara district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate told TOI that most died as oxygen supply snapped due to the fire while three to four were charred to death. The cause of the fire is not known but is believed to have been caused by a short circuit. The Maharashtra government has ordered a high-level inquiry by a six-member committee into the accident. The committee will have to submit a report to the government within three days. “Strict action will be taken against the guilty after a thorough probe,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while offering his condolences. He also announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to the kin of the deceased. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked Bhandara district collector Sandip Kadam to send the factual action taken report within 48 hours of receiving the letter. Fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes after being informed and doused the flames within 30 minutes. According to Kalgun Gopala Wadhai, fire maintenance in-charge of Bhandara Municipal Council, the fire fighters could not find easy access to the special ward and had to use ladders and break open the windows to gain entry. “The rescue was hampered by low visibility due to thick smoke,” he said. It took concerted efforts from nurses, fire fighters, ambulance drivers, security guards and a few locals to rescue the seven babies from the inborn section (those born in the hospital). According to them, they couldn’t save the babies in the ‘outborn’ section -- an area which can be entered only through the inborn section -- as the medical equipment there had caught fire. Bodies of the victims were handed over to aggrieved parents but the media was barred from talking to them. TOI contacted a few in their villages while authorities refused to answer queries. A large police posse was deployed on the hospital premises. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has ordered an audit of child care units of other hospitals in the state immediately. State home minister Anil Deshmukh too ordered a police inquiry into the accident. Sources said he is likely to issue instructions to inquire into any sabotage angle behind the incident. After reaching the hospital here, Deshmukh inquired with the staff who said they couldn’t enter the ward due to thick smoke and the blasts caused by the equipment on fire. Dr Khandate, in a media bulletin, said nurses had opened the door, which means no staff was inside the special care unit at the time of the incident. According to the chief fire officer of Nagpur and PWD officials, the fire wouldn’t have spread to such an extent had anyone been present in the ward. Former state energy minister and BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule claimed that no action was taken even after relatives of the infants had complained about power fluctuations in the ward over the last week. He also alleged that a proposal to purchase fire safety equipment worth over Rs 1 crore at the hospital had been sent to the principal secretary, health, and director of health, state government, in May last year but it is still pending for approval. Former CM and leader of opposition in state assembly Devendra Fadnavis also visited the hospital and demanded a compensation of Rs10 lakh for the families of the victims.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/10-premature-babies-die-in-maharashtra-hospital-blaze-7-rescued/articleshow/80193359.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||India||ED asks former Noida CEO, other ex-officials to join probe in Amprapali money-laundering case||NEW DELHI: The Enforcement Directorate has asked former chairman and CEO of Noida authority Mohinder Singh and six other high-ranking ex-officials of Noida and Greater Noida Authority to join investigations at the agency’s Lucknow office in connection with the Amrapali money-laundering case. The real estate group is being probed for alleged bribery of government officials and laundering of homebuyers’ money to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore. The ED investigations are being monitored by the Supreme Court. Besides former IAS officer Mohinder Singh, the agency has summoned Manoj Rai and Yashpal Tyagi, both former OSD of Noida Authority. The agency has also summoned three GM-level officers of the Greater Noida Authority and one AGM-rank officer of Noida Authority. Statements of some of them have already been recorded by the agency’s investigating officer. In their statements, the officials have allegedly claimed that Singh helped Amrapali promoters to acquire land despite the group having defaulted in clearing dues to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore. The ED’s Lucknow Zone chief, Rajeswar Singh, refused to divulge details of the probe findings, saying the matter is being monitored by the SC. The agency was asked by the apex court in 2019 to initiate a money laundering probe against the Amrapali Group and its directors for alleged diversion of homebuyers’ money to the tune of Rs 3,000 crore to shell companies. The SC’s observations were based on a forensic audit conducted earlier. According to sources, the then CEO and senior officials of Noida and Greater Noida Authority are being examined for their role in alleged illegal allotment of land to the Amrapali group. These officials had failed to cancel the lease even after directors of Amrapali Group mortgaged the land to different banks despite Rs 4,000 crore pending to the two authorities. Some officials, who worked under Mohinder Singh, have claimed in their statements that they were instructed by Singh to help the Amrapali Group by not putting up its file for recovery of the dues. The ED’s money trail has found benami companies, some of which are being allegedly controlled by the ex-IAS officer's son, to launder the ‘proceeds of crime’. The ED is also probing JP Morgan in another case registered under FEMA (Foreign Exchange Management Act) involving alleged 'illegal' transactions of over Rs 800 crore. Two leading Indian banks have been made parties in the FEMA violation case for “unauthorised repatriation” of money to the tune of over Rs 187 crore. Earlier this year, the ED had summoned top management of the two leading banks for questioning in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-asks-former-noida-ceo-other-ex-officials-to-join-probe-in-amprapali-money-laundering-case/articleshow/80193450.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 10, 2021||India||HC: E-commerce intermediaries not liable for vendors’ actions||BENGALURU: In what could be a shot in the arm for e-commerce platforms, the Karnataka HC has said that an intermediary governed by Information Technology Act, or its directors/officers, would not be liable for any action or inaction on the part of a vendor/seller, who makes use of its website or marketplace facility. The HC made this observation on January 7 while quashing a complaint as well as proceedings against Snapdeal Private Limited and two of its directors. The court said it cannot be expected that the provider or enabler of online marketplace is aware of all the products sold on its website. “It is only required that such provider or enabler put in place a robust system to inform all sellers on its platform of their responsibilities and obligations under applicable laws to discharge its role and obligation as an intermediary. If the same is violated by the sellers of goods or service, they can be proceeded with, but not the intermediary,” the bench stated. The complaint against Snapdeal, filed by Mysuru drugs inspector before the court in June 2020, was related to selling Suhagra-100 tablets (sildenafil citrate tablets 100 mg) between October 13, 2014 and December 16, 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/hc-e-commerce-intermediaries-not-liable-for-vendors-actions/articleshow/80193532.cms||P Vasanth Kumar
January 10, 2021||India||‘During talks with farm unions, Centre suggested speedy hearing by SC on constitutionality of farm laws’||NEW DELHI: The scope of the government's offer to refer dispute over the three farm laws is narrower than intially assumed. Sources said the suggestion is restricted to a scrutiny of the contention that enactments infringe on the rights of states, which can be settled expeditiously by requesting the Supreme Court to hold day-to-day hearings to settle the constitutional validity of the trio of laws. Sources said agriculture minister Narendra Tomar, during discussions with farm unions on Friday, made the point that the Centre's decision to frame the laws was based on its view that this was well within its ambit. “But if the court decides in your favour, there will be no need for an agitation,” Tomar told the unions. The sources said the suggestion was much more specific than had been assumed on Friday and limited to the court taking up the constitutionality of the three farm laws that look to expand private trade, encourage contract-farming and remove stock limits. It is understood that Tomar had referred to differing perceptions on the constitutional validity of the laws rather than suggesting the SC could resolve all issues related to the protests. The minister reflected the thinking in the government that the SC could provide an opening that will allow negotiations to move towards a conclusion. The farm unions have said they are not enthused about approaching the SC, saying the court should not dwell on a “policy matter”. Yet, during the talks and in their statements, the unions have said the laws fall outside the domain of the Centre. In its previous hearing, the SC agreed to consider a petition challenging the constitutional amendment that inserted Entry 33 in the Concurrent List, which enabled the Centre to enact the three farm laws. The petitioner argued that agriculture is a state subject and hence part of List-II. If agriculture was primarily an entry in the State List under the Seventh Schedule, Parliament could not have put agriculture-related issues like production of foodstuff in Entry 33 of List-III (Concurrent List), TOI reported on Friday. The Centre, however, has held that the amendment of 1954 has not been challenged by any state and could not have existed for so long without a wide consensus. The Centre's suggestion is that it could along with the unions approach the SC to seek speedy disposal of the matter. Sources said the government hopes that its fairly blunt statement to the unions on Friday that there will be no repeal of the laws, something Tomar and railway and consumer affairs minister Piyush Goyal had avoided saying in as many words in order to create some negotiating space, will see the farm leaders consider discussions on a compromise formula.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/during-talks-with-farm-unions-centre-suggested-speedy-hearing-by-sc-on-constitutionality-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80193539.cms||---
January 10, 2021||World||Twitter dumps Trump for good, sparks cyber storm||Twitter yanked the plug on Donald Trump's account permanently on Friday, in a move described as 'long overdue' by many and 'an attack on free speech' by others. Trump, predictably, didn't go quietly, promising that he'd be "building out our own platform in the near future. We will not be SILENCED!" The provocative handle was given birth by a New York real estate tycoon who used it to help him become the 45th US president. It began with a May 4, 2009, tweet promoting Donald Trump's upcoming appearance on David Letterman's show. It died more than 57,000 tweets later, with Trump using some of his final postings on the powerful platform to commiserate with a mob that besieged the halls of Congress in a deadly assault as lawmakers were set to certify his defeat. "After close review of recent tweets from the @realDonaldTrump account and the context around them — specifically how they are being received and interpreted on and off Twitter — we have permanently suspended the account due to the risk of further incitement of violence," Twitter said in a statement on Friday. At the time of permanent suspension, Trump had 88.7 million followers and followed 51 people. In the Trump tweets cited by Twitter, Trump stated that he would not be attending the inauguration and referred to his supporters as "American Patriots,'' who will have "a GIANT VOICE long into the future.'' Twitter said these statements "are likely to inspire others to replicate the violent acts that took place on January 6, 2021, and that there are multiple indicators that they are being received and understood as encouragement to do so.'' Plans for future armed protests have already begun proliferating on and off-Twitter, including a proposed secondary attack on the US Capitol and state Capitol buildings on January 17, it said. Twitter also permanently banned two Trump loyalists -- former national security adviser Michael Flynn and attorney Sidney Powell -- as part of a broader purge of accounts promoting the QAnon conspiracy theory. In a statement hours after he was banned, Trump said: "I predicted this would happen. We have been negotiating with various other sites, and will have a big announcement soon, while we also look at the possibilities of building out our own platform in the near future. We will not be SILENCED!" "Twitter is not about FREE SPEECH. They are all about promoting a Radical Left platform where some of the most vicious people in the world are allowed to speak freely. "STAY TUNED!"' he said, indicating some announcements in this regard is forthcoming. Several Republican leaders, including popular Indian-American politician Nikki Haley, also condemned Twitter. "Silencing people, not to mention the President of the US, is what happens in China not our country,” tweeted Haley. Trump's eldest son, Donald Trump Jr, took to Twitter to note that it continues to allow Iran's supreme leader "and numerous other dictatorial regimes'' to use the platform, but cannot abide his father. "Mao would be proud,'' Trump Jr. scoffed. Shannon McGregor, an assistant professor of journalism and media at the University of North Carolina, said the move lets Twitter try to curry favor with the incoming Biden administration. Trump "only has two weeks left in power, and that certainly makes it easier to deplatform the president,'' she said. Others saw a more ominous portent in Twitter's action. "Big Tech is not going to stop with the president of the United States," Kay James, president of the conservative think tank The Heritage Foundation, wrote in a tweet. "They can ban you next and everyone reading this." But Jonathan Greenblatt, who heads the Anti-Defamation League, said that banning Trump was an "excellent step" and "a fitting end to a legacy of spewing hate and vitriol". The ADL was part of a coalition of civil rights and advocacy groups on Friday calling for Twitter to ban Trump's account. Democratic Rep Bennie Thompson, chairman of the Committee on Homeland Security, said in a statement Friday that Facebook and YouTube should also ban Trump. Twitter, long accused of treating the president with kid gloves, began policing Trump more aggressively starting in the early days of the general presidential campaign, when the company began aggressively labeling his false tweets about supposedly widespread election fraud as disputed. In May, after Trump tweeted the phrase ``when the looting starts, the shooting starts'' in response to protests in Minneapolis, Twitter added a warning label to his post for the first time. Tensions between Trump and Twitter only escalated from there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/twitter-dumps-trump-for-good-sparks-cyber-storm/articleshow/80193630.cms||---
January 10, 2021||World||Power supply back in Pakistan after national power grid breakdown||ISLAMABAD: Power supply was restored fully or partially on Sunday in many cities in Pakistan, including the national capital Islamabad, hours after several towns in the country plunged into darkness following a huge blackout due to a fault in the power distribution system. The power outage was reported shortly before midnight almost simultaneously in many cities. Residents of Karachi, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Islamabad, Multan and others faced the blackout. Pakistan Energy Minister Omar Ayub Khan said that technical teams were working to fully restore the power supply. He said that electricity supply was restored fully or partially in many cities like Islamabad, Rawalpindi, Lahore, Multan, Karachi and Faisalabad but it would take some time before the restoration of normal supply. 3. Kala Shah Kaku Ravi Atlas 220 kv Grid Station Energized 4. 8 out of 12 220 kv Grid Stations in Lahore energize… https://t.co/lOI9zCsgfF— Omar Ayub Khan (@OmarAyubKhan) 1610247238000The latest blackout was caused by a fault in southern Pakistan at 11:41 pm local time on Saturday (1841 GMT), power minister Omar Ayub Khan tweeted, citing preliminary reports. "The fault tripped the transmission system of the country... leading to the shutdown of power plants," Khan said. People are silhouetted on vehicles headlights on a dark street during widespread power outages in Rawalpindi, Pakistan. (AP photo)He later on Sunday tweeted that power was being restored in phases, starting with Islamabad. He added by saying that power had been restored to much of the country, and that teams were still working on restoring supply completely. The blackout hit all of Pakistan's major cities, including the capital Islamabad, economic hub Karachi and the second-largest city Lahore. 1/8Pakistan hit by nationwide power blackout Previous NextShow Captions<p>Motorists drive through a red zone area during a power blackout in Pakistan's capital Islamabad early on Saturday (AFP photo)</p><p>People are silhouetted on vehicles headlights on a dark street during widespread power outages in Rawalpindi, Pakistan on Saturday. Pakistan's national power grid experienced a major breakdown late night on Saturday, leaving millions of people in darkness. (AP photo)</p><p>Motorists drive through a residential area during a power blackout in Pakistan. (AFP photo)</p><p>A general view shows Pakistan's port city of Karachi during a power blackout. (AFP photo)</p><p>A motorcyclist rides through a residential area during a power blackout in Pakistan's port city of Karachi. (AFP photo)</p><p>Motorists drive through a residential area during a power blackout in Pakistan. (AFP photo)</p><p>People are silhouetted on vehicle's headlights on a dark street during widespread power outages in Rawalpindi. Pakistan's national power grid experienced a major breakdown late night on Saturday, leaving millions of people in darkness. (AP photo)</p><p>A general view shows Pakistan's capital Islamabad during a power blackout early on Saturday. (AFP photo)</p>Netblocks, which monitors internet outages said internet connectivity in the country "collapsed" as a result of the outage. Connectivity was at "62 percent of ordinary levels," it said in a tweet. In 2015 an apparent rebel attack on a key power line plunged around 80 percent of Pakistan into darkness. That blackout, one of the worst in Pakistan's history, caused electricity to be cut in major cities nationwide, including the capital Islamabad, and even affected one of the country's international airports. People are silhouetted on vehicles headlights on a dark street during widespread power outages in Rawalpindi, Pakistan. (AP photo)Twitterati react to blackoutSoon after the breakdown, the term #blackout became a top trend on Twitter with over 52,800 tweets till 2:18 am. "So finally Pakistan showed unity in something that sounds good. 2021 game strong," said a Twitter user. Another user on Twitter commented: "Finally Imran khan introduces Night mode in Naya Pakistan." "Everyone in Pakistan on Twitter will be an electrical engineer till morning," said another Twitterati. Another person said: "Pakistanis: Bhai Pakistan sahi nhi chal raha @ImranKhanPTI have you tried turning it off and on?" Meanwhile, some users also expressed concerns for the residents in Pakistan affected by the blackout. "Meanwhile, please pray for all those who are currently on ventilators. I hope every hospital in Pakistan has adequate power supply during this time," said one person on Twitter. (With inputs from agencies)Watch Pakistan blackout: Major cities in Pakistan plunge into darkness following power outage||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/massive-power-outage-in-pakistan/articleshow/80193638.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||UP is 7th state hit by bird flu; culling begins in Haryana||Uttar Pradesh became the seventh state in the country where bird flu was confirmed on Saturday even as culling began in poultry farms of Haryana’s Panchkula and reports of more birds found dead in the last 24 hours poured in from Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, Kerala and Maharashtra. So far, bird flu has been confirmed in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal. The Kanpur Zoo was closed on Saturday after the avian influenza virus was confirmed in two red jungle fowls that were found dead earlier this week. Between January 2 and 7, four red jungle fowls died while six had been culled at the zoo on suspicion of having the dreaded avian disease. “The lab report that came late on Saturday evening confirmed bird flu in two of the dead fowls following which the zoo campus has been closed,” deputy director, Kanpur Zoo, AK Singh, told TOI. Culling began in Panchkula’s Barwala area – said to be the second largest poultry producer in Asia – a day after bird flu was confirmed in Haryana. The animal husbandry department culled 3,700 birds out of the total 1.6 lakh which are to be killed in two poultry farms. Over 4.4 lakh poultry birds have died in the area so far. In another district, Karnal, five herons were found dead. Their samples have been sent for testing. Authorities in neighbouring Punjab stressed that no traces of the virus were found in random sampling of birds. The Maharashtra government stepped up vigil after 1,000 poultry birds died in Parbhani and Latur in the last 48 hours, taking the number of birds perishing in the last few days to 1,049. In Rajasthan, the death toll touched 2,512 with 350 birds found dead in the last 24 hours. In Kerala, the rapid response teams of the Alappuzha district administration have culled 49,958 birds and 3,22,550 eggs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-is-7th-state-hit-by-bird-flu-culling-begins-in-haryana/articleshow/80193644.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||Education minister asks teachers to restore past glory of Patna College||PATNA: Patna College, the oldest institution of higher education in the state, would get all the necessary grants meant for “heritage institutions” for ensuring its all-round development, state education minister Ashok Kumar Chaudhary said at a function to mark the college’s 159th foundation day celebrations on Saturday. Chaudhary, an alumnus of the college, called upon the teachers and employees to work whole-heartedly for the proper academic growth of this premier institution which was once considered to be the “Oxford of the East”. “Academics must not remain in ivory towers. They should instead come forward in resolving the present crisis gripping the college. They should analyse the real cause of the growing deterioration of academic standards in the state and show the younger generation the right path,” he said. Other guests, including Patna University (PU) vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary, former VCs Rash Bihari Prasad Singh and Laxmi Niwas Ram and pro-VC Ajay Kumar Singh recalled the glorious tradition of the college and called upon the present generation to maintain it at all costs. Even though the college might have been awarded poor grade in recent NAAC assessment, it still commands great respect in the popular imagination of the people of the state, they said. Welcoming the guests, college principal Ashok Kumar drew the attention of the minister towards the constraints obstructing college’s proper academic and infrastructural growth and urged him to provide necessary financial and administrative support to his alma mater. The minister unfurled the college flag and released 159 balloons of different colours in the sky symbolising as many eventful years in the life of the college. Two teachers of the college – Daisy Narain of history department and Randhir Kumar Singh of sociology department – and two honours toppers Masoom Ali (Urdu) and Jamshed Alam (Persian) were felicitated on the occasion. A book written by college psychology department teacher Sheo Sagar Prasad was also released by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/education-minister-asks-teachers-to-restore-past-glory-of-patna-college/articleshow/80191315.cms||B K Mishra
January 10, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi slams Nitish over delay in cabinet expansion||PATNA: Leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday slammed CM Nitish Kumar over delay in cabinet expansion. Reacting to Nitish’s statement that he had not received any proposal from the BJP for cabinet expansion yet, Tejashwi said, “It is the prerogative of the CM to expand the cabinet. He is shirking his responsibility.” On Nitish’s recent remark that he had accepted the post of CM on BJP’s persuasion, the RJD leader said, “One can understand what the CM will deliver when he accepts the post under pressure.” BJP spokesperson Prem Ranjan Patel, however, said the issue of cabinet expansion would be sorted out soon. “Senior leaders of the party led by state incharge Bhupender Yadav met CM Nitish Kumar on Thursday. The party high command would soon talk to the CM to discuss the issue,” he added. On the other hand, VIP chief and animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahani said on Saturday that the cabinet expansion would take place after Makar Sankranti. “There is no confusion on the issue at all,” he added. Former CM Jitan Ram Manjhi led HAM(S) had earlier demanded a ministerial berth and an MLC post for the party. Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman, an MLC, is already a minister in the Nitish cabinet. The CM and 14 other ministers had taken oath On November 16. However, one of the ministers, Mewalal Choudahry, had resigned from the post following a controversy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-slams-nitish-over-delay-in-cabinet-expansion/articleshow/80191797.cms||Ramashankar
January 10, 2021||Patna||119 DSPs pass out of police academy||PATNA: It was a historic day for the home department and state police on Saturday when 119 deputy superintendents of police (DSPs) entered active duty after a proper institutional passing out parade held for the first time after division of Bihar two decades back. These DSPs have also become members of the first batch of gazetted officers to pass out of Bihar Police Academy (BPA) at Rajgir in Nalanda. DGP Sanjeev Kumar Singhal, DG (training) Alok Raj, BMP DG RS Bhatti, ADG-cum-BPA director B Srinivasan, ADG (wireless and technical services) A K Ambedkar, ADG (weaker section) Anil Kishore Yadav and several other senior IPS officers of state police headquarters witnessed the parade of young officers at the academy. The DGP said posting of these DSPs would help state police control crime, supervise cases and solve grievances of common people. Singhal asked the new officers to remain disciplined, honest and maintain their integrity while discharging duties. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said the DSPs have received proper institutional training in Bihar for the first time since the state’s bifurcation. He said the six-week training of the newly-inducted IPS officers would also be held at the police academy. The institute that provides training to new police recruits in the ranks of deputy superintendent, inspector, assistant inspector and sub-inspector, currently houses around 2,000 officers of different ranks. The institute was necessitated following bifurcation of the state in 2000. Before bifurcation, the police officers used to receive training at Hazaribagh Police Academy. For eight years, they were trained at Nathnagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/119-dsps-pass-out-of-police-academy/articleshow/80191786.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 10, 2021||Varanasi||Smuggler arrested, 16 quintal ganja seized||Varanasi: Over 16 quintal ganja and Rs 3 lakhs were recovered from a smuggler during a raid by Pavai police in Azamgarh on Saturday. The ganja consignment had been procured from Odisha. SP Azamgarh Sudhir Kumar Singh said that Pavai cops were on patrolling on under construction Lucknow-Ballia highway when they noticed a person sitting at a lonely place near Sultanpur village. When the cops approached him, he tried to escape. However, the cops foiled his bid and caught him with a country made revolver and live cartridges. The arrested person was identified as Rajman Yadav of Ambedkarnagar district. He confessed that he was waiting for the buyers with whom he had finalized a deal of selling 16.45 quintals of ganja after procuring from Odisha, police said said adding, on Yadav’s tip off the cops recovered ganja packed in 47 bags and cash Rs 3 lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/smuggler-arrested-16-quintal-ganja-seized/articleshow/80192296.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Youth sends parcel bomb to earn money||RAJKOT: Taking a cue from Bollywood potboilers, a 20-year-old youth tried his luck to earn some quick buck by scaring a factory owner, but ended up paying a huge price for his devilish plot. Police arrested accused Jiten Lodhi on Saturday for sending a parcel with a bomb-like device to a ceramic factory at Sartanpar road of Wankaner in Morbi district two days ago. The security guard at a ceramic factory received a parcel on Thursday evening, which he handed over to the factory owner, Hardik Ghodasara. When Ghodasara opened the parcel, he found a paper with a mobile number and his factory’s name written on it with a red marker pen. The contents also had a white colour box which contained a circuit, a digital clock, some wiring and a battery attached to it. Scared that it may be a bomb, the factory owner soon informed the police while at the same time he also tried to contact the number found written on the piece of paper. While the calls to the number went unanswered, Ghodasara received several text messages in Hindi threatening him to drive in the direction he was told along with the parcel. Another message warned him not to inform the police and threatened him that an actual bomb has been sent in to his house which they will explode if he dares inform cops. “Ye to sirf tuje batane ke liye tha, asli dhamaka to tere ghar me hoga.” (The parcel was just to warn you, the real explosion will take place at your home.) In the meantime, cops rushed to the spot with a bomb disposal squad which had been called from Rajkot. The squad, however, found no explosives inside the ‘parcel bomb’. Superintendent of police, Morbi, S R Odedara told TOI, “We had formed six teams to hunt for the mischief monger. Utilizing human intelligence as well as technical expertise, we traced the accused, Jiten Lodhi, a native of Madhya Pradesh who came to Morbi to search for work as he was jobless for the past few months owing to his nature. He was in need of money and tried the filmy trick to scare the owner into getting his way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/youth-sends-parcel-bomb-to-earn-money/articleshow/80191375.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||International schools await nod for February pen-and-paper exam||KOLKATA: The Cambridge Assessment International Education could be the first school board to conduct pen-and-paper examinations in the country this year. The schools in Bengal, though, are waiting for a government nod to hold the examinations on campus from February 8. The three exams — IGCSE for Class X, AS for Class XI and A-Level for Class XII — are scheduled to be held between February 8 and March 12. Several city school heads who run the programme said they will continue to closely monitor the ground situation and seek to get the exam postponed to May-June if the condition deteriorates. An official representing the Cambridge board said the A-Level examinations for Class XII students scheduled between February 10 and March 8 were likely to go ahead unless the Covid situation changed dramatically or the state refused permission. There are 10 schools in Kolkata affiliated to the board and six more in other parts of Bengal. Those in the city include Calcutta International School, Heritage School, South City School and Cambridge School. “We work with schools in 160 countries and most of our schools are telling us they want to run exams in March 2021 and June 2021 and expect to be able to do so, in line with guidance from their national and regional authorities. We continue to prepare for the March and June series to go ahead and are providing a range of measures to help our students and schools manage the impact of the pandemic. Our priorities remain the same, to keep students safe and make sure they can progress with their education,” the official said. If the public health situation worsens, the exams will be postponed to May-June. The examination in February-March is held only for students in India. For schools affiliated to the board in the rest of the world, the exams can be held either in May-June or October-November. Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said 22 of her students will take the IGCSE examination this year. “But we shall wait for the government’s permission to bring back the students on campus,” she said. Cambridge School principal Sunita Chowdhury said the school will take a call according to the situation closer to the date. “In our school, 30 students are to appear for the A-Level exams. We are keeping our fingers crossed,” she said. Another school head said that even if students appear for the A-Level examinations in May-June, it would not impact their prospects of pursuing higher education abroad. “The students will enrol for the Fall session beginning August 2021. The colleges require original transcripts that can be submitted even after the students join the programme. We have a limited number of students who will appear in the examinations. Now, we are waiting for the state government to give a green signal,” said the school head. Except for Bengal and a handful of states that are gearing up for Assembly elections, several other state governments have permitted schools to bring back students between classes IX and XII for face-to-face interaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/international-schools-await-nod-for-feb-pen-and-paper-exam/articleshow/80191488.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 10, 2021||Patna||Rs 3 lakh looted from CSP operator in Bihar's Madhepura||MADHEPURA: Unidentified motorcycle-borne armed men robbed a customer service point (CSP) operator of Rs 3 lakh in cash on the busy NH-107 near Rajpur village under Madhepura town police station of the district on Friday evening. The CSP operator Mahesh Kumar from Bakhri village was on his way to his village after drawing cash from the agriculture development branch of SBI in Madhepura town on his bike when he was waylaid. Police sources said the victim along with his colleague set out for the village on a bike being driven by his colleague Chanchal and as soon as they reached near the village, six criminals following them on three bikes intercepted them. The assailants beat up Mahesh and overpowered his colleague Chanchal. They snatched the bag containing cash at gunpoint from Mahesh. Before other commuters could react, criminals fled on their bikes with the cash. Bystanders took the victim to Madhepura hospital for treatment and informed the incident to Bharrahi outpost of Madhepura town police station. The OP in-charge Rudal Kumar along with his team rushed to the spot where they reportedly recovered a mobile phone belonging to one of the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-3-lakh-looted-from-csp-operator-in-madhepura/articleshow/80191548.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||STF recovers Muzaffarpur bank loot booty in 12 hours||PATNA: A team of state police’s special task force (STF) recovered Rs 16.71 lakh of the Rs 17.09 lakh looted from a Bandhan Bank branch in Muzaffarpur within 12 hours of the heist, which took place on Friday. The five gang members had also shot at a roadside vendor Rajesh Kumar (40) when he caught one of them while they were trying to escape. The STF personnel recovered the cash from their hideout — a rented house at Dushadhi Pakdi on 90-feet road under Kankarbagh police station area in Patna and arrested four persons. Those arrested are Nitish Kumar and Rahul Mahto of Begusarai and Sudhir Sharma and Rahul Roy from Samastipur. All accused are in the age group of 20-25 years. The recovery within 12 hours around midnight on Friday saved the face of Muzaffarpur police, which was already facing a massive protest by traders since Friday morning over the killing of their colleague Abhishek Agarwal who was shot in the head by criminals as they took away Rs 70,000 from him around 8.30 pm on Thursday. State police ADG (operations) Sushil Mansingh Khopde told TOI over the phone that three country-made pistols, including two semiautomatic ones, 17 live and two empty cartridges, were also recovered from the possession of the arrested persons. “Soon after the loot, an STF team stationed in Muzaffarpur started coordinating with another team in Patna. We had some initial clues. The modus operandi of the gang which targeted the branch matched with a few criminals on whom surveillance was already mounted by STF. This resulted in the quick arrest and recovery,” Khopde said. The ADG said three of the arrested accused are among those who were present at the branch. He said the police are trying to trace the criminal antecedents of the arrested persons. “STF personnel laid a trap around the Kankarbagh hideout and waited until they came out to leave for another place,” the ADG said, adding further raids were on in connection with the loot. Kankarbagh SHO (in-charge) Suman Kumar said Sudhir’s father Dinesh Sharma lived at a rented accommodation at Dushadhi Pakdi in Kankarbagh. “He works with a private firm. Till now nothing has surfaced to prove that Dinesh knew about the bank loot committed by his son and his associates,” he said. “All four had reached the rented accommodation to take rest and have food. They were all set to leave after dinner when the STF team nabbed them,” Kumar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/stf-recovers-muzaffarpur-bank-loot-booty-in-12-hours/articleshow/80191777.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal govt cracks Swasthya Sathi whip on private hospitals||KOLKATA: All private hospitals and nursing homes across the state have been asked to get empanelled for the Swasthya Sathi scheme, failing which they will lose their clinical establishment licence. They have also been asked to formulate a standard operating procedure (SOP) for Swasthya Sathi patients. At a meeting between private health establishments and state health officials at Nabbanna on Saturday — chaired by chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay — it was also decided that patients with Swasthya Sathi cards can’t be refused treatment at any private health facility. A committee comprising 3-4 representatives of private hospitals and government officials could soon be formed to finalize the details of the Swasthya Sathi rollout, including revision of treatment charges that have been deemed ‘too low for sustenance’ by private facilities. Health department sources, however, revealed that the revision of rates was unlikely during the ‘pre-election period’. The meeting at Nabanna also included a virtual interaction between private hospitals and nursing homes from the districts who connected through the local district magistrates’ office. They, too, were told to serve all patients under the scheme and refer them to tertiary care hospitals in case they were not equipped to handle the treatment. The meeting could finally pave the way for the rollout of the scheme that offers a Rs 5 lakh healthcare cover to all Bengal citizens, said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua, who attended the meet along with 19 other private hospital representatives in Kolkata. “We have been asked to form a committee and we will finalize the names very soon. They will chalk out the modalities, including revision of rates that remains the biggest stumbling block in the way of Swasthya Sathi implementation. The other issues like quick settlement of Swasthya Sathi dues have been ironed out and the government has promised to settle them soon,” said Barua, who is also the president of the Association of Hospitals of Eastern India (AHEI) At a meeting last month, private hospitals had demanded that tertiary care hospitals in Kolkata should not be burdened with minor cases admitted under the scheme. This could block beds that can serve more serious patients. They also demanded quick settlement of charges for patients’ treated under Swasthya Sathi. The government, on the other hand, has asked all private hospitals to set up a Swasthya Sathi desk at a ‘visible site’ to assist patients. Chief secretary Bandyopadhyay suggested that an expert committee be formed under the aegis of AHEI, which will discuss and review issues related to Swasthya Sathi from time to time with the state government. “The chief secretary also asked us to formulate an SOP for Swasthya Sathi patients, which will be followed by all private hospitals. He further asked private hospitals to set up a Swasthya Sathi desk at every hospital to coordinate with patients and to ensure they don’t face any harassment. He also assured us that the government will review the rates at the earliest,” added Barua. “We have been asked to carry on treatment under the scheme and assurances were given that the three major issues raised by us will be looked into. We are satisfied with the plan and look forward to the setting up of the committee that will finally set the ball rolling,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. “Revision of rates and prompt payment would allow us to focus on delivering high quality and timely care to patients under this scheme. Assurances made by them gives us confidence that we can make this a very successful scheme with a healthy collaboration between the government and the private hospitals,” said R Venkatesh, zonal director, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences. Health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam, home secretary H K Dwivedi, finance secretary Manoj Pant, and other senior officials were present at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-sathi-a-must-for-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80191469.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 30,000 health workers to get Covid vaccine on January 16||PATNA: At least 30,000 government and private healthcare workers will get the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine on January 16 at 300 vaccination centres in the state. The state health department has made all the neceJanuary ssary arrangements for the first phase of vaccination drive. It has so far registered 4.62 lakh healthcare workers for the drive. The registration for the first phase will conclude on Sunday. As per the data provided by the State Health Society, altogether 4,62,026 healthcare workers at private and government health facilities have registered for the vaccination on CoWIN, a digital platform created for the purpose. Health minister Mangal Pandey said the vaccination drive would be carried out at 300 health facilities, including medical colleges and primary health centres, across the state on January 16. “The number of vaccination centres will increase as per the requirement. On the first day, 100 registered healthcare workers will get the first dose of vaccine at each centre. A five-member committee will oversee the drive at each centre,” he said, adding the vaccines will be transported through freezer van to various districts from state vaccine house at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. The health department has so far provided syringes to 21 districts for mass immunisation. District magistrates have been asked to monitor the drive. Piyush Kumar Chandra, assistant director of biomedical waste management at State Health Society, said colour bags would be provided in adequate capacity to all the vaccine centres across the state. “The biomedical waste will be collected and properly disposed of,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/30000-health-workers-to-get-covid-vaccine-on-jan-16/articleshow/80191255.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 10, 2021||Goa||Look at IT, bio-tech, startups as drivers of Goa economy: VP||PANAJI: Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu said on Saturday that Goa, which has depended on mining and tourism as the main drivers of its “success story”, must now look to diversify its growth engines by seizing the opportunities offered by the new economy—information technology, biotech and start-up entrepreneurship. “All these require highly-skilled manpower, which the state needs to build in quick time. I am sure the state government is already seized of these challenges and is working on appropriate solutions,” he said at the Legislators’ Day function at the assembly complex in Porvorim. “Limitations of land availability, mounting ecological concerns and mining reaching its saturation are the big impediments for further industrial development of the state,” he said. He also said that public perceives that “the right character” among politicians is in short supply, and this erodes people’s trust in parliamentary institutions. Representing people is not a part-time activity, and those who have no time for the people better not enter the legislature, Naidu said. “Legislators are supposed to empower the people and not themselves. As elected representatives of the people, legislators should remain connected with the people to fully understand their problems and aspirations for effectively articulating them in the legislatures for necessary initiatives and interventions,” he said. He told the MLAs to discuss, debate and decide every issue, and said that informed opposition to the government’s proposal “does a certain good”, but opposing for the sake of it “does harm”. Referring to the 30-odd governments that Goa has had in the 57 years since its first polls in 1963, he said it was difficult to justify such political flux, which resulted in such negative perceptions. “Would Goa have done much better with more political stability? I expect all stakeholders, particularly legislators, to deeply reflect on this issue as you have to find answers to the challenges that the state has to overcome if it is to retain its frontline position,” he said. Naidu said the government and people of Goa were doing “remarkably well” in handling the pandemic. The state, which is known for its blue skies and golden palm-fringed beaches and is among the world’s most preferred tourist destinations, has emerged as an example for others, he said. He also called upon the MLAs to enhance the functioning of the legislature, and thereby their legitimacy. “While it is a challenge to reach the pinnacle as Goa has done, it is an equally-formidable challenge to hold on to that position by avoiding any slippages. This is where the state faces news challenges,” he said. Naidu said the legitimacy of legislators and law-making bodies is critical for the effective functioning of parliamentary democracy backed by the much-needed trust and confidence of the people. He said this legitimacy could come into question if they’re dysfunctional and lawmakers don’t enjoy the respect of the people. He asked the legislators to ensure this legitimacy through ideal behaviour and effective functioning, both inside and out of the House. He said the functioning of legislators and bodies they’re in can make or mar any democracy. Their effective functioning forms the basis of people’s trust and confidence in parliamentary institutions. Trust deficit needs to be addressed at the earliest, so that India can stand even taller with its head held high, Naidu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/look-at-it-bio-tech-startups-as-drivers-of-state-econ-vp/articleshow/80192519.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Cops nab 4 with 4 pistols, bullets||The city crime branch have arrested four persons and recovered four country-made pistols with 10 live rounds and a sedan from their possession. The police team is trying to find out the reason behind smuggling of so many firearms in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-nab-4-with-4-pistols-bullets/articleshow/80195283.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||493 more test +ve for Covid in Bihar||PATNA: The state recorded 493 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has jumped to 2,56,419. The virus has so far claimed 1,430 lives in the state. One person succumbed to the virus in Patna and another in Bhojpur on Saturday. With this, the Covid toll in Patna district has mounted to 394. According to the health department, altogether 411 Covid patients were discharged from different hospitals in the last 24 hours. So far, 2,50,858 people have recuperated from the virus in the state. The number of active cases in the state, on the other hand, stood at 4,131 on Saturday. The state’s recovery rate has now touched 97.83%. As many as 98,319 new samples were tested at different health facilities and laboratories in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,91,80,737 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) has reported five fresh deaths, including three from Patna – a 49-year-old man from Rajeev Nagar, a 53-year-old man from Machhli Bazaar and a 76-year-old man from Kankarbagh. The two other victims were a 57-year-old man from Tikulia village in West Champaran and a 58-year-old man from Gayaghat in Siwan. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said 10 patients were admitted to the hospital, including some from different Patna localities like Rupaspur, Danapur, and Airport Road, and 11 discharged on Saturday. Altogether 133 people were undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-P on Saturday. A 45-year-old man from Chintapur in Motihari district died due to Covid-19 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital here. Three Covid positive patients were admitted to the hospital and two discharged on Saturday. Of the 493 Covid cases recorded in the state in the last 24 hours, Patna alone accounted for 233. The district’s Covid tally has now risen to 50,473. However, the number of active cases in the district has dropped to 1,660 with 185 more people recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours. Among other districts, Rohtas recorded 19 fresh Covid cases on Saturday, Begusarai, Gopalganj and Vaishali 17 each, Gaya 14, Nalanda and Muzaffarpur 12 each and Lakhisarai and Aurangabad 11 each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/493-more-test-ve-for-covid-in-bihar/articleshow/80191273.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Covid-19 hits passenger traffic at Tuticorin airport||Tuticorin: Passenger and flight movement at the Tuticorin airport, which showed an increasing trend in 2019, witnessed a decline in 2020 due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Passenger movement declined to 1,33,647 in 2020 from 2,31,406 in 2019 – down by 42.24% while aircraft movement at 2,286 in 2020 is 37.79% less than the 3,675 in 2019.The MP pressed for more air connectivity including connections to Delhi and Colombo. She also asked the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to construct a state-of-the-art futuristic airport, cargo operations facilities, promotion of tourism and prepare a long-term vision to acquire sufficient land to avoid future congestions.Kanimozhi also urged the AAI to take up projects such as building a library establishment of a primary health centre, schools and other amenities to benefit the community around the airport under corporate social responsibility. Additional collector Vishnu Chandran said that a proposal has been sent to the transport secretary for additional land requirement.District collector Senthil Raj thanked the MP for extending support to obtain the forest and wildlife clearance from the ministry of environment, forest and climate change to install solar-powered aviation obstacle light at Vallanadu Hill that has facilitated night landing operations.AAC members comprising representatives from the tourism and industrial sectors emphasised the need for more direct air connectivity from Tuticorin to Kochi, Coimbatore, Mumbai, Hyderabad and Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/covid-19-hits-passenger-traffic-at-tuticorin-airport/articleshow/80192514.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||ECR to run 3 Kumbh Mela special trains from January 12||PATNA: In view of the huge rush of pilgrims expected at the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar from January 14, the East Central Railway (ECR) has decided to run three pairs of special trains from Tuesday. According to Rajesh Kumar, the chief public relations officer (CPRO) of the ECR, the Howrah-Dehradun Kumbh Mela special (02327/02328, 02369/02370) will run from Howrah-end every Tuesday and Friday and from Dehradun every Wednesday and Saturday between January 12 and May 1. The train will halt at Jhajha, Jamui, Kiul, Mokama, Patna, Ara, Buxar and Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction. Another Kumbh Mela special train (03009/03010) will run between Howrah and Rishikesh till April 30. “It will stop at Dhanbad, Gomoh, Parasnath, Hazaribagh Road, Koderma, Gaya, Guraru, Rafiganj, Aurangabad, Dehri-on-Sone, Sasaram, Kudra, Bhabua and Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction,” the CPRO told this newspaper. The railways will also run a train (05079/05080) between Patliputra Junction and Gorakhpur from January 13 to March 31 on Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays, Fridays and Sundays. Meanwhile, the ECR has extended the services of seven pairs of MEMUs till March 31 for the convenience of the local commuters. These include the Patna-Jhajha (03213/03214), Patna-Pt Deendayal Upadhyay Junction (03229/03230), Katihar-Sonepur (03367/03368), Raxaul-Patliputra (03215/03216), Saharsa-Jamalpur (05509/05510), Darbhanga-Patna (03357/03358) and Saharsa-Patna (03359/03360) MEMUs. Trains cancelled: The railways has cancelled two pairs of special trains running on the Jaynagar-Amritsar (04673/04674) and Sitamarhi-Anand Vihar (04005/04006) routes due to foggy weather conditions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-to-run-3-kumbh-mela-special-trains-from-jan-12/articleshow/80191321.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||Blackbucks’ second home in Gujarat entangled in red tape||VADODARA: Barodians could well have watched a herd of blackbucks sprint by in open fields amid a sanctuary just a few kilometres away from the city. But thanks to the incessant delays in permission by government departments, Vadodara missed the bus to be another home to a blackbucks after Velavadar in Saurashtra. Forest officials said that their department has been trying to preserve Sundarpura forests in Vadodara taluka and turn it into a sanctuary since last three decades. Located about 20 kilometres south of the city, Sundarpura is a small village with sprawling land around. “We have been making efforts to convert this 102 hectares of land in Sundarpura into a sanctuary since 1970s. The patch is home to a variety of flora and fauna that still can be preserved. But the forest department has to wait till the revenue department gives nod for it,” said Baldevsinh Waghela, divisional forest officer (DFO) (wildlife), Vadodara. Forest officials said that it was in 1988 that one of the first letters was written by the then forest and environment secretary, J A Chowdhury to H A Vaishnav, chief conservator of forests, Gujarat. Sundarpura was in the ownership of Maharaja Fatehsinh Zoo Trust that time. Chowdhury had said that sanctuary can be declared in an area not in government ownership and only the regulatory provisions of the Wildlife Protection (Protection) Act would come into force. Chowdhury had requested Vaishnav to send a proposal to the government for creation of this sanctuary. He had also stated that the matter arose through reference received in the Prime Minister’s secretariat. However, the proposal remained lingering and no action followed. Several letters were later exchanged and the forest department had even agreed to pay Rs 1.71 lakh towards compensation to take over Sundarpura forests and convert it into a sanctuary. “There were some ownership disputes earlier but now the entire forest area is now with the revenue department in Vadodara,” Waghela said and added that he too wrote a letter in August last year and offered to pay the compensation amount to Maharaja Fatehsinh Zoo Trust, Dhaniyavi through mamlatdar. Naturalist, Dr Raju Vyas said that till 1970s there were hundreds of blackbucks in Sundarpura apart from a rich variety of plants, birds and animals. “Now a lot of it has disappeared as the forest has no protection. Hardly about six to seven blackbucks can be seen there now. But we can still turn it into a blackbuck reserve and revive the area,” Waghela said. “The forest department should carry out fresh documentation and list out all the plants, birds, animals and reptiles in Sundarpura. It will help them in getting a reserve status and save all the precious flora and fauna,” Vyas said. A senior official in district collectorate said that they will have to inquire about the letters as they have no idea of the proposal of forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/blackbucks-2nd-home-in-state-entangled-in-red-tape/articleshow/80190802.cms||Tushar Tere
January 10, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Image makeover of home guard jawans soon, says DG||PATNA: In tune with CM Nitish Kumar’s resolve to tone up the police administration, newly appointed DG-cum-commandant general of home guards and fire services Shoba Ohatker has asked all the district commandants to ensure that home guard jawans are smart and properly dressed. Ohatker told this newspaper she would leave no stone unturned to make home guards one of the best police forces in the state in days to come. “One can soon find properly dressed home guard jawans matching their counterparts serving in other police organisations,” she said. Ohatker, a 1990-batch IPS officer who was promoted to DG rank recently, swung into action soon after assuming charge of home guards and fire services on January 1. She held a series of meetings with district commandants and other officers. Even on Friday, she was busy holding meetings with the officers concerned at the headquarters. Ohatker, known as a no-nonsense officer, said, “I have charted out a comprehensive plan to change the people’s perception about the home guards. The jawans will not only be properly dressed, disciplined and smart looking but also trained to handle sophisticated weapons. The pot-bellied jawans will be taken to task. They have been asked to check their waistline and weight on a regular basis.” The DG said emphasis would be on training of the jawans. Of 55,000 home guard jawans, around 34,000 are effective and they have been deployed at different police stations in the state and offices of the government establishments. “Our men should be clearly identified among the cops on duty,” the DG said, adding the state government recently approved grade pay band of Rs 2,000-Rs 2,400-Rs 2,800 for home guard jawans on par with police personnel. Ohatker told the officers at the meeting that the home guard jawans were performing duty in tandem with the state police force. “Yet they were often charged with being lax in duty. This should not be the case now,” she said. Similarly, plans are afoot to revamp the state fire services. The DG said the organization was faced with staff crunch, but the problem will be sorted out soon. “The response time of the fire tender (vehicle) will be reduced. Purchase of machines and tools to deal with fire incidents are on cards,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dg-image-makeover-of-home-guard-jawans-soon/articleshow/80191745.cms||Ramashankar
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Queues outside film fest venues show Kolkata’s passion for cinema||KOLKATA: Chalachitra Satabarsha Bhavan, where Saturday’s first show was of the Azerbaijan film titled ‘In Between Dying’ that had competed at the Venice International Film Festival, is just a stone’s throw from MR Bangur Hospital that was till recently treating only Covid-19 patients. Viewers stood in queue for 22 of the 72 seats to see the film at the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF). The city’s love for cinema was evident from the fact that by the time the theatre screened the day’s last show, ‘Miss Marx’, the number had swelled to 67. It was a similar emotion that also prompted Prosenjit Chatterjee to drop by at Nandan for the inauguration of the exhibition to pay tribute to Pandit Ravi Shankar, Hemanta Mukhopadhyay, Bhanu Bandopadhyay, Federico Fellini and Eric Rohmer. “People of Kolkata are passionate about sports and cinema. Being a cinema person, I want to support a film festival. Instead of going completely digital, our chief minister has given her go-ahead for a physical edition of KIFF during the pandemic. She has also sanctioned the finances for organizing it. I am grateful to her for that,” Chatterjee said. Chatterjee was the KIFF chairperson before Raj Chakraborty. “This festival is very important to me. I always love to watch films at Nandan. Raj is much younger than me and I felt I had to support him since he is trying to organize the festival even during the pandemic. When he told me the names of the legends whom KIFF is paying a centenary tribute to, I felt I had to be there to support this initiative. I wanted to do a festival of Bhanu Bandopadhyay’s films at Nandan,” he said. Chatterjee insisted that the “magic of cinema” will never die. According to him, the visuals and techniques of cinema might change but movies will live forever. “I just watched Satish Kaushik’s new film called ‘Kagaaz’. This man, who once did ‘Mr India’, has directed a film during the pandemic with Pankaj Tripathi that almost seems like a documentary. Even Anubhav Sinha, who made ‘Ra.One’, is now doing different kinds of movies. I appreciate this change and feel this is a learning exercise for us,” he said. Sinha was at Sisir Mancha on Saturday to deliver the Satyajit Ray Memorial Lecture on the social responsibility of mainstream cinema. “Not every film-maker has to make issue-based or socially responsible films. There is a thin line between making an issue-based film and being an activist. My attempt now is to bring the discussion to the table. I don’t think I have the answers. But if my attempt ends up starting a discussion, I think I have done my job,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/queues-outside-film-fest-venues-show-citys-passion-for-cinema/articleshow/80191493.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 10, 2021||Patna||Amid rift buzz, Nitish says his govt will complete 5-year term||PATNA: Contrary to speculation in state’s political circles about the alleged lack of compatibility between the two major NDA allies over cabinet expansion, Bihar CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asserted that his government would complete its five-year term. Addressing the opening session of JD(U)’s two-day state executive body and state council meeting at the party’s headquarters here, Nitish asked the party’s defeated candidates to forget the assembly election results and resume their work for the progress of all sections of society. He also assured party workers that his coalition government would complete its term. “We are in politics for service of people, and not for self-interest. This time, I accepted the post of CM at the request and pressure of all people (allies of NDA). Our only target is the service of people. We have to work for the welfare of all including even those who didn’t vote for us,” Nitish said. Addressing the party’s defeated candidates (who lost in the assembly polls), Nitish said, “Engage yourself in the service of people of your constituency like you had been doing as an MLA.” He added, “You go among the people of every stratum of society and work for the progress and development of all sections. I am sure we will emerge stronger than earlier.” The JD(U) contested altogether 115 seats in the 2020 assembly polls but could win only 43 seats, 28 less than the 71 seats it won in 2015. The defeated candidates were specially called at the party’s state executive meet to explain the reasons behind their defeat, sources said. “Some of the defeated candidates blamed one of the NDA allies for their defeat. Some of them said at the meeting that the votes of the allies’ supporters were not transferred in the favour of JD(U) candidates, and in many constituencies, such votes went in favour of LJP candidates,” a senior JD(U) leader, who didn’t want to be named, told TOI on Saturday. Addressing the meet, JD(U) state president and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narain Singh, while hinting at back-stabbing by one of the allies, said, “We can be ditched by others, but we can’t ditch others. It is not our character. We still have the strength to bounce back. If there are any shortcomings in the organization, we should remove them and strengthen ourselves with new resolves.” JD(U) national president RCP Singh said, “No doubt, the assembly election results were not satisfactory for the JD(U), but the truth is also that the credibility of our leader Nitish Kumar had a victory in the election.” Sources said, JD(U) also decided to form a five-member core committee at the state level which would work like a bridge between the party and the government. New JD(U) state president: Former minister and party’s former MLA from Hathua constituency Ram Sewak Singh is all set to be the next state president of JD(U), replacing Bashishtha Narain Singh. Sources in JD(U) said the name of Ram Sewak has been approved by the party’s senior leaders and a formal announcement about his elevation will be made at the state council meet on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/amid-rift-buzz-nitish-says-his-govt-will-complete-5-year-term/articleshow/80191736.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||12 girls to get gold medals at JPU virtual convocation||CHHAPRA: The toppers of 17 postgraduate (PG) departments, including 12 girls and four boys of the 2016-2018 session, will receive gold medals at a virtual convocation of Chhapra-based Jai Prakash University (JPU) later this month. According to JPU’s public relations officer (PRO) Harishchandra, the physics department topper is yet to be selected due to some technical issues. The students, who have qualified for gold medals, include Ritiza (botany), Sneha (geography), Ruby Bhagat (Hindi), Aarti Kumari (zoology), Nidhi (history), Shalini (home science), Priyanka Mishra (mathematics), Anamika (English), Deepika Singh (political science), Nazia Sultana (Urdu), Neha (economics), Raj Laxmi (commerce), Krishna Raj (chemistry), Ankit (philosophy), Santosh (psychology) and Anand Kumar Singh (Sanskrit). As many as 141 PhD holders will also get their degrees during the virtual convocation. Meanwhile, JPU is planning to beautify the “ill-maintained” pond on its campus with the contributions made by teachers, officers and people’s representatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/12-girls-to-get-gold-medals-at-jpu-virtual-convocation/articleshow/80191542.cms||H K Verma
January 10, 2021||Surat||Need vibrancy like Gujarat in WB: Irani||Surat: With an eye on the assembly election in West Bengal, union textile minister Smriti Irani said that Gujarat was always ready to share knowledge on textile industry with West Bengal. She said that industrial vibrancy like Gujarat was needed in West Bengal. Irani, who was in the city to inaugurate Gujarat’s first physical exhibition Surat International Textile Expo (SITEX) along with minister of state for women and child development, Debasree Chaudhuri on Saturday, said, “Whenever Bengal will call, Gujarat will come. It is the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi that people from one state should go to others to gain and share knowledge.” Irani’s comments are in line with the continuing allegation by BJP leaders that the ruling Trinamool Congress government failed to set up any big industry in West Bengal. Earlier, Chaudhuri had said, “I want to see Gujarat’s industrial vibrancy in West Bengal. This way we can bring an industrial revolution as Gujarat has achieved.” Irani added, “I congratulate Debasreeji for her will to ignite a ray of development by bringing Gujarat’s industrial vibrancy to West Bengal.” Irani said that India has become the second largest manufacturer of PPE kits and suits in the world in the record three months’ time during the coronavirus induced lockdown starting from March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/need-vibrancy-like-gujarat-in-wb-irani/articleshow/80191189.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||BJP vows to strengthen base in Bihar||RAJGIR/PATNA: The BJP on Saturday resolved to strengthen its support base at the grassroots level in the state and decided to support the candidates promoting nationalism in the three-tier panchayat elections scheduled to be held in April-May. Though the panchayat polls are not contested in the state on party lines, the saffron party has decided to support the candidates who have worked for instilling a sense of nationalism in the people. The issue was discussed at length on the first day of the two-day state level training camp of the BJP at Rajgir in Nalanda district. State BJP president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said the panchayat polls have significance as far as strengthening the support base of the party is concerned. “The participation of people is not only confined to the Lok Sabha or the state assembly elections. We have to strengthen the organisation at booth and the panchayat levels too,” he said. Jaiswal said the party would start an exercise to garner votes in favour of candidates who have the backing of the BJP. He said the party would step up political activities by the end of this month to make its presence felt in gram panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishads. Jaiswal said the 2014 general elections proved to be a turning point in the history of the country when Narendra Modi was elected as the PM. “The installation of the Narendra Modi government at the centre sent a message among the poor and the downtrodden that there was someone to listen to their grievances,” he said. Former Union minister and BJP’s national vice-president Radha Mohan Singh said the training camp was organized to apprise the functionaries of the policies of the central and state governments for uplift of the poor and the downtrodden. Singh said the trained office bearers would impart training to the workers of the party at grassroots level. BJP MLA from Biharsharif Dr Sunil Kumar said such training camps are organised every three years. The camp will conclude with the address of the party’s national secretary B L Santosh on Sunday. Almost all the district presidents, secretaries and the state functionaries of the party attended the inaugural session of the training. The participants will attend eight training sessions. Incharge of BJP’s Bihar affairs Bhupender Yadav was also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bjp-vows-to-strengthen-base-in-bihar/articleshow/80191760.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 10, 2021||Varanasi||Seminar on garment industry in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: A seminar on ‘Development of Readymade Garment Industry and its prospects in Purvanchal’ will be organized on Tuesday from 2 pm to 4.30 pm. It is being held under the joint aegis of Gorakhpur Chamber of Industries and Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA), informed Pravin Modi, secretary of Gorakhpur Chamber of Industries. “The seminar will take place at Udyog Bhawan. It can also be viewed online through the link available on the official website of GIDA,” said GIDA CEO Sanjeev Ranjan. “The state government is establishing a textile park, and also a readymade garment park in Gorakhpur. As many as 150 people have already contacted us, demanding a readymade garment industry at GIDA. The seminar will be prove to be beneficial for the interested people,” said Pravin Modi. The first session will be on the topic, ‘understanding garment manufacturing process and key performance indicators’. The second session will be about ‘key factor for developing a successful garment hub in Gorakhpur’, and the third session will be on ‘industry interaction’,” informed former chairman of Gorakhpur Chamber of Industries, SK Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/seminar-on-garment-industry-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/80192115.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP to celebrate women’s success on Vivekananda’s birth anniv||Luckow: As part of the ongoing Mission Shakti programme to create awareness about women empowerment and women’s rights, the UP government will celebrate the achievements of women on Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary this year. To mark the occasion on January 12, the secondary education council will hold workshops with girl students to discuss the lives of women achievers. The department will also be organising other events through January, including discussions on issues related to adolescence and how girls can become financially independent. The latter will be conducted through interactions with successful women entrepreneurs and self-help groups. Earlier this week, the social welfare department held programmes to encourage women to speak out against gender discrimination and all kinds of social evils. Seminars were held to discuss the Constitutional and legal remedies against gender discrimination. In Lucknow, the panchayati raj department held discussions on female foeticide with villagers at Barumau gram panchayat in Chinhat block on Wednesday. The agriculture department held a seminar for women farmers in Mau district where participants were given tips on organic farming and other issues related to improvement in agricultural produce.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-celebrate-womens-success-on-vivekanandas-birth-anniv/articleshow/80192951.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||CM launches fortified ricescheme for Chandauli||Lucknow: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched fortified rice scheme for Chandauli on Saturday. The district has been selected for this pilot project by the Centre. The CM said rice production is an important occupation in Chandauli, which is known as the rice bowl of the state. “Fortified rice is rich in iron, vitamin B 12 and folic acid which increases its nutritional value and will help address malnutrition, especially in women and children. The district has high number of malnourished and anaemic people,” he said. “During a survey, the Centre selected Chandauli for distribution of fortified rice through mid-day meals and public distribution system. The results of this pilot in Chandauli will enable the government to implement the programme across the country,” he said. Posters should be put up in fair price shops to tell people about the benefits of fortified rice and announcements should be made via public address systems, said Yogi. He also directed the DMs to appoint a nodal officer for each ration shop. The monthly average purchase of rice from Chandauli is about 37,500 quintal and the annual purchase is 4.5 lakh quintals. Fortified rice will be given to all 3.56 lakh ration card holders in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-launches-fortified-ricescheme-for-chandauli/articleshow/80193004.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Sputnik trial before Covishield arrival||KOLKATA: A different Covid-19 vaccine is set to arrive in Kolkata the city on Monday, beating to the mark the one that the city has been waiting with baited breath for two days now. Sputnik V, the world's first registered vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Russia's Gamaleya Institute, will reach the city on Monday for phase III clinical trials in hospitals here. Altogether, 300 vials — a mix of Sputnik vaccine and placebo — are scheduled to arrive on Monday for the trials at Peerless Hospital and College of Medicine & Sagore Dutta Hospital (CMSDH). “Six boxes containing 50 vials each will be arriving for phase III trials of Sputnik V at the two places. Even as the minimum target is to carry out the trials on 100 volunteers at each site, we can enrol more volunteers since it is a competitive recruitment of volunteers across India,” said Snehendu Koner, business head at CliniMed LifeSciences, a site management organization that has tied up with Dr Reddy’s Lab for the trial in Bengal. While the ethics committee (EC) of Peerless Hospital has already given its approval for the trial, the EC meeting at CMSDH was held on Saturday. The committee at the state-run medical college is likely to give its approval by Tuesday. It had earlier missed the opportunity of phase II trial of Sputnik V due to delay in EC clearance. Covishield, the vaccine developed by AstraZeneca-Oxford University and produced by Serum Institute of India (SII) that is to be administered to frontline workers, is now expected to reach the city only after Monday. Originally scheduled to reach on Friday, the vaccines did not reach the city on Saturday either. With PM Narenda Modi tweeting that the vaccination drive would begin on January 16, sources said the first lot of Covishield would reach the city by the middle of next week. Sources said SII would start shipping the vaccines to various centres across the country from Monday. In Kolkata, all the logistics is in place to receive the consignment. “We had refrigerated vans ready to transport the boxes of vaccines from the airport to the warehouse at Bagbazar,” said a senior health department official. Officials of five medical colleges where the dry run was held on Friday claimed that the drills went off without any hiccup. “Maintaining physical distancing, checking identity of beneficiaries, observing them for half and an hour along with uploading the data on the Co-WIN software are new in this Covid-vaccination programme. And all those who will be involved in the process have been trained and hence we did not find any glitches during the dry run,” said an administrator at IPGMER. Some of the medical colleges will be operating six to seven vaccination session sites during the actual vaccination. Some of them had four sites during the dry run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sputnik-trial-before-covishield-arrival/articleshow/80191472.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccine jab much-needed psychological boost for the elderly: UK doctor from Kolkata||KOLKATA: The Covid-19 vaccine is not just an antidote to the novel coronavirus, it is a much-needed psychological boost for the elderly and those with co-morbidity, who have been spending the past 10 months in mortal fear, believes a Bengali doctor from Kolkata. He is involved in the immunization drive in Norfolk, England. “The vaccine is a ray of hope for people who have been confined to their homes for nearly a year now. After months of loneliness, the jab will allow them to be a bit more social. For us doctors too, this is the first positive step against Covid-19 after bitterly witnessing casualties of patients of varying ages, and some without any pre-existing health conditions. We were all very shaken. Seeing the elderly patients walk in enthusiastically has been a confidence-booster,” felt Prabir Mitra, who did his MBBS from Calcutta National Medical College before migrating to the UK. A general practitioner specializing in diabetes, Mitra is also passionate about photography and has been documenting the pandemic, right from the outbreak over 10 months ago to the ongoing immunization programme at St James Medical Practice in King’s Lynn. Seeing the patients and hearing what they said about vaccination has been hugely inspiring for Mitra. For instance, when Raymond Burn (85), who recently received a terminal diagnosis, walked in for the shot, he remarked: “This vaccine will allow me to be up and about. I may not go to Italy again but certainly I will be out of my house a bit more.” John Madge (95) came immaculately dressed in a three-piece suit. He was so thoughtful that he had cut an entire sleeve off his shirt to facilitate our vaccination process. “I have lived through the War (World War II) and I will live through this war,” he told Mitra. Among those who came in for the vaccine at Mitra’s facility was Kamal De, who hails from Kolkata. He was extremely upbeat. “We have been lucky to be part of NHS, which is the first healthcare system in the world to vaccinate its eligible citizens. As a member of the Black, Asian and Minority Ethnic (BAME) community, I had the opportunity to be vaccinated and I hope all my front-line colleagues will get it soon so that we can fight the virus,” he commented. Mitra says the staff, local council, volunteers and patient participation groups worked over 14 hours a day to make the arrangements for vaccination fool-proof. “It reminded me of the team spirit when we, in our adolescence, used to organize any events in our para, be it sports or Puja,” recalled Mitra who moved to the UK in 2003. Seeing people bring their elderly parents for vaccination some times causes heartache for Mitra as it reminds him of his inability to help his parents and mother-in-law who remain ‘locked’ at their respective homes in Kolkata and vulnerable without the vaccine that he has been administering to patients of similar ages in the UK.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-jab-much-needed-psychological-boost-for-the-elderly-uk-doc-from-kol/articleshow/80191480.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 10, 2021||Goa||In bad times, matka bookies share space with store owners, households||COLVA: Along the Salcete coastal belt, matka business is no longer a taboo. Not long ago, bookies accepting matka bets were stationed behind abandoned buildings, closed shops or old telephone booths. They were shunned by a large section of society and were looked upon as those exploiting gullible individuals. Now, the tide is turning. People are voluntarily opening their doors, compounds and available spaces to bookies and agents, all for a premium. A successful builder has made space for a matka bookie. Some distance ahead, store owners have rented part of the ancestral property to run a restaurant, upholstery and the rest for a person to accept matka bets. In yet another instance, a youth has set a table, chair and an umbrella to cover himself from scorching sun as he accepts bets outside a row of shops. Some households have even allowed matka bookies to set up shops in their residencies. All of this for a good income during bad days. For the small space which the bookie needs to sit and lay down a table, he pays anywhere between Rs. 5,000 and Rs 10,000 a month. The owner of the residential-cum-commercial building, or for that matter any establishment, has nothing to worry. “I have two bookies seated metres apart here and they pay Rs 5,000 each,” said a bar owner, who has accommodated two matka bookies on his premises. “They pay on time, without a fuss. There is no fear of police or anyone else. It’s a well-established business. Those in the matka business have an extremely good network.” Another businessman, who has his residence above a row of shops, collects Rs 15,000 from the shops every month, while a matka bookie pays him Rs 7,000 for a “small space”. “It’s a bonus for me. The bookie is allowed to choose the space and they mostly settle for bars where people tend to bet after a couple of drinks,” he said. Others, who operate small shops, say the income from bookies helps them meet domestic demands. “During the lockdown, it was difficult to make ends meet, hence we agreed to the request of a bookie to set up a shop for a monthly rent of Rs 10,000. It’s win-win,” said the shop owner. The coronavirus pandemic has made life difficult for several businesses but matka has continued to flourish. And along with them, at least in the Salcete coastal belt, others have thrived too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/in-bad-times-matka-bookies-share-space-with-store-owners-households/articleshow/80192512.cms||Nisser Dias
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||Recruit 1 lakh teachers & Grade C staff: Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: To meet employment targets under Mission Rozgar, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC) to carry out at least 50,000 recruitments for Grade C employees this year. The Higher Education Service Commission was also asked to expedite recruitment of 50,000 teachers in basic education council. A government spokesperson said, UPSSSC decided to adopt a two-phase examination system on lines of Public Service Commission to expedite the process. A preliminary examination will first be conducted for screening of candidates and shortlisted candidates will appear for a main examination as per departmental requirements and related service manuals. UPSSSC will also start a ‘Know Your Candidate’ (KYC) system this year. Now, a candidate should register only once on the commission’s website and not separately for every exam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cm-for-recruitmentof-50k-grade-c-staff50-k-teachers-soon/articleshow/80192892.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||Database to help Bihar govt keep tab on school dropout rate||PATNA: Concerned over the rise in dropout rates in government schools, the state education department has planned to create a database for keeping tabs on all students till they reach the higher secondary classes. According to the data of 2018-2019 available with the department, as many as 24,03,526 children were enrolled in Class I. This number, however, dipped to 15,37,628 in Class X and 6,31,379 in Class XII. The dropout rate of girl students was quite high. Of the 11,52,680 girls enrolled in Class I, only 2,99,672 reached Class XII. The National Statistical Office of India report (2017-2018) stated that the dropout percentage in Bihar was 30.5%. Education department principal secretary Sanjay Kumar told this newspaper that maximum dropouts were witnessed at two stages — when kids went from primary (classes I to V) to middle school (up to Class VIII) and from middle to high school (classes IX to XII). “One of the major reasons for the high dropout rate is the change of school buildings. After Class V, students have to keep shifting to other buildings. It is during this transition period that we see massive dropouts,” the principal secretary said, adding that all primary, middle and high schools would be linked with each other. Kumar has asked the head teachers of primary schools as well as the principals of middle and high schools to discuss the issue of high dropout rates and ensure that every child completes his education. “A new system is likely to be developed by the Bihar Education Project Council in the next six to eight months to keep a tab on all the students’ attendance and academic performance. If any of them drops out suddenly, we will track them down, counsel their parents and convince them to continue their studies,” Kumar said and added that the system would also help students choose their careers after finishing school on the basis of their academic performance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/database-to-help-bihar-govt-keep-tab-on-school-dropout-rate/articleshow/80191334.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 10, 2021||Patna||Tilkut sales pick up in Patna as Makar Sankranti nears||PATNA: With Makar Sakranti round the corner, tilkut makers in the city are working round the clock to get ready for the huge demand of the sweet dish in the coming days. Many people have already started buying tilkut and other sesame-based products like ‘til-papdi’, ‘til gajak’ and ‘til laddoo’. Shivraj Kumar, owner of a popular tilkut shop on Boring Road, said like every year, tilkut made of jiggery is finding many takers. It is being sold at a price range of Rs 300 to Rs 550 per kg. “The variation in price is because of the difference in proportion of sesame and jiggery. The one priced at Rs 300 has more jiggery while the Rs 550 variant has more sesame in it,” he said. Makar Sankranti is the festival of ‘til’ (sesame) which also keeps the body warm. People also exchange tilkuts, til ladoos and chikkis as a token of goodwill on the occasion. “It is a tradition to exchange sweets in our family on Sankranti. The underlying thought in the exchange is to forget the past ill feelings and hostilities,” said 54-year-old Neelu Raj, a resident of Hanuman Nagar. The awareness and health consciousness that Covid-19 has brought about in people’s lives is very evident from the increase in demand of sugar-free version of sweets. Anil Pathak, who runs a tilkut shop near Patna Museum, said, “Around 35% of buyers are demanding sugar-free tilkuts. Khoya tilkut is most popular among the buyers.” A little spike in price of the Sankranti delicacies in comparison to yesteryears can be observed in the market. “As of now, there is a significant decrease in number of customers this time due to the Covid pandemic. Hence, we have decided to marginally increase the base price of tilkut to stay afloat,” said Ramesh Kumar, owner of another tilkut shop at Kankarbagh. In view of the pandemic, some people prefer placing orders for the delicacies online. Akhilesh Vats, a resident of Anisabad, said, “I have placed an order for tilkut from Gaya. Ordinary tilkuts are hard and do not taste as good as the ones made in Gaya.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tilkut-sales-pick-up-in-patna-as-makar-sankranti-nears/articleshow/80191341.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||Gaya civic body takes steps to improve cleanliness score||GAYA: Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC) has initiated several measures to improve the rating of the town in the forthcoming Swachh Survekshan. Officials said efforts were being made to reach out to each household and create awareness among the people towards cleanliness. In the Swachh Survekshan results last year, Gaya had managed to bag just 737.74 points out of 6,000. The central team is expected to visit the town in March. “Special focus is on setting up solid waste management plant at the garbage dumping ground at Naili and improving the sewage system of the town. The tender for solid waste management plant would be issued by the end of this month. Work on improving sewage system is also going on in each of the 53 wards,” GMC commissioner Sawan Kumar said. He added two people have been deployed in each ward to visit the households and appeal to people to dump dry and wet garbage in separate dustbins. “Separate dustbins have already been distributed in the houses for dry and wet garbage. Door-to-door garbage collection is being done in each ward. Dustbins have been placed at important places and the garbage is lifted at regular interval,” he said. Kumar said the NSS students of Gaya College would organise at least three street plays in each ward to make people aware. “Banners and posters have been placed in the vehicles of GMC. The garbage collection vehicles have been equipped with loudspeaker. A public meeting will be organised soon to promote cleanliness,” the municipal commissioner said. He added, “We have allotted five vehicles especially for the market areas. These vehicles will collect the garbage which shopkeepers throw on roads.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-civic-body-takes-steps-to-improve-cleanliness-score/articleshow/80191975.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Land grab in Sancoale comunidade, say locals||Vasco: Shareholders of Sancoale comunidade have submitted a memorandum to the deputy collector of Mormugao, Sachin Desai, seeking an investigation into an alleged scam in the comunidade land. Asking the deputy collector to forward their memorandum to the Goa governor, shareholders demanded that FIRs be filed against all comunidade members involved in the scam. “The government should appoint a panel headed by a retired high court judge to probe the scam. Also, we demand a probe into all the controversial resolutions taken by the comunidade,” shareholder Pratap Mardolkar said. Mardolkar alleged that the comunidade committee members have sold land to migrants and made huge money from the deals. He said 50 lakh sq mts of land was given to the Zuari industries in Sancoale, and the remaining land is now being sold to private parties. This land should either be reverted back to the comunidade or profit should be shared amongst the shareholders, he said. “We see migrants coming in Sancoale and within no time erecting their structures. People who have no right are selling land parcels to them. A day will come, only the comunidade act will remain on paper, but no land. The government should protect the comunidade lands,” said Mardolkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/land-grab-in-sancoale-comunidade-say-locals/articleshow/80192527.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Over 1,700 bull-tamers get tokens for jallikattu||Madurai: More than 1,700 bull-tamers registered for the jallikattu events to be held in Avaniapuram, Palamedu and Alanganallur on Saturday. The state government has allowed the conduct of jallikattu with standard operating procedures this year. As a first step, the registering of bull-tamers was done in the three places on Saturday. Eager men turned up at the designated registration centres in the three places from early in the morning. Thousands gathered in Avaniapuram, but only 430 were given tokens on the first day. In Alanganallur, 655 men in Palamedu, 651 men received the tokens. But, their eligibility to participate in the events would depend on the outcome of the RT-PCR tests.An 80-member team, under the guidance of Madurai district deputy director of health services Arjun Kumar, block medical officers and health inspectors conducted the screening. In Avaniapuram, the men were sent in batches of 10 for the screening, where they were checked for their age, BMI, fitness and if they had any scars from surgeries. Their blood pressure and thermal screening was also done. The RT-PCR tests will be conducted on Sunday. The criteria for the registered men was that they should be in the age group of 18 to 40 years and weighing not less than 50kg.S Kalimuthu from Dindigul, had come with a group of friends the night before and halted in Alanganallur to get registered. “I have not missed any game in the last three years, and was worried that latecomers would not get a chance due to the Covid-19 crisis,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-1700-bull-tamers-get-tokens-for-jallikattu/articleshow/80192520.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||11 out 22 Haryana districts report less than 10 new cases each||Chandigarh: Haryana continued to show a downward trend of new Covid-19 cases as the state on Saturday reported 279 new cases and six deaths. However, after a long gap fewer recoveries were recorded than the new cases at 211. This led to a slight dip in recovery rate which has come down to 97.92%. Haryana’s overall tally has gone to 2,64,721 cases, with 2,59,209 recoveries, 2,949 deaths and 2,563 active cases. Out of the total active cases, 121 are critical and are undergoing treatment at Covid care centres across the state On Saturday, as many as 28,170 samples were taken and the positivity rate came down to 5.55% while the doubling rate saw a further increase to 98 days and the fatality rate remained constant at 1.11%. Gurgaon, Panipat, Kurukshetra, Yamunagar, Sirsa and Jhajjar have reported one death each. Gurgaon reported 88 new cases, while Faridabad reported second highest 37 cases during the day. Gurgaon has so far reported 57,429 cases with 346 deaths and 772 active cases, while Faridabad has registered 45,778 cases with 408 deaths and 171 active cases. On Saturday, Rohtak and Panchkula detected 23 cases each, Ambala 15 cases, Kurukshtera and Panipat 12 cases and Yamunagar, Karnal , Sonipat and Jind 11 cases each. The 11 districts reporting less than 10 cases on the day were: Hisar, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahindergarh, Bhiwani Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-out-22-haryana-districts-report-less-than-10-new-cases-each/articleshow/80192523.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Varanasi||Cops serve SC notice to Punjab govt & Mukhtar||Varanasi: Two sub-inspectors from Mohammadabad police station of Ghazipur, dispatched to Punjab, have served notices of the Supreme Court to the Punjab government, Ropar jail superintendent and jailed don and MLA Mukhtar Ansari. SP Ghazipur OP Singh told TOI on Saturday, “The UP government had filed a writ petition in SC after Ropar jail authorities had refused to hand over Mukhtar to our team for bringing him to Ghazipur for hearing in cases pending in local court against him. The SC had issued notice to Punjab government, Ropar jail superintendent and Mukhtar on December 18.” Next hearing is scheduled in SC on Monday. A UP Police team had to return empty handed from Ropar in October 2020 after jail authorities refused to hand over Mukhtar on the basis of medical board report issued on August 13. The board had said Mukhtar is type-2 diabetic and under depression with somatic symptoms and advised strict bed rest for three months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cops-serve-sc-notice-to-punjab-govt-mukhtar/articleshow/80192303.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Demand for chicken, eggs dives amid bird flu scare||LUCKNOW: Bird flu scare among residents has led to a decline in the demand for eggs and chicken in the city. The price of chicken has dropped from Rs 180-200/kg to Rs 150-160/kg within a week.  No significant drop has been witnessed in the price of eggs as yet. In a reality check at shops in areas like Narahi, Yahiyaganj, Daliganj, Alambagh, Udaiganj, Tedhipulia and Nakkhas, TOI found a drop in demand of chicken and eggs. As the price of chicken has dropped, preference has shifted to mutton which is now available at Rs 500/600 per kg. “We did good business in the last week of December, particularly on New Year’s eve as I sold around 40kg that day. However, I have not been able to sell 40kg in last seven days even since reports of bird flu cases started pouring in,” said Faizan, a meat shop owner at Tedhipulia. Mohd Riyazul, a meat shop owner in Daliganj, said: “I used to sell around 40-55kg chicken meat daily till two weeks ago. Now, it has dropped to 15-20kg per day. Barely 2-3 customers ask for it in a day. The sale of mutton has increased from around 25kg to 40kg per day.” Though the demand for eggs has plunged by 20%, the price has not gone down as of now with a tray of 12 eggs coming at Rs 75-80. Utsav Kashyap, an egg trader in Yahiyaganj, said: “We supply eggs to more than 100 retail shops in the city. However, we are not receiving enough orders from them in the last one week. If the trend continues, we might be forced to sell eggs on purchase price to clear the stock.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/demand-for-chicken-eggs-dives-amid-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80192904.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Call students to school for Class IX, XI exams: Goa Board||PANAJI: The Goa board of secondary and higher secondary education has instructed schools affiliated to it that all exams for Class IX and XI must be held by calling students to school. The move comes after the directorate of education’s (DoE) instructions to start physical classes for these students. The board, however, has granted schools several liberties, including choosing the time, weightage and nature of the question papers. Institutes, for instance, can set their own examination papers, based on how much portion has been covered by the individual school in the pandemic-hit academic year. Usually, schools have to follow the common papers set and uniform exam timetables drawn up for Class IX and XI by the Goa Higher Secondary School Principals’ Forum and the Goa Headmasters’ Association. “Those schools that have already conducted their first mid-term and first term exam need not conduct (them) again,” the board said. Institutes have also been given the freedom to conduct the exams for 50% of the weightage, if they so wish. “Liberty is given to schools to set the papers of first and second term with full weightage or with 50% weightage, then converting it into full weightage (e.g. 80 marks paper shall be conducted of 40 marks and converted into 80 marks by multiplying by 2). Time limit for such papers shall be proportionally fixed,” the board has said. The same can also be done with the practical component, schools have been told. These exam guidelines have been prepared in consultation with the principals' forum and headmasters' association, the board said. “All Covid SOPs shall be strictly followed while conducting the exams,” states the circular. All exams for Class IX and XI have to, however, be completed for the academic year by April 24, the board said “to enable schools to provide infrastructure and manpower for the conduct of board examinations (for Class X and XII) which are going to start from April 26”. GFX Offline classes for Class X and XII students started from November 21, 2020, only for students where their parents consented Practicals in the physical mode to be held for Class IX and XI students from January 11, 2021 for science and vocational stream students Schools asked to take initiative to hold offline classes for Class IX and XI wherever feasible for commerce and arts stream students Students of Class I to VIII allowed to answer exams from home Exams for Class III to VIII in written form SCERT to issue guidelines for exams for Class I and II||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/call-students-to-school-for-class-ix-xi-exams-board/articleshow/80192525.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Goat sales touch Rs 6cr at Ettayapuram shanty||Tuticorin: Goat and sheep worth nearly Rs 6 crore were sold at the weekly goat shanty at Ettayapuram near Kovilpatti on Saturday. While the usual sale is for about Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore which goes up to Rs 2 crore during festive occasions, it used to be in the range of Rs 5 crore to Rs 6 crore on the Saturday before Diwali and Pongal.This year, farmer and traders attributed the good business to Pongal and demand for mutton due to drop in chicken sales caused by the bird flu scare in Kerala. This has resulted in a section of non-vegetarians temporarily turning away from chicken though the flu has not affected birds in Tamil Nadu. Farmers said they sold goats for Rs 4,000 to Rs 30,000 based on their weight and the price was considerably higher than the money it fetched on a regular Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/goat-sales-touch-rs-6cr-at-ettayapuram-shanty/articleshow/80192522.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Three kids drown in temple tank in Sivaganga||Sivaganga: Three children drowned when they went to take bath in a temple tank in a village in Sivaganga district. The deceased were identified as P Punithavalli, 13, her brother Yogeswaran, 8, and their friend P Inbatamilan. They were native of Kombai village near Vadamadurai in Dindigul district. They were among seven families, which came to Poongodi near Devakottai a month back, to cut juliflora trees to make charcoal. Since the schools are closed due to Covid-19, the children accompanied their parents and stayed with them at the temporary shelter.The three children went to take bath in the tank without any adults accompanying them on Friday evening. As they did not know swimming they drowned one by one. On being alerted by villagers, fire and rescue personnel rushed to the spot. Parents too rushed to the temple tank, but the children had already drowned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/three-kids-drown-in-temple-tank-in-sivaganga/articleshow/80192517.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Fire guts 63 temporary shops in Kanyakumari||KANYAKUMARI: Sixty-three temporary shops and goods worth several lakhs were gutted in a fire that broke out in Kanyakumari in the early hours of Saturday, police said. Fire and rescue personnel put out the blaze in an operation that lasted four hours. The fire broke around 3.15am between the Gandhi Mandapam to the shore where the three seas meet. “We got the call around 3.40am. We suspect that the fire could have been triggered by an electrical short circuit in one of the shops. These shops measuring 40 to 64sqft each had tarpaulin roofs,” district fire officer (DFO) B Saravanakumar said. Saravanakumar, who supervised the firefighting, told TOI that six fire tenders from Kanyakumari, Nagercoil, Thuckalay and Colachel fire stations were rushed to the spot and a team of 45 firefighters fought the flames. These shops were primarily packed with inflammable materials such as gift articles, plastic toys, clothes and sweaters. The shops that were destroyed were in five rows. They had open wires, and the flames were fuelled by the heavy coastal winds. “Three LPG cylinders in two hotels burst, making the firefighting all the more difficult. We managed to secure three more cylinders,” he said. The firefighters stopped the flames from spreading to the nearly 60 other temporary and permanent shops. The Kanyakumari police were trying to ascertain the cause of the fire. Traders said that their shops were closed for nearly nine months during the lockdown and reopened only in mid-December. They were expecting good business for Pongal, but the fire struck a blow. AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran urged the government to give compensation to the affected traders, help them get bank loans to restart and not collect rent from them for the next six months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fire-guts-63-temporary-shops-in-kanyakumari/articleshow/80192518.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Temple tank turned into RWH structure||Maduai: The city corporation has cleaned the Inmaiyil Nanmai Tharuvar temple tank and converted into a rainwater harvesting structure. The temple authorities had approached corporation commissioner S Visakan to improve the cleanliness of the tank as the quality of the water had become become with abhishekam water let into the tank. Based on the instructions from the corporation commissioner, officials from the engineering wing took up cleaning works a few days back. They drained the water into a nearby manhole and removed the sludge from the tank. After cleaning the tank, rain water from the temple premises and terraces of houses surrounding the temple was collected. Officials from Madurai corporation said that they have collected at least five feet of water in the tank in the recent spells of rain which lashed the city.Visakan told TOI that he visited the tank last week and found that apart from sledge, there was too much oil in the tank. In order to address the issue, a separate tank has been constructed to collect the abhishekam water. “Usually temple tanks would be constructed at places where there are aquifers to absorb water. We have created a structure on the lower surface of the tank to enable faster water absorption. The residents living around the tank will see improvement in the water table in coming days,” he said.He said that water in the Tallakulam Perumal Temple tank is filled to its brim by channelizing rain water from roads by cleaning all the storm water drains around it. There are 33 water bodies in Madurai city, owned by Madurai corporation. Of them, around 23 have been cleaned and rainwater harvesting is being done, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/temple-tank-turned-into-rwh-structure/articleshow/80192524.cms||V Devanathan
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Cooper & Jalna dist hosp to launch Maha vax drive||Mumbai: Two medical centres—the civic-run R N Cooper Hospital in Juhu and the district hospital in Jalna— have been selected from Maharashtra for the launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive for healthcare workers on January 16, reports Sumitra Deb Roy. A two-way video communication will be set up in these centres to facilitate an interaction between the PM and the beneficiaries, said officials. Across the state, 511 sites (8 in the city), will be activated on the same day. More than 8 lakh health workers—1.3 lakh in Mumbai—are registered for the vaccine. On Sunday, Union health ministry officials held a meeting with all states and UTs to discuss last-mile issues, including problems faced on the CoWIN software. “The PM may want to interact with the beneficiaries, so we have been asked to make the video conferencing facility available,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, adding that the city was completely prepared to start vaccinating in the coming week. Ram Sharma, member of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration of Covid-19 (Negvac), particularly asked states to exercise caution to ensure that there were “no proxies”, and only real beneficiaries get the vaccine dose. He said it was extremely important to clearly identify the person getting vaccinated and keep a digital record of who gets vaccinated by whom, when and with which vaccine. Union officials also said the vaccination data must be collected in real time, although posting the data on the CO-Win portal may be online or offline depending on internet connectivity. During the dry run held on Friday, centres across Maharashtra faced issues with Aadhaar verification. Dr D Patil, head of state immunization, said that in the case of several beneficiaries, their Aadhaar number was not linked to their current phone numbers which posed a problem for identity verification on CoWin. Aadhaar numbers have to be filled in CoWin, following which an OTP will be generated to authenticate. Union health ministry officials said the feedback from states and the consequent changes in software/protocols were deliberated upon. “These include issues in session allocation, planning, time slotting, sending SMSs to vaccinators and beneficiaries, and connectivity issues,” said the health ministry in a release. N Ramaswami, commissioner of National Health Mission, said that the date of vaccine arrival or the vaccine type has still not been communicated to the state. “All these details should come in a day or two,” he said. Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer for BMC, said they expect to get better clarity on supply of syringes, gloves, among other items, in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cooper-jalna-dist-hosp-to-launch-maha-vax-drive/articleshow/80211386.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Madurai airport’s terminal expansion to begin in 9 months||MADURAI: The proposal to expand the terminal building at Madurai airport to accommodate more passengers is in the final stages of approval, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said on Saturday. The expansion work which is expected to cost Rs 300 crore will commence in nine months and will be completed in a year, said Sanjeev Jindal, AAI executive director (engineering, southern region). In Madurai to review ongoing projects, Jindal told newsmen that the existing terminal will be expanded 30m on both sides to accommodate 2,600 passengers. At present it has space for only 700 passengers. In future, two more terminal buildings can be constructed on either side of the present one, he said. He said the district collector had told him that land acquisition for the runway expansion work will be completed soon. “An underpass is the best suited option for Madurai airport during runway expansion. We have agreed for underpass in principle and the required security clearance will be obtained soon. While AAI will take up runway expansion work inside the premises of the airport at a cost of Rs 800 crore, the state government has to take up the underpass construction,” he said. The construction of a new air traffic control tower proposed at a cost of Rs 100 crore will begin soon. Tenders for the work will be floated in a week or so, he said. The structure will be 50m high with a three-dimension view of the terminal. It will enhance the safety of the airport. The capacity of handling the number of flights will also increase. Jindal said they are ensuring that infrastructure facilities are ready to tackle the impending exponential growth. “Once the Covid-19 outbreak is successfully tackled, air traffic will grow phenomenally as people want to take up travel and various activities including leisure, business and education,” he said. Madurai has a lot of potential to be become a cargo hub. The expansion of apron to create seven more parking bays including two for helicopters has been completed, he said. While the airport’s power requirement is 1000 KVA, 750 KVA is met through solar panels installed on the premises. There is a plan to increase the electricity production to 3.5 MW. “The airport will generate more power than required, so we will not require power from the state government. We have a target to generate another 3.5 MW. Not only will we be able to take care of Madurai airport, excess power will be utilised by nearby airports including Chennai,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-airports-terminal-expansion-to-begin-in-9-mths/articleshow/80192526.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Time of risky and fraudulent taxpayers is up’||In 2020, the Central GST (CGST) commissionerate, Ludhiana has been in the limelight for its crackdown on tax evaders and also for making significant collections, especially in terms of central excise revenue, which has almost doubled this year despite coronavirus. CGST’s principal commissioner Ashutosh Baranwal spoke to TOI’s Mohit Behl and gave an exclusive insight on a variety of topics like why record number of cases of bogus billing have surfaced recently and in the wake of such a situation will this trend increase in the future. Baranwal also shed some light on how the menace of tax evasion was being fought by the department using the latest methods. Q. You are the longest serving head of the CGST and based upon your experience, what trends have you observed among Ludhianavis in terms of compliance? Punjab has the highest compliance (more than 95% ) in GSTR-1 and GSTR-3B filing as on date. I am fortunate to be posted in such a place, which has one of the highest compliance in filing of periodic revenue returns in the country. This augers very well for the business and trade practices in Ludhiana CGST charge. However, with a very efficient, proactive and small team of young officers headed by additional commissioner Kundan Yadav in Mohali, two joint commissioners PS Gill and Amanjit Singh in Ludhiana and supervised by two DCs Varun Soni and Tanya Bains, we have been able to affect eight arrests since the start of anti-evasion drives against fake invoices and billing. This is likely to have a positive effect on future tax compliance and tools such as BIFA and NETRA will be able to pinpoint and catch fraudulent taxpayers generating fake ITCs and risky exporters in the times to come. I am told that Punjab GST authorities are in an advance stage of development and utilization of a similar intelligence tool, so the time for these risky and fraudulent taxpayers is up. This is a trend I clearly see in the times to come, where genuine taxpayers and exporters shall sail through with a song on their lips and risky exporters and fraudulent taxpayers running helter-shelter all over to save themselves from our enforcement teams. Q. How has Ludhiana zone/jurisdiction overall performance been from 2017 in terms of GST collection and compliance? Jurisdiction of CGST Ludhiana is spread over 13 revenue districts of Punjab covering two-third geographical area of Punjab. It is the largest CGST commissionerate jurisdiction wise under the Central Board of Indirect Taxes (CBIC), department of revenue, government of India, with 21 division and 100 ranges, along with sub-commissionerate in Mohali. With regard to CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, the GST revenue collections have shown an upward trend since the inception of GST regime from July 1, 2017. The buoyancy in the GST revenue collections can be gauged from the year wise GST revenue collections for the 2017-18 (Rs 2,948.57cr since July 1), 2018-19 (Rs 4,165.48cr) and 2019-20 (Rs 4,848.79cr). However, due to Covid-19 situation and ongoing farmers’ agitation in the state since October, 2020, the comparative revenue for the current year (up to December 31) is marginally less than the GST revenue collections made in 2019-20. In 2019-20, the collections were Rs 3,587.15cr (till Dec) and in 2020-21 (till Dec) it was Rs 3,416.64. Q. Though 2020 was year of corona when government collections too were affected, how the year has been for CGST commissionerate, Ludhiana, in terms of collections? Due to Covid-19-related lockdown and movement restrictions, there was a general slump in economic activities. During 2020-21(up to December 2020), GST revenue collections was Rs 3,416.65cr, which is 4.65% less than the GST revenue collection (Rs 3,587.14cr) made in 2019-20 (up to December 2019). As soon as lockdown and movement restrictions due to Covid were eased since June 2020, GST collections in Ludhiana commissionerate have shown an upward trend and in November 2020, there has been growth of 4.95% and in December 2020, the growth rate was 3.81% in our GST revenues as compared to same months last year. It’s also highly satisfactory to see our central excise revenue realized from petrochemical industry under my jurisdiction growing from Rs 11,075cr up to December 2019 to Rs 20,796cr up to December 2020, which is approximately 77% more. Q. It has been more than three years since GST came into being. Is there a particular reason that record number of arrests and maximum number of cases were registered in 2020? At the beginning when the transformation from central excise service tax, VAT regime to GST started, the department was acting mainly as a facilitator in hand-holding mode so that the transition may be smooth and taxpayers get used to the new tax interface. This window of opportunity was exploited by the unscrupulous elements, but they forgot that they were creating a transaction web record by undertaking fraudulent activities and financial investigation will unravel the transaction records. Recently, the Central Board of Indirect Taxes launched a special drive for a crackdown on such modus operandi in the concluding quarter of 2020-21, around Diwali. With the help of latest analytical tools like BIFA, e-way bill portal intelligence reports, DGARM-NETRA, the department has recently been endowed with strong IT backing to trace such non-bona fide business entities and accordingly, the cases are being booked against these bogus firms. Q. Which are the biggest cases booked by department in Ludhiana under this special anti-evasion drive? If we talk about the performance of CGST Ludhiana, a total of 15 cases of fake invoices have been booked by this commissionerate involving bogus billing of Rs 551.91cr in November-December, 2020, and evasion of undue input tax credit (ITC) worth Rs 65cr has been detected. Eight persons have been arrested in these cases under the provisions of CGST Act, 2017. These figures of detection of evasion and arrest is going to increase in the coming days and will be a warning to the risky exporters and fraudulent tax payers generating/claiming fake ITC. I consider undue ITC generated from fake invoices as a greater evil than FICN (fake Indian currency notes). The latter can be detected by the physical feature available on the currency notes. Q. City bizmen and tax professionals are opposing the change in the e-way bill rule, wherein the distance to be travelled per day has been capped at 200km instead of 100km. What is your take on it? The new rules have in fact made the process more simple for genuine business operators and difficult for those using this facility for nefarious means. Earlier, with the capping of 100km per day there were several ways by which there were chance of the rules being misused. One of the most common one being the use of same e-way bill multiple times as transport time was more in the old rule, but now the transporter has to carry goods for double the distance in the same time and in turn less chance of multiple use of the same e-way bill. Another major flaw with time for transportation being more was that supply of goods could be prolonged and as a result business activities were hindered. But under the modified rule supply of goods, raw materials are supposed to be on time which would enhance business activities. Lastly, the 100km limit led to higher monopoly of some transporters as the time for supply was more and there was less competition in market to supply goods on time. But now such monopoly practice will come to an end and everyone will be able to offer higher professional commitment for supply of goods. Q. On one side tax compliance has increased over the past three years, but at the same time the cases of bogus billing and tax evasion too seem to have soared. What is your take on that? In the initial stage as the system of GST taxation was new for the trade and industry in the country, the department was following hand-holding approach by working as a facilitator to the taxpayers and also making technological network suitable to deliver according to the needs of GST regime. Several initiatives were taken by the department, GST Seva Kendras were established in each commissionerate for queries regarding to GST compliance, centralised processing cell (CPC) were opened in chief commissioner’s office in Chandigarh as a nodal office for centralized registration to expedite the GST registration process for taxpayers of Punjab, Himachal Pradesh, erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and Chandigarh. Outreach programmes such as seminars, interactions and workshops were organised with the members of trade and industry. Process of return filing was put in public domain through the commissionerate’s website. The process of hand holding and facilitation has translated into greater tax compliance by the assesses as evident from the upward increase in GST collections in the first three years since GST launch. However, as it happens, while genuine businesses took the facilitation in right spirit and continued paying taxes and filing due tax returns honestly, few non-genuine, risky exporters and fraudulent tax payers claiming undue ITC on basis of fake invoices also mushroomed. The latter category got emboldened in their anti-revenue and I will call it anti-national act as the system/technology was evolving to the unique Indian experience and the governments did not wish to set tax enforcers immediately after launch of GST in the business and trade sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/time-of-risky-and-fraudulent-taxpayers-is-up/articleshow/80191779.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Over 500 join govt coaching for IIT-JEE exam in Madurai||Madurai: As many as 533 students from government and government-aided schools in Madurai district have enrolled for the free government online coaching classes for IIT-JEE exam, which was introduced this year by the school education department.“The live online classes began from January 6. As some students are taking up the free coaching for both NEET and JEE, the latter has been scheduled after 5pm. At present, live classes are happening every day. Tests are yet to be planned,” said S Vennila Devi, Madurai district coordinator for the classes.The online classes are being facilitated through the ‘Vidhya Education’ app which can be downloaded from Google Playstore.“WhatsApp groups have also been created for students where questions or general information can be shared. A coordinator for JEE has also been appointed for every school who will be responsible for guiding those who joined the classes,” Devi said.During the live classes, students can clear their doubts by asking questions through the app. Every day, at the beginning of the live session, 15 minutes are allocated only for clearing doubts. Officials from the office of the district chief educational officer (CEO) said that discussions are under way on how to additionally improve the coaching just like in the case of NEET coaching with regards to training and providing study materials.Out of the total 533 students who have enrolled for the JEE coaching in Madurai, 203 are from government schools while 330 are from aided schools. While more than 1,000 students have joined the free coaching for NEET exam in Madurai, only around half the number have joined for JEE. Teachers blamed lack of awareness about IIT-JEE compared to NEET for the low number. “Not many students are willing to attempt IIT-JEE exam because they are afraid. It is also much different from NEET. However, this is the first year that the free coaching has started. As the coaching continues and students produce results, more government school students will be motivated to take up the exam,” said the headmaster of a government higher secondary school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/over-500-join-govt-coaching-for-iit-jee-exam-in-madurai/articleshow/80192528.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 10, 2021||Madurai||Primary school teachers protest in Madurai||Madurai: Members of the Tamil Nadu Primary School Teachers Federation (TNPTF) in Madurai on Saturday held a protest in front of the office of the district chief educational officer (CEO) with various demands.The demands include revoking Section 17B orders issued to government employees and teachers involved in the JACTO-GEO protests in 2019 and issues regarding pension and salary which were promised by the government.The TNPTF also demanded for increasing the quota for government school students in medical seats from 7.5% to 10% and a separate quota of 5% for students from government-aided schools. “The TNPTF has sought for a list of 15 demands to be met by the state government and this is the second phase of the protest after previously similar protests were held at block level. If the demands are not met, we will escalate the protest further by going to Chennai,” said T Gnanasekaran, district president, TNPTF. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/primary-school-teachers-protest-in-madurai/articleshow/80192529.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Civil City Ward No. 91 residents riled over tattered roads||Ludhiana: The residents of Civil City Ward No. 91 are up in arms over the poor condition of the main road of the area for almost a decade now. Accidents take place every day due to its pathetic condition, but the civic authorities have turned a blind eye to the problem, they claim. By way of protest, Kumar Gaurav alias Sacha Yadav, the founder member of NGO Yuva - The Strength, on Saturday lay on the road posing as a patient, who had met with an accident while travelling through the way. Another social activist and resident of the area, Kimti Rawal, said, "I have fought a long battle and even sat on a hunger strike to draw the attention of the authorities, but it did not bring any relief to the residents, and the condition of the road has turned more dangerous for the commuters." He claimed that the Congress leadership is sure that whether they work or not, they would get votes from the North constituency, so they care little about the public. Shopkeeper Ashok Kumar said his entire family used to vote for the Congress, but given their callous attitude towards the plight of the people, they have decided not to cast their vote this time in favour of any politician. “No matter which party they are from, they hardly bother about the welfare of the public. We want to shift from this area, but we are not getting any buyers for their house due to the poor state of civic amenities here,” he said. Kumar Gaurav, who portrayed an accident victim, said, "Politicians can’t see the pain of the general public, rather they are busy meeting their selfish ends. We are against this type of system where there is no value of human lives. Everyday people are getting injuries due to the pitiable condition of the road." He said authorities need to wake up from their slumber and think about the general public. When contacted, area councillor Gurpinder Kaur Sandhu, however, said they are already in the process of floating a tender and as soon as the contractor is finalised, the road repair work would begin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/civil-city-ward-no-91-residents-riled-over-tattered-roads/articleshow/80191783.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Arbaaz Khan discharged from quarantine||MUMBAI: Actor Arbaaz Khan was discharged from hotel quarantine on Saturday, while his brother Sohail and son Nirvaan will be discharged on Sunday. The three tested negative for Covid, a senior BMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arbaaz-discharged-from-quarantine/articleshow/80193401.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Lawyers, activists to give suggestions on Shakti Bills||Nagpur: Lawyers’ and women organizations, including activists, on Monday will be presenting their views, objections and recommendations before the joint committee of both the houses of state legislature deliberating on the proposed anti-rape Shakti Bills, in the city on Monday.The committee, having 22 members of both the houses and 10 officials, is headed by the state home minister Anil Deshmukh. The women's’ organizations, basically working with the District Women and Child Development Department, have been invited to voice their suggestions from 3pm while the lawyers will be heard from 5pm. Similar meetings would also be held in Mumbai (January 19) and Aurangabad (January 29). The bills, during discussion in state legislature, were sent to a joint select committee of both the houses for suggesting changes. The bills have been drafted on the lines of the Disha Act of Andhra Pradesh which has a provision of capital punishment for rape. The enactment was put into place following the gang rape and murder of a Hyderabad-based veterinarian. District Bar Association president Advocate Kamal Satuja too will be giving his suggestion. He said, “Instead of instilling fear with harsher punishments, the aim should be to deter the perpetrators with more chances of convictions. More stringent the provisions of law, there are greater chances of its misuse. It may lead to the law losing the steam.”High Court Bar Association president Advocate Gauri Venkataraman too would among the ones present. She, through her guarded opinions, said that her aim would be ensure that the new law should benefit both the society and the victim. “As legal practitioners, we are in a more agreeable position to express our opinions regarding the practical applicability of the new enactment. We would try to bring more practical and technical approach to tackling the crime that the new law intends to address,” she said. Social activist Nutan Rewatkar, who has already mailed her suggestions to the committee, said consenting adults should be kept out from the framework of the new law. “Instead of consenting adults, the law should encompass transgenders and become gender neutral for victims under age of 10 years,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lawyers-activists-to-give-suggestions-on-shakti-bills/articleshow/80191785.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||2018 Charbagh fire: Two hotels to be razed||LUCKNOW: The two illegal hotels in Charbagh, where six persons had died in a fire on June 19, 2018, will be demolished on January 12. A list of LDA officials whose alleged negligence led to the unauthorised constructions has been sent to the state administration for further action. These decisions were taken by the Lucknow Development Authority after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath reportedly pulled up officials for not taking appropriate action in the incident. Six persons, including a woman and a child, were charred to death in the blaze after which the hotel was sealed. A high-powered committee, headed by then additional director general of police and then LDA vice-chairperson as a member, was formed to probe the incident. In its report submitted in August 2018, the committee found that the two hotels were constructed on the land allotted for residential purpose. It was also found that the order to demolish the illegal hotels was issued by the LDA court in July 2013 but it was never implemented. The probe also found lapses on the part of fire department, local police and excise department officials as both the buildings did not adhere to fire and safety norms and running bars without obtaining licence. Subsequently, on July 10, 2019, LDA partially demolished the two hotels. On the basis of the committee’s report, LDA suspended three officials for six months and slapped a fine of Rs 25,000 each on charges of negligence. It also served notices to 11 officials and employees, who were posted in the zone, where the two hotels were constructed between 2013 and 2018. Of these, two officers, an IAS and a PCS, were with the LDA on deputation when the fire broke out. However, no further action was taken. According to sources, the report recently came to the notice of the CM who took serious note of the fact that no appropriate action was taken against errant officers. On the CM’s direction, senior UP Housing Board officials instructed LDA officers to take necessary action. In the meantime, reports also came in that the owners of the two hotels have started reconstructing the building, although it was not clear if it is being done for commercial or residential purpose. LDA chief engineer Indu Shekhar Singh said, “The secretary of the development authority has directed complete demolition of the hotels on January 12. A list of w0 engineers and revenue officers, who were allegedly found to be negligent, has also been sent to the state administration.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/2018-charbagh-fire-2-hotels-to-be-razed/articleshow/80192926.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ludhiana||Cops fight flies at Daba police station||Ludhiana: After the TOI highlighted the menace of flies at Daba police station, commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal has written to the commissioner, municipal corporation, Pradeep Sabharwal, asking him to resolve the issue until the police station is shifted to some other place. On January 7, the TOI had reported that not even cops want to work at the police station due to the flies coming from the garbage dump near the police station and unhygienic surroundings. The commissioner of police said, “I have even requested the municipal corporation to resolve the issue to give a good work environment to our cops. It is up to the municipal corporation to either shift the dump or to maintain hygiene in the surrounding area.” “Simultaneously, we are looking for sufficient land to shift the Daba police station. About 2 acres are required for the same. Until we get the land, we’ll ensure that the cops get a good and hygienic environment,” added Agarwal. The Daba police station is located at the BSUP flats in Giaspura area, where slum dwellers have been accommodated by the municipal corporation under JNNURM (Jawahar Lal Nehru National Renewal Urban Mission). Due to the unhygienic surroundings and the garbage dump located there, the flies keep buzzing around. The condition at the police station is that the moment anyone parks the vehicle inside or outside the premises, the flies immediately cover it completely. The SHO inspector, Pavittar Singh, had approached his senior officials with the matter. Following this, the commissioner of police on December 14, 2020, had written to the commissioner, municipal corporation, asking to provide 4,000 sq ft of land to further build a police station for Daba. As it is a temporary police station at Giaspura flats, the municipal corporation had allotted 3,000 square feet of land in Dhandari area. However, the location is about 6km far and not feasible for the Daba residents to visit there for lodging complaints. Therefore, CP Agarwal has asked for corporation from the MC to provide land in the vicinity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cops-fight-flies-at-daba-police-station/articleshow/80191790.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Excise duty cut on beer; foreign liquor, wine to be cheaper||LUCKNOW: Beer is set to get cheaper in UP with the government on Saturday announcing an excise duty slash on the brew in the next fiscal. From 280%, the duty is set to fall to approximately 200%. Also, license fee has also not been increased for beer vends in the excise policy, which expects to mop up revenue of Rs 34,500 crore. Cost of wine, low alcoholic beverages and foreign liquor is also set to dip with the government reducing Covid cess in these categories by almost half. “With neighbouring states withdrawing Covid cess, liquor in UP would have been more expensive. So, the cess has been reduced on wine, local alcoholic beverages and foreign liquor,” a government order said. Licence fee for all shops, except beer vends has been raised by 7.5%. The policy puts an impetus on brewing beer and wine in the state to ensure minimal waste of grain and fruits. Even now, grain and fruit go waste, leading to huge losses for farmers and these can be ploughed in to manufacture beer and wine in UP, which hasn’t happened before. Besides cutting wastage, the move will generate jobs and revenue,” said an excise official. To push sagging beer sales hit by the pandemic, beer shops irrespective of their stock lift last year would be eligible for renewal. Beer has also been allowed a shelf life of nine months. Also, wines manufactured from locally produced fruits will be exempt from excise duty for five years. Vintners will be allowed retail sale and wine taverns will be allowed on its premises. Wine tasting will also be provided at premium retail vends along with sale of drinking accessories. For storage at home, the policy raised the current limit from 6 litres to 16 litres on purchase of a special annual licence fee of Rs 12,000 and a security deposit of Rs 51,000. To ensure the law is not misused, only those who pay income tax of at least 20% will be eligible. The government decided not to raise excise duty on any brand. After lockdown pushed the start of the excise year from April to May, the government has decided to exempt the period from April to June 2020 for determining renewal criteria. All retail shops, other than beer, which lifted prescribed liquor quota from July 2020 to March 2021 will be eligible. New shops, equivalent to 2% of existing ones in 2020-21 will be allowed to be opened. Licences of shops which haven’t been renewed will be settled through lottery and tendering. After allowing sale of wine at beer vends, the government will now allow sale of local alcoholic beverages in foreign liquor retail outlets, model shops and premium retail vends, in addition to beer shops. The government has also done away with the provision that no liquor shops will be opened within 5km of the border of another district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/excise-duty-cut-on-beer-foreign-liquor-wine-to-be-cheaper/articleshow/80193028.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 10, 2021||Allahabad||PDA team attacked during drive to remove encroachments||Prayagraj: A team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA) officials was allegedly attacked by shopkeepers on Saturday during a drive to free public land and parking spaces which were encroached by local vendors in Civil Lines. PDA zonal officer Alok Pandey alleged that he and his team were attacked by local shopkeepers who hurled stones and bricks at them. However, the traders alleged that they were assaulted by the police and PDA officials during the drive. Police even had to resort to mild lathicharge to disperse the mob. A video of a shopkeeper being beaten also went viral. PDA also filed a complaint at Civil Lines police station, but no FIR was lodged till late evening. The shopkeepers were seen protesting outside the police station demanding action till late evening. According to reports, a team of PDA officials led by Pandey reached Subhash Crossing on Saturday afternoon to free parking areas from encroachment following the directives of Allahabad high court. The vendors started protesting when the team started removing a shop owned by former corporator Amit Singh with a JCB machine. While the shopkeepers demanded that the civic agency first issue a notice before taking action, PDA officials claimed that as the shops were encroaching public land, hence they were within their right to demolish them. Later, local residents led by Amit and Sunny Singh got into an argument with Pandey. “Suddenly, some of them started attacking us. The local residents also pelted stones at the team in support of shopkeepers. One of them also tried to snatch my gunner’s carbine,” said the zonal officer. While stones were being pelted, Sunny Singh was injured after a stone bounced off an electricity pole and hit his forehead. Before the situation could deteriorate, police resorted to mild force and dispersed the agitating shopkeepers. A number of make-shift shops were demolished during the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/pda-team-attacked-during-drive-to-remove-encroachments/articleshow/80192327.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP to increase labour budget to Rs 15k crore||Lucknow: The state government has decided to increase its labour budget under the MNREGA scheme to generate 45 crore person days to boost employment. If Uttar Pradesh succeeds in creating 45 crore person days, it will set a record under the scheme. Person days is the total work provided by the state each day over a year. The ministry of rural development had initially approved a labour budget of 26 crore person days for 2020-21, with Rs 8,710 crore budget. When migrant workers started returning to UP after the Covid-19 lockdown, the state government used MNREGS to provide employment to lakhs of migrants who had returned and increased the budget to Rs 11,725 crore on August 25, 2020 for increasing employment to 35 crore person days. Out of this, the state has achieved 32.66 crore person days till January 8, 2021. “We are confident that we will be able to exceed even this by the end of the financial year. The government has sent a letter to the ministry, proposing a second revision to 45 crore person days, amounting to approximately Rs 15,000 crore,” said additional chief secretary (rural development) Manoj Kumar Singh. In the previous year, over one crore labourers from 85 lakh families across 74 districts were given work under MNREGS, against 53 lakh families during 2019-20, said an official. “It was achieved during the Covid period, which helped gainfully employ people who had returned to the state,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-to-increase-labour-budget-to-rs-15k-crore/articleshow/80192955.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Reopening pleas ignored, coaching institutes explore legal options||Nagpur: Coaching institutes say they are planning to approach the courts as their repeated requests for reopening have been ignored by the government. Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI), a city based group, said they and other such groups have been in touch with several politicians but the issue has not moved forward. Rajnikant Bondre, president of ACI, said they are in discussions with their legal counsels. “We have no other option but to intensify our stir. Legal opinion is being taken about approaching the courts. Various associations in Maharashtra have met total 16 ministers, opposition leaders and IAS officers over the last one month. While everybody gives us a patient hearing, nothing concrete comes out of the meeting,” said Bondre. There are around 800 coaching institutes in Nagpur district, ranging from the single teacher tuition class unit to a multi-branch set up, and all of them are currently shut down. Bondre said, “Apparently Covid-19 does not spread in wine shops and bars, as government has granted them permission. Even roadside stalls are open where it’s obvious that you have to remove masks to eat. Schools have reopened after such a long gap but students of that same age group are not allowed back in coaching classes.” Sameer Phale, treasurer of ACI said, “Competitive exams are drawing near and there is tremendous pressure on students. Though online classes are going on, it’s not enough.” Panini Telang, joint secretary of ACI said, “When students come to us for clearing their doubts, that provides a greater level of clarity. These one-to-one sessions are very important for students.” ACI on Saturday held a press conference to voice their concerns and chose a unique way to reach out to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Bondre said, “We are sharing some cartoons on social media which depict our condition. Since late Balasaheb Thackeray was also a cartoonist, I am sure CM will able to relate to these caricatures.” ACI said they are in constant touch with other associations in Mumbai and Pune and in the future will intensify their protests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/reopening-pleas-ignored-coaching-institutes-explore-legal-options/articleshow/80192537.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||Recruit 1L teachers & Grade C staff: CM||Lucknow: To meet employment targets under Mission Rozgar, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed Uttar Pradesh Subordinate Services Selection Commission (UPSSSC) to carry out at least 50,000 recruitments for Grade C employees this year. The Higher Education Service Commission was also asked to expedite recruitment of 50,000 teachers in basic education council. A government spokesperson said, UPSSSC decided to adopt a two-phase examination system on lines of Public Service Commission to expedite the process. A preliminary examination will first be conducted for screening of candidates and shortlisted candidates will appear for a main examination as per departmental requirements and related service manuals. UPSSSC will also start a ‘Know Your Candidate’ (KYC) system this year. Now, a candidate should register only once on the commission’s website and not separately for every exam. Meanwhile, the basic education council will conduct a recruitment process to appoint 50,000 teachers while the secondary education department will recruit 20,000 teachers. A government spokesperson said the number of recruitments may go up. He said, more than 5 lakh traditional craft persons and youth will be given vocational skills training under Recognition of Prior Learning and Short Term Training by Uttar Pradesh Skill Development Mission. “Under the CM Youth Hub Scheme launched in 2020, a digital platform is being developed by Uttar Pradesh Skill Development Mission for youth entrepreneurs. Under the World Bank-funded Sankalp Yojana, special projects will be started to provide skill development training to those from economically and socially backward and tribal communities,” he said. The Chief Minister’s Apprenticeship Promotion Scheme will also be extended to provide more opportunities to youth, said the spokesperson. He said this year, 16 state industrial training institutes will be operated on public-private mode to provide training to youth. Jan Seva Kendras will also be set up for every village or population of 10,000 in the state to help generate employment. The government has set a target to provide employment to 4.5 lakh youth under this project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/recruit-1l-teachers-grade-c-staff-cm/articleshow/80192982.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||21-year-old loses life in road accident at Borim||Ponda: Kishan Umesh Kamat, 21, was killed in an accident at Baithakhol-Borim in Ponda taluka on Friday evening after his bike collided with a truck at a sharp turn at Baithakhol. The goods laden truck was proceeding towards Vasco, while the biker, a Shiroda resident, was travelling towards Ponda. The Ponda police have registered an offence against the truck driver, Siddhu, for rash and negligent driving. The deceased was working for a hotel in Margao and after returning home from duty, was travelling to Ponda for some personal work, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/21-year-old-loses-life-in-road-accident-at-borim/articleshow/80192551.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Triple murder on highway rocks Basti||LUCKNOW: A triple murder rocked Basti after bodies of a wholesale dealer, a truck driver and a porter were recovered in Chavni police station area of the district on Saturday. The deceased — Mohammed Aslam, Raj Kumar and Sonu Maurya — were attacked with a sharp-edged weapon and their bodies bore injuries in the neck. The motive is yet to be ascertained with no sign of loot at crime scene, said a police officer. Workers of Adesh Dhaba in Chavni area stumbled upon a body near their eatery and informed cops, who identified the deceased as Sonu Maurya from the cell phone found in his trousers. “After police teams took Maurya’s body, just 2km ahead on the highway to Lucknow, a stranded truck was found from where bodies of Aslam and Kumar were recovered,” said, superintendent of police, Basti, Hemraj Meena. Speaking to TOI, Meena said, preliminary investigations revealed the trio was returning from West Champaran in Bihar after selling a consignment of potatoes, onions and garlic. “The trio worked for a Kanpur businessman, Manoj Kumar,” said the officer. However, murder motive was unclear as Rs 1.46 lakh in cash was found neatly stashed in the pocket of one of the deceased and the truck too was left untouched. “We were able to ascertain their identities from their mobile phones and their last location was found to be a toll plaza in Chavni on way to Lucknow. There were blood stains and signs of struggle in the thickets where Maurya’s body was found,” said the officer. Meena said, a murder FIR was lodged against unidentified persons on the truck owner Manoj’s complaint. Police said, the triple murder could be the fallout of road rage on the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/triple-murder-on-basti-highway-trucker-dealer-porter-killed/articleshow/80193026.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kanpur||Maurya hits out at Oppn; says Rahul, Akhilesh change colours with weather||Prayagraj: Deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya on Saturday hit out at Congress leader Rahul Gandhi and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav and said that the two were like chameleons who changed colours according to the weather. Addressing a gathering after laying the foundation stone for the Salori railway overbridge (ROB), Maurya said, “Rahul Gandhi never visited any temple during the 10-year rule of the UPA government, but now he is going to temples in a desperate bid to return to power. Similarly, Akhilesh Yadav had also gone to Kamatanath in Chitrakoot recently.” “BJP has never stopped these leaders from going to temples. It is a good thing to have faith in God. We want leaders of other parties to visit the Ram temple in Ayodhya also and make donations,” he added. Taking a dig at Akhilesh Yadav, he said, “To question the Covid-19 vaccine is an insult to scientists and doctors of the country. The country will not tolerate this. Akhilesh Yadav will get the vaccine in 2022 (in UP assembly polls) at the hands of voters.” In a programme organised after the bhoomi pujan at Mazaar Crossing, he said that the construction of the ROB would be completed soon and it would be inaugurated in December this year. “The Buxi Band ROB will be inaugurated in January 2022.” He also announced the construction of a bridge over river Ganga to connect Heta Patti. He said that it is under the BJP government only that the inauguration date of a project is fixed on the day the foundation stone is laid. Except BJP, no other political party has ever paid attention towards the development of Prayagraj. People of Prayagraj received the gift of a new bridge over river Yamuna because of BJP senior leader Murali Manohar Joshi when he was the MP. The departments and officers are the same, but their style of working has changed with the change of government.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/maurya-hits-out-at-oppn-says-rahul-akhilesh-change-colours-with-weather/articleshow/80192314.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||8 more deaths, 255 cases in Punjab||Chandigarh: Punjab reported 255 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, while eight people lost their lives to the virus. Three people died in Ludhiana, while one death each was reported in Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot and Mohali. Mohali reported 61 fresh cases, while 57 people were tested positive in Ludhiana, 21 in Patiala, 16 in Amritsar, 13 each in Hoshiarpur and Nawanshahr, 10 each in Gurdaspur and Ropar, seven in Sangrur, six in Bathinda, five each in Pathankot and Mansa, four in Faridkot, three each in Ferozepur and Kapurthala, two in Fazilka and one each in Moga and Fatehgarh Sahib . Total Summary till Date Total suspected cases | 4080787 Total patients tested positive | 168734 Cured | 160343 Total deaths | 5439 Active cases | 2952||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/8-more-deaths-255-cases-in-punjab/articleshow/80192542.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Illegally promoted, four info officers demoted as peon, watchman, operator||LUCKNOW: The state government on Saturday demoted four additional district information officers to their parent posting as peon, watchman and cinema operator-cum-communication assistants after their promotions were found to be illegal. Following the decision, Narsingh, who was posted as additional district information officer in Bareilly, was demoted as peon, while Dayashankar, an additional district information officer in Firozabad, has been asked to join his previous posting as watchman. Similarly, Vinod Kumar Sharma and Anil Kumar Singh, who were promoted as additional district information officer in Mathura and Bhadohi, respectively, will again work on their previous profile as cinema operator-cum-communication assistant. The decision was taken after a helper in the information department filed a writ petition in the Allahabad high court seeking promotion citing the example of four employees of his rank who were promoted as additional information officers. The court, however, dismissed the petition and observed that the right to promotion was strictly regulated by service rules. The court also instructed the director (information) to decide on the representation and consider the grievance of the petitioner that other employees of his rank had been promoted. Following the court’s order, the information department checked the records and found that the four employees had been promoted despite the absence of any such rule to this effect. “It was decided that all the four persons should be demoted as there was no rule for such a promotion. Not only the helper’s claim to entitlement was inappropriate but the promotion of four others was also illegal,” a department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/illegally-promoted-four-info-officersdemoted-as-peon-watchman-operator/articleshow/80192874.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man carrying MD worth Rs 15 lakh held||The anti narcotic cell of Mumbai police have arrested a man with 150gm MD worth Rs 15 lakh and arrested one Ayaz Yakub Mandviwala alias Khatri alias Ayaz Charsi from Pydhonie in Mumbai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-carrying-md-worth-rs-15l-held/articleshow/80193425.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kanpur||Man shoots his daughter to death over ‘infidelity’||Kanpur: A man allegedly shot dead his newly married 20-year-old daughter over alleged infidelity in Fatehpur district on Saturday morning. Police said the accused, Chandramohan Singh, was upset as the in-laws of his daughter Swati had accused her of continuing her illicit relationship with her alleged lover and left her at his house on Thursday. After the murder, Chandramohan, a resident of Jaisinghpur village, drove to a police station and surrendered along with the licenced double-barrel gun after killing his daughter. Chandramohan is said to have fired three shots at Swati from a close range killing her instantly. The incident took place at around 9 am on Saturday, police said. According to reports, Swati was married to one Nagendra Singh of Singhpur area of Sachendi in Kanpur about an year ago. “After knowing about her illicit relationship, the woman’s in-laws objected to her affair and sent her to her parents’ house on Thursday,” said a police officer. “As per family sources, she had entered into a scuffle with her father and was not ready to end her extramarital affair with her lover, to which Chandramohan objected. After a heated argument, Chandramohan shot her dead from his licensed double barrel gun. After she died, he called the police Control room and informed them that he had killed his married daughter and was waiting to be arrested,” said the police. “Chandramohan, who later reached Thariyaon police station on a two-wheeler has been arrested while Swati’s body has been sent for postmortem examination. Chandramohan told cops that he had resorted to extreme step as he was fed up with his married daughter’s deeds,” said Circle Officer (City) Anil Kumar. Police have also seized the double-barrel gun and three empty cartridges that were used by Chandramohan to kill his daughter. “The deceased woman’s mother and brother were found to be missing from the house soon after the incident. We have launched a hunt to locate their whereabouts, besides we are also questioning the deceased’s woman in-laws,” said CO further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-shoots-his-daughter-to-death-over-infidelity/articleshow/80192335.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Tiger body parts seized in Rajura range||Chandrapur: Foresters of Rajura stumbled upon an old case of tiger poaching after recovery of canines, a nail and whiskers of the big cat from Nalfadi village. Sources in the department claimed that a person has been arrested in the case, while team has been dispatched in the lookout for others involved in the poaching. Sources informed that RFO, Rajura, Videshkumar Galgat got a tip-off about tiger parts being hidden at a place in Nalfadi. Accordingly, raid was conducted and a tiger nail, two canines and a dozen whiskers were recovered hidden underneath a stone in the front yard of a house on Friday. Investigation, however, revealed that the informer himself had planted the tiger nail, whiskers and canines to implicate others. The suspect was later arrested in the evening and his interrogation revealed that he had received the tiger valuables from a person from neighbouring Telangana state. Sources told that a team has been dispatched to undisclosed location in Telangana after the tiger parts supplier. Officials suspect that the tiger in the case is likely to have been poached couple of years back. However, the location of poaching is yet to be ascertained. The arrest of main accused in the case from Telangana could help in resolving the poaching mystery.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/tiger-body-parts-seized-in-rajura-range/articleshow/80192543.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 10, 2021||Kanpur||58-year-old man burnt to death in Ghatampur||Kanpur: A 58-year-old man was allegedly hacked and burnt to death in Daulatpur village in Ghatampur area of the district on Friday night. Victim Shiv Shankar Sankhwar’s badly charred body was spotted by his wife and children who informed the local police on Saturday morning. Police said an FIR has been registered in the case against the unidentified persons and the matter is being investigated. They said the report of the post-mortem is yet to be received. Ghatampur Inspector Rajiv Singh said a complaint in this regard was filed by the victim’s family. “The victim had gone to his agricultural fields to guard his crop from stray cattle on Friday night. The wife of the deceased has suspected the hand of a village man, with whom the victim had entered into an altercation over some issue a few days ago, behind the gruesome killing. We have taken him into custody and his questioning at present is underway,” Singh added. The investigators further told TOI that the assailants hacked the man to death elsewhere, dumped his body in the fields in the village outskirts and later set it on fire by dousing it with inflammable substance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/58-year-old-man-burnt-to-death-in-ghatampur/articleshow/80192345.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||ATS arrests man for helping Rohingya get Indian passport||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh Anti-Terrorist Squad (UPATS) on Saturday arrested Abdul Mannan from Sant Kabir Nagar for helping a Rohingya Azizul Haq get documents and Indian passport. Haq was arrested by the UPATS on January 6 for staying in India on forged documents. IG, ATS, G K Goswami told TOI that during interrogation, Haq revealed that Mannan had helped him acquire all the documents for staying illegally in India. Mannan was working as technical assistant in the Khalilabad Block office. “Using his resources and clout, Mannan helped Haq, a native of Myanmar, in getting all the required documents when he should have informed police,” the IG ATS said. Goswami said the interrogation of Haq is still going on and all those who have helped the Rohingya stay illegally in the country will be dealt strictly under the law. Earlier, on January 6, UPATS personnel had swooped down on a house in Sant Kabir Nagar, 45km from Gorakhpur, and arrested Azizul Haq, a Rohingya from Myanmar who was living in India since 19 years on forged documents. Cops also disclosed that Rs 15 lakh had been transferred in five bank accounts of Haq. Probe is on.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ats-arrests-man-for-helping-rohingya-get-indian-passport/articleshow/80193009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Navy commandos in Jodhpur to trace Army Captain Gupta||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: Navy’s MARCOS team reached Jodhpur to search for Army captain Ankit Gupta (28) who went missing three days ago during a training exercise at Kaylana Lake. Gupta of 10 Para, who has been missing since he jumped into a lake here during an exercise on Thursday, could not be traced despite an extensive search operation for the last two days.  He was a part of an exercise at Kaylana Lake and had jumped into the water body with some other personnel. While all others returned, Captain Gupta was not to be seen. ACP Neeraj Sharma said the search had continued till Saturday evening and would again resume on Sunday. On Saturday, a special team of MARCOS (Marine Commandos) from Navy had also joined the search. The search has been on since Thursday. Teams of NDRF, SDRF, Civil Defence and private divers along with the teams of Army have been constantly searching Captain Gupta with all the resources roped in to facilitate the search. Meanwhile, his family members have also arrived in Jodhpur and have been desperately awaiting the results of the search. Hailing from Gurugram, Gupta had been married barely a month and a half ago and had left soon to complete his special training with the force, according to sources. The incident came as a shock to the family, friends and the entire unit at the military station here, who had never anticipated losing a young and able officer in such a manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/navy-commandos-in-jodhpur-to-trace-army-captain-gupta/articleshow/80191799.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Bird flu found in 11 districts, no positive case on Saturday||JAIPUR: The death toll of birds in Rajasthan touched 2,512 riding on 350 fresh casualties on Saturday. So far, 45 samples from 11 districts have tested positive for bird flu. An animal husbandry department official said, “The department had sent 219 samples from 21 districts. We found bird flu in 11 districts. No positive report was received on Saturday”. Of 350 brids deaths on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. The number of dead birds includes 1,963crows, peacocks (152) and pigeons (122). The official said no deaths were reported among poultry birds. Animal husbandry department director Virendra Singh said, “Luckily, there is no poultry bird deaths reported in the state due to avian flu. We have also sent samples to NIHSAD, Bhopal. Due to ongoing rush, NIHSAD is not taking our case on priority as there are no deaths. Cases from other states where poultry deaths have been reported are being tested first.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all poultry farm owners to report in case of any deaths. In case of any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government. Animal husbandry department joint director (Jaisalmer) Vinod Kalra said, “An inspection of poultry retailers and meat shops was done in Jaisalmer district and so far the district was found flu free. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from eleven districts. On December 31, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/bird-flu-found-in-11-districts-no-positive-case-on-saturday/articleshow/80194641.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kanpur||Local firm allotted land in def corridor, to set up Rs 200cr unit||Kanpur: Industrial development minister Satish Mahana said on Monday that the defence corridor project in Kanpur has started taking off and MKU Limited, a defence company based in Kanpur manufacturing a range of protection and surveillance equipment and solutions and having a global footprint, has been allotted a plot at Sadh village defence corridor site. Speaking at an event at Sadh village on Saturday, Mahana said the state government is giving land to entrepreneurs on 25% rebate. Industries in the corridor would generate employment opportunities for youth. The minister directed officials to complete all development work at the site within a year. The defence industrial corridor is an aspirational project that aims to reduce dependence of Indian aerospace and defence sector on foreign manufacturers. Infrastructure facilities would be developed within a year and the entrepreneurs allotted land have to set up their units within five years. Mahana said, “In UP, land is being given in defence corridor at cheapest rate in the country as development charges are not being included in the cost of plots. MKU Limited has been allotted a five hectare plot and it would invest Rs 200 crore for setting up its unit.” The state government is providing good facilities to entrepreneurs because of which Uttar Pradesh has been ranked second in the ease of doing business, the minister added. UPEIDA CEO and additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi said development work in the corridor would be expedited so that entrepreneurs can establish their units at the earliest. MP Devendra Singh Bhole and MLA Abhijeet Singh Sanga were also present in the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/local-firm-allotted-land-in-def-corridor-to-set-up-rs-200cr-unit/articleshow/80192359.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Bird flu found in 11 districts, no positive case on Saturday||JAIPUR: The death toll of birds in Rajasthan touched 2,512 riding on 350 fresh casualties on Saturday. So far, 45 samples from 11 districts have tested positive for bird flu. An animal husbandry department official said, “The department had sent 219 samples from 21 districts. We found bird flu in 11 districts. No positive report was received on Saturday”. Of 350 brids deaths on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. The number of dead birds includes 1,963crows, peacocks (152) and pigeons (122). The official said no deaths were reported among poultry birds. Animal husbandry department director Virendra Singh said, “Luckily, there is no poultry bird deaths reported in the state due to avian flu. We have also sent samples to NIHSAD, Bhopal. Due to ongoing rush, NIHSAD is not taking our case on priority as there are no deaths. Cases from other states where poultry deaths have been reported are being tested first.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all poultry farm owners to report in case of any deaths. In case of any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government. Animal husbandry department joint director (Jaisalmer) Vinod Kalra said, “An inspection of poultry retailers and meat shops was done in Jaisalmer district and so far the district was found flu free. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from eleven districts. On December 31, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/bird-flu-found-in-11-districts-no-positive-case-on-saturday/articleshow/80194639.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Bird flu found in 11 districts, no positive case on Saturday||JAIPUR: The death toll of birds in Rajasthan touched 2,512 riding on 350 fresh casualties on Saturday. So far, 45 samples from 11 districts have tested positive for bird flu. An animal husbandry department official said, “The department had sent 219 samples from 21 districts. We found bird flu in 11 districts. No positive report was received on Saturday”. Of 350 brids deaths on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. The number of dead birds includes 1,963crows, peacocks (152) and pigeons (122). The official said no deaths were reported among poultry birds. Animal husbandry department director Virendra Singh said, “Luckily, there is no poultry bird deaths reported in the state due to avian flu. We have also sent samples to NIHSAD, Bhopal. Due to ongoing rush, NIHSAD is not taking our case on priority as there are no deaths. Cases from other states where poultry deaths have been reported are being tested first.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all poultry farm owners to report in case of any deaths. In case of any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government. Animal husbandry department joint director (Jaisalmer) Vinod Kalra said, “An inspection of poultry retailers and meat shops was done in Jaisalmer district and so far the district was found flu free. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from eleven districts. On December 31, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-flu-found-in-11-districts-no-positive-case-on-saturday/articleshow/80191798.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Bird flu found in 11 districts, no positive case on Saturday||JAIPUR: The death toll of birds in Rajasthan touched 2,512 riding on 350 fresh casualties on Saturday. So far, 45 samples from 11 districts have tested positive for bird flu. An animal husbandry department official said, “The department had sent 219 samples from 21 districts. We found bird flu in 11 districts. No positive report was received on Saturday”. Of 350 brids deaths on Saturday, 257 were crows, 29 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 54 others. The number of dead birds includes 1,963crows, peacocks (152) and pigeons (122). The official said no deaths were reported among poultry birds. Animal husbandry department director Virendra Singh said, “Luckily, there is no poultry bird deaths reported in the state due to avian flu. We have also sent samples to NIHSAD, Bhopal. Due to ongoing rush, NIHSAD is not taking our case on priority as there are no deaths. Cases from other states where poultry deaths have been reported are being tested first.” Taking precautionary measures, directions have been issued to all poultry farm owners to report in case of any deaths. In case of any ‘unusual mortality’ in poultry birds is found, samples will be sent to the laboratory to ascertain the cause. Poultry operators have been asked to strictly follow the guidelines issued by the government. Animal husbandry department joint director (Jaisalmer) Vinod Kalra said, “An inspection of poultry retailers and meat shops was done in Jaisalmer district and so far the district was found flu free. In the state, H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus was reported in samples of dead birds collected from eleven districts. On December 31, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar. It was informed that the H5N8 strain of avian influenza has a lower possibility of spreading to humans compared to H5N1, but it can be lethal for birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/bird-flu-found-in-11-districts-no-positive-case-on-saturday/articleshow/80194640.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers fighting to bolster democracy: Medha Patkar||ALWAR/JAIPUR: Hundreds of locals on Friday met farmer leader and Kisan Mahapanchayat convenor Rampal Jat and complained that their businesses have come to a standstill due the ongoing farmers’ agitation at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border and the blockade on Delhi-Jaipur National Highway. Meanwhile, social activist and leader of Narmada Bachao Andolan Medha Patkar joined the farmers’ agitation at Shahjahanpur on Saturday and addressed the protesting farmers. Blaming the centre for bringing the anti-farmer laws hurriedly during the lockdown, she said, "While this (BJP) government brought these laws, the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh (Shivraj Singh Chauhan), who belongs to the same party (BJP), says whoever comes to the state to sell their produce, will be arrested. This speaks volumes of their intention". "The farmers are fighting to strengthen democracy in India and this will help the oppressed people to raise their voices," she said. The locals who met Jat said they were facing lot of problems due to the farmers’ protest and have been losing patience over the last few days. While some of them said they have no work since the protests started and have not been able to earn anything in the past one month, others said they have not been getting wages since last month. Some also complained that due to the blockade they were not able to take patients to hospitals. The shops and hotels in the nearby areas and on the highway were shut and there were hardly any business transactions, they complained. Jat, meanwhile, requested the locals and truck drivers to submit a written appeal to the Haryana government urging it to allow the vehicles to ply on the national highway so that they could go to Delhi for business purposes. However, one of them said even if they submit a representation to the Haryana government, it will not take any positive action. Hence, they suggested that the locals and farmers should sit together and resolve this issue. Later, Jat said that five members each from both sides would hold a meeting on Sunday and find a solution to the continuing logjam on the highway. "We have no intention of causing problems to you. If anyone suffers because of our movement, this is the failure of our agitation," he said while speaking with the locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-fighting-to-bolster-democracy-medha-patkar/articleshow/80191800.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Meerut||Police barracks in Muzaffarnagar get a major facelift to provide ‘cleanliness & positivity’||Muzaffarnagar: Dilapidated rooms, leaking roofs, exposed live wires and unclean floors were a common sight as one entered police personnel barracks in police lines, but not any more.Taken up as a pilot project by the Muzaffarnagar police, one of the barracks has been turned around with plastic paint on the walls, LED lights and well furnished area in addition to clean beds with boxes inside and aesthetically chosen curtains and bed lights."Police personnel face a lot of negativity handling crime which is quite depressing in the true sense of the term. In this high stress job at least they deserve decent surroundings when they return to their barracks. The aim to give a facelift to these barracks is to instill a sense of positivity in the lives of these men who work day and night to maintain peace in the lives of common citizens. This is a pilot project and we will replicate the model in rest of the barracks as well," Abhishek Yadav, Muzaffarnagar SSP said.The spruced up barrack was inaugurated by the elderly head constable Rambir Singh, who joined the police force 41 years ago.According to police, the barracks were restructured in police lines. The same development will be seen in future in every police station across Muzaffarnagar even as thousands of sub-inspectors, inspectors, constables and head constables live in old ones. Although some police stations were rebuilt in Muzaffarnagar, still, some of them are several decades old.Now, cops after working for long hours can at least experience a good living condition somewhat like a hotel room, said Kapil Kumar, a constable.Notably, healthy organic meals, fresh fruit juices, smoothie, daliya, poha, and food cooked in olive oil are all being dished out for the men in uniform in Muzaffarnagar.Dedicating a unique outlet for its cadre, the police department had recently opened a state-of-the-art cafe-cum-gym which not only provides "healthy and nutritious food", but also lends an opportunity to train themselves to remain physically fit for the task.The cafe also delivers food orders to various city spots for cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-barracks-in-muzaffarnagar-get-a-major-facelift-to-provide-cleanliness-positivity/articleshow/80189963.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 10, 2021||Lucknow||UP 112 abuzz with crank call & abuse, police won’t spare mischief-mongers||Lucknow: UP police has decided to book mischief-mongers making crank calls at UP 112. UP 112 officials have blocked 517 such callers since December 15. Cops said such callers not only harass call operators but also keep them engaged due to which a genuine caller in distress could be deprived of help. Till now, the emergency helpline has lodged FIRs against 30 such callers and initiated action against them. Talking to TOI, Uttar Pradesh additional director general of police, UP 112, Asim Arun said, “We have been witnessing a trend that callers are harassing female call operators leading to call wastage. Some of them use abusive language which demoralises operators.” “We started monitoring and found that such calls were of three types – blank, crank and abusive. Some people dial UP 112 number and then stay quiet when female operator would pose a question or try to talk. Such numbers were identified and blocked,” he said. “Some callers give fake information like recovery of a body, an accident for fire. But when police response vehicles reach the site, it is found that no such incident has taken place. Such callers were identified and after warning them thrice, we blocked them,” the ADG said. He said those using abusive language were warned. The ADG also cited some cases where an FIR was lodged. “A man from Kanpur Dehat had complained that his wife had left home but when a police team reached there, it found that he had only beaten up his wife and locked her in a room. Similarly, in Muzaffarnagar, a caller had claimed that three children had been kidnapped. The claim was found to be untrue. They have been booked for breach of peace,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-112-abuzz-with-crank-call-abuse-police-wont-spare-mischief-mongers/articleshow/80193023.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Akhada Parishad slams U’khand govt for slow pace of works for Kumbh||Haridwar: Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP), the apex body representing the 13 sects of seers (akhadas) in the country, slammed the state over slow pace of Kumbh works adding that the Uttarakhand government should “learn from the government in Uttar Pradesh, where arrangements for Magh Mela are going on in full swing in Prayagraj despite threat of the pandemic". ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI, “I don’t know why the state government is still in confusion mode about the Kumbh mela in Haridwar. We have told the government many times that Kumbh mela will be organised on a large scale at any cost. The slow pace of work is a matter of concern for us. Even the mela officer has no answers.” Despite the state government assuring most Kumbh works would be finished by January, much of the work is pending. The Kumbh usually starts in January but this time, the state said it will issue a notification by the end of February. This would result in a highly curtailed festival. The state attributed the delay to the pandemic. ABAP seers said it was fine with the delay as long there was clarity on arrangements for the mela. “Our seers cannot wait for the government to get clarity and will come on time to install their camps. The state government will have to take responsibility for that,” Giri added. ABAP representatives plan to meet CM Trivendra Singh Rawat on Sunday to discuss mela preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhada-parishad-slams-ukhand-govt-for-slow-pace-of-works-for-kumbh/articleshow/80191269.cms||MS Nawaz
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Minor girl stones boyfriend to death||Nagpur: A 17-year-old girl, a standard IX drop out, allegedly stoned her boyfriend, 18-year-old Sanket Tayade, to death in a forest adjoining Pathar village in Katol taluka. Though the incident had taken place on December 12 last year, Katol police registered the offence on Friday after conducting the preliminary investigation. Police said the teenage girl and Tayade were in a relationship for the last one-and-a-half years. Their families were at loggerheads over their relationship. Tayade was said to be dominating the girl. On the day of incident, the teenage girl was taken to the forest by Tayade where they had a an argument. According to the girl, Tayade climbed up a tree and wanted to commit suicide. The girl too followed him to save him but both fell. Tayade suffered an injury on the back of his head. The post-mortem report too suggested death due to injury. Police said the girl’s version was not reliable and hence, the offence was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/minor-girl-stones-boyfriend-to-death/articleshow/80192560.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mhada can save Rs 250 crore with rehab flats at Worli||MUMBAI: Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) could save Rs 250 crore if it replaces transit tenements with rehab flats at Worli. Three months back MHADA began laying the foundation for three transit buildings at Worli, which will take at least three years to complete. Saving time and preventing cost-escalation has now forced the authority to relook at one of its most ambitious housing projects in the city. The transit tenements are being constructed on open spaces within Worli BDD chawl complex. Constructing rehab flats, rather than transit tenements, is being considered along with other issues, that are proving to be hurdles in redevelopment of BDD chawls at Worli, Naigaum in Dadar and at N M Joshi Marg, Lower Parel. A committee comprising Mhada vice-president, chief engineer (roads), public works department and chief officer (Mumbai Board) is discussing how to speed up the redevelopment. Yogesh Mhase, chief officer (Mumbai Board), said redevelopment is moving at a very slow pace and work must be speeded up. While Worli BDD, the largest cluster with 121 chawls, is estimated to take 10 years for redevelopment, Naigaum and N M Joshi are expected to take at least eight years. In the case of Naigaum, the contractor, Larsen & Toubro, had even served a termination notice as MHADA in three years failed to complete the eligibility survey and to hand over vacant land to the contractor to begin construction. “The government is keen the project is completed in five years,” said Mhase. He said deciding eligibility was crucial as government had promised a free 500 sq ft flat to eligible tenants, and is one of the biggest stumbling blocks. The promise of a free flat has led to disputes within families, often resulting in violence and police cases. The committee will also decide if the cut-off date for eligibility for commercial units can be extended beyond June 2017. The committee is also considering a multi-level car park, rather than three-level basement parking, as it would reduce maintenance costs. Mhada promised to bear maintenance costs for 10 years for the rehab buildings. The committee, meeting everyday, will submit recommendations to the government by January 10. Mhase said changes that will be proposed by the committee will be within the framework of the contract signed. “The process of deciding eligibility for phase I is on. Shifting of eligible tenants has been delayed on account of Covid-19 and is unlikely for 3-4 months. This process of consultation does not impact work currently under way,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mhada-can-save-rs-250cr-if-it-replaces-transit-tenements-with-rehab-flats-at-worli/articleshow/80193249.cms||Clara Lewis
January 10, 2021||Thane||FYJC second special round: Only 58% students confirm seats by deadline||MUMBAI: In the second special round of First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions, only 58% of students who were allotted a seat have confirmed their place till the deadline on Saturday. This was the last of the regular admission rounds and nearly 20,000 students still do not have a seat. For the second special round, 32,368 students were eligible, and 21,835 students were allotted a seat at a junior college in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of these, only 12,882 students secured their seat until 6pm on January 9. Officials from the education department said several students might have decided to wait for the first-come-first-serve (FCFS) rounds that will follow. “For those willing to take a risk, the FCFS rounds give them a shot at a college which might have cut-offs higher than their score,” said an official. According to a government resolution (GR) issued in June 2020, the education department had done away with the FCFS rounds, but special permission was granted to bring them back. In the FCFS rounds, students are allowed to claim a vacant seat irrespective of their scores. Students with a score of above 80% are given slots for day one. On day two, students with a score of 60% and above can claim a seat, and so on. The education department will soon announce a schedule for FCFS rounds. Till date, 1.9 lakh students confirmed their place in colleges, and there are 1.2 lakh seats vacant. The FYJC admission process was delayed this year for over three months as the state did not take a decision on the implementation of SC’s interim order staying the 12% socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/fyjc-second-special-round-only-58-students-confirm-seats-by-deadline/articleshow/80194016.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||DMC sterilised 27k stray dogs in last 4 years, drive to continue following complaints by residents||Dehradun: After claiming it sterilised and vaccinated over 27,000 stray dogs in the last four years, the Dehradun Municipal Corporation (DMC) will engage a new team to sterilise the remaining dogs, especially in the new wards after complaints from residents. The officials from DMC said that when the teams catch stray dogs for vaccination, some of them manage to escape and produce litters. The issue has also been raised by the residents of new wards, following which a new team of experts is being engaged to carry out ABC-ARV programme in the state capital. DMC’s veterinary officer Dr DC Tewari said, “The sterilisation and anti-rabies vaccination programme for the remaining strays in the city is underway. We will be engaging a new agency for the purpose which will catch and treat the stray dogs under the prescribed guidelines.” However, the problem of strays exists in other parts of the state, especially Haridwar where dogs are giving sleepless nights to its residents. Locals in the district said that the dog population is growing and the authorities are not making enough efforts to control their numbers.Manoj Negi, a resident of Jwalapur area in Haridwar, told TOI, “The stray dog population is uncontrolled in the city. We often hear about cases of dog bites and little has been done to sterilise them. The dogs often chase two-wheelers during night and people get hurt. Some serious efforts should be made to keep a check on the growing dog menace.” In Nainital too, the presence of stray dogs is ubiquitous, but the officials there claimed that over 96% of them have been sterilised. Speaking to TOI, Hima Rathore, Nainital’s veterinary officer, said that they had finished the sterilisation programme in October and sterilised around 1,480 dogs. "We have also sterilised over 100 dogs in Bhimtal and around 50 in Bhowali. There are also very low cases of dog bites in Nainital town and the population of stray dogs is being brought under control," Rathore added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/dmc-sterilised-27k-stray-dogs-in-last-4-years-drive-to-continue-following-complaints-by-residents/articleshow/80191296.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 10, 2021||Goa||‘Discuss ordinance on commercial shops in state assembly’||Saligao: The Mapusa Merchants’ Federation has demanded that a discussion should be called in the upcoming assembly session over the amendment promulgated by the government giving it the powers to seal, repossess and even re-auction municipal shops and commercial spaces. “We are not forcing our MLA, but, if he is concerned about the merchants’ welfare, then he should raise the issue in the assembly,” said president of the federation Narayan Karekar. He said the move to regularise the transfer of shops is a long pending demand and added that the municipal ordinance in the present form was against the traders’ interests. “As per the ordinance, those lessees, who have completed 40 years can get to run the shop for only another 10 years, which is injustice to the lessee. The two year imprisonment for whoever contravenes the sub-section 1 of section 88 A shall be punishable with imprisonment, which is not acceptable to the merchant community,” he added. The merchants have suggested that a provision need to be inserted in the regulations giving the right to transfer the shop among blood relations, including to a married daughter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/discuss-ordinance-on-commercial-shops-in-state-assembly/articleshow/80192577.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||FYJC second special round: Only 58% students confirm seats by deadline||MUMBAI: In the second special round of First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions, only 58% of students who were allotted a seat have confirmed their place till the deadline on Saturday. This was the last of the regular admission rounds and nearly 20,000 students still do not have a seat. For the second special round, 32,368 students were eligible, and 21,835 students were allotted a seat at a junior college in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of these, only 12,882 students secured their seat until 6pm on January 9. Officials from the education department said several students might have decided to wait for the first-come-first-serve (FCFS) rounds that will follow. “For those willing to take a risk, the FCFS rounds give them a shot at a college which might have cut-offs higher than their score,” said an official. According to a government resolution (GR) issued in June 2020, the education department had done away with the FCFS rounds, but special permission was granted to bring them back. In the FCFS rounds, students are allowed to claim a vacant seat irrespective of their scores. Students with a score of above 80% are given slots for day one. On day two, students with a score of 60% and above can claim a seat, and so on. The education department will soon announce a schedule for FCFS rounds. Till date, 1.9 lakh students confirmed their place in colleges, and there are 1.2 lakh seats vacant. The FYJC admission process was delayed this year for over three months as the state did not take a decision on the implementation of SC’s interim order staying the 12% socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/fyjc-second-special-round-only-58-students-confirm-seats-by-deadline/articleshow/80194017.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||FYJC second special round: Only 58% students confirm seats by deadline||MUMBAI: In the second special round of First Year Junior College (FYJC) admissions, only 58% of students who were allotted a seat have confirmed their place till the deadline on Saturday. This was the last of the regular admission rounds and nearly 20,000 students still do not have a seat. For the second special round, 32,368 students were eligible, and 21,835 students were allotted a seat at a junior college in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR). Of these, only 12,882 students secured their seat until 6pm on January 9. Officials from the education department said several students might have decided to wait for the first-come-first-serve (FCFS) rounds that will follow. “For those willing to take a risk, the FCFS rounds give them a shot at a college which might have cut-offs higher than their score,” said an official. According to a government resolution (GR) issued in June 2020, the education department had done away with the FCFS rounds, but special permission was granted to bring them back. In the FCFS rounds, students are allowed to claim a vacant seat irrespective of their scores. Students with a score of above 80% are given slots for day one. On day two, students with a score of 60% and above can claim a seat, and so on. The education department will soon announce a schedule for FCFS rounds. Till date, 1.9 lakh students confirmed their place in colleges, and there are 1.2 lakh seats vacant. The FYJC admission process was delayed this year for over three months as the state did not take a decision on the implementation of SC’s interim order staying the 12% socially and educationally backward classes (SEBC) quota.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fyjc-second-special-round-only-58-students-confirm-seats-by-deadline/articleshow/80193443.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Final Covid vaccine dry run on January 12, 287 new infections surface||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand health department will conduct the final dry run for Covid-19 vaccine in the state on January 12, just four days ahead of the launch of Covid-19 vaccine in India. The state has already conducted two mock drills for Covid-19 vaccination earlier this month. On Saturday, chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat congratulated Prime Minister Narendra Modi for announcing the launch of a nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16. The CM added that the officials must ensure that there are no misconceptions in the minds of people regarding the vaccination. “The authorities concerned must organize meetings with various social organizations, businessmen, and intellectuals of the society to help the government in dispelling the myths.” Speaking to the health department officials, chief secretary Om Prakash ordered all the district magistrates and chief medical officers to be prepared for the final mock drill for vaccination to be held in all 13 districts. “Around 140 more ambulances have been arranged for the state. These will be sent to different districts for vaccination. The ambulances can also be used to pick and drop beneficiaries in emergency cases,” said Om Prakash. He added that people with less than 18 years of age should not accompany the elderlies of their families to the vaccination centres. Earlier, such drills were held in the state on January 2 and January 8. In the first dry run, Covid-19 vaccination mock drill was conducted at five sites in Dehradun. And in the second dry run, the exercise was held at more than 130 places across the state. Also, with 287 new cases of coronavirus reported on Saturday, the Covid-19 tally reached 93,398 in Uttarakhand. Among the new cases, the maximum of 90 infections were recorded in Nainital, followed by 65 in Dehradun, 36 in Haridwar, 24 in Pauri, 21 in Udham Singh Nagar, 15 in Almora, nine in Tehri, eight in Pithoragarh, seven in Uttarkashi, five in Chamoli, three in Rudraprayag and two each in Bageshwar and Champawat districts. “Six coronavirus-related deaths were also reported in the state on Saturday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,568. With 243 people recovering from Covid-19 infection, the total recoveries in Uttarakhand reached 87,370,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/final-covid-vaccine-dry-run-on-jan-12-287-new-infections-surface/articleshow/80191316.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Over 750 buildings, including 58 hospitals, unsafe: Nagpur fire dept||NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s fire and emergency services department has declared over 750 city structures, including 43 units of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), Government Ayurvedic College and 14 other private hospitals, unsafe in the absence of adequate firefighting equipment and advised occupants to vacate them immediately. The list of unsafe buildings was uploaded on NMC’s website and these include residential properties, hospitals, educational institutions, bars and restaurants, industrial structures, mercantile centres, and also mixed occupancies. The department has also instructed NMC’s water works department and Orange City Water Limited to disconnect water supply to 60 buildings. Similar communications were sent to Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited to snap power supply to these 60 structures. Besides this, it has also filed police complaints against 54 owners and occupants of different buildings for neglecting fire fighting norms, the data revealed. The department has collated data of errant structures following inspection of 1,844 buildings having first fire no-objection certificate. As per the data, fire department inspected around 313 hospitals in city limits to check whether firefighting systems were in place or not. After the inspection, the department served notices to most of the building owners to install firefighting equipment. Though many property owners initiated the process, many overlooked the suggestions. “So, the buildings were declared unsafe under the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006,” chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake told TOI. TOI has been highlighting how firefighting arrangements are not in place in most high-rise and commercial buildings. As per the Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act, 2006, owners and builders violating the norms could be jailed for six months to a year. Though the fire department has informed MSEDCL and OCW of the status of such buildings, both the agencies continue to supply power and water to them. Most such high-rises are yet to even install firefighting systems. As per the report, many residential and commercial high-rises fall under ‘unsafe’ category. Though new development control rules have extended firefighting norms from 15-metre to 24-metre buildings recently, fire officials said as per old DCR and Maharashtra Fire Safety and Prevention Act, the existing unsafe buildings lack appropriate side margin, have no emergency staircases, and the main staircase is not free of obstructions. Besides, firefighting installations like wet riser, hose reel and sprinkler system were missing. Most buildings were also not constructed as per national building code. Uchake said notices were issued from time to time to all property owners, for failure to comply with the fire safety norms, and they were directed to undertake measures regarding fire prevention and life safety. However, even though all 750 buildings were declared unsafe, these continue to be functional with people living or working in them, because of the apathetic bureaucracy. The Shortcomings Water tank and pump not found on many terraces Hose reel in most buildings not working Extinguisher system insufficient Landing wall of riser system not working No facility of sprinkler system No detection systems Excess construction found in refuge area||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/over-750-buildings-including-58-hospitals-unsafe-city-fire-dept/articleshow/80192572.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Bird flu scare: Still battling Covid, eateries in Delhi hit again as diners chicken out||NEW DELHI: Winter outing for Anish Mehta meant heading out to enjoy butter chicken and naan at the eateries on Pandara Road or chicken changezi and tikka at the street stalls. The bird flu scare has forced him to cancel all such expeditions. With diners chickening out, restaurants and street joints, particularly those specialising in chicken dishes, are cackling with dismay. Mohammed Ashraf, CEO, Karim’s at India Islamic Cultural Centre, claimed that his weekend sales were down by half and chicken orders were rare with people not only avoiding poultry dishes, but meat in general due to the scare. The fear of the avian infection, he added, had impacted establishments like his offering mostly non-vegetarian menus. Just as restaurants had started seeing some positive response after being battered by the Covid pandemic, the bird flu news couldn’t have come at a worse time. Danish Swaleh of Dilli Gate restaurant in Darya Ganj was aghast at the sustained business hit he has taken, from the Delhi riots to the novel coronavirus and now the avian flu. Deepak Tandon of Wok in the Clouds asserted that though footfall and sales at his outlets were better than earlier, people were clearly avoiding dishes containing chicken or egg. “Customers are indeed returning to restaurants. We are seeing one of our best sale days of the season,” Tandon said on Saturday. “But diners are clearly preferring mutton and fish to poultry.” Vishal Jindal of Biryani by Kilo did not report any dip in orders for chicken biryani, but said it was too early to assess the impact of the flu fear. Food ordering apps such as Zomato were sending messages to customers to explain their pizza, biryani and tikka deliveries were safe as food was cooked above 70 degrees Celsius, enough to kill the flu virus. Citizens of Delhi, known as the chicken tikka and butter chicken capital of the world, are among the highest consumers of chicken. Deepanshu Manchanda, CEO and founder of online meat deliverer Zappfresh, informed that almost eight lakh bird are slaughtered or traded at Ghazipur mandi each day. He admitted there was fear about chicken across Delhi-NCR, but his website was seeing an increase in the demand for seafood and mutton, indicating that people wanted to order raw meat at home and cook it well. Navneet Kalra of eatery Khan Chacha and Khan Market meat shop M:eat by Blanco revealed receiving calls from people not only inquiring about the safety of meat, but also availability. “News like this is always met with a panic reaction by a section of society and, therefore, impacts sales both ways,” he explained. “But it improves sales for reputed brands because people like to order from places whose hygiene protocols they are sure of.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/still-battling-covid-eateries-hit-again-as-diners-chicken-out/articleshow/80193440.cms||Amin Ali
January 10, 2021||Thane||Thane: Two living illegally in India get two years’ jail||THANE: Two Bangladeshi nationals arrested for living in India illegally, were convicted and sentenced to two years imprisonment by a Thane court. Thane assistant sessions judge PM Gupta found the Marup Mujubi Shaikh and Alli Kalam Shaikh guilty of the offences under the Foreigners Act and Passport Act. The prosecution told the court the two were caught by Kashimira police, acting on a tip-off following which a raid was conducted on September 1, 2018. Since the arrest, they have been in the jail. One sent an application to court that they were in jail as they were unable to furnish surety and pleaded guilty to the the charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/2-living-illegally-in-india-get-two-years-jail/articleshow/80192573.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Hindustani classical musician decodes the inclusive spirit of khayal||Music is his middle name. Seventy summers on, Pandit Satyasheel Deshpande continues with his tryst with Indian classical music with the raw energy of a rugby enthusiast. For over two decades, the noted musicologist and vocalist has been busy decoding khayal, the leitmotif of the north Indian classical gayaki, and contextualise it within the country’s broad cultural framework, said observers. “Khayal is the soul of the north Indian music. By offering space to the vocalist to innovate, improvise and experiment, khayal embodies India’s inclusive spirit,” said Deshpande. Despande’s disciples, including son Srijan—a Ph.d in Indian classical music—recorded several of the guru’s compositions in their voices and posted them online on Saturday to mark his 70th birthday. Deshpande loves to air his views—mostly unorthodox—with aplomb. For instance, he thinks dhrupad has been lionised a lot by musicians at the cost of khayal. “Khayal is highly individualistic, and signifies a gradual shift from chorus to individual.” Tracing the origin of the Indian classical music to the hoary tradition of geeti, prabandha-chchanda and dhrupad, Deshpande said, “The earlier genres were verbose, while khayal is spartan. Also, khayal revolves round a rhythmic cycle, and sustains the ‘mukhda-sam’ pattern. I know this is a tad dense, but culture demands painstaking research.” However, Deshpande is fun while conducting workshops and regales students with anecdotes, and doesn’t consider it infra dig to break into ‘Kajara re...’ to show how closely the peppy ‘Bunty Aur Babli’ number resembles with ‘Digambara digambara, shreepad vallabh digambara’, a soulful bhajan of yore. Deshpande inherited music from his father. A well known chartered accountant, Wamanrao Deshpande straddled the two worlds of music and the moolah with aplomb, and soon began to handle the account of greats such as Pandit Bhimsen Joshi, Mogubai Kurdikar, Pandit Mallikarjun Mansoor and Pandit Kumar Gandharva. “Our Walkeshwar house was a hub of musicians and connoisseurs. I grew up in the company of maestros. Evenings were filled with tarana, tappa and thumri. Music was the mood of the Mumbai of the 1960s,” said Deshpande. Kumar Gandharva cast a spell on young Satyasheel and after obtaining a degree in commerce the latter trekked to Devas, the Madhya Pradesh abode of Pandit Kumar Gandharva, to learn classical music from him. Deshpande shunned limelight and took to research. A grant from Ford Foundation in the 1980s helped him with his archival recording project. He turned a portion of his Walkeshwar residence into a recording studio. Today, Deshpande has a formidable 5,000-hour collection of rare compositions sung by masters such as Ramashray Jha to Salmat Ali of the Salamat-Nazaqat duo from Pakistan. Deshpande thinks technology can help musicians take their music to the young generation. “Rare recordings are available on the Youtube. My archival project materialised because of technology,” he pointed out, adding that Maharashtra politicians were blissfully unaware of classical music. “Their idea of culture begins with tamasha songs and ends with lavanis.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hindustani-classical-musician-decodes-the-inclusive-spirit-of-khayal/articleshow/80193452.cms||Ambarish Mishra
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||OBC Mahasangh to protest outside Anil Deshmukh’s home on Monday||Nagpur: Rashtriya OBC Mahasangh members led by Congress MLC Abhijit Wanjari and Babanrao Taywade will protest outside state home Anil Deshmukh’s residence on Monday to press for their demand of filling vacant posts in the police department. Addressing the media on Saturday, the association’s national coordinator Taywade said job reservation benefits must accrue to OBC candidates as per the law. Taywade said, “There are many instances of injustice being meted out to OBC candidates. Through our platform we want to raise these demands and ensure that they get what is due to them.” He added that 12,000 posts in the police department have been lying vacant. “The earlier government too did not move ahead to fill up these posts. After the Mahavikas Aghadi (MVA) government came to power, they gave assurance to complete the job but till date nothing has happened,” said Taywade. The protest outside Deshmukh’s residence is a ‘reminder’ said Taywade. “We are simply going to remind the minister about his assurances,” said Deshmukh. Apart from this, the association reiterated various demands of the OBC community which had been presented before both the government and the courts. These include the reservation issue, creamy layer definition as well as proposal for new schemes to benefit the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/obc-mahasangh-to-protest-outside-anil-deshmukhs-home-on-monday/articleshow/80191844.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Hours after Uttarakhand HC stay, state govt issues order to go ahead with denotification of Shivalik Elephant Reserve; forest minister says ‘it’s a coincidence’, will challenge stay in apex court||The government’s decision to denotify the reserve had triggered widespread protestsDehradun: The state government on Friday night issued a government order denotifying the Shivalik Elephant Reserve, the Himalayan state’s only elephant reserve. Incidentally, the denotification order was issued barely hours after the high court had stayed the denotification and issued notices to the Centre, state, state biodiversity board, state wildlife board as well as chief wildlife warden. Forest minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the state government has geared up to challenge the stay. “We will fight against the stay and respond to the suo motu notice taken by the high court earlier. Elephant reserve is not a legal entity and therefore, there should be no legalities around it,” added Rawat. When queried on how the government can go ahead with the denotification order when it has been stayed by the HC, Harak Rawat said, “It is correct that our government order came after the high court’s stay but we were not aware that there is any kind of stay. Our denotification was already approved in November itself. The releasing of government order was a formality which was under process. This is purely a co-incidence.” Meanwhile, Doon-based conservation activist, Reenu Paul, on whose PIL the stay order had been passed by the HC, refused to comment on the matter. The move to denotify the elephant reserve had sparked widespread protests amongst green activists. The move came soon after TOI had highlighted in October last year that the state government plans to fell around 10,000 trees of Shivalik Elephant Reserve for the expansion of Dehradun airport. After the issue gained traction, the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) had also written to the state government, suggesting that the use of land of the reserve should be avoided as it is of ‘high conservation value.’ The state government had responded that suitable alternate land is not available and had pressed for the need for expansion of the airport citing strategic reasons and for rescue and rehabilitation works in the future.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hours-after-uttarakhand-hc-stay-state-govt-issues-order-to-go-ahead-with-denotification-of-shivalik-elephant-reserve-forest-minister-says-its-a-coincidence-will-challenge-stay-in-apex-court/articleshow/80191326.cms||Shivani Azad
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Arbaaz discharged from hotel quarantine||Mumbai: Actor Arbaaz Khan was discharged from hotel quarantine on Saturday, while his brother Sohail and son Nirvaan will be discharged on Sunday. The three tested negative for Covid, a senior BMC official said. BMC had on January 4 filed an FIR against Arbaaz KhaSohail and Nirvaan for violating the quarantine rule for international flyers. Officials forced the trio to check into a hotel for the remaining period of the 14-day quarantine. Since December 22, those who land in the city from Europe, Gulf and South Africa have to spend seven days in a hotel or an institutional quarantine and then seven more in home isolation. The rule was introduced following the outbreak of the UK strain. After returning from UAE on December 25, they told government officials at the airport that they had booked rooms in a five-star hotel at Bandra to quarantine themselves while completing formalities. But they directly went home and cancelled the hotel bookings. BMC learnt about it on January 4, and filed a case against them under Sections 188 for disobedience to an order promulgated by a public servant and 269 for a negligent act, which is likely to spread infection of a disease dangerous to life. Earlier, Sohail reportedly told officials that they had all tested negative for the virus after arrival at the airport, so they decided to go home directly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arbaaz-discharged-from-hotel-quarantine/articleshow/80191788.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 10, 2021||World||Bangladesh seeks Pakistan’s apology for 1971 genocide||NEW DELHI: Even as Pakistan removed all visa restrictions for Bangladeshi citizens to visit Pakistan, Dhaka has sought an apology for the 1971 genocide for both countries to be able to move forward. This is important in a year when Bangladesh will be celebrating 50 years of its liberation. Shahriar Alam, Bangladesh minister of state for foreign affairs, told the new Pakistan high commissioner Imran Ahmed Siddiqui in Dhaka on Thursday that the apology along with completing the repatriation of Pakistanis stranded in Bangladesh and settling the issue of the division of assets was important for resolving the outstanding bilateral issues with Pakistan. According to a release issued by the ministry of foreign affairs, the minister urged Pakistan to grant access to more Bangladeshi products under the SAFTA provisions and to relax the negative list and other trade barriers. Meanwhile, the new Pakistan envoy told the Bangladeshi government that “Pakistan has already removed all restrictions on Pakistani visas for Bangladeshi citizens”. A Pakistani statement issued after a meeting between Alam and Pakistani Siddiqui on Thursday said: “The two sides agreed to intensify bilateral contact at all levels.” The Sheikh Hasina government’s demand came after Pakistan removed all visa curbs for Bangladeshi citizens. Dhaka said an apology would help both nations move forward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/bangladesh-seeks-pakistans-apology-for-1971-genocide/articleshow/80193844.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Trip down memory lane to the clash of clans||he fierce bouts between the boxing clans of North Madras are all in the past, but the memories of the adrenaline rush, the sound of the loud tirades and cheers from the crowd and the spectacle of blood, sweat and might come flooding back to the boxers of yore every time there is a mention of a fight. But above all it reminds them of the fierce rivalry that they nursed outside the ring.Professional fighting flourished in the working class qurter of north Chennai from the 1940s until the 1990s, when prize fighting bouts attracted as many as 10,000 people and the matches used to be held at Nehru Stadium, Kannapar Thidal, Scouts ground. Bringing alive on screen this buzzing culture of professional boxing is director Pa Ranjith’s new film ‘Sarpatta Parambarai’. Old timers recall adverts during movie intervals of the more famous fights. News about top bouts used to be circulated at least a month ahead with posters of fighters sharing space with film stars across city walls. On the day of the bout, the entire police force attached to the nearby stations would be in attendance at the Nehru Stadium. Police would patrol on horseback during the bouts and would charge into the crowd outside the stadium if they got unruly. Little fights would often break out in the crowd belonging to rival groups as the fighters owed their allegiance to groups or clans called ‘parambarais’. Boxing contractors would book the prizefighters from the warring ‘parambarais’ for a price and then go about making arrangements for the fight.Once celebrated ‘public boxer’ 68-year-old K G Shanmugam, who fought for the Ellappa Chettiyar Parambarai in the 1970s, cites his own marriage to drive home the point about the rivalry. His father-in-law K Pakkiri, a boxing contractor, was with the Sarpatta Parambarai and refused to give his daughter’s hand in marriage to a prize fighter from a rival clan. "People from my husband’s family kept trying to convince my family. It was only after he (Shanmugam) defeated the top fighter in Sarpatta Parambarai that my father agreed," reminisces Saraswathi. She has never seen prize fighting, but the stories of wins and losses were part of everyday conversations at home. Despite the new bonds, old allegiances were never forgotten. "My father would not discuss boxing with my husband, instead he would advise boxers from Sarpatta Paramparai on my husband’s perceived weaknesses," Saraswathi laughs cheekily. Among the clans there was an unwritten code. Boxers from the Ellappa Chettiar Parambarai and Idiyappa Naicker Parambarai do not fight against each other as they have the same teacher. Aspiring boxers had to work their way up to become eligible for the main draw. "One had to prove his mettle in the fights in small draws at mofussil areas like Alandur, Moolakadai, Rajakadai, before coming to Chennai. Contractors used to pay a fighter less than `5 for these fights," said Shanmugam. A top level boxer who could attract crowds would be offered anywhere between `10,000 and `35,000. The boxers put in hours to master the skill. Making do with things around them, the fighters had unique styles of training. Shanmugam, who grew up in Pulianthope used the Pattalam market as his training ground for dodging practice, running through a crowd dodging everyone along the way. Arumugam lifted boats for upper body training.From sourcing snake fat for special massage after training to local traders supplying milk, meat and other rations free of cost to north Indian businessmen providing a place for training in their establishments, the parambarai boxers had a strong support system. "The saying it takes a village to keep something going holds true for ‘parambarai’ boxers. Without the patronage of people and support of families public boxing would not have thrived," says ‘Knock out’ Arumugam, who is from the fishing community.After their peak fighting days, many would take up government or private jobs or train youngsters in the clan. Shanmugam landed a job in the railways and served for 34 years. Many like Sarpatta’s Arumugam took up jobs abroad. However, the wane of professional boxing in north Chennai began from the early 1990s after several boxers began indulging in criminal activities and the authorities began to deny permission for public boxing events. Many say the emergence of Boxer Vadivelu and his violent criminal ways was the death knell for public boxing in the city. Vadivelu and his accomplices were accused of murdering two employees of Tharasu magazine in 1991. In 1999, Vadivelu’s death while in prison due to alleged health complications led to prison riots. One Jail official was burnt alive and 10 prisoners were shot dead and over a 100 were injured. Vadivelu was a phenomenally talented prize fighter who went astray, says trainer Kasimedu Arumugam. And with that boxing from the city also became a memory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/trip-down-memory-lane-to-the-clash-of-clans/articleshow/80190404.cms||Srikkanth D
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Actor’s ex-manager, UK man arrested; 200kg ganja seized||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a UK national, former manager of a Bollywood actor and her sister in a case of smuggling of 200kg of high quality ganja into the country. Karan Sajnani (40), a UK national, Rahila Furniturewala and her sister Shaista were booked under NDPS Act sections 27 and 27A (financing, trafficking and harbouring), which attract a maximum sentence of 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment. Rahila is the former manager of an actor but the latter has no role in the smuggling, officials said. Acting on a tip-off, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and team intercepted a parcel couriered to Bandra (W). In the absence of human drug mules since stoppage of international flights from March 22 due to Covid-19, smugglers are using postal and courier services, NCB said. In a follow-up, NCB searched Karan’s flat at Jaswant Heights in Khar (W) and claimed to have found 200kg of ganja. His interrogation led sleuths to his friend Rahila’s house, from where they recovered a small quantity of weed. NCB claimed it found ganja at Shaista’s flat too. Imported strains of ganja like OG Kush and curated marijuana have been recovered and contraband was sourced from the US and locally, NCB said. “The weed recovered from Rahila’s house is of the same quality seized from drug peddler Anuj Keshwani’s house last year. Rahila was being investigated in the case initiated after actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide,’’ an official said. NCB claimed the ganja was in the form of joints, to be distributed in Goa, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Meghalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actors-ex-manager-uk-man-arrested-200kg-ganja-seized/articleshow/80192611.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Early death for 10 premature babies in Bhandara hosp blaze, 7 rescued||Bhandara: In a heart-wrenching incident, 10 premature babies died after a fire broke out in the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on the first floor of the Bhandara District General Hospital around 1.30am-2am on Saturday. The victims included eight girls and two boys. Seven premature babies, all girls, were rescued, said authorities. After the fire, a Covid patient admitted in the ICU of the hospital was shifted to the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Nagpur where he was declared brought dead, said a relative. One more patient from the Bhandara hospital was shifted to GMCH, Nagpur. The hospital is around 60km from Nagpur. Bhandara district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate told TOI that three to four babies were charred to death while the other casualties happened as oxygen supply snapped due to the fire. The cause of the fire is not known but is believed to have been caused by a short-circuit. The state government has ordered a high-level inquiry by a six-member committee into the accident. “Strictest action will be taken against the guilty after a thorough probe,” said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while offering his condolences. He also announced a compensation of Rs5 lakh to the kin of the deceased. The CM is scheduled to arrive in Bhandara at 11 am on Sunday for a spot visit. The National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR) has asked the Bhandara district collector Sandip Kadam to send the factual action taken report within 48 hours of receiving the letter. Fire tenders reached the spot within 10 minutes after being informed and doused the flames within 30 minutes. According to Kalgun Gopala Wadhai, fire maintenance in-charge of Bhandara Municipal Council, the fire fighters could not find easy access to the special ward and had to use ladders and break open the windows to gain entry. “The rescue was hampered by low visibility due to the thick smoke,” he said. It took concerted efforts from nurses, fire fighters, ambulance drivers, security guards and a few locals to rescue the seven babies from the inborn section (those born in the hospital). According to them, they couldn’t save the babies in the outborn section (those born in other hospitals but kept there for special care), which can be entered only through the inborn section, as the medical equipment there had caught fire. Thackeray said though the state health care system and hospitals are fighting Covid-19 pandemic crisis, there will be no compromise with security at the hospitals. “Instructions have also been given to check whether fire audit of all the hospitals has been properly conducted,” he said. Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar has ordered that the child care units of other hospitals in the state to get audited immediately. The inquiry committee will be headed by director of health services Dr Sadhana Tayde, said state health minister Rajesh Tope. The committee will have to submit report to the government within three days. The rescued babies, including twin girls, were shifted to other units of the hospital. All the babies are yet to be named as they had been in special care since birth. Authorities knew names of the mothers of nine out of 10 victims. One name is missing as the child had been abandoned at birth. Bodies of the victims were handed over to aggrieved parents but media was barred from talking to them. TOI contacted a few in their villages while authorities refused to answer queries. A large police posse was deployed on the hospital premises. State home minister Anil Deshmukh, who reached Bhandara from Mumbai, too ordered a police inquiry into the accident. After reaching the hospital, he inquired with the staff who informed that they couldn’t enter the ward due to the thick smoke and the blasts caused by the equipment on fire. The hospital staff also told Deshmukh that they even tried using the fire extinguishers but the flames couldn’t be controlled. Dr Khandate in a media bulletin said nurses had opened the door, which means no staff was inside the special care unit at the time of incident. According to chief fire officer of Nagpur and PWD officials, the fire wouldn’t have spread to such an extent had anyone been present in the ward. Former state energy minister and BJP leader Chandrashekhar Bawankule claimed that no action was taken even after relatives of the infants had complained about power fluctuations in the ward over the last week. A team of National Fire Service College and Visveswaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) was asked to investigate into the cause of fire, said state relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar. The team rushed to the spot at 1pm. Former chief minister and leader of opposition in state assembly Devendra Fadnavis also visited the hospital and demanded a compensation of Rs10 lakh for the families of the victims. He also said a case of culpable homicide should be registered against those found guilty of the tragic incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/early-death-for-10-premature-babies-in-bhandara-hosp-blaze-7-rescued/articleshow/80191891.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||CHARUSAT: 1,813 graduating students, 30 gold medallists||Vadodara/ Anand: A total of 1,813 graduating students including 30 gold medallists were conferred degrees during the tenth convocation of Changa-based Charotar University of Science and Technology (CHARUSAT) on Saturday. In all, 313 students of Faculty of Computer Applications, 197 students of Faculty of Management Studies, 128 students of Faculty of Pharmacy, 285 students of Faculty of Applied Sciences and 890 students of Faculty of Technology and Engineering have been conferred degrees this year. Considering Covid-19 induced pandemic and to adhere to social distancing rules, the university has decided to award the degrees to the students over the next two days – January 11 and January 12 – at six different venues. PhD scholars and gold medallists from various disciplines received their degrees and medals from deans of various departments during the convocation. Harish Mehta, founder and executive chairman of Onward Technologies Limited and first elected chairman of the National Association of Software and Service Companies delivered the convocation address online as the chief guest. “We are living in uncertain times, but we are living in a world of immense opportunities,” he said, adding that youngsters should upskill and reskill themselves through technology.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/charusat-1813-graduating-students-30-gold-medallists/articleshow/80190886.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Serious lapses in Mapusa Urban liquidation process: Depositors||Panaji: There are serious irregularities and procedural lapses in the liquidation process for the Mapusa Urban Cooperative Bank (MUCB), some of the bank’s depositors alleged on Saturday. The depositors said that they plan to approach the high court of Bombay at Goa to ensure that their funds are released. The depositors said they believe that the state government and the management of the defunct bank are working hand in hand to deny depositors their hard earned funds. “Till date the balance sheet for the financial year of April 2019-March 2020 is not yet ready, reducing the liquidation proceedings to a mockery,” alleged Joseph Carneiro, one of the depositors who has taken the lead in approaching the authorities. Around 2 lakh depositors with total deposits amounting to Rs 355 crore are waiting for their funds ever since the Reserve Bank of India cancelled the bank’s licence on April 16. “We have no choice, but to knock on the doors of the high court,” Carneiro said. The depositors also expressed dismay to see that MUCB general manager Shailendra Sawant has been appointed as the officer in charge of the day-to-day liquidation proceedings. The depositors alleged that Sawant, along with the board of directors, were responsible for the bank going under and for disbursing loans without following due diligence. The depositors said that they had filed a complaint with the Panaji police station and the economic offences wing, but the same has not been registered. “We feel that there is pressure from the top. The government is collaborating with the board of directors,” alleged Kunda Quenim, a senior citizen and a depositor whose funds are locked with the bank. The depositors, many of them senior citizens, said that despite having adequate funds in their bank accounts, they struggle to meet their daily expenses, medical expenses, marriage costs and other financial needs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/serious-lapses-in-mapusa-urban-liquidation-process-depositors/articleshow/80192631.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Patna||Patna: Rs 15 crore illegally withdrawn from govt account in private bank||PATNA: A week after a failed transaction of Rs 11.73 crore was detected from a government account at Kotak Mahindra Bank’s Exhibition Road branch in Patna, it has come to light that at least Rs 15 crore was fraudulently withdrawn from the same account in the past two months, police said on Saturday. A senior employee of the bank has been detained for questioning. The government bank account in question has deposits related to land acquisition fund allocated by the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for road works in the state. Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma told TOI on Saturday that the bank began an internal inquiry after the failed attempt to transact Rs 11.73 crore on January 2 via RTGS for which one Shubham Kumar Gupta was arrested. It was then that the transactions came to light. The SSP said based on their internal probe, the Kotak Mahindra authorities informed the police about three transactions amounting to more than Rs 15 crore from the same NHAI account, which they said were fraudulent and were successfully transferred to other accounts using forged documents in the last two months alone. “We have sought a detailed report from Kotak Mahindra bank about all transactions, fixing responsibilities of erring bank authorities. Things would become clear only after police receives the report,” Sharma said, adding at present everyone’s role starting from the bank officials to government officers is under the police scanner. Police detained a senior employee of Kotak Mahindra, who was earlier posted at the Exhibition Road branch. However, he had to be rushed to a private hospital for treatment as he fell ill soon after being picked up by the police due to nervous breakdown, said a senior police officer. Police also quizzed several other employees of the private bank at the Gandhi Maidan police station for hours on Saturday in connection with the case. A senior police officer said bank authorities suspect fraudulent transactions from the government account could be as high as Rs 28 crore. “This could be confirmed only after bank authorities reconcile all transactions, especially debits, with the help of district land acquisition office and NHAI,” he said. Preferring not to be named, he further said that alleged fraudulent transactions of Rs 28 crore to other accounts surfaced while reconciling transactions till November last year. Patna DM Dr Chandrashekhar Singh replying to TOI’s query said he has directed the district land acquisition officer (DLAO) to submit a report after news of failed attempt of Rs11.73 crore transaction was published. “DLAO has assured me of reconciling bank statements till Monday and submit a report. I will be able to comment after that,” he said. The DM said if any fraudulent transaction has taken place, then it can’t happen without the connivance of bank and government officials. Singh said in the case of forgery, he will set up a high-level committee to get the case probed properly. He added bank accounts having land acquisition fund are operated by the DLAO with NHAI having parental control.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ssp-rs-15-crore-illegally-withdrawn-from-govt-account-in-private-bank/articleshow/80191666.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 10, 2021||Patna||Four-year-old girl critical after being raped in Patna||PATNA: Police on Saturday arrested a 42-year-old man on charges of raping a four-year-old girl in Yarpur locality of Patna under the Gardanibagh police station. The police swung into action after the girl’s parents lodged an FIR with Women’s police station on Saturday against Raghunandan Paswan, accusing him of raping the minor on Friday night. SHO of Women’s police station Arti Kumari Jaiswal said the girl was undergoing treatment at a hospital. “Her condition is critical,” Jaiswal said. “The accused, a construction worker, took the minor girl to a secluded place underneath the Bhikhari Thakur bridge at Yarpur on the pretext of giving her money and raped her there,” the SHO said. “The girl’s parents identified Paswan on the basis of details provided by her and later brought the matter to the notice of the police. The girl’s medical examination was conducted on Saturday. However, her statement before the judicial magistrate is yet to be recorded. The accused has been forwarded to judicial custody,” Jaiswal added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-year-old-girl-critical-after-being-raped/articleshow/80191614.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Patna||PMC proposes 15% increase in holding tax||PATNA: House owners in the city will have to shell out more for holding tax as the standing committee members of the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) on Saturday approved a hike of 15%. The proposal would go to the state urban development and housing department for final approval. The proposal got passed in the 45th standing committee meeting chaired by Mayor Sita Sahu here on Saturday attended by eight empowered members, including deputy mayor Meera Devi, and PMC commissioner Himanshu Sharma. According to the sub-section 7 (iii) of Section 127 of the Bihar Municipal Act 2007, holding tax can be raised by 15%. It was last increased in 1993. The municipal commissioner said the holding tax is an important revenue source for the civic body, and it has not increased in over 17 years. “The holding tax hike proposal would get tabled before the board meeting of PMC, and after its approval, it will get implemented accordingly,” Sharma said. However, he did not specify when the tax increase would come into effect. Altogether 18 proposals were approved at the standing committee meeting, including smart parking facilities in the city, a drama school in Patna City’s Rajaghat, drinking water pipeline scheme, purchase of equipment for sanitisation and vehicles for door-to-door garbage collection among others. Mayor Sahu said the PMC would float the bidding to invite an agency for the smart parking system. “The purpose of a smart parking system is to stop the fraudulent collection of parking charges from residents in the name of PMC. Due to the illegal collection of parking charges, the civic body incurs huge losses. So, a proposal to operate all thirty-four PMC car parks in the city under the public-private partnership (PPP) model has got passed,” she said. Purchase of 150 e-rickshaws and 60 CNG-powered closed auto-tippers (10 each for Azimabad, Bankipore, Kankerbagh, New Capital, Patliputra and Patna City circle) for door-to-door garbage collection has been allowed. The PMC has a total of 182 twin bin e-rickshaws and 375 closed tippers. The civic body has approved the penalty rates for cow ranch for littering cow dung at public and open places. The cattle owners will have to pay Rs 1,000 for dirtying roads and clogging drains, the second time they have to Rs 2,000 while Rs 5,000 for a repeat offence. Besides, the PMC will provide one auto-tipper for cow dung collection from cowsheds for biogas production.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmc-proposes-15-increase-in-holding-tax/articleshow/80191634.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Juna Akhada announces dates for its royal procession||Haridwar: The Juna Akhada, one of the biggest akhadas of Naga Sanyasis, announced the dates for its royal procession — Peshwai — on Saturday. Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad (ABAP) general secretary Mahant Harigiri, who comes from Juna Akhada, said that the religious flag (Dharma Dhwaja) of Juna, Aahvan, and Angi akhadas will enter Haridwar from the Bijnor route on January 25. Later on February 16, the religious flag will be installed in the premises of these three akhadas. Similarly, the royal procession of Juna and Agni akhadas will start from Pendawala Jwalapur on February 27. The Aahvan Akhada will take out its procession from the same site of Jawalapur on March 1. Mahant Harigiri further said that Agni and Aahvan akhadas are associated with the Juna Akhada and a joint royal bath will be conducted this time. The Kinnar Akhada and Dandi Swami will also be part of the royal procession, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/juna-akhada-announces-dates-for-its-royal-procession/articleshow/80191340.cms||MS Nawaz
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Magnitude 3.3 earthquake jolts Uttarkashi||Uttarkashi: An earthquake of 3.3 magnitude on the Richter scale struck several areas of the Uttarkashi district at 11.27 am on Saturday morning. According to the information shared by administration, the epicentre of the earthquake was at the depth of 10 km from the surface in the Gorsali forest region of Bhatwari Tehsil. Devendra Patwal, district disaster management officer, said, “Shock waves of low intensity were felt in several areas of Bhatwari and Dunda tehsils. No damage to life or property has been reported.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/magnitude-3-3-earthquake-jolts-uttarkashi/articleshow/80191346.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid to keep attendance thin||Ahmedabad: The partial re-opening of schools and colleges from Monday in Gujarat is being seen with a lot of hope and much caution as many parents are yet in a wait-and-watch mode. While the government remains hopeful that a majority of college students will be attending classroom studies that are to resume after a gap of over 10 months, schools may see less than 50% turnout initially. Many class X and class XII students, for whom schools will re-open in phase one from Monday, are likely to have completed their course curriculum online and may stay away from attending physical classroom studies. As per the Gujarat government directive, classroom studies will be resumed only for final year students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate studies. Anju Sharma, principal secretary of higher and technical education, said that about 70% students are expected to attend colleges on re-opening. In the case of schools, surveys in and around Ahmedabad show that so far only 25% parents have given consent to send their wards to attend physical classroom studies beginning from January 11 in Gujarat. These numbers are expected to rise if the Covid situation further normalizes in coming days. “In Ahmedabad rural, 25% parents have shown willingness to send their children to schools. Out of 75,000 to 80,000 students, 20,000 students are likely to get written consent from their parents for attending schools,” said R R Vyas, District Education Officer of Ahmedabad Rural. He said the situation would be similar in the urban areas of Ahmedabad too. Bhaskar Patel, president Gujarat Rajya Shala Sanchalak Sangh said, “Not more than 40% students likely to attend classroom studies. Most of the course has been completed by way of online studies for board students. They will attend school only for solving doubts.” Schools and colleges will have to strictly adhere to the Centre’s Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) guidelines. Manan Choksi, president of Association of Progressive Schools said about 30-35% students are expected to attend schools from Monday as per their survey. It might take a little longer for CBSE students to resume attending physical classrooms as they their exams are presently going on in online format. They will be completed by January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-to-keep-attendance-thin/articleshow/80185374.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||Drunk sub-inspector creates uproar at police post, suspended||Pilibhit: A police sub-inspector posted at the reserve police lines was suspended after he created ruckus at Khakra police outpost of Pilibhit Kotwali police station on Friday night under the influence of liquor. On getting the information, superintendent of police Jai Prakash Yadav sent Sudhir Chaudhary to the district government hospital for medical examination under the police custody to confirm the presence of alcohol in his blood. Yadav said he was waiting for the report to be filed in the matter by the SHO concerned before deciding the mode of action against the sub-inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-sub-inspector-creates-uproar-at-police-post-suspended/articleshow/80191358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Man killed by girlfriend’s other paramour in Kheri||BAREILLY: A man was killed by his girlfriend’s other boyfriend after he was found in a compromising situation with the woman in a village in Lakhimpur Kheri district. Deceased Sarjeet Kumar’s body was recovered from Sunsi village on Friday after the villagers informed the police. According to cops, Kumar had gone missing since Wednesday. The body was then sent for an autopsy which confirmed that Sarjeet was strangled to death. After filing an FIR under IPC section 302 (murder), the cops started their investigation, during which they found about his affair with the woman. “Based on Sarjeet’s mobile surveillance record, we managed to nab the woman. During interrogation, the woman told us that she had an affair with Sarjeet and Harpal, who is her distant relative. After her husband’s death two years ago, she became dependent on both for her survival. However, Harpal didn’t know about her relationship with Sarjeet,” SSP Kheri Vijay Dhull said. “Sarjeet and the woman were together when Harpal suddenly reached her house. Upon finding her girlfriend with another man, Harpal lost his temper and killed Sarjeet. Thereafter, Harpal dumped his body with the help of the woman. We have arrested both of them and sent them to jail,” Dhull added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-killed-by-girlfriends-other-paramour-in-kheri/articleshow/80191360.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Bird flu: Drones to keep a check on migratory birds in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: To contain the spread of avian influenza in Uttarakhand, drones have been deployed to keep a check on migratory birds who flock to the state from different parts of the world, including China, Mongolia, Kazakhstan, and a few European nations. The drone force is keeping a watch on these winged guests over Baigul Dam, Dora Dam, and Sharda SagarḤ dam in the Terai East forest division of the Western Circle. The move comes after cases of avian influenza were reported from different parts of the country. The live locations of the birds are being monitored by the drone force and their movement is also being tracked. “The sole aim at present is to stay vigilant regarding bodies of migratory birds in water bodies and to keep a track of unhealthy birds,” said Sandeep Kumar, divisional forest officer, Terai East, Uttarakhand forest department. The official added that drones are also helping in keeping a check on poaching activities in the western circle, which is the temporary habitat for over 100 migratory bird species. JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden, Uttarakhand forest department, said, “The use of drones is extremely important as it will protect our winged guests in two ways – from avian influenza and from the poachers. So far, the photographs and videos captured by the drone indicate zero cases of influenza. This strain of influenza is quite virulent as suggested by the scientists and therefore, we cannot afford any laxity.” Meanwhile in Udham Singh Nagar, rapid response teams have been formed at block levels to check all poultry farms in the region and collect serums of the birds for examination. Also, the district officials are planning to initiate a sensitisation campaign to spread awareness regarding the virus among locals. “The district disease diagnostic team, along with veterinary doctors, is visiting poultry farms. They are collecting serum samples and oropharyngeal swabs of birds. We are also collecting faecal swabs from the cloaca to ascertain the tracks of the deadly disease,” said Dr Puja Pandey, chief veterinary officer , Udham Singh Nagar. Ornithologists have expressed concern regarding avian influenza claiming bird lives in states of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Kerala. It is worth mentioning that the state officials have sent samples of dead crows found in Dehradun and Pauri for testing of avian influenza to Bhopal. The results are awaited, according to officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bird-flu-drones-to-keep-a-check-on-migratory-birds/articleshow/80191365.cms||Shivani Azad
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ministers to welcome students||Ahmedabad: In a move likened to Shala Praveshotsav, the state government has decided to welcome students when schools re-open from January 11 by holding programmes across the state. The government has assigned the responsibility of organizing the programmes in as many as 21 districts of the state to various ministers. The state government said in a media statement that in the 2020-21 academic year it could not hold the Praveshotsav due to the Covid crisis. Students are welcomed under the programme to encourage them to study. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and energy minister Saurabh Patel have been entrusted with the responsibility of welcoming students in Gandhinagar district. State home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja and revenue minister Kaushik Patel will attend similar events in Ahmedabad. The state government had earlier this month announced the re-opening of schools and colleges for students in a phased manner from January 11. In the case of schools, the government has decided to resume classroom studies only for Class 10 and Class 12 students. In the case of colleges, only final-year students will be allowed to attend in-person classes. Gujarat joins the list of at least 16 other states where schools have been re-opened after being shut down in March in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ministers-to-welcome-students/articleshow/80185384.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Murder accused on run for five years held by U’khand STF from Kanpur||Dehradun: A man accused of killing his wife in Haridwar, who was on the run for the last five years, has been arrested from Kanpur by the special task force (STF) of Uttarakhand police. A bounty of Rs 5,000 was put on this man’s head. After his arrest, the accused, identified as Vishwajeet Malik, confessed to the police team that as a minor, he had served time in juvenile justice home in 1993 for killing his brother. SSP STF Ajay Singh said, “We received inputs that Malik who had murdered his wife on November 25, 2015, was hiding somewhere in Kanpur.” A police team followed the case for 10 days and traced his location to Rasoolabad area of Kanpur. Following which, a team headed by STF Inspector MP Singh left for Kanpur and arrested Malik from Mahendra Nagar area of Rasoolabad on Friday. Malik, a resident of Sitarganj in Udham Singh Nagar district, told the police team that he had a strained relationship with his wife. “He claimed that he used to have frequent fights and quarrels with his wife over petty issues and in November 2015, he murdered her. After committing the crime, Malik hid himself at different places of Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh,” said Singh. The accused also informed the police team that as a minor in 1993, he had killed his elder brother Gopal Malik. He was kept in the juvenile justice home at Haldwani and released after a period of six months. “We have a list of all the accused, who are still at large, and are making our best efforts to arrest all of them,” the senior police official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/murder-accused-on-run-for-five-years-held-by-ukhand-stf-from-kanpur/articleshow/80191366.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||‘SRA builders don’t have facility to pay premiums’||MUMBAI: The state government this week slashed real estate premiums for builders by 50%, but builders of Slum Rehabilitation Authority (SRA) projects don’t even have the instalment facility to pay premiums. While the state government’s urban development (UD) department allowed BMC, Mhada, Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation and MMRDA to allow builders to pay charges through instalments in September 2019, SRA was left out. This means builders carrying out SRA projects have to pay premiums in lump sum. After Mulund BJP MLA Mihir Kotecha wrote to SRA CEO Satish Lokhande about the cash crunch faced by SRA builders, because of which they were unable to pay rent to slum-dwellers, Lokhande wrote to principal secretary (housing) S V R Srinivas, requesting a similar facility. “The UD department’s letter in September 2019 said builders should be allowed to pay their charges and premiums in instalments so that there is no financial strain on them. Keeping only SRA builders out is a conspiracy. This is being done to ensure slum projects are delayed and big ticket projects are fast-tracked,” Kotecha said. Officials said around 530 SRA projects are stalled for want of liquidity. Kotecha this week wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray seeking the instalment facility in SRA. “Big builders paid only 10% of premiums in the first instalment and sold inventories when the ready-reckoner rates were reduced to 2% till December 2020. SRA builders had to pay 25% in the first instalment,” he said. Housing minister Jitendra Awhad admitted there must be no disparity in facilities. “In fact, SRA is most important, since it is carrying out slum rehabilitation. We have sent the file to the UD minister and we are expecting it to be cleared soon,” Awhad told TOI. The UD department is led by the Shiv Sena’s Eknath Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sra-builders-dont-have-facility-to-pay-premiums/articleshow/80193497.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Teen denied pre-arrest bail in northeast Delhi riot case||NEW DELHI: A 19-year-old BA student has been denied anticipatory bail in a case related to the violence that took place in northeast Delhi in February 2020. “In the present matter, a young innocent boy, namely Raman, was brutally attacked by the riotous mob, merely on the ground that he belonged to a different community,” said additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav. Appearing for the accused Irfan, counsel Jatin Sapra argued that his client was a first-year BA student had been falsely implicated in the case merely on the basis of the disclosure statement of co-accused persons. Sapra argued that no specific role was assigned to Irfan in the case and, in fact, he had nothing to do with the alleged offence. It was further argued that Irfan had gone to attend a marriage function at a relative’s home in Mumbai and was stranded there owing to Covid-19 pandemic. Sapra submitted that policemen of New Usmanpur police station had been “threatening his family members to arrest him in the matter and in this regard they have visited his house several times, that too at odd hours”. “Investigation in the matter is complete; chargesheet has already been filed; applicant is permanent resident of Delhi and there are no chances of his absconding or tampering with the prosecution witnesses; he is ready to join further investigation,” added Sapra. Special prosecutor Saleem Ahmed, on the contrary, claimed that the teenager was seen in the CCTV footage along with a group of rioters. Pressing for Irfan’s custodial interrogation, the prosecutor said that he had been deliberately evading arrest. He contended that though a chargesheet had been filed, further probe was continuing in order to identify and nab the other accused persons. The court, therefore, observed his custodial interrogation was “very much necessary” to unearth the conspiracy for planning, instigating and executing the riot action plan. “The allegations against the applicant are grave in nature. The presence/appearance of the applicant is very much necessary to unearth the conspiracy involved in planning, instigating and fanning the flames of communal conflagration. Considering the facts and circumstances of the case in totality, I do not find it to be a fit case for grant of anticipatory bail to the applicant,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/teen-denied-pre-arrest-bail-in-northeast-delhi-riot-case/articleshow/80193496.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara blaze: Bereaved families in state of disbelief||BHANDARA: Vandana Mohan Sedam (28) and Yogita Vikesh Dhurse (23) lay on the beds in a state of disbelief at primary health centre (PHC) at Pahela, about 20 kms from District General Hospital of Bhandara. Vandana, a resident of Ravanwadi village, lost her seven-day-old daughter while Yogita, a resident of Srinagar village, was bereaved of her one-day old son. Both were handed over a cheque of Rs5 lakh each by the state government at 4.30pm. They read them, gave their acknowledgment, and kept the cheques aside before staring in infinity once again. Vandana’s daughter was charred to death beyond recognition, while Yogita’s son was identified by the tag. “Doctors said a test was done to establish she was my daughter,” said Vandana. Vandana’s in-laws claimed they were not informed how the death took place. “We were handed over badly-burned mortal remains around 10am,” said Kamala Sedam, Vandana’s mother-in-law. She added that they couldn’t understand if it was indeed their newly-born granddaughter. Vandana has a 5-year-old daughter. All the 10 bodies were ferried in different ambulances to their respective villages in the district. Both, Vandana and Yogita kept reiterating that they wanted to go and feed their babies but the doctors didn’t allow them. “Moments before the fire, I wanted to breastfeed but the doctors and nurses said no. Maybe she could have been saved if I had gone inside,” said Vandana. As the hospital administration, cops and district officials barred media from speaking to the families on the premises, TOI could locate just two of the aggrieved mothers. While the nine parents are mourning (one baby was unknown), the other six heaved a sigh of relief. Dinesh Maroti Khandate, a petty farmer, can only thank his stars as he was among the six fortunate parents whose babies survived the midnight horror at the district hospital. "My wife delivered on December 22. It was a normal delivery. The same day, my twin daughters were shifted to the Sick New Born Care Unit. I didn’t see them since their birth. Since that day, my wife has been allowed to see them only for one hour every day to feed them," said Dinesh. At 2.10am he came to know about the fire. “Smoke blew inside our room on the next floor from where the fire broke out. I went to my wife’s bed and we tried to rush down to our baby’s ward. But there was no visibility, only darkness and smoke. Staff told me to take care of my wife first. They said babies would be brought to the other ward and asked us to leave. It was under these extreme circumstances, that I saw my daughters for the first time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-blaze-bereaved-families-in-state-of-disbelief/articleshow/80191958.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bird flu hits Gujarat, four sanctuaries closed||Ahmedabad: Gujarat’s fear has come true. The state recorded its first confirmed cases of avian flu after samples of two dead birds from Junagadh tested positive. The forest department also shut down four bird sanctuaries to contain the spread. The two lapwings had been rescued on January 3 from an area near Bantva Dam in Manavadar , but they later died due to illness, said Dr D D Panera, Deputy Director, Animal Husbandry division, Junagadh. Following confirmation of the infection, officials began surveilling a 1o-km area around the dam. The forest department, which had closed the sanctuaries earlier, had reopened them on Wednesday. However, following confirmation of bird flu, it has once again shut Nalsarovar and Thol bird sanctuary in Ahmedabad, Khijadiya bird sanctuary in Jamnagar and Porbandar bird sanctuary for tourists. The officials added that surveillance has been stepped up in Kutch, and even around village ponds where wild and migratory bird nest. The animal husbandry department said further action will be taken by the forest department. Secretary (animal husbandry) N B Upadhyay said the department has informed the local administration that samples of two lapwings have been tested positive for bird flu. Junagadh Collector Pardhi Sourabh Zamsingh said, “The local administration has ordered surveillance in 17 villages in the 10-km radius of Bantva Dam. The focus had not been on poultry birds so we have begun daily monitoring of poultry birds, too." The collector added that the collectorate has ordered special health teams to check residents of Sultanabad and Bantva villages which are within 3-km range of the dam. The officials said that 46 lapwings., three herons, a comb duck, and three pigeons had died over Saturday and Sunday. “So far, no birds have been culled as the disease has not been detected in poultry birds,” he said. Meanwhile, water samples of Bantva dam have also been sent for examination for traces of contamination, if any. The situation is fully under control as no other bird, including poultry birds, has died an "unnatural or sudden death" since January 4 in the district, an official said. In the last three days, four crows each were found dead in Surat and near Modhera Sun Temple in Mehsana but the cause of death is not clear yet, officials said. The Centre earlier in the day said bird flu has been confirmed so far in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bird-flu-hits-gujarat-four-sanctuaries-closed/articleshow/80185406.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra to vaccinate 51,000 every day on launching its drive at 511 centres||PUNE: The state health department aims to vaccinate nearly 51,000 beneficiaries daily when the Covid-19 inoculation drive begins for priority groups. Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services, said that the drives would be carried out at 511 vaccination centres across the state. Officials are currently identifying such sites. Dr Patil said that every municipal corporation in the state would have eight to 10 designated vaccination centres within its limits. “Basic facilities that are required at these sites include internet connectivity and trained IT personnel who know the CoWIN system well,” she said. CoWin, or Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network, is the system the government has set up to monitor vaccine distribution nationwide. “We already have the cold chain infrastructure. We also have teams in place to monitor any adverse events,” Dr Patil said. She said each site would aim to inoculate 100 beneficiaries every day. “There are ample vaccine carriers for the drives. The state has nearly 4,000 cold chain points with ice-lined refrigerators, deep freezers, and cold boxes. At regional and district headquarters, we have 21 walk-in coolers and four walk-in freezers for vaccine storage. The vaccine will be stored in ice-lined refrigerators and will be transported to the sites in vaccine carriers,” she said. As for additional equipment, the top official said that the state was expecting 549 ice-lined refrigerators from the Centre soon, besides 150 more deep freezers, six walk-in freezers and two walk-in coolers. “Additional vaccine carriers will also be supplied, but existing infrastructure, including syringes from ongoing immunisation programmes, will suffice during the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination in Maharashtra,” Dr Patil said. National Health Mission commissioner for the state Dr N Ramaswami said there were enough facilities and manpower for storage and transport. “The success of the dry runs has also reinforced the state’s preparedness. Technology issues with the CoWIN app are also being resolved,” Ramaswami said. He said reports of spotty internet connectivity had been only from remote the parts of Gadchiroli, Nandurbar and Nashik. He said that data of eight lakh frontline health workers from the state had been uploaded on the CoWin app for priority vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-vaccinate-51000-every-day-on-launching-its-drive-at-511-centres/articleshow/80192722.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||NSG commandos to be deployed at Kumbh Mela||Haridwar: Commandos of the National Security Guard (NSG) will be deployed in Haridwar during the Kumbh Mela. According to officials, two teams of NSG commandos will reach the holy town before the first shahi snan scheduled in March this year. They said that the deployment will be made in view of terror threat during the Kumbh mela. IG Sanjay Gunjyal confirmed to TOI that the two NSG teams will reach Haridwar before the start of Kumbh Mela. Meanwhile, five companies of para-military force and PAC have already reached the town for Kumbh Mela duty. The units will be deployed on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on January 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/nsg-commandos-to-be-deployed-at-kumbh-mela/articleshow/80191371.cms||MS Nawaz
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||UP cops cite ‘circumstantial evidence’ to refuse rape FIR||PILIBHIT: Over three months after two Dalit minors, sisters aged 13 and 15 years, alleged that they were repeatedly raped by their 65-year-old employer in Uttar Pradesh’s Pilibhit, police are yet to file an FIR. On Saturday, the inquiry officer said ''circumstantial evidence indicated the allegations of rape were false'. Circle officer Pramod Kumar told TOI, “When rape is alleged, we have to see the conditions on the ground." He also ruled out a medical examination, maintaining that "it can only be held after an FIR is registered". The two girls had first approached police on September 23, but no complaint was taken and no case registered, the family alleged. On January 5, the family approached Pilibhit’s superintendent of police (SP) on ‘Tehsil Diwas’ and filed a complaint. Taking note of the complaint, the SP ordered a ''probe'' by the circle officer (CO). In the complaint, the girls had said that they, along with their parents, were working as labourers for the contractor who had also provided accommodation for them on his farm. “The contractor used to rape the elder sister while threatening to kill her parents. When her health deteriorated, he raped the younger sister in September,” the complaint said. Lawyer Babita Saxena, a social worker in Pilibhit, said, “The Criminal Law (Amendment) Act 2013 provides a rape victim all rights to a police FIR with the assurance of fullest protection to her. In accordance with the amended law, the police cannot refuse to register an FIR even if a considerable period of time has elapsed since the incident of rape or molestation.” Saxena said she would refer the case to the National Commission for Women seeking its immediate intervention. She added that a police officer refusing to register an FIR in a rape case is liable to be punished with rigorous imprisonment for a minimum term of six months which may extend up to two years in addition to fine under section 166A (c) of IPC. Dr Anita Chaurasia, chief medical superintendent of the district women's hospital in Pilibhit, said, “If the victims go through the medical examination now for confirmation of rape, it would be almost impossible for medical officers to trace any evidences of rape." (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/minor-sisters-alleged-rape-circumstantial-evidence-non-indicative-of-rape-says-co/articleshow/80191369.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||UDH min constitutes 3 panels to identify people’s problem||Jaipur: To provide relief to maximum plot owners staying in regularised colonies during the upcoming ‘Prashasan Sheharo ke Sangh’ camps, the urban development and housing (UDH) minister constituted three committees to examine various bylaws and rules and make necessary amendments.In the meeting, the issues and land-related problems, which will be included in the campaign for redressal were discussed on Saturday. An official said, “The three committees will submit their report by February 5, 2021, after studying the problems faced by the local bodies in regularisation other than those identified in the previous campaigns.”The state government has plans to organise ‘Prashasan Sheharo Ke Sangh’ next month. The residents who have been waiting for years to procure lease deeds of their plots will be benefited with the move. An official at UDH department said, “People living in unapproved colonies will face several difficulties such as basic development, non-availability of loan for construction and many others. Along with earning revenue, the government will resolve the problems of these plot owners,” he said.Official sources said, the state government might allow the local bodies to regularise colonies developed between 1999 and 2005. Earlier, to regularise the colonies developed before 1999, the JDA had prepared a list. However, as matter is still pending in the court, the JDA might not regularise these colonies. “As per the JDA records, there are 1,722 housing schemes developed before 1999. Other than that, between 1999 and 2002, around 614 housing colonies were developed by housing societies.”At present, there are approximately 800 colonies in the JDA periphery which are yet to be regularised. “Out of these colonies, regularisation of around 400 colonies can be done easily, whereas it will be difficult for the JDA to regularise other colonies due to various reasons. Relaxations will be provided by the state government to regularise these colonies during the camp,” added the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-min-constitutes-3-panels-to-identify-peoples-problem/articleshow/80191962.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Flight fares to Australia, New Zealand & Japan soar||CHENNAI: Flying between Chennai and destinations in Australia, New Zealand, Japan and Singapore has become a hassle and expensive due to absence of ‘air bubble’ flights. Fewer flights and restriction on the number of passengers allowed have made the airfare expensive. One-way air fares to Australia for travel next month are in the range of Rs 1.4 lakh to 1.6 lakh. It cost Rs 35,000 to Rs 40,000 in the pre-Covid-19 days. One-way air fare to Tokyo is Rs 80,000 over triple its cost of Rs 25,000 pre-pandemic. An airline official said airlines are allowed to take in only 50 to 60 passengers on aircraft with capacity of more than 150 to 200 passengers, to any destination across the world, to prevent spread of the new strain of the virus.” “This makes it difficult for people to get tickets via transit hubs such as Dubai because the flights from Chenni to Dubai will already be full,” said Basheer Ahmed, of Metro Travels. Passengers wanting to reach Australia, New Zealand, Japan also have to either depend on Vande Bharat evacuation flights or to fly via Dubai or Hong Kong, which is expensive and time consuming. There are fewer flights between Chennai and Hong Kong as well. Those who flew down to Chennai a few months ago want to return to Australia and New Zealand. Ahmed said steady demand from Chennai to Australia and Japan have driven up ticket costs. “People have to fly on Vande Bharat flights from Delhi or fly via Dubai. Flying via Singapore and Hong Kong have been ruled out as there are no ‘air bubble’ flights to the cities. There is high demand for tickets to Sydney, Melbourne and Tokyo from Chennai. This has caused the air fares to shoot up. Flying to the cities is costlier than flying to the US.” He added that travel and tour operators have been urging the government to start ‘air bubble’ flights to these countries. When asked about it, an airline official said the new strain of Covid-19 detected has deferred prospects of new air bubble routes. “There was a plan to introduce ‘air bubble’ flights from Chennai and other cities to Singapore and Australia. But because of developments after the new strain was detected, the plan has not taken off.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/flight-fares-to-oz-nz-japan-soar/articleshow/80191961.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to crack down on heavy vehicles cutting highway lanes||MUMBAI: State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne on Friday announced that a campaign against ‘lane cutting’ by heavy motorvehicles (HMVs) on highways will be conducted on a priority during the Road Safety Month beginning January 18, and that there will be a ‘zero tolerance’ policy. Dhakne said this is a serious issue in terms of road safety and to reduce mishaps. In many cases, he said, it has been difficult to nab offenders. TimesViewWith CCTV cameras and drones already in use and the proposed vehicle tracker system, it should be possible to streamline traffic. But with heavy vehicles as much as any other traffic violator, it is not the absence of technology that has been a problem but the absence of will on the part of the traffic authorities to enforce rules. Heavy vehicles indeed flout the rules with impunity and need disciplining. If they are, it will be a good first step towards better implementing traffic norms overall.“We plan to use information technology to crackdown on every private tourist bus operator and those plying trucks, trailers, tempos, and other HMVs, without maintaining proper lanes on highways. It is frustrating for other motorists, especially when a truck is on the first right lane, which is against the rules,” he said. The state plans to use CCTV cameras and drones in cities and Expressways, while the vehicle location tracking system (VLTS) is proposed for the state and national highways in the future. The latter is at the last stage of implementation, said Dhakne. “VLTS can help detect lane-cutting and indiscipline on highways through remote monitoring and a command and control centre,” he said. The issue is of concern within Mumbai as well. Said Ajay Mitra, a finance consultant who travels frequently on the Eastern Express highway: “Between Kurla and Thane, I have seen many heavy trucks including BMC garbage trucks and light commercial vehicles frequently driving on the extreme right or in the middle lanes of the highway, causing hindrance to us (private car drivers). As a result, cars and private taxis are forced to criss-cross lanes and indulge in dangerous overtaking. In the past, truckers were directed to use the two extreme left lanes, but this is not followed and there is hardly any deterrent.” A V Shenoy from Mumbai Mobility Forum said there are indicators along highways stating which vehicles should maintain the leftmost and which can drive on the extreme right. "Sadly, rules are broken. For example, on the Pune Expressway, there will be trucks plying on the rightmost lane and sometimes, one truck is seen overtaking the other, causing traffic chaos,” he said. Another regular motorist, who did not wish to be named, said that there was a need to discipline the heavy motor vehicle drivers rather than impose a penalty. “During the Road Safety Month, the RTO and traffic police should conduct counselling sessions for these drivers and make them maintain lanes strictly on highways,” he said. In the country, Maharashtra has the second highest number of road crash deaths on any highway. The latest NCRB report for 2019 showed that the state had 9.6% of the total fatalities—5,083 deaths on national highways, 3,813 deaths on state highways and 167 deaths on Expressways.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-crack-down-on-heavy-vehicles-cutting-hway-lanes/articleshow/80193520.cms||Somit Sen
January 10, 2021||India||Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro writes to PM for 2m Covishield doses||NEW DELHI: With Covid cases in Brazil topping 8 million, its President Jair Bolsonaro wrote a letter to PM Modi this week asking for 2 million Covishield vaccines manufactured by Serum Institute. Brazil, he said, has launched its national immunisation programme against Covid. “Among the vaccines selected by the Brazilian government are those from the Indian company Bharat Biotech International Limited (Covaxin) and AstraZeneca and University of Oxford (Covishield), produced by Serum Institute of India.” Making a request for an urgent supply, Bolsonaro said: “I would appreciate being able to count on Your Excellency’s good offices to anticipate the supply to Brazil, with the possible urgency and without jeopardising the Indian vaccination program, of 2 million doses of the immuniser produced by Serum Institute of India.” Brazil conducted phase 3 clinical trials for the Astra-Zeneca vaccine and China’s Coronavac by Sinovac Biotech. The latter had to be stopped midway following adverse incidents in some volunteers. The Brazilian regulatory authority only allowed resumption of trials in December. The Chinese vaccine has been dogged by lack of transparency and adequate data. However, recent reports say the Chinese vaccine has 78% efficacy. The Chinese vaccine is being pushed by the governor of Sao Paulo, Joao Doria, a political opponent of Bolsonaro, who has promised to vaccinate 44 million residents of the province by end-January. Brazil’s Butantan Institute in Sao Paulo is partnering Sinovac for the vaccine. Bolsonaro dismissed the Chinese vaccine and pushed for the Astra-Zeneca one, which also completed phase 3 trials in Brazil’s premier Fiocruz Institute. Serum has already manufactured several million doses of the vaccine. Brazil is one of India’s close partners, being a member of Brics and IBSA, as well as the G4 (which has been campaigning for UNSC reform).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/brazil-president-jair-bolsonaro-writes-to-pm-for-2m-covishield-doses/articleshow/80193851.cms||Indrani Bagchi
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||To highlight ‘poor condition’ of govt schools, AAP launches ‘Selfie with School’ campaign in U’khand||Dehradun: In a bid to attack the incumbent state government on what it claims is 'poor condition' of government schools in Uttarakhand, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has launched the ‘Selfie with School’ campaign. According to the Uttarakhand unit of AAP, the campaign will run for three days, starting from January 8. The party workers have appealed to the locals to participate in the campaign in order to highlight the state of the schools run by the government. Speaking to TOI, Rakesh Kala, AAP’s state spokesperson, said, “The campaign has been received well by the public and it shows that the people of Uttarakhand are concerned about the state of the schools in the state.” He added that people can send pics and videos of the state of schools to the party. Recently, Delhi deputy CM Manish Sisodia, during his visit to Uttarakhand, had drawn a comparison between the government schools in Delhi and Uttarakhand while attacking the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led government. Earlier, AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal had announced that the party will contest all seats in the forthcoming Uttarakhand assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/to-highlight-poor-condition-of-govt-schools-aap-launches-selfie-with-school-campaign-in-ukhand/articleshow/80191395.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Second big cat of Corbett released into the wild at Rajaji Tiger Reserve||DEHRADUN: A six-year-old male tiger, brought from the Jhirna zone of Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR), was released into the wild at Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) on Saturday. The male tiger was set free in the Motichur range of western Rajaji. Earlier on December 24, last year, a five-year-old female tigress was also translocated from CTR as part of the project to repopulate RTR’s western part. It has been learnt that officials might translocate another tigress in the habitat in the near future. According to wildlife experts , the big cats brought from the core area of CTR may face a little inconvenience in adjusting into the porous habitat of western Rajaji. Speaking to TOI regarding the safety and security of the tigers being brought into western Rajaji, Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat, said, “We do understand that Motichur is more porous as compared to CTR and therefore, we need to beef up our security measures here. I have already alerted the officials to brace up regarding the safety of these tigers by using the best possible technology and techniques.” According to forest department data, the Motichur area has seen several human-wildlife conflict incidents in the past decade. Meanwhile, the officials from ministry praised the Uttarakhand forest department for safe execution of a tough exercise without any mishaps or glitches. Now, the study of their behaviour and propagation will be the focus. The execution of the exercise entailed efforts of the forest authorities and the scientists of Wildlife Institute of India. NTCA, as against the demand of Uttarakhand, had given permission to translocate three females and two male tigers from Corbett Tiger Reserve to Rajaji in a phase-wise manner. The tiger was set to be released into the wild on Saturday afternoon in the presence of Uttarakhand forest minister Harak Singh Rawat and some of the top officials, including Sanjay Kumar, DG (forest), MoEF and member secretary of National Tiger Conservation Authority; SP Yadav, director of WII; Dhananjai Mohan, Rajeev Bhartari, Uttarakhand head of forest force; and chief wildlife warden JS Suhag, and the director of Rajaji Tiger Reserve, DK Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/second-big-cat-of-corbett-released-into-the-wild-at-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/80191394.cms||Shivani Azad
January 10, 2021||Chennai||‘Telemedicine can help treat lockdown sleep syndrome’||Chennai: Telemedicine can provide uncompromised care to existing patients and also help identify and manage the onset of new sleep problems, says a new study ‘Tele-Sleep Medicine: An Opportunity In A Crisis’ conducted by Dr N Ramakrishnan, director, Nithra Institute of Sleep Sciences. It also documents the emergence of ‘Lockdown Sleep Syndrome’, ie, the onset or worsening of sleep disorders often related to inactivity, fear of the disease, and generalised anxiety caused by the uncertainty of the future. Published in the ‘Journal of the International Society For Telemedicine and eHealth’, the study was conducted during the first 50 days of the lockdown. “When lockdown was declared we got a lot of calls from patients already seeing us for sleep problems. We also got calls from several people who had developed problems with sleep,” says Dr Ramakrishnan, adding that a few callers considered it an emergency. “They were having suicidal thoughts and were desperate to get help.” When the Centre released guidelines for the practice of telemedicine on March 25, 2020, medical practitioners like him were able to reach out to treat their patients. “Earlier, many states were against the practice of telemedicine but with the guidelines, medical practitioners could even send prescriptions, provided it had their name, registration number and signature. Since Indians are comfortable with smartphones and instant messaging, we started providing consultations through video calls,” says Dr Ramakrishnan. “Since sleep medicine involves minimal physical examination, it lends itself to tele medicine.” The study, which involved 126 people – 66% teleconsultations and 34% in-person consultations – identified the prevalence of ‘Lockdown Sleep Syndrome’. “Some wanted to meet doctors in person and we accommodated a few with strict restrictions, allowing only one person at a time in the clinic,” says Dr Ramakrishnan, adding they began noticing a pattern. “Inactivity, reduced exposure to sunlight, fear of Covid-19 after seeing rising numbers of cases on TV, and uncertainty of the future were common,” he says, adding they were able to effectively treat people over video calls. Though sleep studies could not be conducted during the lockdown, telemedicine helped them reach out to patients who needed to be monitored, says Dr Ramakrishnan. “We sent portable equipment to a patient in Andhra Pradesh, our technician showed the patient how to connect and disconnect the machine and supervised the procedure over a video call,” says Dr Ramakrishnan. “He turned out to have severe sleep apnoea, so we also taught him how to use a CPAP machine, which would help him breathe more easily during sleep.” The key learning of the study is that tele medicine can go beyond boundaries to help people sleep better, says Dr Ramakrishnan. “A crisis also turned out to be an opportunity to educate people. We have now launched our own app, Utopian Tele Health, which people can use to make appointments, avail consultations and pay online,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/telemedicine-can-help-treat-lockdown-sleep-syndrome/articleshow/80188843.cms||Priya Menon
January 10, 2021||Delhi||80% in survey say no clue about DDA’s masterplan||NEW DELHI: At a time when Delhi Development Authority is working on preparing the new Masterplan-2041 that will replace the current MPD-2021, a rapid survey of 1,025 people at different locations in Delhi shows that only 6% of them knew anything about the masterplan. Over 80% had not even heard about it. Almost 56% sought better quality of air and water, making these the most pressing issues that people want addressed through the new masterplan. Out of the 65 people (6%), who responded in the affirmative to the question of whether they know something about the masterplan, no one had ever seen or read the masterplan report. Many were oblivious that the report existed in the public domain. More telling is the fact that only 30 out of these 65 respondents said they knew which agency makes the masterplan and 26 of them thought it was Delhi government. Only three people answered correctly that it is DDA, which makes the plan. These findings are part of an assessment of people’s awareness about the masterplan carried out by voluntary organisation Indo-Global Social Service Society (IGSSS) and ‘Main Bhi Dilli’ campaign, a collective of various individuals and organisations working on creating an inclusive city. Shalaka, lead researcher for this report, said that the survey findings would be shared with DDA so that a plan could be formulated to conduct more public consultations. It is pointed in the report that as of December 2020, DDA along with National Institute of Urban Affairs has organised very few online public consultations. When asked about priorities, maximum participants—573 (55.9%)—said they wanted better quality of air and water, 520 (50.7%) said affordable and decent housing, 514 (50.1%) sought focus on educational, vocational and skill centres for youth and 476 (46.44%) drew attention towards need for effective solid waste management in the city. Around 36% demanded better living and working conditions in Delhi, 35.1% sought space allocation for livelihood opportunities, about 33.4% want focus on public health and fitness infrastructure, around 32.5% were for better streets for pedestrians and cyclists. While about 30% wanted safe and accessible public spaces, 29.8% sought affordable and convenient public transportation system. The survey covered 598 men, 421 women, one transgender person and five respondents who did not want to share their gender identity. The respondents included people from varied occupational backgrounds—salaried, daily wage labourers, unemployed, students and self-employed. The respondents were interviewed at locations in Baljeet Nagar, Gulshan Chowk, Bawana, Wazirpur, Pitampura, Patel Nagar Metro station, Nehru Enclave Metro station, Vishwas Apartment (Dwarka), Kalkaji RWA block E, Trilokpuri, Badarpur, Sangam Vihar, Subhash camp, Madanpur Khadar, Bilaspur camp and Sarita Vihar Metro station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/80-in-survey-say-no-clue-about-ddas-masterplan/articleshow/80193521.cms||Ambika Pandit
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Seventh Pay salary for NMC staff from Feb||Nagpur: After a month of Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government approving implementation of the Seventh Pay commission for employees and officials of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Friday issued a notification regarding revision of salary from February. The state urban development department had sent an order to this effect to the civic chief. A senior official from NMC’s accounts and finance office said currently the NMC spends Rs50 crore towards salary of employees, and added that the revision will increase the civic body’s financial burden by almost Rs10-15 crore every month. The decision will benefit approximately 10,900 employees and officials. NMC employees and officials will also get arrears of 15 months, as the revised pay commission will be applicable from September 1, 2019. The seventh pay will be implemented from January month’s salary to be paid in February, the notification said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/seventh-pay-salary-for-nmc-staff-from-feb/articleshow/80191969.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||JDA will construct 45km Ring Road corridor on its own: UDH minister||JAIPUR: The Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) has decided to construct the 45-km ring road (North) corridor on its own, which is proposed to connect Agra and Delhi highway. Earlier, the task was given to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI). However, the urban development and housing (UDH) minister Shanti Dhariwal on Saturday announced that the JDA will construct the project. Jaipur development commissioner (JDC), Gaurav Goyal said, “The estimated cost of the project will be Rs 3,000 crore. The state government has provided the nod to JDA to execute the project. The JDA will soon acquire the land between Bagrana (Agra road) to Achrol (Delhi road). Dialogues with NHAI will also be initiated to construct the project on joint revenue sharing basis.” As per the proposal, the civic body would require approximately Rs 1,808 crore for acquiring land for transport corridor. The agencies have identified land in 26 villages of three tehsils — Amber, Jaipur and Jamwa-Ramgarh — to acquire it for the ring road. It will consist a six-lane access-controlled expressway, a three-lane service road on both sides. Sources said, the northern corridor will also be developed on the lines of the 47-km, southern corridor (Agra Road to Ajmer Road) and the JDA will acquire 360-metre-wide strip of land. While the transport corridor will be constructed on a 90-metre wide land, the civic body proposes 135-135 metres wide development corridor along the transport corridor for commercial purpose. “In the Master Plan 2025, the JDA has kept the northern corridor 360-metre wide, same as southern corridor. The JDA had earlier developed the commercial corridor after acquiring the extra land. The idea, however, of acquiring additional land other than the transport corridor did not go well with farmers earlier and the state government faced many violent protests while taking possession of the land for the southern corridor. In today’s time, JDA might raise protests by farmers in future,” said a source Box: 1 Desert park to open soon The long pending Kishan Bagh named as desert park project in Jaipur spread over 64 ha land, would soon be thrown open for tourists. The JDA will invite expression of interest (EoI) to hire a firm for its operation and maintenance. Goyal said, the eco-tourism project on the foothills of Nahargarh is almost complete. The project will be inaugurated once Covid-19 restrictions are lifted. Box:2 Work on Raj int’l centre to resume The construction of the Rajasthan International Centre (RIC) in Jaipur, which was left mid-way, will get a fresh lease of life. The JDA has proposed to spend approximately Rs 100 crore to complete the RIC project. For the same, the new heritage designs, which will be incorporated in the buildings has been prepared. The JDA proposes to construct one big hall (capacity 750) and two small (capacity 200) at the centre. Similarly, the centre will have other features including a restaurant, a board room, library etc. Box: 3 Mobile app for JDA To provide constant, information and updates about the JDA, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal launched a mobile application. This mobile app will be available on Google Play Store and iPhone App Store. The mobile app has seven sections which are mainly related to hot link, services, land bank, town planning, projects, notice board, and about JDA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-min-reviews-important-infra-projects-in-state/articleshow/80191966.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||States can decide when to reopen schools after assessing Covid situation: Nishank||Dehradun: Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said that states and union territories can decide on the reopening of schools based on the Covid situation in their respective areas, but would have to follow the guidelines issued by the central government. The Haridwar MP was in Dehradun on Friday and held a press conference at the CBSE office here. “Millions of children have been taught through various mediums during the lockdown and the government is continuously working to provide better education to them,” the minister added. Speaking about the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020, he said, “With the NEP, subjects like Artificial Intelligence (AI) are being taught to students of classes 6 to 12. The policy will ensure students are being taught professional subjects along with the regular academics. This will help them gain perspective and choose a career in the future.” Nishank also said that the government is working to ensure courses like engineering and medical are taught in regional languages. “Our aim is to spread the Hindi language across the globe,” he said. On the ongoing farmers’ protests, Nishank said the laws against which agitation is going on, had been drafted based on inputs gathered from farmers across the country. “All three farm laws are in interest of farmers and India’s farmers are in support of the laws,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/states-can-decide-when-to-reopen-schools-after-assessing-covid-situation-nishank/articleshow/80191397.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Residents with solar panels irked with Tangedco||Chennai: Residents who installed expensive solar panels at their homes at the insistence of the Centre and state are displeased with the arbitrary changing of rules by Tangedco, which they claim is not using net metering and is adjusting exported power at an extremely low rate. N Ramanathan, a retired DRDO scientist who spent more than Rs 5 lakh to install solar panels at his Teynampet residence, said Tangedco had resorted to converting export and import units into tariff rates and then deducting the extremely small export unit charges from extremely high import charges. The Union power ministry’s electricity (right of consumers) 2020 rules mandate net metering for loads up to 10 KW. Under the net metering system, exported solar power is adjusted in the electricity bill against the consumption. Tangedco is adjusting exported power at an extremely low rate of Rs 2.28 per unit, said Ramanathan. “There is no explanation on how this amount was arrived at. They buy from consumers at Rs 2.28 and sell it at more than Rs 10 as all meters are connected to the grid. This is daylight robbery and is unfair trade practice,” said the 76-year-old. Ramanathan said he should have been charged Rs 3,000, but had been sent a bill of Rs 9,000 and that he had written to the Tangedco chairman in this regard recently. “In future, no one will be ready to install solar panels if Tangedco continues with its unfair practices,” the complaint said. Ramanathan pointed out that several incentives had been announced by the state government encouraging public to install solar panels. The present practice by Tangedco is like billing consumers for generating electricity for their own use from their own gensets. “I have not installed solar panels to ‘sell’ power to the electricity board. It is for my own use,” he said. Several other consumers who did not wish to be named said the power utility, which had incurred heavy losses in distribution due to inefficiency, should not try to offset them by unfairly charging consumers. When contacted, an engineer with Tangedco said all billing was done as per the present rules in force.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/residents-with-solar-panels-irked-with-tangedco/articleshow/80191963.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan ready with 282 sites for Covid vaccine drive||JAIPUR: The state has identified 282 locations for Covid vaccination, the move coming on a day the Centre announced to kick off the drive from January 16. While 12 sites each in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Kota, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Alwar, Pali and Bhilwara have been prepared, Jaipur will have 13 vaccination locations. Seven sites have been prepared in each of the rest 23 districts. On the directions of the Centre, the state has prepared one site each in Jaipur and Ajmer, which will be interaction sites with facilities of two-way audio-video facility. A senior health department official said, “More than four lakh healthcare workers in the state have been registered for Covid vaccine. Among the healthcare workers are doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and hospital staff.” Jaipur will have one of the two interactive sites being prepared in the state. “We have developed the interactive site at SMS Hospital with facilities of audio-visual facility,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Through the site, the officials of the state will be able to remain in direct contact with the health ministry officials while monitoring the progress of vaccination on the launch day of the vaccine. The health department had launched a campaign in the state helping the healthcare workers to get registered for the vaccine. According to the Centre, the rollout of the vaccine will provide priority to healthcare workers and frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 crore, followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore in the country. For vaccination, a Co-WIN Vaccine Delivery Management System, a unique digital platform, has been developed to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than four lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-ready-with-282-sites-for-vax-drive/articleshow/80194627.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan ready with 282 sites for Covid vaccine drive||JAIPUR: The state has identified 282 locations for Covid vaccination, the move coming on a day the Centre announced to kick off the drive from January 16. While 12 sites each in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Kota, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Alwar, Pali and Bhilwara have been prepared, Jaipur will have 13 vaccination locations. Seven sites have been prepared in each of the rest 23 districts. On the directions of the Centre, the state has prepared one site each in Jaipur and Ajmer, which will be interaction sites with facilities of two-way audio-video facility. A senior health department official said, “More than four lakh healthcare workers in the state have been registered for Covid vaccine. Among the healthcare workers are doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and hospital staff.” Jaipur will have one of the two interactive sites being prepared in the state. “We have developed the interactive site at SMS Hospital with facilities of audio-visual facility,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Through the site, the officials of the state will be able to remain in direct contact with the health ministry officials while monitoring the progress of vaccination on the launch day of the vaccine. The health department had launched a campaign in the state helping the healthcare workers to get registered for the vaccine. According to the Centre, the rollout of the vaccine will provide priority to healthcare workers and frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 crore, followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore in the country. For vaccination, a Co-WIN Vaccine Delivery Management System, a unique digital platform, has been developed to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than four lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-ready-with-282-sites-for-vax-drive/articleshow/80191970.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan ready with 282 sites for Covid vaccine drive||JAIPUR: The state has identified 282 locations for Covid vaccination, the move coming on a day the Centre announced to kick off the drive from January 16. While 12 sites each in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Kota, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Alwar, Pali and Bhilwara have been prepared, Jaipur will have 13 vaccination locations. Seven sites have been prepared in each of the rest 23 districts. On the directions of the Centre, the state has prepared one site each in Jaipur and Ajmer, which will be interaction sites with facilities of two-way audio-video facility. A senior health department official said, “More than four lakh healthcare workers in the state have been registered for Covid vaccine. Among the healthcare workers are doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and hospital staff.” Jaipur will have one of the two interactive sites being prepared in the state. “We have developed the interactive site at SMS Hospital with facilities of audio-visual facility,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Through the site, the officials of the state will be able to remain in direct contact with the health ministry officials while monitoring the progress of vaccination on the launch day of the vaccine. The health department had launched a campaign in the state helping the healthcare workers to get registered for the vaccine. According to the Centre, the rollout of the vaccine will provide priority to healthcare workers and frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 crore, followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore in the country. For vaccination, a Co-WIN Vaccine Delivery Management System, a unique digital platform, has been developed to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than four lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-ready-with-282-sites-for-vax-drive/articleshow/80194628.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan ready with 282 sites for Covid vaccine drive||JAIPUR: The state has identified 282 locations for Covid vaccination, the move coming on a day the Centre announced to kick off the drive from January 16. While 12 sites each in Ajmer, Bharatpur, Kota, Bikaner, Jodhpur, Udaipur, Alwar, Pali and Bhilwara have been prepared, Jaipur will have 13 vaccination locations. Seven sites have been prepared in each of the rest 23 districts. On the directions of the Centre, the state has prepared one site each in Jaipur and Ajmer, which will be interaction sites with facilities of two-way audio-video facility. A senior health department official said, “More than four lakh healthcare workers in the state have been registered for Covid vaccine. Among the healthcare workers are doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and hospital staff.” Jaipur will have one of the two interactive sites being prepared in the state. “We have developed the interactive site at SMS Hospital with facilities of audio-visual facility,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer (Jaipur). Through the site, the officials of the state will be able to remain in direct contact with the health ministry officials while monitoring the progress of vaccination on the launch day of the vaccine. The health department had launched a campaign in the state helping the healthcare workers to get registered for the vaccine. According to the Centre, the rollout of the vaccine will provide priority to healthcare workers and frontline workers who are estimated to be around 3 crore, followed by those above 50 years of age and the under-50 population groups with co-morbidities numbering around 27 crore in the country. For vaccination, a Co-WIN Vaccine Delivery Management System, a unique digital platform, has been developed to provide real-time information of vaccine stocks, their storage temperature and individualized tracking of beneficiaries. This platform will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated session allocation for pre-registered beneficiaries, their verification and for generating a digital certificate upon successful completion of the vaccine schedule. More than four lakh beneficiaries have been already registered on the platform in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-ready-with-282-sites-for-vax-drive/articleshow/80194629.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||‘Rajasthan can earn 63% of money India spends on mineral imports’||JAIPUR: All the minerals imported from abroad are available in Rajasthan and by producing these minerals, the state can earn 63% of the money India spends on imports, chairman of Vedanta Resources Anil Agarwal said during a meeting with chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday. “Rajasthan is rich in mineral resources like zinc, silver, lead, copper, along with crude oil, gas, limestone and potash. The state can realise the vast potential by auctioning these mineral blocks,” said Agarwal. Both the chief minister and Agarwal discussed wide range of issues, opportunities and government initiatives taken to realise the huge potential of the mining sector for generating jobs and contributing to the growth of the state. During the discussion at his residence where ministers from various departments like energy and industries participated, the chief minister told Agarwal that the state is determined to lend pace to the exploration activities. “We have already constituted a Mineral Exploration Trust. The government is working on a mining policy which will be announced soon. The policy will provide a conducive climate to the investors,” added Gehlot. The chief minister said that the government will provide mineral estimates of mining blocks which will be offered to companies in transparent e-auctions. “The processes for auctions and allocations will be monitored at the highest levels,” he added. Agarwal said that the state government should also encourage startups and youths from IITs and IIMs and facilitate bank loans to develop the mining sector. After meeting chief minister in the presence of the Cabinet ministers, Agarwal expressed his desire to covert 61,000 anganwadi centres in Rajasthan to Nand Ghars. Through Nand Ghars, Vedanta tries to eradicate child malnutrition, provide education, healthcare and empower women with skill development. Currently, the parent company of Hindustan Zinc and Cairn Oil & Gas runs 1,100 Nand Ghars in Rajasthan. “Through Nand Ghars we foresee an India where no child goes without a meal,” said Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-can-earn-63-of-money-india-spends-on-mineral-imports-anil-agarwal/articleshow/80191971.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thane||Woman falls off running train, saved by two railway cops in Thane||THANE: Two on-duty railway policemen saved a woman from an imminent mishap at the Thane railway station on Saturday morning after she fell off a running train. The railway police said that the passenger, Dhanpatti Bharadwaj, had tried to alight from the Mumbai-bound Mahanagari Express after it started moving, but lost her balance and fell on the platform. She was about to fall in the gap between the train and the platform. “The woman panicked and tried to get off in the wrong direction after the train started moving,” said senior inspector N G Khadkikar, Thane railway police. #Watch: Two Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and a civilian rescue a woman at the #Thane Railway Station,… https://t.co/LJPjeQC8KL— TOI Mumbai (@TOIMumbai) 1610253533000“Assistant police inspector Nitin Patil and assistant sub inspector Sattar Shaikh were at the spot and instantly reached out to save Bharadwaj along with few others,” said API Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/woman-falls-off-running-train-saved-by-2-rly-cops-in-thane/articleshow/80193524.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Water bodies & poultry farms under surveillance after bird flu outbreak||RUDRAPUR: The Uttarakhand forest department and the animal husbandry department has planned an exhaustive surveillance in the coming days to prevent any possible spread of influenza (H5N1) among migratory and avian birds across the state. In Udham Singh Nagar, rapid response teams have been formed at block levels to check all poultry farms in the region and collect serums of the birds for examination. Also, the district officials are planning to initiate a sensitization campaign to spread awareness regarding the virus among locals. So far, no H5N1 cases have been reported in the state. “The district disease diagnostic team, along with veterinary doctors, is frequently visiting poultry farms. They are collecting serum samples and oropharyngeal swabs of birds. We are also collecting faecal swabs from the cloaca to ascertain the tracks of the deadly disease,” said Dr Puja Pandey, deputy chief veterinary medical officer (DCVMO), Udham Singh Nagar. She added that the local officials will soon conduct a joint operation to check migratory birds that flock Haripura, Tumadiya, Baur, and Nanak Sagar reservoirs during winters. Dr Harendra Malik, assistant chief medical officer, Udham Singh Nagar, said, “We have constructed isolation wards at Rudrapur-based Jawaharlal Nehru district hospital and at LD Bhatt Hospital in Kashipur.” Abhilasha Singh, divisional forest officer (DFO) of Rudrapur-Haldwani forest range, said that all measures are being taken to prevent any possible outbreak. “We have issued directions to report bird deaths and to dispose of the carcasses safely so as to contain the spread of the flu,” DFO Singh said. Notably, a large number of migratory birds have flocked Timudiya, Baur, Haripura, Nanak Sagar, Sharda, and Baigul water reservoirs in Udham Singh Nagar. Meanwhile, ornithologists have expressed concern regarding avian influenza claiming bird lives in states of Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Kerala. Ornithologist Pran Thakkar, talking to TOI, said, “Uttarakhand has a total of 194 wetlands spread over about one lakh hectares of land. Of these, 97 wetlands are outside the forest area. In the winter season, a large number of migratory birds arrive in these wetlands from Central Asia and remain here till March. Recently, bird flu has led to the death of a large number of birds in Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Kerala. The biggest concern for Uttarakhand is the death of birds in the barrage at Kangra in adjoining Himachal Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/water-bodies-poultry-farms-under-surveillance-after-bird-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80191401.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 10, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Congress team takes charge, Ajay Maken to address meet||JAIPUR: Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday assigned duties to members of the newly formed executive of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) for identifying and recommending fresh teams for the organisation at the districts’ level. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken would be coming from Delhi to address the first meeting of the new PCC executive at the party headquarters here on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot would be attending the executive meeting but former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot would be skipping it as he would touring his assembly constituency Tonk on January 10 and 11 to gather support for the farmers’ stir against the three union farm laws. The seven PCC vice-presidents have been made in-charges of the state’s seven divisions, while the general secretaries and secretaries have been allotted districts to recommend office-bearers for the District Congress Committees (DCCs). Secretaries Ram Singh Kaswan and Lalit Tunwal have been assigned responsibilities of the party state headquarters. MLA Govind Ram Meghwal has been assigned the Jaipur division. Within the division, MLA Rita Chaudhary has been given charge of Jaipur district, Jaswant Gurjar has been given Alwar district, Mahendra Singh Gurjar has been given Dausa district, Vishal Jangir has been given Sikar district and Phool Singh Ola has been given Jhunjhunu district. Similarly, Ajmer division has been assigned to PCC vice-president Hari Mohan Sharma, Bharatpur division to MLA and vice-president Jitendra Singh, Udaipur division to MLA and vice-president Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Bikaner division to vice-president Naseem Akhtar Insaaf, Kota division to vice-president Rajendra Chaudhary and Jodhpur division to vice-president Ramlal Jat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/cong-gives-duties-to-new-team-maken-to-address-first-meet-today/articleshow/80194581.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Only a few Gangasagar pilgrims so far, all test -ve||KOLKATA: Around 60 ascetics and pilgrims headed to Gangasagar have undergone Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT) at a medical camp set up in the Babughat area. KMC health department staff manning the camp said so far, everyone tested had reported negative. A quarantine centre has been set up to house those who will test positive. Times ViewThis zone needs to be watched carefully because this is possibly the only place in the city that now hosts so many people from outside Kolkata and Bengal. Mass congregations can lead to a sudden spike in cases, which may have a cascading effect on the rest of the city and the state.Each year, around 8-9 lakh people make the annual pilgrimage to Sagar Island during Makar Sankranti in mid-January. This year, the count could be much lower at 50,000-70,000 due to the Covid scene. But the reduced numbers are still high for a pandemic and the administration is keen on avoiding the congregation from becoming a super-spreader event. Hence, the decision to screen everyone. Despite a drop in turnout till now, officials of the public health engineering department and KMC said they had not scaled down arrangements. The RAT camp has been operating 24×7 since Friday. The quarantine centre set up behind Mohun Bagan ground can hold around 50 Covid-positive people, who will be transferred to a safe home in batches. If they display symptoms, they will undergo RT-PCR tests and hospitalised. Though RAT tests usually have 50% accuracy, it is faster and less expensive than RT-PCR tests. “Any congregation is best avoided. The turnout expected at Gangasagar this year will be less than 10% of the usual number. Most pilgrims are expected to be local. But they will have to be screened to avoid virus spread,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/only-a-few-gangasagar-pilgrims-so-far-all-test-ve/articleshow/80191983.cms||Sudipto Das
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Covid cases down in Maharashtra; Mumbai daily toll dips to 8||MUMBAI: Covid-19 cases and deaths in the state and city dropped on Saturday, the day the total toll in Maharashtra went past the grim milestone of 50,000. The state added 3,581 fresh cases and 57 fatalities, taking its total cases to 19,65,556 and fatalities to 50,027. The Covid-19 graph in Mumbai continued to dip, with only 596 cases registered in the city on Saturday. Deaths dipped to single digits, with eight deaths. The tally and toll in Mumbai have now reached 2.98 lakh and 11,181 respectively. “With the decline in Covid cases and deaths, we are now focusing on the vaccination drive,” said BMC additional commissioner Suresh Kakani. The BMC is in a state of preparedness to start the vaccination drive as soon as the stocks are transported to the city, he added. The Union health ministry announced on Saturday that the vaccination drive for healthcare workers would begin on January 16. Senior civic officials said that the state will now announce a date from when vaccination drive will start in the state once there is a clear indication of when the vaccine stocks will arrive. “After the dry run, all districts have been asked to rectify the small glitches experienced during the mock drill. Barring some technical problems or erratic internet connections, there were no problems,” said an official. According to the BMC’s dashboard, of the 7,927 Covid patients in the city on Friday, 397 were critical and the majority – 4,898 -- were asymptomatic. Of the 1,797 ICU beds marked for Covid-19 patients in the city, 55% were vacant. “The average age of patients in ICU these days is 75 years, with an odd younger patient,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, who heads the intensive care department at Fortis Hospital, Mulund, and is a member of the state’s task force. The doubling rate, which used to be less than 10 days in May, has now increased to 364 days. Ward T (Mulund) has the shortest doubling time of 239, while F South (Parel) has the best doubling rate at 674 days. The recovery rate in Mumbai is 93%. Thane city saw 129 new patients and three deaths on Saturday, taking the tally there to 56,519 and toll to 1,264. The recovery rate in Thane is 96%. Navi Mumbai registered 76 fresh cases and one death, taking the tally there to 51,668 and toll to 1,068. Of these, 96% of patients have recovered. PCMC areas reported 37 fresh cases on Saturday, taking its total case tally to 27,963. With one death reported, the toll there reached 611.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-cases-down-in-state-mumbai-daily-toll-dips-to-8/articleshow/80192798.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Task force under chief secretary for mines development, new mines and mineral policy soon: Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday constituted a task force comprising officers of forest, mines and revenue departments headed by chief secretary for speedy disposal of issues related to mining sector. He said the state government would work with full commitment, technology, transparency and investment-friendly policy to take the state forward in the mining sector. Gehlot was discussing the possibilities of the mining sector in the state with Vedanta Resources Ltd chairman Anil Agarwal and other officials. He said soon the government would come out with a mineral and mines policy to provide a favourable environment for investment in this sector. Gehlot said Rajasthan had more mineral wealth than any other states, but due to lack of proper exploitation, its share in revenue was very less. He said with the development of mining sector in the state, employment opportunities as well as revenue generation would increase . The chief minister said the government’s endeavour was to complete the process of mines auction in a transparent manner through the digital platform. He said procedures related to lease allocation and auction would be effectively monitored at the level of the chief minister and chief secretary. Aggarwal said Rajasthan was a land rich in minerals. It is rich in minerals ranging from zinc to silver, lead, copper and gold as well as gas, oil, limestone and potash. He said Rajasthan could became the country’s top state in the region by improving the auction process and infusion of technology for exploitation of minerals. Aggarwal said almost all the minerals imported from abroad were available in Rajasthan. With adequate exploitation of these mineral deposits, Rajasthan could get about 63 per cent of the expenditure incurred on such imports. He suggested the state government to encourage new startups for the development of the sector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/task-force-under-chief-secretary-for-mines-development-new-mines-and-mineral-policy-sooncm/articleshow/80191976.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Cop custody for 26 customers held in bar raid at Ghatkopar||Mumbai: Thirty-five people, including 26 customers at an orchestra bar in Ghatkopar (E) and five staff arrested for violation of pandemic outbreak and indulging in indecent behaviour, were remanded in police custody on Saturday by a holiday court. The 45th metropolitan magistrate K K Shah remanded all to police custody till January 11. Customers are rrely remanded to police custody, a police officer said. Police booked the accused under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 294 (indecent behaviour in public place), and Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (working therein) Act, 2016. Police said offences under the special act are non-bailable. The social service branch of Mumbai Police late on Friday night raided Guthu Bar and Restaurant at 90 Feet Road in Garodia Nagar, Ghatkopar (E). Police said they had received complaints against the bar. A police team video-recorded the incident. Police also seized a laptop, music system and Rs63,000. “The women were sent to rehabilitation homes and we are looking for the owner and manager,’’ said senior inspector Suhash Kamble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cop-custody-for-26-customers-held-in-bar-raid-at-ghatkopar/articleshow/80191791.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 10, 2021||Chennai||1 in every 3 active Covid-19 cases in state is from city||Chennai: The state had 7,302 people still under treatment for Covid-19 after 882 patients recovered on Saturday. Tamil Nadu added seven deaths and 761 fresh cases, which pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,25,537 and the death toll to 12,215. One in every three active cases was from Chennai, the worst affected district in the state. On Friday, there were 2,198 active infections in the district. Perambalur, which reported zero cases on Saturday, has two active cases – the lowest in the state, followed by its neighbour Ariyalur, where 17 people are still under treatment. Active cases were below 50 in Kallakurichi (28), Ramanathapuram (32), Sivaganga (39) and Tenkasi (49). Besides Perambalur, Ramanathapuram also reported zero new cases, while Chennai continued to top the list with 218 new cases. In the western region, Coimbatore reported 69 cases followed by 52 cases in Salem. All other districts in the state reported less than 50 cases each. Deaths were reported in five of the 37 districts – while Chennai and Vellore reported two deaths each, Kancheepuram, Ranipet and Thanjavur registered one each. The Chennai region — Chennai, Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpet – reported three deaths and 324 new cases. “Cases reported in the Chennai region has been steadily coming down,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In March 2020, the region had 23% cases, by June it had 75% of TN’s cases. In December, it had 43% cases. “The number of cases in the city has been on a decline, but the drop wasn’t as quick because the city saw sporadic cases and clusters from educational institutions. In January, cases were reported from luxury hotels,” he said. After the north, the most fresh cases were from the eight western districts (202). The central districts together reported 92 cases, while the ten southern districts had 87 new cases. Between Friday and Saturday noon, the state has tested 65,219 people using RTPCR test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/1-in-every-3-active-covid-19-cases-in-state-is-from-city/articleshow/80191968.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: RLP to field its candidates for 3 assembly bypolls, elections in 90 civic bodies||JAIPUR: Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal, who quit the NDA in support of farmers’ agitation against the three farm laws, on Saturday announced that his party will field its candidates for the upcoming bypolls to three assembly seats and elections to 90 urban local bodies in 20 districts. A confident Beniwal said his party will win the byelections to Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh assembly constituencies while stating that they will contest the polls to civic bodies on the issues of lack of development of slums in urban areas and corruption. “We will contest the bypolls to three assembly elections and the party will field its candidates in the upcoming elections to the urban local bodies in the state,” said Beniwal during a press conference here on Saturday. Reacting to the formation of ‘Vasundhara Raje Samarthak Rajasthan’ platform, floated by the former chief minister’s supporters, Beniwal termed it a “parallel BJP” and said it was a “direct challenge to the Prime Minister (Narendra Modi)”. Beniwal said his party will continue to support the farmers’ movement against the farm laws till their demands are met. He also accused the Gehlot-led Congress government in Rajasthan of neglecting the issues concerning youths. Speaking on the issue of providing lease to a dead person during the previous stint of the current urban development minister Shanti Dhariwal, Beniwal said the mutual alliance between Raje and Gehlot (CM Ashok Gehlot) in Rajasthan for 22 years has led to increase in corruption in the state. Stating that crime rate in Rajasthan was at its peak, also leading to an increase in the number of crimes against women, Beniwal said he will launch an agitation against the state government on issues related to deteriorating law and order, unemployment and issues of public interest including free electricity, toll-free Rajasthan. Taking a dig at the chairman of Rajasthan Public Service Commission (RPSC) (Bhupendra Singh) and the chairman of Rajasthan Staff Selection Board (RSSB) (Babu Lal Jatawat), he alleged that “responsibility has been given to people who were mired in corruption and now they are constantly playing with the future of unemployed youths”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rlp-to-field-its-candidates-for-3-assembly-bypolls-elections-in-90-civic-bodies/articleshow/80191972.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Congress team takes charge, Ajay Maken to address meet||JAIPUR: Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday assigned duties to members of the newly formed executive of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) for identifying and recommending fresh teams for the organisation at the districts’ level. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken would be coming from Delhi to address the first meeting of the new PCC executive at the party headquarters here on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot would be attending the executive meeting but former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot would be skipping it as he would touring his assembly constituency Tonk on January 10 and 11 to gather support for the farmers’ stir against the three union farm laws. The seven PCC vice-presidents have been made in-charges of the state’s seven divisions, while the general secretaries and secretaries have been allotted districts to recommend office-bearers for the District Congress Committees (DCCs). Secretaries Ram Singh Kaswan and Lalit Tunwal have been assigned responsibilities of the party state headquarters. MLA Govind Ram Meghwal has been assigned the Jaipur division. Within the division, MLA Rita Chaudhary has been given charge of Jaipur district, Jaswant Gurjar has been given Alwar district, Mahendra Singh Gurjar has been given Dausa district, Vishal Jangir has been given Sikar district and Phool Singh Ola has been given Jhunjhunu district. Similarly, Ajmer division has been assigned to PCC vice-president Hari Mohan Sharma, Bharatpur division to MLA and vice-president Jitendra Singh, Udaipur division to MLA and vice-president Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Bikaner division to vice-president Naseem Akhtar Insaaf, Kota division to vice-president Rajendra Chaudhary and Jodhpur division to vice-president Ramlal Jat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/cong-gives-duties-to-new-team-maken-to-address-first-meet-today/articleshow/80194582.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress team takes charge, Ajay Maken to address meet||JAIPUR: Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra on Saturday assigned duties to members of the newly formed executive of the Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) for identifying and recommending fresh teams for the organisation at the districts’ level. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan Ajay Maken would be coming from Delhi to address the first meeting of the new PCC executive at the party headquarters here on Sunday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot would be attending the executive meeting but former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot would be skipping it as he would touring his assembly constituency Tonk on January 10 and 11 to gather support for the farmers’ stir against the three union farm laws. The seven PCC vice-presidents have been made in-charges of the state’s seven divisions, while the general secretaries and secretaries have been allotted districts to recommend office-bearers for the District Congress Committees (DCCs). Secretaries Ram Singh Kaswan and Lalit Tunwal have been assigned responsibilities of the party state headquarters. MLA Govind Ram Meghwal has been assigned the Jaipur division. Within the division, MLA Rita Chaudhary has been given charge of Jaipur district, Jaswant Gurjar has been given Alwar district, Mahendra Singh Gurjar has been given Dausa district, Vishal Jangir has been given Sikar district and Phool Singh Ola has been given Jhunjhunu district. Similarly, Ajmer division has been assigned to PCC vice-president Hari Mohan Sharma, Bharatpur division to MLA and vice-president Jitendra Singh, Udaipur division to MLA and vice-president Mahendrajeet Singh Malviya, Bikaner division to vice-president Naseem Akhtar Insaaf, Kota division to vice-president Rajendra Chaudhary and Jodhpur division to vice-president Ramlal Jat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-gives-duties-to-new-team-maken-to-address-first-meet-today/articleshow/80191978.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||58 caught with fake IDs at CSMT in a day||MUMBAI: Central Railway (CR) intensified its drive against unauthorised travel as 58 passengers were caught with fake essential service identify cards. Essential service staff are permitted by the state to use suburban local trains. On Friday, a fortress check was undertaken at CSMT between 8am and 4pm. CR spokesperson Anil Kumar Jain said: “On January 8, we detected a total of 538 cases of unauthorised travel, of which 58 were with fake ID cards. We collected a Rs 1.3 lakh in fines at CSMT alone.” CR has been catching 1,500 people daily since January 1 as people from the non-essential category try to use locals. A source said, “Passengers shell out Rs 500 for a fake pharmacist ID, a ward boy or hospital staff ID to get tickets. However, on close scrutiny and questioning, it becomes clear that the ID is fake.” Between June and December 2020, 70,000 commuters were caught without tickets or for unauthorized travel. CR collected Rs 1.7 crore in fines from these passengers. In December 2020, 29,585 such cases were detected—around 950 offenders a day. In November 2020, 23,088 were caught.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/58-caught-with-fake-ids-at-csmt-in-a-day/articleshow/80193528.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Cops crack down on illegal parking on smart road||Nashik: The city traffic branch has intensified the drive against illegal parking on the smart road of the city due to the rising number of vehicles being parked on the road and the footpath. Anil Pawar, a police inspector of the city traffic branch, said they have started taking action against motorists who have been parking their vehicles illegally. “Our main action is taken mainly on the stretch from CBS signal to Ashok Stambh,” said Pawar. Last year, most of the times, there was no vehicular traffic due to the outbreak of Covid. However, after the district collectorate and the government establishments started operating, the rush of vehicles on the smart road opposite these offices increased. With no place to park, people end up parking their vehicles on the smart road. Motorists also block the footpath along the smart road leaving hardly any space for pedestrians.  He said while the traffic police were issuing e-challans to erring motorists, they were also slapping fine against such motorists on spot. Clamps are being used by the police to lock the vehicles that are parked illegally. The smart road, which spreads from Trimbak Naka to Ashok Stambh, has been developed considering its aesthetics. But its beauty gets covered due to the illegal parking and kiosks set up on the footpath.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-crack-down-on-illegal-parking-on-smart-road/articleshow/80190911.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||CS briefs Centre about Rajasthan’s vaccination preparations||JAIPUR: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya on Saturday briefed Union Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba about the preparations for the rollout of the coronavirus vaccination programme in the state. In a video conference with Gauba, Arya said that dry run was successfully conducted at 18 places in seven districts in the first phase on January 2 and at 102 places in all districts across the state on January 8. He said that healthcare and frontline workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. Arya suggested that panchayati raj staffers have also done good work at the grassroots level during the coronavirus pandemic and they should also be considered as frontline workers and be vaccinated on priority, according to a release. In the first phase of the vaccination campaign, a total of 3,056 medical institutions have been identified as session sites, he said. Arya said the state has set up three state-level, seven divisional level and 34 district level vaccine stores while 2,444 cold chain points are functional at community and primary health centres. The chief secretary said that the state level and district level task forces are constantly holding meetings to review preparations for the vaccination programme, the release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cs-briefs-centre-about-rajs-vaccination-prep/articleshow/80191979.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Puzzle parking part of common areas in housing project: MahaRera||MUMBAI: In a relief for flat buyers, Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority (MahaRera) has declared that puzzle parking is part of the common areas in a housing project. The order was passed on a complaint by Devarajan Swaminathan, a resident of Lodha Casa Royale at Balkum, Thane (West). The project comprises three towers of 432 flats with basement, stilt, open and puzzle parking. Puzzle parking is an automated system featuring combination pallets that enable horizontal and vertical movement of parking spots, just like a puzzle, to park and retrieve vehicles. In the last tower of 122 flats, 24 flat owners, including Swaminathan, were allotted puzzle parking by the developer. The society asked them to bear the expenses of its maintenance although they paid proportionate contribution towards other amenities like other members. Swaminathan sought a clarification whether a puzzle car park is included in the common areas of the project. He argued if there is a structural damage to a pallet, why should any one or few have to bear the expenses. He produced a document which shows the developer has admitted that car parking in the basement, stilt, open area or puzzle is included in the common area amenities of the project. Advocate Amrut Joshi for Lodha said puzzle car parking falls within the definition of “parking spaces” as defined in the agreement for sale. Also, since puzzle parking is part of the common amenities, the flat purchaser’s grievance that he along with 23 others are being made to bear its maintenance alone would be a dispute purely between them and the society. In his December 11 order, MahaRera member B D Kapadnis observed that the puzzle car parking system features combination pallets carrying cars. “Individually, the load and unload of the cars is possible. Thus, it is an independent system which is electromechanically operated. Fast in and out of the cars is possible. Combination of multiple levels vertically and horizontally is possible. It is mostly preferred in residential complexes,” he added. Kapadnis noted that under Rera, the definition of common areas means “the common basement, terrace, parks, play areas, open parking areas and common storage spaces”. “A specific car parking (in a puzzle park setup) to the exclusion of others cannot be allotted to any one allottee and is not possible also. A car can be parked at any level and at any available space. After considering the concept of puzzled parking as explained above, I find that it is a common area and I declare it to be so,” said Kapadnis, disposing of the complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/puzzle-parking-part-of-common-areas-in-hsg-project-maharera/articleshow/80191418.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Chennai college marks students studying from home ‘absent’||CHENNAI: A circular from Stella Maris College created confusion among final year students as it said attendance would be awarded only to those students who attend physical classes. As per the standard operating procedures (SOPs) issued by the state government, attendance is not mandatory for this semester and colleges should offer both online and offline classes to students. Many students enrolled with the college had decided to study the final semester from homes considering the pandemic. However, students who had skipped offline classes were marked absent. “With no online classes for students, they are making it compulsory for them to attend college and are denying attendance to those who don’t go in person. This has caused students to fear that they may not have the minimum attendance requirement to write the final exams,” parent of a student from the city said. The college’s rules stipulate that students need to have at least 85% attendance to appear for exams. The new semester began in the last week of December. “At first, the college said we could choose to either come back to college or not for the new semester. So we thought they would arrange online classes or circulate recorded lectures. But they provide only study material. Since I preferred to study from my home in Kerala, my attendance was also marked zero,” a final year student said. “Though the college said it would follow the government’s rules regarding attendance, they have advised us to come back to college to finish our final semester,” she added. Another student said the college should arrange online classes for those choosing to study from home. “The college management says it is not forcing us. But what’s the point when we pay fees yet don’t get a proper education?” she asked. When asked about the circular, Rosy Joseph, principal of Stella Maris College, said the college is not forcing any student to come to college. “We are taking attendance only for physical classes and submitting attendance details to the government on a daily basis and providing study material for those who could not attend classes. We have not made it mandatory for final year students to come to the college,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/city-college-marks-students-studying-from-home-absent/articleshow/80191973.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||ED court summons Jagan in land allotments case||HYDERABAD: A special Enforcement Directorate court has issued summons to Andhra Pradesh chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy, YSR Congress MP Y Vijayasai Reddy, seven directors of pharma companies — Hetero, Aurobindo and Trident Life Sciences — along with scores of former officials of APIIC asking them to appear before it on January 11 in connection with a case. The ED case is an offshoot of the CBI’s quid pro quo case wherein the pharma firms were charged with bribing Jagan’s firms by way of investments in lieu of the land allotments they got when his late father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy was the CM in 2004-09 when the state was united. The case was recently transferred from Nampally metropolitan sessions judge court to ED special court which renumbered the case and issued fresh summons. With this, all the six chargesheets filed by the ED in the quid pro quo case have now reached the ED special court which will hear all the cases along with the CBI’s 11 chargesheets filed in the same case. The CBI court, it can be recalled, was earlier designated as an ED special court to hear the cases filed under Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The CBI case against these pharma companies was that they had entered into a criminal conspiracy with the accused to get 150 acres of land at Jadcherla SEZ in Telangana in lieu of Rs 29 crore investment they made in Jagan’s media house, Jagathi Publications. But, advocates representing the AP CM and the pharma firms have denied these charges and termed them as politically motivated. Although this was a disproportionate assets case, the allegations made by the probe agencies were disproportionate, the investigators said citing the lesser value of the land the firms had got and the higher value of the investment they made. An ED appellate tribunal too found force in their argument last year and wondered why any industrialist would lose Rs 29 crore for deriving a benefit of Rs 21 crore from the state and modified an attachment order made by the ED authorities in respect of Hetero, Aurobindo and Trident. The ED made this attachment as part of its probe into Jagan’s DA case in its pharma companies’ chargesheet. The ED filed its case basing on a CBI case that said AP, when YSR was at the helm, gave 75 acres of land each to Hetero and Aurobindo at Jadcherla SEZ on lease. “In lieu of this benefit, the firms invested in Jagan’s firms,” the CBI said. The ED identified several properties of the pharma firms and attached assets worth Rs 51 crore. The firms later challenged the action before the appellate tribunal in Delhi, which found fault with the action of ED officials in terming unconnected assets of the accused firms as proceeds of crime. It allowed the plea of the aggrieved firms to de-freeze the attached assets on the condition that the amount equivalent to the worth of the attached assets would be deposited with the ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ed-court-summons-jagan-in-land-allotments-case/articleshow/80193857.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||UK study bats for tocilizumab used for Covid cure in Rajasthan since last year||JAIPUR: Tocilizumab drug, which Sawai Man Singh (SMS) Medical College has been giving to Covid patients since March, has been found quite effective in reducing mortality rate, a study conducted in the UK has said. The study, ‘REMAP-CAP trial’ has shown that the two drugs - tocilizumab and sarilumab - reduced mortality rate in Covid patients. UK’s department of health and social care tweeted, “NHS patients in the UK who are admitted to intensive care will receive new potentially life-saving #COVID19 treatments. Clinical trial results show that tocilizumab and sarilumab could reduce risk of death for critically ill patients and time spent in ICU by 10 days.” Tocilizumab, which is used for treating diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, is part of the Covid treatment protocol of the state. “We have been providing tocilizumab since March to Covid patients and found it effective in reducing sickness and preventing patients from going to ventilator support and also probable suspected side effects taken care of,” Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller, SMS Medical College, and head of the group of doctors for Covid treatment constituted by the state government said. While treating patients, the doctors had discovered that cytokine storm, a condition in which the immune system attacks the body, was becoming common in critical patients. Initially, the SMS Hospital doctors looked for a medicine to block the cytokine storm, which may cause multiple organ and cardiovascular failures. For preventing cytokine storm, the doctors started using tocilizumab. Doctors have found treatment is effective in critical Covid patients suffering from bilateral pneumonia. Increased concentration of cytokine inflammatory markers such as interleukin-6 (IL-6) and IL-10 cause acute respiratory distress syndrome in which the level of oxygen in tissues and cells goes down dangerously and causes hypoxia. So, there is a need to block the cytokine storm and tocilizumab is proving an effective drug for such a condition, the SMS hospital doctors claimed, while adding that tocilizumab is a humanised monoclonal antibody against IL-6 receptor. The IL-6 is a cytokine which plays key a role in Covid induced cytokine storms. Doctors at SMS Hospital are keeping an eye on the level of IL-6, a cytokine, and other inflammatory markers in Covid-19 patients undergoing treatment. Meanwhile, the number of deaths in the state are continuously decreasing. In the last 24 hours, four persons died and 430 others tested positive taking thw casualty count to 2,731 and infection number to 3,12,521. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (77), Jodhpur (42), Kota (41), Dungarpur (26), Udaipur (24), Bhilwara (24), Ajmer (24), Nagaur (21), Alwar (21), Sirohi (14), Bundi (14), Rajsamand (14), Chittorgarh (10), Sikar (10), Baran (10), Bharatpur (8), Jhalawar (8), Banswara (7), Tonk (6), Karauli (6), Pali (5), Sawai Madhopur (4), Jhunjhunu (3), Jaisalmer (3), Hanumangarh (2), Dholpur (2), Barmer (1), Bikaner (1), Dausa (1) and Pratapgarh (1). Jaipur reported its 508th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 295th, Bikaner 167th and Nagaur reported 94th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/uk-study-finds-tocilizumab-effective-in-covid-treatment/articleshow/80191985.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cyber cells, drive to check online frauds||KOLKATA: Police on Saturday launched a two-pronged strategy to check the surge of frauds involving ATMs, social networking sites and e-commerce sites. One is setting up cyber cells at each division and the other is physical campaigning, under which cops will visit different neighbourhoods and announce the dos and don’ts so that people, especially senior citizens, don’t easily fall prey to online fraud. While divisions, such as Port and Jadavpur, already have their cyber cells, work is on for all the rest. A cyber cell is set to be opened at the Behala divisional commissioner’s office at Tollygunge shortly. “While the bigger crimes will be dealt by cyber cell, anti-bank fraud and anti-fraud sections of Lalbazar, our job will be to block transactions immediately on being alerted about a crime so that the losses can be kept minimum. At present, local police stations neither have the training nor the time to pursue such cases. The divisional cyber cells will serve the purpose,” said a senior officer. But it’s the door-to-door campaign at each police station area in Behala that has received great appreciation. The one-month pilot run has been so successful that the Behala division, the first among the others, will make it a weekly exercise from Saturday. Among the 20-point guidelines are correct ways of using search engines, importance of not paying online until satisfied with the product, not to call random numbers found on search engines and not to open insecure links. “People can lose meagre amounts to large ones to online fraudsters. Tracing the money to other states, mainly Jharkhand, Odisha Rajasthan or Haryana, is not easy and sending teams over is not always feasible. The only way to check these crimes is to increase awareness,” said an officer at Lalbazar. DC (Behala) Syed Waquar Raza said each police station chose 15-20 points for the awareness drive. “Teenagers and senior citizens are the most vulnerable. We are visiting localities to reach out to all. We have also kept the language simple,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cyber-cells-drive-to-check-online-frauds/articleshow/80191989.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Hi-tech sewa to keep Singhu clean||NEW DELHI: A lot of help was at hand for farmers at Singhu border for everyday needs, but none for cleanliness. While sweeping and lifting of garbage was being routinely done, there was no respite from the mud and accumulated rainwater. Now, Punjab Youth Force of Samrala in Ludhiana district has stepped forward to sanitise the protest site. Paramjeet Singh, who has a transport and poultry business, said that during his visit last week to offer sewa, he found the hygiene and sanitation at the site really disappointing. “I saw people lifting filth with their hands near their camps and it was impossible to walk on the roads due to the waterlogging.” Realising that the need of the hour was not another langar or a similar service, but someone to clean the surroundings, Paramjeet returned to his hometown, discussed the idea of offering cleanliness sewa with friends and family and then approached Harmeet Singh Sukhi, a manufacturer of road sweeper-cum-suction machines. Sukhi said, “They came to us with their plan to clean the protest site using a high-powered machine and we liked the idea. We offered them a machine with a 2200cc engine that can cover 10-15km in an hour and can hold up to two tonnes of garbage, mud or filth.” The machine was offered free of cost while Paramjeet’s group decided to pool money for the fuel. “Professionals who know how to operate the machine offered to work for us,” said Karanpreet Singh, who is employed with a trucking company in the United States and arrived recently to offer sewa at Singhu. “Our group of 25 men and women started work from Wednesday.” Karanpreet added, “When lakhs of people gather at a place, hygiene becomes even more important. Besides the machine, we are also using brooms and wipers to clean the roads and to help the campers keep their surroundings clean.” The group starts work at six in the morning and continues the sanitisation and cleaning exercise till early evening. “The machine can function for 10-12 hours in a full day,” informed Paramjeet. “Seeing our enthusiasm, the municipal staff also came forward to help us on Friday. I think nothing could be a better contribution to our farmers’ agitation in the prevailing circumstances.” Watch Now, Hi-Tech sewa to keep Delhi's Singhu border clean||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hi-tech-sewa-to-keep-singhu-clean/articleshow/80193529.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Hosp wing to be completed in 6 months||Nashik: The mother and child health wing, which is being constructed at the Nashik civil hospital, will be completed in the next six to seven months, said additional civil surgeon Nikhil Saindane.He said the construction work for the 200-bed facility has been underway for the past two years. However, due to the outbreak of Covid, the construction work was stalled. Saindane said after April, the construction work was stopped as a special unit was set up at the civil hospital. Due to the lockdown, the workers had gone back to their native places. The contractor, however, arranged for workers and the construction has been initiated. As of now, 70% of the construction work is over, said Saindane. Apart from this, the special neo-natal care unit (SNCU) can also be shifted to a bigger place to accommodate more beds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/hosp-wing-to-be-completed-in-6-months/articleshow/80190913.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||BJP works like a family, says Gajendra Singh Shekhawat on pro-Raje platform||JAISALMER: Union Jal Shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat commenting on the platform floated by supporters of former chief minister Vasundhara Raje, said that the BJP is a party that works like a family and it will not be affected by it. BJP is the world’s biggest party and some people are doing such things in excitement. The party does not need this. Shekhawat was talking to the media in Jaisalmer. Over a meeting of Rajasthan BJP leaders in Delhi and not inviting Vasundhara Raje, he said that meetings are organised on various subjects and the meeting must be a small one over the by-elections. With regard to the budget session which will be starting from next month, he said that the Centre’s budget this time will be on empowerment and PM Modi’s vision will be to take every section ahead. He said that the Modi government always works with the only target to make every section progress and to empower Dalits, the exploited and scarcity-hit people of the country by bringing about permanent change in their lives. As far as the Jal Shakti ministry is concerned, he said drinking water will be carried to 19 crore rural houses by 2024 and that there will be no dearth of funds for this. With regard to the turmoil in Congress government in Rajasthan, he said that he will not make any comments but will certainly say that people are losing interest in the Congress government in Rajasthan. The dispute was there from the first day of the government, which is still continuing. On the farmers’ agitation, he said that some powers inspired by political motives, are making efforts that an agreement does not take place between the government and the farmers over the three agriculture laws. He said that he expects that finally the farmers will understand the far-sighted results and benefits of these laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bjp-works-like-a-family-says-shekhawat-on-pro-raje-platform/articleshow/80191982.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chennai||National parties insignificant in Tamil Nadu: KP Munusamy||CHENNAI: Asserting that the national parties were insignificant in Tamil Nadu and were only riding piggyback on the principal Dravidian parties, AIADMK deputy coordinator K P Munusamy on Saturday said the electoral fight was only between the AIADMK and the DMK. Munusamy was speaking at the party general council and executive committee meeting at Vanagaram. The senior AIADMK leader made headlines recently with his statement that there was no scope for coalition government in the state and that the next government would be led by the AIADMK, amid posturing by certain BJP leaders. “Our only rival is the DMK,” Munusamy said, urging partymen to end dynastic politics of the DMK. Without mentioning V K Sasikala Munusamy said there were talks of split in the party due to the release (of Sasikala), but it would not happen. “There are no sleeper cells in the party. There will be no sleeper cell too,” he said. Earlier, senior leader B Valarmathi hailed the dual leadership as that of Ram and Lakshman, while deputy speaker Pollachi V Jayaraman likened CM Palaniswami to Abraham Lincoln.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/natl-parties-insignificant-in-tn-munusamy/articleshow/80191980.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Rs 8 crore burglary: Two held from Jharkhand, guard at large||MUMBAI: In the Rs 8 crore jewellery theft from a Boisar showroom last month, the police have arrested two men from Jharkhand and recovered Rs 14 lakh worth of valuables.  The key accused, a newly hired security guard of the showroom, who is a Nepali national, is at large. The theft in Mangalam Jewellers took place on December 30. The guard along with accomplices were captured stealing on the showroom CCTV. The total number of absconding accused, including the guard is 11. Twenty-one police teams, have fanned out to West Bengal, Jharkhand and Nepal, tracking the suspects. Cops arrested Badruddin Shaikh (28) and Hashim Shaikh (32) from Khattitola Peerpur village in Jharkhand and recovered stolen jewellery worth Rs 14 lakh. Out of the total stolen cash of Rs 60 lakh, Rs 5.5 lakh was recovered from them. The guard has reportedly taken away a major chunk of the loot. Recruited without any police verification, he may have fled to Nepal, along with others, say police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/8cr-burglary-2-held-from-jharkhand-guard-at-large/articleshow/80193533.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Browse, borrow, read: Lining up for libraries||NEW DELHI: Protesters at Singhu border are enjoying spending their leisure time reading these days, thanks to open libraries set up by university students or NGOs from Punjab. The temporary libraries, which offer an array of books in Hindi, English and Punjabi languages, have become quite popular among the protesters. Visitors can get the books issued for up to five days free of cost. Some of the libraries have small reading areas too. Gurdeep Singh, a research scholar at Centre for human rights and duties at Panjab University, Chandigarh, had set up a library at the protesting site 20 days ago. He said, “everyone has his/her way of participating in jan andolan and for him and his colleagues, nothing could be better than setting up a library where people in their free time can borrow books and enhance their knowledge.” “I came here on December 2 and found people sitting idle in their free time. I then pursued my friends and we collected books from our collections as well as bought some on different subjects. Just after two-three days of setting up the library, demand started pouring in,” said Gurdeep. “About 40-50 people from different age groups borrow books daily and some of them even prefer to sit here and read. We are inspired by Dr BR Ambedkar and his principle of ‘educate, agitate and organise’. This is what we are trying to convey through our books, which are mostly related to social reformers and revolutionaries, such as Kartar Singh Sarabha, Bhagat Singh, Baba Bhaghel Singh and Dr BR Ambedkar,” he added. Sukhwinder Singh from Amritsar, who pursued his MA from Guru Nanak Dev University, decided to transport all books from his personal collection to set up a temporary library here. “I have books based on human rights activists, revolutionaries and also, I have fictions, literature and biographies. The idea is to attract all kinds of crowd and offer them to read whatever they want to. There is no better way to spend time than reading books,” said Sukhwinder, adding that at least 50-60 people borrow books from his library daily. “I take feedback from people and try to arrange for books of their choice. For avid readers, we try to get books for free,” he said. “My friends Jasbeer Singh from Moga and Kiranpreet Singh from Ropar are also helping me add books to my collection.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/browse-borrow-read-lining-up-for-libraries/articleshow/80193534.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Despite ban, Chinese manja sale continues in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With less than a week left for the Sankranti festival, the sale of Chinese manja or the glass-coated thread used to fly kites continues unabated in the city, despite a ban and arrests made by the police. The Chinese manja, which is made of nylon or synthetic thread is often coated with adhesive and finely crushed glass to make it sharp. Unlike the cotton thread, it does not break easily, but cuts through the skin and is hazardous not only for birds but also for humans. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016 had banned the production, storage, sale, and use of Chinese manja. Any violation of the ban attracts a jail term of up to five years and a fine of up to Rs 1 lakh or both. Last year, the forest department along with wildlife rescue teams rescued eight birds between January 13 and 17 out of which one bird has died. Also, during the entire year, a total of 155 birds, including black kites, crows, pigeons, barn owls, fruit bats and flying foxes were found trapped, dead or grievously injured by manja, which was tangled in trees or on buildings for weeks and even months. The forest department officials along with the police have seized over 350 kg of synthetic/nylon manja from 72 shops in and around the city during Sankranti last year. Around five cases were also booked against repeat offenders under 336 IPC and section 5 and 15 of Environmental Protection Act-1986. “The forest department conducts raids in coordination with the police every year to seize the Chinese or synthetic manja from sellers across the city. If someone is found selling this illegal thread, we seize the product and warn them. Cases are usually booked on people who are adamant and continue to sell the manja despite the raids and warning,” said A Shankaran, a senior forest department official. However, the punishment or the ban seems to have no impact on many kite-sellers who source this thread from Uttar Pradesh and Delhi and sell it here in the city. “People mostly prefer Chinese manja because it is more durable and the thread will not cut when it comes in contact with the opponent’s thread when they are flying the kite,” said Shyam Kumar, a shopkeeper at Gulzar House. To discourage people from buying these strings, the forest department in coordination with the police have been putting up posters at kite shops every year to urge people not to buy this manja. The Telangana State Forest Department has sought strict implementation of the nationwide ban on Chinese manja. In this regard, principal chief conservator of forests R Shobha called a meeting with environmental and wildlife NGOs in the city on Monday. People are requested to contact Animal Warriors Conservation Society on 9697887888 or the forest department on 18004255364 if they find birds entangled in kite strings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/despite-ban-chinese-manja-sale-continues/articleshow/80191993.cms||Moulika.KV
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Cops can’t use prisoner transit warrant to keep accused in custody: Madras high court||CHENNAI: Making it clear that prisoner on transit (PT) warrant does not entitle police to keep the accused in prolonged custody, the Madras high court has said such delay in producing before court the accused arrested using PT warrant would amount to violation of the fundamental right to liberty of the accused. “The purpose of a PT warrant is only to direct the production of a person confined or detained in a prison through a lawful order. Such a warrant cannot be interpreted to mean that the same will authorise police to curtail the liberty of a person by keeping the accused in custody till he is produced before the court concerned,” Justice N Anand Venkatesh said. In other words, a person cannot be kept under remand on the strength of a PT warrant and they have to be necessarily produced before the court concerned at the earliest point of time, the judge added. If an accused person is produced before the court after an inordinate delay and thereafter remanded to judicial custody, the custody of the accused person will be calculated only from the date of his remand and the period prior to it where he was kept under detention on the strength of PT warrant will not be taken into consideration. Noting that such practice must be immediately stopped by police, the court said, “Even in cases where a person is involved in serious offences, the correct procedure has to be adopted scrupulously.” The procedure that has been provided under the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) is common to both lighter offences and serious offences. Police are expected to follow the correct procedure, failing which it will result in the violation of the fundamental right, the judge said. The court made the observations on a plea moved by M Kishore of Coimbatore. Though he was formally arrested in connection with two cases on April 3 and May 11, he was produced in the courts concerned only on June 26 and August 21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cops-cant-use-prisoner-transit-warrant-to-keep-accused-in-custody-hc/articleshow/80191984.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Agra||10 crow carcasses in Bijnor send bird flu alarm ringing||Bijnor/ Agra: Amid cases of bird flu being reported in several states -- Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh -- 10 crows have been found dead in Bijnor district fueling fears of the avian influenza spreading to Uttar Pradesh as well. While the viral infection mostly affects birds, it has the potential of infecting humans and other animals. So far, the viral disease has affected migratory birds and crows in the country. However, it has created fears that poultry could be infected and led to a fall in demand. The pinch is already being felt in the poultry industry in Bijnor, where price of chicken has tumbled by 20% over the past few days. In Agra district, sale of chicken and eggs has dropped to 50% due to a dip in demand. In Bijnor, three carcasses of crows were found near Dharamnagari village area on Saturday. Three days ago, four crows were found dead near a government primary school at Raja Ka Tajpur village, and three more were discovered on Friday. Veterinary officers inspected both places and took the carcasses for testing.The discovery has caused panic among villagers. Bijnor has over 20 poultry farms with more than five lakh hens which lay around 3 lakh eggs a day. Ther turnover from eggs alone is worth Rs 4.5 crore a month. Besides, there are some chicken poultry having one lakh broilers. When contacted, chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Singh claimed that as of now, no bird flu symptoms have been found in the carcasses. “But we have formed a task force which is monitoring all poultry farms. Besides, villagers and farmers are being sensitized about the matter. We have urged them to inform veterinary officers if they spot any carcass in their respective area.” In Agra district, sale of chicken has fallen by 50% over the past three days. According to wholesalers, 1 kg of chicken is now selling at Rs 80 now as against Rs 120 earlier while a crate of eggs is selling for Rs 125 against Rs 145. According to the food safety department, there are around 300 chicken traders in Agra district. District animal husbandry department has banned supply of chickens from outside the state. Twelve rapid response teams have been formed to keep a watch on birds in Agra district though no bird flu cases have been so far been detected, said chief veterinary officer VS Tomar. Special teams have tasked to inspect poultry farms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-crow-carcasses-in-bijnor-send-bird-flu-alarm-ringing/articleshow/80190849.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 10, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra ups vigil as 1,000 poultry birds die in Parbhani, Latur in two days||PUNE: The state government has stepped up its vigil following the death of 1,000 poultry birds in Parbhani and Latur in the last two days. About 1,049 birds have died in the state in the last few days, leading to bird flu scare. “The cause of bird mortalities in Maharashtra is yet to be confirmed. Trachea and spleen samples of the dead birds have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) to confirm the cause of their deaths. Results of tests are expected in 2-3 days,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. Singh said all field officers, as well as higher officials, of the department had been issued instructions and guidelines on steps to be followed if these samples test positive for avian flu. Sources in the department said preliminary investigations in state laboratories had pointed out that mortalities in poultry birds in Latur could also be due to ‘Ranikhet’ or Newcastle Disease, which is caused by a paramyxovirus that can vary in pathogenicity. “Many poultry bird deaths over the years have been a result of Ranikhet, which is equally detrimental for birds.” Apart from the 800 poultry bird mortalities in Parbhani so far, the animal husbandry department on Saturday received reports of 200 hens dying in poultry farms in Latur. “I have communicated with the district collector in Latur, who has ensured that the birds and persons handling them have been quarantined,” Singh said. Other locations where birds like crows, pond egrets, parrots and herons have been found dead, include Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli. On Saturday, the department received reports of more bird deaths, including a heron in Thane, three crows in Dapoli, one crow in Akola, two each in Gondia and Chandrapur. On rumours about Maharashtra banning poultry supplies from some states in the wake of avian flu reports from parts of India, principal secretary animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Anoop Kumar told TOI, “States affected with avian flu are not part of Maharashtra’s poultry supply chain. So, there is no question of banning supplies coming from there. We have also not banned poultry products’ consumption in Maharashtra as it is still not confirmed if the bird mortalities in the state have been due to avian flu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-ups-vigil-as-1k-poultry-birds-die-in-parbhani-latur-in-2-days/articleshow/80191997.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s AQI improves, drizzle likely on Sunday||MUMBAI: After two days, the city’s air quality index (AQI) improved from the very poor category to poor category on Saturday. The city recorded an overall AQI of 283 as opposed to 319 on Friday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). Track the pollution level in your cityAn AQI of 201 to 300 is considered poor and people with heart or lung diseases and the elderly must reduce heavy or longer exertion and outdoor activity. “There was rain in the periphery of Mumbai. This resulted in the windspeed picking up. This dispersed the pollutants. Similar conditions are expected to continue over the next few days,” said an official from SAFAR. Meanwhile, minimum temperatures were higher than normal. Santacruz and Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 32.3 and 30 degrees Celsius, both 1.1 and 0.5 degree Celsius below normal. IMD has forecast cloudy skies with light drizzle for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbais-aqi-improves-drizzle-likely-on-sunday/articleshow/80191792.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Stopped from complaining to CM, say a few parents||Bhandara: Some parents of the babies rescued from fire at Bhandara district hospital said they were not given a fair chance to speak to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who had especially flown in from Mumbai to interact with them. Umesh Kumar Chachere, whose four-day-old son was saved, said activists and officials repeatedly interjected when the CM asked them to share their problems. “I wanted to complain about facilities at the hospital. I wanted to ask how would the state would guarantee a bright future for our children,” said Chachere. Dinesh Khandàte said they were told to let only one of the six parents speak. Earlier, the CM reached the hospital at around 1.45pm and directly went to the family welfare department’s ward where the seven rescued babies were shifted after fire at Sick Newborn Care Unit on Saturday. After spending around 10 minutes, Thackeray went to the affected ward on the first floor. It is learnt, he interacted with the parents in the civil surgeon’s chamber.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stopped-from-complaining-to-cm-say-a-few-parents/articleshow/80199653.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra ups vigil as 1,000 poultry birds die in Parbhani, Latur in two days||PUNE: The state government has stepped up its vigil following the death of 1,000 poultry birds in Parbhani and Latur in the last two days. About 1,049 birds have died in the state in the last few days, leading to bird flu scare. “The cause of bird mortalities in Maharashtra is yet to be confirmed. Trachea and spleen samples of the dead birds have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) to confirm the cause of their deaths. Results of tests are expected in 2-3 days,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. Singh said all field officers, as well as higher officials, of the department had been issued instructions and guidelines on steps to be followed if these samples test positive for avian flu. Sources in the department said preliminary investigations in state laboratories had pointed out that mortalities in poultry birds in Latur could also be due to ‘Ranikhet’ or Newcastle Disease, which is caused by a paramyxovirus that can vary in pathogenicity. “Many poultry bird deaths over the years have been a result of Ranikhet, which is equally detrimental for birds.” Apart from the 800 poultry bird mortalities in Parbhani so far, the animal husbandry department on Saturday received reports of 200 hens dying in poultry farms in Latur. “I have communicated with the district collector in Latur, who has ensured that the birds and persons handling them have been quarantined,” Singh said. Other locations where birds like crows, pond egrets, parrots and herons have been found dead, include Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli. On Saturday, the department received reports of more bird deaths, including a heron in Thane, three crows in Dapoli, one crow in Akola, two each in Gondia and Chandrapur. On rumours about Maharashtra banning poultry supplies from some states in the wake of avian flu reports from parts of India, principal secretary animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Anoop Kumar told TOI, “States affected with avian flu are not part of Maharashtra’s poultry supply chain. So, there is no question of banning supplies coming from there. We have also not banned poultry products’ consumption in Maharashtra as it is still not confirmed if the bird mortalities in the state have been due to avian flu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/state-ups-vigil-as-1k-poultry-birds-die-in-parbhani-latur-in-2-days/articleshow/80194093.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Covid strain that can ‘fool’ three antibodies found in Mumbai Metropolitan Region||MUMBAI: While the search for the highly contagious UK mutation of Covid-19 continues in India, researchers from Tata Memorial Centre in Kharghar have found three patients from the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (outside Mumbai) with an equally worrying mutation. Called the E484K mutation, it is linked to the South African strain. “This is one of three mutations (K417N, E484K and N501Y) seen in the South African lineage,” said Dr Nikhil Patkar, associate professor in haematopathology at Tata Memorial Centre’s Kharghar unit called ACTREC, whose team found the E484K mutation in three out of the 700 Covid-19 samples it put through gene sequencing. The E484 mutations are worrying because they can ‘fool’ or escape three antibodies that the body’s immune system makes. News outlets around the world have begun terming the South African variant as “more of a problem” than the UK variant, which has caused a second wave across Europe. As vaccines work on the principle of creating antibodies, researchers across the world are now weighing the E484’s effect on mass Covid-19 vaccination programmes under way in various countries. “The E484K mutation is less susceptible to neutralization by antibodies formed against the virus,” said Dr Patkar. “It is still uncertain what this means for vaccination and resulting immune responses,” he said. Read AlsoV-Day: PM-headed meet sets Jan 16 for vaccination launchIndia will launch its vaccination drive against Covid-19 on January 16 after the forthcoming festivals of Lohri, Makar Sankranti, Pongal and Magh Bihu at a time when India’s infections are low as compared to several nations witnessing fresh spikes.The Tata Memorial Centre usually carries out genetic sequencing for cancer patients, but was roped in for SARS-CoV-2 testing and sequencing during the Covid pandemic, mainly for patients from Navi Mumbai, Panvel and Raigad. In April, the ACTREC team would find four to five mutations in the samples, but the mutations increased to 10-12 by September. “Interestingly, SARS-CoV-2 isolates from three male patients (aged 30, 32 and 43 years) with Covid-19 were found to harbour the E484K mutation and were diagnosed to have Covid-19 in September,” said Dr Patkar. While two patients were from Raigad, one was from Thane. These patients experienced a relatively milder form of Covid-19, with two requiring home quarantine, while one needed hospitalization but didn’t need oxygen support or ventilation. Coronavirus in India: Live updatesIncidentally, in a review study that is slated to be published soon, the Delhi-based Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology found that 19 out of the 86 genetic variants were found in genomes from India. However, the jury is still out there as far as the B1117 and E484 mutations are concerned. “If we were to have newer strains infecting people, then it would have spread like wildfire by now. These variants have been in circulation since September, and haven’t resulted in larger outbreaks here,” said Bengaluru-based epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu from PHFI (Public Health Foundation of India).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3-patients-have-mutation-that-can-fool-3-antibodies/articleshow/80193022.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Jalgaon airport sees six-fold increase in passenger footfall||Nashik: The Jalgaon airport, managed by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), has registered a six-fold increase in passenger footfall in the last six months despite the Covid outbreak.According to the data shared by AAI, the passenger footfall in July was 164 and it rose to over 1,000 in December 2020. The airport has handled over 21,000 passengers ever since AAI made the airport functional in September 2019.At present, a private airline operates flights between Jalgaon-Ahmedabad-Jalgaon thrice a week and Jalgaon-Mumbai-Jalgaon once a week. Before the outbreak of Covid, the private airline used to operate every day to and from Ahmedabad and five days a week connecting Mumbai.“The footfall at our airport is growing at a decent pace despite the pandemic. We have been adhering to the safety protocols. We are conducting RT-PCR tests of passengers arriving, free of cost,” Sunil Maggirwar, the Jalgaon airport director, told TOI.He said the footfall will further increase in the future as another private airline has written to him stating the airline is keen to operate to and from Jalgaon.One of the biggest advantages for the airport is that Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has approved instrument flight rule (IFR) in January last year, that has paved way for aircraft to land even at night, he said.“This has ensured no flights are cancelled even due to low visibility. There have been two occasions in the recent past when flights arrived at night due to delay,” added the airport director. Jalgaon airport is the fourth AAI managed airport in Maharashtra, which has got the IFR approval from DGCA. AAI has invested over Rs 50 crore to boost the infrastructure at Jalgaon airport. The airport management has taken up several measures for the same.Pradeep Jain, the Jalgaon-based president of Khandesh Gin/Press Owners & Traders Development Association, said, “It’s a positive sign that footfall in the airport is growing. Our request is to connect Jalgaon to Indore and Pune at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/jalgaon-airport-sees-six-fold-increase-in-passenger-footfall/articleshow/80190924.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||SCR to run more festival special trains this month||Hyderabad: South Central Railway (SCR) will run more Sankranti festival specials this month to cater to the needs of passengers. These trains will run from Secunderabad to Kakinada and Hyderabad to Narsapur. Also, while the trains that leave from Secunderabad will run towards Kazipet, Warangal, Khammam, Rayanpadu, Eluru, Tadepalligudem, Nidadavolu, Rajahmundry, Anaparti and Samalkot stations, the trains that leave from Hyderabad will stop at Nalgonda, Miryalguda, Guntur, Vijayawada, Gudivada, Kaikalur, Akividu, Bhimavaram Town, Bhimavaram and Palakollu stations. The SCR has also informed that all the festival special trains are fully reserved and no passenger should come to stations without a confirmed ticket. “Adequate reservation counters are being operated at all the important stations,” the officials said, adding that it is a must for all passengers to wear a proper mask to travel and also maintain social distancing at stations and trains. The guidelines also state that people having symptoms such as high temperature, cough and cold are advised to desist from travelling and Covid-19 positive persons are not allowed inside the railway area or to board a train. On the other hand, SCR on Saturday announced that it has enhanced the maximum speed to 130 kmph for 1,280 km length out of 1,612 Km in Golden Quadrilateral - Golden Diagonal (GQ-GD) route by removing bottlenecks on the section. This covers GQ-GD route over SCR, except Vijayawada - Duvvada section, where up-gradation work is in progress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scr-to-run-more-festival-special-trains-this-month/articleshow/80191996.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Goa||Stir held in Bicholim||Bicholim: Bharat Mata Ki Jai and allied organisations on Friday held a demonstration in Bicholim in a show of support to villagers of Melauli, Sattari, who are currently opposing the upcoming IIT project in their village. “We do not oppose the project, but if the people of Melauli do not want the IIT project, and if it is a question of their agricultural income, then the project should be shifted to another place,” Bharat Mata Ki Jai member Bhola Gad said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/stir-held-in-bicholim/articleshow/80191986.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nashik||4 who robbed autorickshaw passengers arrested||Nashik: Four people who robbed passengers of their cash and valuables while taking them to their destination in an autorickshaw were arrested by the central crime branch of the city police on Thursday. The police said four robbery cases were registered against the suspects — two at Panchavati police station and one each at Sarkarwada and Mumbai Naka police stations. Many complaints were pouring in about people losing their valuables while travelling in autorickshaws. Deputy commissioner of police Sangramsinh Nishandar and assistant commissioner of police Mohan Thakur had instructed inspector Seetaram Kolhe of the central unit of the crime branch to investigate the cases where the same modus operandi was being used. During the course of the investigation, police checked CCTV footages of different parts of the city where such cases had occured. They zeroed in on an autorickshaw which did not have a registration number plate. Constables Vishal Wagh and Anil Shinde of the central crime branch on Thursday got information that an autorickshaw without a number plate was seen moving towards Trimurti Chowk in the Panchavati area. A trap was laid in the Panchavati area and the four suspects were arrested. On Friday, a court remanded them the suspects in police custody for two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/4-who-robbed-autorickshaw-passengers-arrested/articleshow/80190927.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra ups vigil as 1,000 poultry birds die in Parbhani, Latur in two days||PUNE: The state government has stepped up its vigil following the death of 1,000 poultry birds in Parbhani and Latur in the last two days. About 1,049 birds have died in the state in the last few days, leading to bird flu scare. “The cause of bird mortalities in Maharashtra is yet to be confirmed. Trachea and spleen samples of the dead birds have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) to confirm the cause of their deaths. Results of tests are expected in 2-3 days,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. Singh said all field officers, as well as higher officials, of the department had been issued instructions and guidelines on steps to be followed if these samples test positive for avian flu. Sources in the department said preliminary investigations in state laboratories had pointed out that mortalities in poultry birds in Latur could also be due to ‘Ranikhet’ or Newcastle Disease, which is caused by a paramyxovirus that can vary in pathogenicity. “Many poultry bird deaths over the years have been a result of Ranikhet, which is equally detrimental for birds.” Apart from the 800 poultry bird mortalities in Parbhani so far, the animal husbandry department on Saturday received reports of 200 hens dying in poultry farms in Latur. “I have communicated with the district collector in Latur, who has ensured that the birds and persons handling them have been quarantined,” Singh said. Other locations where birds like crows, pond egrets, parrots and herons have been found dead, include Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli. On Saturday, the department received reports of more bird deaths, including a heron in Thane, three crows in Dapoli, one crow in Akola, two each in Gondia and Chandrapur. On rumours about Maharashtra banning poultry supplies from some states in the wake of avian flu reports from parts of India, principal secretary animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Anoop Kumar told TOI, “States affected with avian flu are not part of Maharashtra’s poultry supply chain. So, there is no question of banning supplies coming from there. We have also not banned poultry products’ consumption in Maharashtra as it is still not confirmed if the bird mortalities in the state have been due to avian flu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/state-ups-vigil-as-1k-poultry-birds-die-in-parbhani-latur-in-2-days/articleshow/80194094.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra ups vigil as 1,000 poultry birds die in Parbhani, Latur in two days||PUNE: The state government has stepped up its vigil following the death of 1,000 poultry birds in Parbhani and Latur in the last two days. About 1,049 birds have died in the state in the last few days, leading to bird flu scare. “The cause of bird mortalities in Maharashtra is yet to be confirmed. Trachea and spleen samples of the dead birds have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) to confirm the cause of their deaths. Results of tests are expected in 2-3 days,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. Singh said all field officers, as well as higher officials, of the department had been issued instructions and guidelines on steps to be followed if these samples test positive for avian flu. Sources in the department said preliminary investigations in state laboratories had pointed out that mortalities in poultry birds in Latur could also be due to ‘Ranikhet’ or Newcastle Disease, which is caused by a paramyxovirus that can vary in pathogenicity. “Many poultry bird deaths over the years have been a result of Ranikhet, which is equally detrimental for birds.” Apart from the 800 poultry bird mortalities in Parbhani so far, the animal husbandry department on Saturday received reports of 200 hens dying in poultry farms in Latur. “I have communicated with the district collector in Latur, who has ensured that the birds and persons handling them have been quarantined,” Singh said. Other locations where birds like crows, pond egrets, parrots and herons have been found dead, include Mumbai, Thane, Beed and Dapoli. On Saturday, the department received reports of more bird deaths, including a heron in Thane, three crows in Dapoli, one crow in Akola, two each in Gondia and Chandrapur. On rumours about Maharashtra banning poultry supplies from some states in the wake of avian flu reports from parts of India, principal secretary animal husbandry, dairy development and fisheries Anoop Kumar told TOI, “States affected with avian flu are not part of Maharashtra’s poultry supply chain. So, there is no question of banning supplies coming from there. We have also not banned poultry products’ consumption in Maharashtra as it is still not confirmed if the bird mortalities in the state have been due to avian flu.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/state-ups-vigil-as-1k-poultry-birds-die-in-parbhani-latur-in-2-days/articleshow/80194092.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Three inter-state racketeers held with arms, explosives, Rs 1 lakh FICN||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Police STF and its Bengal counterpart have arrested three key players of a major inter-state illegal cartel and recovered multiple weapons, ammunition, explosive-making powder and fake currency from them. The arrests were carried out in separate raids in Kolkata and Howrah on Friday. The Bengal STF’s arms and explosives unit said it found 15kg explosive powder, four 7 mm pistols, eight magazines and 101 rounds of ammunition, including 71 rounds of 7.65mm ammunition, and another 30 rounds of 9mm ammunition from two of the accused, Abdul Qadir (32) and Golam E Waris (22). Qadir and Waris were picked up in a late-night operation on Friday from Golabari in Howrah. While Qadir is from Bhadreswar, Hooghly, Waris is from Jagaddal. STF sources said the accused might be involved in the murder of a promoter from Howrah in October. “We are looking at their possible link with a Bally murder and finding out if they are sharp-shooters. We are also ascertaining if they have any connection with any organization,” said the police. The third accused, a Ghaziabad-based fake currency runner, was arrested by the Kolkata Police STF from Amherst Street. Accused Zafir Hussain (49), was carrying fake Rs500 notes, with a face value of Rs 1 lakh. The notes had 11 key security features of the original note, claimed sources. “Around 7.45 pm on January 1, acting on a tip-off, the Kolkata Police STF caught the FICN racketeer,”said DC (STF) Aparajita Rai. “We saw a drop in circulation of fake currency last year following a haul of Rs 1-crore counterfeit currency in 2019. The counterfeiters might have regrouped amid pandemic,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-inter-state-racketeers-held-with-arms-explosives-rs-1l-ficn/articleshow/80192007.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 10, 2021||Pune||NHAI starts acquiring land for 4-laning of palkhi routes||Pune: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started the land acquisition process in Pune district for a Rs3,750 crore project for the four-laning of Sant Dnyaneshwar and Sant Tukaram palkhi procession routes.Land is being acquired along the Hadapsar-Jejuri, Hadapsar-Patas-Baramati and Indapur stretches. On Thursday, the Union road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari reviewed the project in Mumbai in the presence of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and senior state officials. “The four-laning work has already started in Solapur and a tender notice for the Dharmapuri-Lonand stretch in Satara district will be released soon. Land acquisition is going on for the two palkhi routes in Pune district,” NHAI project director Suhas Chitnis told TOI.The central government has already sanctioned Rs2,043 crore for work on the Sant Dnyaneshwar palkhi route, to be completed over three phases, and Rs1,660 crore for the Sant Tukaram palkhi, which will be done in two phases, NHAI said.“The ongoing work in Solapur is expected to be completed in two-and-a-half years. Similarly, once the land acquisition in Pune district is done, the work is expected to be completed by 2024,” an official said. Each year, a month ahead of the auspicious ‘Aashadhi Ekadashi’, the processions start from Alandi and Dehu, pass through Pune city and then take different routes through Solapur and Satara districts before converging on the temple town of Pandharpur in Solapur district. “We have minutely studied all aspects related to the processions and chalked out our plan. The new routes will enhance the safety of lakhs of the devotees. Also, the processions will not hamper regular traffic on Pune-Solapur highway and the Pune-Pandhapur road via Jejuri. In the past few years, a couple of road accidents involving devotees had occurred,” the NHAI official said. At Thursday’s meeting, Gadkari had said that a dedicated parallel pedestrian path would be constructed on both the routes for the safety of the lakhs of devotees who participate in the processions each year. “The path was already included in our project plan, so we will not have to acquire additional land for it,” Chitnis said. “The separate pedestrian lane would certainly make it safer for the devotees in the future. We normally have to expend a lot of energy in managing the crowds during the procession,” Vikas Dhage-Patil of the Alandi Devasthan Trust said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nhai-starts-acquiring-land-for-4-laning-of-palkhi-routes/articleshow/80192002.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 10, 2021||Pune||Army chief visits DRDO lab & private facilities||Pune: Chief of Army Staff General M M Naravane on Saturday visited several establishments in Pune to review their research and development efforts towards modernizing the Armed Forces. Naravane visited Bharat Forge, Kalyani Centre for Manufacturing Innovation, and the Armament Research and Development Establishment (ARDE). The Army chief was briefed on the progress of the ongoing defence-related projects, such as ultralight Howitzers, protected vehicles, small arms and ammunitions, unmanned ground vehicles, and thermal imaging, among others. “The Army chief, during his visit to ARDE, was briefed on the latest initiatives, research and progress on the various trials of equipment and ammunition, including the Advanced Towed Artillery Gun System (ATAGS), the artillery gun, Pinaka rocket system, 10-metre foldable bridge, laser-guided anti-tank guided missile systems and a new family of munitions,” a defence official said. ARDE is a premium institution of the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) working to equip the Armed Forces with world class armament systems.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/army-chief-visits-drdo-lab-private-facilities/articleshow/80192012.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC slams BMC for allowing Navrati pandal in pandemic||MUMBAI: Bombay high court has slammed BMC for granting permission during the Covid-19 pandemic to a Navratri pandal in Dahisar (East) for celebrations organised by former corporator Prakash Darekar and patronised by his brother Pravin Darekar, opposition leader of the Maharashtra Legislative Council. A bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla on Friday heard a petition filed by local resident Girish Mittal for direction to the R-North Ward to demolish it. The judges, in their order, said the pandal was put up for Navratri celebrations between October 17 and 20, 2020, and organised by Prakash Darekar, also president of Mumbai Housing Federation, under “guidance” from Pravin Darekar. BMC’s advocate informed the court that permission had been granted to erect the pandal. The judges noted from the photograph it is clear that the entire pandal with decorative pillars, statues, photo frames, stairs and flower pots was installed on a footpath and sitting arrangement was provided outside it as well. They said there is “gross violation of the SOPs” (standard operating procedure) issued by the government as a crowd can be seen inside the pandal, masks are not properly worn as required and no social distancing is maintained. “In the first place, we are surprised as to how during the pandemic, permission to carry out such activities was granted by the corporation, and even if such permission was granted on prescribed terms and conditions, why such activities were not monitored by the concerned authorities,” they added. Noting that the pandal has been removed and the relief sought by Mittal has become infructuous, the judges disposed of the petition granting him liberty to file a public interest litigation impugning the permissions granted by BMC to organisations or individuals, including corporators, MLAs and MPs, to put up such pandals on the footpaths of Mumbai as well as in the suburbs “causing great inconvenience to the members of the public, not only during the pandemic but even in normal circumstances”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-slams-bmc-for-allowing-navrati-pandal-in-pandemic/articleshow/80191449.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 10, 2021||Agra||Aligarh celebrates Vanita Gupta’s nomination to top Biden team post||AGRA: The nomination of human rights activist Vanita Gupta as the associate attorney general in US President-elect Joe Biden’s team brought much cheer to her extended family back home in Aligarh with her cousins celebrating the occasion by distributing sweets among the near and dear ones. Announcing Gupta’s nomination on Thursday, Biden described her as one of the most respected civil rights lawyers in America and a “proud daughter” of immigrants from India, who has fought for greater equity. If confirmed by the Senate, Gupta would be the first woman of colour to hold the post. Beaming with joy on Gupta's recommendation for the role, her uncle Sarvesh Kumar said, “Vanita’s paternal and maternal grandfathers were from Aligarh. The family migrated to the US decades ago. This is a proud moment not only for the extended family here but for the entire nation.” “We have even offered special prayers at the temple for her confirmation by the Senate,” he added. Another uncle Arvind Lochan, who retired as a commandant from Indian Navy, said, “Vanita and her family are still very much connected to their roots. They make it a point to visit Aligarh’s Mahavirganj whenever they are in India. Our daughter has made us proud by achieving so much success even while in the US.” Expressing happiness over her achievement, her aunt Chandralekha said, “She had earlier served as the acting assistant attorney general for the civil rights division during former president Barack Obama’s tenure. She has been nominated for a higher post now. It’s really a big thing. She has always been keen to work for the underprivileged and I hope her job in the Cabinet will help her further this role.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/aligarh-celebrates-vanita-guptas-nomination-to-top-biden-team-post/articleshow/80190867.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 10, 2021||Goa||District court quashes charges against activists||Panaji: Charges filed by the Panaji police against parish priest of Chicalim Church Fr Bolmax Pereira and Capt Viriato Fernandes on December 19, 2020 were quashed by a judge of the district and sessions court, Panaji on Friday. They were detained by the police on Liberation Day as they gathered with a number of other citizens at the steps of the Panaji Church for a song, dance and art celebration to mark 59 years of the state’s liberation from Portuguese rule. Calling the judgement “a ray of hope in a state slipping into a phase of tyrannical rule,” Fernandes said that the cops, under orders from the government, “shot themselves in the foot” by illegally detaining peaceful activists. “The law enforcement agencies should not forget that the wheels of justice will someday turn 360 degrees and come to haunt them,” he added. Pereira expressed displeasure in the state dispensation in Goa calling it “a shameful slavery.” “Our legislators have failed us, our home departments are criminally manipulated for abuse of power. The order at the district and sessions court quashing and setting aside sub divisional magistrate’s illegal order against us gives us hope in the judiciary – that our constitutional rights cannot be trampled forever,” he said. Amongst those detained were many youngsters were also pushed into police vans and driven around the state before the vehicles were parked at the Ponda police station hours later. The action provoked deep anger across the state, especially by parents and other concerned citizens, who were shocked by the police’s treatment of minors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/district-court-quashes-charges-against-activists/articleshow/80191988.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Goa||Dictatorship by BJP govt: Velingkar||Panaji: Former Goa RSS chief Subhash Velingkar on Saturday said that the BJP government in Goa during its last two terms has proven more vindictive against opponents than any of the other non-BJP governments before them. Demanding that all non-bailable offences slapped against protesters of the IIT-Goa project in Melauli, Sattari should be withdrawn, Velingkar said never in the history of protests in Goa agitators have been booked with attempt to murder. He said the sections applied against the protesters in Melauli are condemnable and objectionable. “I have been part of at least 16 major protests in Goa and never have I seen attempt to murder sections being applied for opposing the government stance. During the medium of instruction protests, I called then Congress CM Digambar Kamat murderer of mother tongue from public platforms, but even the Congress leaders were never this vindictive. What is happening today is nothing short of dictatorship,” said Velingkar. Velingkar’s son Shailendra is among those arrested by the crime branch in the case of clash of protesters with police force in Melauli on January 6. Velingkarhad said earlier that his son was assaulted in custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dictatorship-by-bjp-govt-velingkar/articleshow/80191990.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Thousands turn up for R-Day protest rehearsals in Hry||Ambala/Jind/Hisar: To mark the protest against the Centre’s three agri-marketing laws and the 76th death anniversary of Sir Chhotu Ram, thousands of farmers from Ambala, Hisar and Jind districts on Saturday held rallies and rehearsals for a protest tractor “parade” to be carried out in Delhi on Republic Day. Farmers held two rehearsals in Ambala — in Ambala city and Naraingarh town. Actvists in about 5,000 tractors took out the rally in response to a call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), Haryana (Charuni), said union leaders. In Jind, farmers paused their protest to allow candidates to appear for the gram sachiv exam at 1pm. Earlier, farmers started their march in the morning from several villages of Uchana assembly seat, represented by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala, and reached the outskirts of Jind at 12.30pm. They stopped the rally for about half an hour to avoid a jam-like situation. A protester in Jind, Suresh Kumar, said their cavalcade comprised thousands of tractors and knew that the candidates would be affected if the protest entered the city before 1 pm. “We are seeking support from every section of society, how can we create an uneasy situation for the future of our country?” said Azad Singh Palwa, a key member of the protest going on in Jind. In Hisar, a rally was organised at the Chaudharywas toll plaza. Activists in Ambala started gathering at New Grain Market on Ambala-Hisar highway in the morning and took out a rally through Baldev Nagar, Jandali, Prem Nagar, Model Town and back to New Grain Market. In Naraingarh, farmers came in tractors at Kadasan village on National Highway (NH) 344 and took out a rally to Shahzadpur and back. Protesters raised anti-government slogans, including against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. They also put a garland of shoes on the effigies of these leaders and beat them with shoes. Both rallies were peaceful and tractors remained in a single lane and did not disturbing traffic. BKU Haryana (Charuni) Ambala district president Malkiat Singh Sahibpura led the rally at Naraingarh. “About 2,000 tractors attended the parade in Naraingarh, which is just a trailer. The main rally will be huge in Delhi,” he said. The union’s Ambala district vice-president, Gulab Singh, led the rally at Ambala. “About 3,000 tractors attended our rally,” said Gulab Singh. After the rally in Hisar, farm groups announced the strategy for the Replublic Day agitation when they would take out a rally at Mahabir Stadium, which is the venue of Hisar district administration’s Republic Day celebrations. They said effigies will be burnt in every village of the district on January 13 in protest against the laws. Women’s Day will be celebrated on January 18 at the district level. A protest will also be held on January 23 too to mark Subhash Chandra Bose’s birth anniversary, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/thousands-turn-up-for-r-day-protest-rehearsals-in-hry/articleshow/80191999.cms||JK Singh
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||100 UK MPs, Lords sign letter to Boris||Jalandhar: Over 100 members of lower and upper Houses of the UK Parliament have signed a cross-party letter to British Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressing their concerns over the farmers’ protests in India. They have urged him to raise the issue with the Indian PM when they next liaise. The signatories have also expressed hope for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock. The letter was made public with the names of the MPs and Lords who signed the letter by Slough MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi. “We believe your Indian visit has now been cancelled, but you intend to meet your Indian counterpart soon. Given the urgency of this matter, could you please confirm that your will definitely convey to the Indian Prime Minister the heart-felt anxieties of our constituents, our hopes for a speedy resolution to the current deadlock and also for the democratic human right of citizens to peacefully protest...” the letter reads The letter said their constituents, especially those coming from Punjab and other parts of India, were horrified to see the “force used at the protesters”. The issue had so much galvanised the Indian diaspora community, especially those of a Punjabi or Sikh background, and others who have land or links to farming in India that tens of thousands are engaged in global protests, including in the UK, the letter said. It also mentioned an earlier cross-party letter sent to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab to raise the matter with his Indian counterpart. Dhesi also uploaded a video in Punjabi giving details of this letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/100-uk-mps-lords-sign-letter-to-boris/articleshow/80192008.cms||IP Singh
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Bowenpally agriculture market to run on power generated from vegetable waste||SECUNDERABAD: For the first time, the Bowenpally agriculture market, the largest vegetable market in Secunderabad Cantonment, will run on electricity generated through vegetable waste. Over a hundred streetlights, 170 stalls, an administrative building and water supply network will be run on this source of energy. With the completion of a trial run recently, it is ready to launch a new power plant, built at a cost of Rs 3 crore, to generate electricity from vegetable waste. “Usually, we used to dump nearly 10 tonnes of vegetable waste (biogas) in the Jawaharnagar dumpyard. Instead of dumping the huge quantity of waste in there, we thought of utilising the waste to generate power. This will also help us save on the monthly power bills. We can save Rs 2 lakh to Rs 4 lakh on the monthly power bills,” chairman, Bowenpally agricultural market committee, T N Srinivasan told TOI. “We had proposed to set up a power plant in 2019 and now it is ready to begin its functions. The senior scientists of Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), Hyderabad have designed it. A total of 1,000 units of power will be generated in a day from 10 tonnes of vegetable waste,” he said. Power is generated in different stages. “In the first stage, a conveyor belt carries the vegetable waste and puts it into a storage pit. In the second stage, the waste reaches solid waste treatment plant and is then transferred to an energy generator, automatically. In the third and final stage, energy generators produce electricity which reach all the electrical equipment in the market,” explained Srinivasan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bowenpally-agriculture-market-to-run-on-power-generated-from-vegetable-waste/articleshow/80192014.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Film industry hopes dash as theatre move dropped||HYDERABAD: The hopes of the Telugu film industry which has sought permission to allow 100% occupancy in theatres will not materialise going by the latest order of the Union ministry of home affairs. Tamil Nadu government which had given permission for 100% capacity in theatres received instructions from the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) against doing so. Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla, in a letter (dated January 6, 2021) to Tamil Nadu chief secretary K Shanmugam, said the Covid-19 guidelines of the Centre cannot be diluted by the states. The MHA, in its order on December 28, extended the guidelines up to January 31 restricting the capacity in film theatres to 50 per cent. Bhalla also pointed out that in summons in a recent writ petition, the Supreme Court had issued clear-cut directions to state governments to enforce Covid-19 guidelines, including wearing of masks and following social distancing norms and that strict action should be taken against those violating the SOPs and regulation of the gatherings. The Telugu film industry, which sent representations to Telangana and AP governments to allow cent per cent viewership in theatres since several films are getting released during Sankranti, will now have to make do with 50% occupancy only. The AP and Telangana governments, however, did not respond to the plea of the film industry yet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/film-industry-hopes-dash-as-theatre-move-dropped/articleshow/80192010.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Man arrested for molestation in Kolkata||KOLKATA: A 41-year-old resident of Ganguly Bagan alleged she was molested by a neighbour at her home on January 5. “We arrested the accused, Kartik Das (44) early on Saturday,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. Cops said the two sides might have old enmity. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-arrested-for-molestation/articleshow/80192022.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Private schools want tax holiday to weather Covid storm||HYDERABAD: The Telangana Recognised School Managements’ Association (TRSMA) on Saturday requested the state to issue guidelines for collection of last year’s pending fees and this year’s fee dues. In a representation to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, they also requested the state to issue guidelines to be followed while dealing with fee defaulters. They said TRSMA should be given official recognition and be involved in consultations before framing policies and regulations for unaided schools. “Due to Covid-19 pandemic, schools were shut indefinitely since March 14, 2020, and subsequently exams were cancelled and all students were promoted to the next class. Because of this, most budget private schools are yet to recover about 35% of the last year’s tuition fee dues. Further, parents are not paying this year’s tuition fee owing to miscommunication as authorities said, ‘Dial 100 if any school asks to pay fees’,” TRSMA president Y Shekar Rao said, adding schools were facing a major financial crisis and were unable to pay their bills because of fee dues. They said about 30% of private schools were on the verge of closure. The managements requested the state to consider budget schools as a separate category and convert these schools’ property tax, electricity, and water bills from commercial to domestic category and waive off road taxes applicable to all schools buses for the lockdown period. The managements also asked the state to recommend NBFCs and banks to extend the moratorium on EMIs payable for school buses till March 2021 and insurance regulatory authority to provide insurance holiday for the lockdown period. They also said that schools should be provided with interest-free unsecured loans with 12 months moratorium.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pvt-schools-want-tax-holiday-to-weather-covid-storm/articleshow/80192021.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Fake call centre busted, 2 held||Kolkata: Bidhannagar Police on Friday busted a fraud call centre at New Town and arrested two persons, Amit Mondal and Gopinath Sharma. They duped people by falsely promising them to retrieve lapsed policy amounts and coaxing them to invest in dud policies. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/fake-call-centre-busted-2-held/articleshow/80192015.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||GFP urges women’s panel to investigate Melauli violence||Panaji: Highlighting the use of force by Goa Police to quell protests at Shel-Melauli, Goa Forward Party (GFP) has written to the National Commission for Women (NCW), calling for stringent action against the police personnel. GFP’s women’s wing has written a complaint to chairperson of the NCW Rekha Sharma demanding that a delegation of the commission should visit the state immediately. The political party has also demanded an apology from chief minister Pramod Sawant for the police personnel’s act of stamping upon women. “As depicted in videos and images circulated across social media, it is evident that male police constables were trampling and walking on women who were pushed down to stop their peaceful protests,” said Ashma Sayed, the president of GFP’s women’s wing. On January 6 residents of Shel-Melauli started protesting when government officials were demarcating land for the IIT Goa campus and a strong police force lathi-charged the protesters to disperse them. “The police force also lati-charged elderly women above the age of 50 and minor children for taking part in their peaceful demonstration,” said Sayed. “This is the disgraceful and shameful patriarchal mindset of the government in power and we urge you as the representative authority of women to take a step to investigate the excessive use of police brutality against Goan women.” The police claimed that the protesters attacked the police and started pelting stones. The police have filed FIRsagainst several protesters, including women. “It is imperative that the National Commission for Women take stringent and immediate action to investigate members of the Goa Police, the government directions under the chief minister Pramod Sawant, and the rationale and reasoning for the need of FIR against women demonstrators,” said Sayed in the letter to Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-urges-womens-panel-to-investigate-melauli-violence/articleshow/80191995.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Students in remote villages face transportation woes||Nashik: Some students in the rural areas of the Nashik district are facing problems travelling to their schools as Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) buses have not been restarted on all the routes that were operational before the Covid-19 pandemic caused the lockdown.There about 1.8 lakh students across Nashik rural and almost half of them reside in the remote villages which are not connected to major roads. Therefore, special buses are needed to take the students from their villages to the nearest high school or town.Santosh Gangurde, a Class IX students and a resident of the Surgana taluka, must travel to the taluka headquarters to attend his school. But there is no bus connecting his village. “As the MSRTC has still not resumed the bus service to my village near Umbarpada, I have to rely on private transport or ask my parents to drop me to the school in the town,” Gangurde said. In Niphad taluka, children studying in schools at the Saikheda village are yet to get any bus service from their home villages.“My son cycles to the school. But my daughter cannot go to school on her own. I have to drop her,” said Naresh Kadam, a resident one of the villages near Saikheda.Divisional controller of Nashik division Nitin Maind said bus services to the villages, which had placed the demand, had already resumed. There were many areas from where the demand was yet to be established, he said. “After the district administration announced that the schools will restart from January 4, we had asked the depot managers to check for the demand for school buses. Services have resumed in most villages that placed the demand, but few are left,” said Maind.The officer said the MSRTC had started issuing passes to the students. “We start buses as per the demand and it does not have a direct link to the number of passes issued. However, the number reflects the demand on a particular route. We are sure that within a week’s time, the services would be normal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/students-in-remote-villages-face-transportation-woes/articleshow/80190922.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Nashik||MSEDCL: Fly kites in areas with no overhead power lines||Nashik: With Makar Sankranti round the corner, the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSDECL) has appealed to citizens to exercise caution while flying kites on the occasion. Stating that kite-flying was an important aspect of Makar Sankranti, Vikas Adhe, spokesperson of MSEDCL, said, “We request citizens to fly kites only in areas that do not have overhead electricity lines.” It may be noted that an 8-year-old boy from Satpur was electrocuted on Dasara in 2018 when he tried to recover a kite string (manja) from an electrical wire using a metal rod. The boy had suffered 89% burns and had succumbed to his injuries two days later. Officials from the state power utility have advised citizens not to pull a kite or string if they get entangled in the electric wires. The kite strings, when coated with finely ground metal, act as conductors of electricity. When the string gets stuck in the electric wires, pulling the string may give one an electric shock. Many a times, dew drops settle on the kite strings that get entangled in the overhead electric wires or water passes through them. As a result, short circuits occur which lead to power failure.The MSEDCL has appealed to parents to monitor their children when they fly kites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/msedcl-fly-kites-in-areas-with-no-overhead-power-lines/articleshow/80190920.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Nashik||2 arrested for demanding Rs 20L from trader||Kolhapur: The local crime branch arrested two people on Friday for allegedly demanding Rs 20 lakh from a trader in Gandhi Nagar near Kolhapur and threatening to kill his family members for failing to meet their demand. Sumit Sewakram Advani (29) and Ajay Ashok Ajay Walecha (24) — both residents of Gandhi Nagar —have been remanded in police custody for six days. Hareshlal Narsingani runs a cloth shop with the help of his son in the Gandhi Nagar area. As per the complaint lodged by him, the duo introduced themselves as members of the Bishnoi gang and demanded from Rs 20 lakh from him. They kept sending him messages on Whatsapp using the name of one Ravi Pujari and pressed their demand between December 11 and January 5. Police investigation has revealed that the suspects had used a separate sim card while making phone calls and sending messages through WhatsApp to the trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-arrested-for-demanding-rs-20l-from-trader/articleshow/80190870.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Rohan slams ‘undeclared emergency’||Panaji: Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte said on Saturday that Goa is under an “undeclared emergency”, and called for unity to take on BJP. He criticised the government for assaulting, harassing and arresting villagers and activists who were peacefully protesting against the IIT-Goa project at Melauli. He added that the divided opposition is giving BJP room to continue with such atrocities against residents. “It is time for all Goans to unite and not have a divided opposition,” he told reporters. “The biggest opportunity for BJP today is that we are a divided opposition. This is giving BJP enough brownie points to attack the people through the police.” On Saturday, Khaunte also condemned the alleged assault on activist Shailendra Velingkar, who was arrested for allegedly instigating and leading the protests at Melauli. “The police officers who are posted here from outside the state have become stooges of the government,” he said. “The chief minister is (only) bothered about pleasing the people in Delhi and at the Centre, to save his chair.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rohan-slams-undeclared-emergency/articleshow/80191998.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||Pune police harness tech to reduce externment order violations||PUNE: Over the course of last year, the Pune police arrested 216 criminals — including 16 in a massive combing operation on December 31 — for breaching externment orders. This has prompted the police to stop relying on conventional methods of monitoring external criminals, and adopt tech-based solutions. Since 2018, as per official data, the police externed 608 criminals from the district. In stark contrast, 710 criminals — including repeat offenders — were arrested for violating the order in the same, as well as preceding, period. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta told TOI that merely arresting criminals for violating the order was hardly as a deterrent. “We arrest criminals, but they are released on bail. We will start taking preventive action under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) and Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act,” Gupta said. Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Bachchan Singh said they rely on source-based surveillance and regular checks by local police stations/crime branch to keep an eye on externed criminals. “Due to manpower constraints, we cannot carry out man-to-man surveillance. Moreover, the anonymity provided by a metropolitan city helps them hide,” Singh said. “Since May 2020, we have been using an application, ExTra — based on facial recognition and geo-fence alerts — to track externed criminals. We are currently monitoring 96 externees. We are in the process of making the solution robust and plugging any loopholes,” he said. DCP Pankaj Deshmukh (zone IV) attributed the high number of arrests to strict enforcement of the law since 2018. “The police constantly conduct combing operations and are now making good use of ExTra,” Deshmukh said. Senior inspector Rajendra Mokashi of crime branch (unit III) said an amendment to the law, making this a non-bailable offence, would go a long way. “Such cases can then be tried by sessions courts, and externees will find it difficult to secure bail. This will be a deterrent,” Mokashi said. Lawyer Pratap Pardeshi, on the other hand, suggested counselling and rehabilitation of small-time criminals. “Most criminals violate such orders as they cannot stay away from their families for long periods. Small-time criminals, when externed, become hardened over time. Counselling and rehabilitation, and extending the period of externment, from one or two years to three years or more, could work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-harness-tech-to-reduce-externment-order-violations/articleshow/80192019.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Spl officers to oversee Rs 152-crore road works||Aurangabad: In a key initiative, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) has appointed special officers to oversee different civic works planned with a financial outlay of Rs 152.6 crore. The 23 identified civic works involve different road works that need to be executed as per specifications. Of these 23 road works, nine will be executed by the local civic body and seven each by the Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation Limited (MSRDC) and the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation. “The state government had given the administrative approval for the road works in Aurangabad and these works are currently in progress. In order to ensure the desired quality of work, special officers have been appointed. They will oversee different aspects of work by coordinating with the authorities of the implementing agencies and project management consultancies concerned,” AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey said. The move to appoint the special officers to supervise the road works has been hailed by the civic activists, who highlighted the past examples of substandard works in the city. Sharad Advant, of advocacy group Marathwada Janta Vikas Parishad, said the many road works in past had become an instrument to seize public money. “Despite spending crores, poor roads remain an issue for Aurangabad as many of the works were never carried out as per the specifications and standards. Some of the roads cannot even survive a couple of monsoons. They develop potholes and cracks. We hope the appointment of the watchdogs now will serve the purpose and the city will get durable roads,” he said. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, during his recent visit to Aurangabad, had inaugurated some of these road works ahead of the upcoming AMC elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/spl-officers-to-oversee-rs-152-crore-road-works/articleshow/80190881.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Police's EOW arrests realtor for duping investors||NEW DELHI: Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested Sanjeev Shrivastava, director of Assotech real estate firm, for allegedly duping investors by soliciting investments in a project called Assotech Canopy. Shrivastava, police said, was a director in more than 26 companies of the Assotech group and director of 40 companies in total. “In order to raise more and more money, he kept on launching new projects and used the funds raised from one project in other projects,” said OP Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW). One of the complainants, a businessman named Sudhir Gupta, had booked 40 flats in the project, which were later allegedly allotted to someone else. The builder apparently assured the victim he would allot him flats in some other project and took more money. “Gupta was allegedly induced by the accused with false assurance to invest in his housing project that was to come up in Crossing Republic, Ghaziabad. He convinced the investor showing rosy pictures about the project being ideal for bulk investment. In September 2014, the complainant was offered residential units in various Towers of Assotech Canopy,” joint CP Mishra added. Falling to the assurance given by the builder, he booked and invested amount for 40 units. As per the payment plan, the complainant was to pay next 30% of the cost of flats within 60 days of booking. Later, it was found that the residential units booked in his name had been allotted to somebody else. Accused Srivastava allegedly falsely assured the complainant about making alternative arrangements for flats in his other projects, police said. The complainant paid additional 30% of the selling price as per the plan, paying a sum of over Rs 5.1 crore. Later, he was shocked to find that the construction at the promised project had not even started. He then filed a complaint in 2016 based on which an FIR was registered. Investigation by Ghaziabad Development Authority revealed that no approval for any project by the name of "Assotech Canopy” was given by them. “Further, the consortium, Crossing infrastructure Pvt Ltd, revealed that the said project does not even exist in the township plan. An on-the-spot inspection revealed that no construction was found till date,” Mishra added. Shrivastava was served several notices to join the probe but he kept avoiding. He was arrested from Noida on January 8. There are many cases in EOW against the accused and his companies. The accused has been produced before the competent court in Delhi for remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/eow-arrests-realtor-for-duping-investors/articleshow/80193543.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Foresters trap leopard on outskirts of Nashik||NASHIK: A 4-year-old female leopard was caught in a trap installed on the outskirts of Nashik on Saturday morning and was subsequently rescued, said the forest officials. “For the past three days, a trap had been set in a farm near the Pathardi village. Today (Saturday), a leopard was trapped and rescued,” said Vivek Bhadane, the range forest officer of the forest department. The animal has now been shifted to the forest department centre near Pandav Leni, the officer said. The trap had been laid after the forest department received a series of leopard-sighting complaints from the village residents. “With the leopard’s capture, the farmers and farm workers have heaved a sigh of relief. Over the past three days, several workers had sighted the animal. The forest officials were then informed,” said Ramesh Kothmire, a resident. The forest department, meanwhile, has received fresh calls from the Donwade village, near Bhagur, where another leopard has been sighted by the farmers. There are chances that the leopard comes to the villages in search of food in the form of goats and dogs, and takes shelter in the nearby sugar cane fields. The farm workers are scared and want the forest department officials to help them. The forest officials will study the situation and, if required, will lay a trap there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/female-leopard-trapped-near-pathardi-on-nashik-outskirts/articleshow/80190918.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ghaziabad||Delhi Police's EOW arrests realtor for duping investors||NEW DELHI: Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested Sanjeev Shrivastava, director of Assotech real estate firm, for allegedly duping investors by soliciting investments in a project called Assotech Canopy. Shrivastava, police said, was a director in more than 26 companies of the Assotech group and director of 40 companies in total. “In order to raise more and more money, he kept on launching new projects and used the funds raised from one project in other projects,” said OP Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW). One of the complainants, a businessman named Sudhir Gupta, had booked 40 flats in the project, which were later allegedly allotted to someone else. The builder apparently assured the victim he would allot him flats in some other project and took more money. “Gupta was allegedly induced by the accused with false assurance to invest in his housing project that was to come up in Crossing Republic, Ghaziabad. He convinced the investor showing rosy pictures about the project being ideal for bulk investment. In September 2014, the complainant was offered residential units in various Towers of Assotech Canopy,” joint CP Mishra added. Falling to the assurance given by the builder, he booked and invested amount for 40 units. As per the payment plan, the complainant was to pay next 30% of the cost of flats within 60 days of booking. Later, it was found that the residential units booked in his name had been allotted to somebody else. Accused Srivastava allegedly falsely assured the complainant about making alternative arrangements for flats in his other projects, police said. The complainant paid additional 30% of the selling price as per the plan, paying a sum of over Rs 5.1 crore. Later, he was shocked to find that the construction at the promised project had not even started. He then filed a complaint in 2016 based on which an FIR was registered. Investigation by Ghaziabad Development Authority revealed that no approval for any project by the name of "Assotech Canopy” was given by them. “Further, the consortium, Crossing infrastructure Pvt Ltd, revealed that the said project does not even exist in the township plan. An on-the-spot inspection revealed that no construction was found till date,” Mishra added. Shrivastava was served several notices to join the probe but he kept avoiding. He was arrested from Noida on January 8. There are many cases in EOW against the accused and his companies. The accused has been produced before the competent court in Delhi for remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/eow-arrests-realtor-for-duping-investors/articleshow/80194081.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Zaheerabad NIMZ: Telangana takes a leap in attracting industry, talent||HYDERABAD: With the Pharma City project gathering steam, the Telangana government is now sharpening focus on the Zaheerabad NIMZ (National Investment and Manufacturing Zone) to boost the manufacturing sector in the region. The Pharma City project too was accorded NIMZ status and the state government has already received environmental clearance for it. “We are commencing the environmental impact assessment process later this month,” Telangana IT and industries principal secretary Jayesh Ranjan said. “Once the environment assessment is completed, work on development of infrastructure will commence,” he said, adding that the public hearing is scheduled for January 20 and officials will explain pollution-related safeguards to the villagers. The state government had recently requested the Centre to allocate Rs500 crore for Phase I development of the project. Ranjan said that it is only after the environmental clearance that the state government will be able to provide land to investors. Land in Zaheerabad NIMZ can be offered at a much lower rate, approximately 50% lower as compared to land in Pharma City, because it is in the rural area, Ranjan said. Currently, only around 2,900 acres of the total 13,500 acres earmarked for the project is in possession of the state government and it expects to acquire the rest this year. Ranjan pointed out that apart from attractive land prices, Zaheerabad NIMZ scores very high in terms of road, rail, port as well as air connectivity, and the region also has a good mix of talent availability due to the presence of many industries in nearby areas. Even as the state government bets big on NIMZ projects, professor Chandan Chowdhury, senior associate dean at the Indian School of Business, said, “To make our NIMZ successful, we need to think beyond traditional interventions and focus on promoting R&D and digital innovation. The government shares 50% of the total expenditure for filing for an international patent to encourage innovation in NIMZ. Such initiatives will help manufacturing companies within NIMZ to drive strategies for global competitiveness.” Adil Zaidi, partner and leader, economic development advisory, EY India, said that post Covid-19, it is essential to ensure enough provisions for workers’ accommodation and social amenities for them to live within the manufacturing zone. This will reduce the cost of manpower for industries, as well as help tackle large-scale labour migration, he said. “NIMZs have the potential to foster a collaborative working model between different players along the value chain,” Zaidi said. “For this, the need of the hour is to provide various statutory approvals at NIMZ level, along with plug-and-play infrastructure for key sectors such as ESDM, food processing, and textiles, among others, so that the overall cost of doing business for manufacturing units reduces and India becomes competitive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-bets-big-on-zaheerabad-nimz-for-manufacturing-boost/articleshow/80192024.cms||Swati Rathor
January 10, 2021||Pune||Autonomous status to minority college||Pune: The University Grants Commission (UGC) has given Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society’s Abeda Inamdar Senior College of Arts, Science and Commerce an autonomous status for 10 years. The institute is among a few minority colleges in the country with autonomy status. The college can now independently form its syllabus, collaborate with foreign universities, conduct examination and formulate course fees. President of Maharashtra Cosmopolitan Education Society PA Inamdar said, “Currently, our courses offered to rural and urban students are balanced and defined. Now, we can formulate the course as per their requirements. It is a proud moment for us. It has enabled us to expand our academic vision and reach maximum students.” Principal of the senior college Shaila Bootwala said, “We look forward to offering a wide variety of subjects to our students, to enable their development in many ways.” The college received an A grade by NAAC in 2013 and 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/autonomous-status-to-minority-college/articleshow/80192023.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Our govt is people-centric, not insensitive: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that his government is sensitive and people-centric, and willing to listen to the people. Sawant said that legislators, members of parliament and former MLAs should work towards taking the state to the next level. Speaking at the Goa Legislators’ Day function at Porvorim, Sawant paid tribute to all the freedom fighters for their contribution in the struggle for the state’s liberation. Sawant also acknowledged the efforts of former legislators for working to develop the state during these 60 years post liberation. “If we want people to remember us then we have to undertake constructive work, and not destructive work. If we falter, then it should be brought to our notice. The state government is willing to listen to the people. If people want to oppose, come and meet us. We are ready to listen. This government is not insensitive,” he said. “When the state will celebrate 100 years of liberation, people should remember us for the development we undertake,” he added. During the past couple of months, the state has been facing various agitations on issues such as double-tracking, power transmission line, coal handling, widening of national highway and setting up of IIT-Goa at Melaulim. Even traders and sugarcane farmers have protested agitations over the policies of the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/sawant-our-govt-is-people-centric-not-insensitive/articleshow/80192006.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Agra||Boy, 10, kidnapped by aunt for 'revenge'; recovered, 3 arrested||Meerut: A 10-year-old boy, who went missing from his home at a colony in the TP Nagar area of Meerut on Friday, was safely recovered by the police on Saturday. "Four teams were formed immediately after the alert. Several CCTV footage in the vicinity were scanned. In a breakthrough, two women and a man involved in the abduction were arrested," Akhilesh Narayan Singh, Meerut SP (City) said. The boy being taken away by two women was caught on one of the CCTV cameras in the vicinity following which an FIR of "kidnapping" was registered at the local police station based on the complaint of Akshay Lal, the boy's father. According to police, the boy was recovered from his aunt Sarita who had abducted the boy in a bid to extract revenge from her brother Akshay Lal. Sarita was married to Omprakash, Lal's brother-in-law, in 2011, but the couple later parted ways. Upon separation, the couple's six-year-old boy stayed with Omprakash at the insistence of Lal. Sarita had grown a grudge over it and abducted her nephew in vengeance. "During interrogation of the arrested accused, it came to fore that the child was kidnapped by his aunt Sarita. She was holding a grudge against her brother for giving away her child to her husband after separation. She [Sarita] wanted to teach him a lesson by killing the child after abduction," the SP (City) added. ReplyReply allForward||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/boy-10-kidnapped-by-aunt-for-revenge-recovered-3-arrested/articleshow/80190898.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Noida||Delhi Police's EOW arrests realtor for duping investors||NEW DELHI: Economic Offences Wing of Delhi Police has arrested Sanjeev Shrivastava, director of Assotech real estate firm, for allegedly duping investors by soliciting investments in a project called Assotech Canopy. Shrivastava, police said, was a director in more than 26 companies of the Assotech group and director of 40 companies in total. “In order to raise more and more money, he kept on launching new projects and used the funds raised from one project in other projects,” said OP Mishra, joint commissioner (EOW). One of the complainants, a businessman named Sudhir Gupta, had booked 40 flats in the project, which were later allegedly allotted to someone else. The builder apparently assured the victim he would allot him flats in some other project and took more money. “Gupta was allegedly induced by the accused with false assurance to invest in his housing project that was to come up in Crossing Republic, Ghaziabad. He convinced the investor showing rosy pictures about the project being ideal for bulk investment. In September 2014, the complainant was offered residential units in various Towers of Assotech Canopy,” joint CP Mishra added. Falling to the assurance given by the builder, he booked and invested amount for 40 units. As per the payment plan, the complainant was to pay next 30% of the cost of flats within 60 days of booking. Later, it was found that the residential units booked in his name had been allotted to somebody else. Accused Srivastava allegedly falsely assured the complainant about making alternative arrangements for flats in his other projects, police said. The complainant paid additional 30% of the selling price as per the plan, paying a sum of over Rs 5.1 crore. Later, he was shocked to find that the construction at the promised project had not even started. He then filed a complaint in 2016 based on which an FIR was registered. Investigation by Ghaziabad Development Authority revealed that no approval for any project by the name of "Assotech Canopy” was given by them. “Further, the consortium, Crossing infrastructure Pvt Ltd, revealed that the said project does not even exist in the township plan. An on-the-spot inspection revealed that no construction was found till date,” Mishra added. Shrivastava was served several notices to join the probe but he kept avoiding. He was arrested from Noida on January 8. There are many cases in EOW against the accused and his companies. The accused has been produced before the competent court in Delhi for remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/eow-arrests-realtor-for-duping-investors/articleshow/80194080.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Agra||Hooch tragedy: Death toll climbs to 6, massive search op to locate 19 cartons||Meerut: A massive search operation to locate 19 cartons of spurious country-made liquor began on Friday night after police learnt that it was dumped at a desolate spot in a field by the liquor mafia after people started falling ill at Jeetgarhi village in Bulandshahr district. The death toll in the tragedy has now climbed to six with at least 15, some in critical condition, still under medical care at various hospitals. The main accused Kuldeep along with at least six of his accomplices have been arrested. "When we arrested Kuldeep, he told us that he was storing the liquor at a tubewell in the area and asked his accomplices to dump the stock of 19 cartons of liquor after people began falling ill. Based on his inputs, three cartons of liquor was recovered," Santosh Kumar, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP) said. The remaining 16 cartons of missing liquor posed an immediate threat as senior officials believed it was taken away by locals for consumption. "We formed several police teams led by senior officials and began an awareness drive to apprise the locals in nearby villages about the adverse effects of consuming the abandoned spurious liquor," the SSP added. The efforts of police led to a breakthrough on Saturday morning after eight of the 16 remaining missing cartons were recovered from a field on the outskirts of Nayagaon village. "Efforts are on to trace the remaining eight cartons which are yet to be accounted for," police said. Now, Bulandshahr administration has announced a reward of Rs 5,000 for any tip-off leading to recovery of remaining eight cartons of the spurious liquor. Bulandshahr district magistrate Ravindra Kumar and SSP Santosh Singh gathered the villagers to apprise them about the situation. DM Kumar, on loudspeaker, assured the villagers that no criminal proceedings will be initiated against those surrendering the spurious liquor. Instead, they will be rewarded with Rs 5,000. "Our main objective is to trace the missing eight cartons of spurious liquor so that no one dies after consuming it. We have been at it since last night and now we are approaching you [villagers]," the DM can be heard addressing a gathering of local villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hooch-tragedy-death-toll-climbs-to-6-massive-search-op-to-locate-19-cartons/articleshow/80190912.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Parties divided on SEC notification||Vijayawada: The State Election Commission (SEC) has written to the chief secretary asking him to stop all welfare schemes till the election process is completed. The SEC sent a circular to chief secretary Adityanath Das on Saturday asking him to adhere to the model code of conduct, which came into effect on January 9. The SEC also wanted the government to stop payments under Amma Vodi and distribution of house site pattas to beneficiaries till the election process is completed. The SEC issued a notification on Friday imposing the model code of conduct. Though Adityanath Das observed “the attempt of the State Election Commission to allude that the state government is advancing spurious grounds for not holding elections when raging pandemic has affected people of Andhra Pradesh is regrettable,” to discount the SEC’s move. The chief secretary said the SEC did not honour the court’s direction of holding consultation with the state. He said the SEC had held consultations “as per their (SEC) convenience instead of mutual convenience.” However, minister for education Adimulapu Suresh announced that the Amma Vodi scheme would be rolled out as per schedule on Monday and asserted the scheme is an ongoing one and not a new scheme. Meanwhile, political parties expressed divergent views on the State Election Commission (SEC) issuing notification for panchayat raj elections in the state. While the opposition TDP, BJP and CPI welcomed the decision, the ruling YSR Congress and the Congress opposed the move. TDP president and former chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu welcomed the new schedule released by the SEC. He took strong exception to chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy opposing the elections and asked why the chief minister was opposing the elections. BJP state president Somu Veerraju welcomed the SEC decision to resume the elections which were deferred in March 2020. However, the Congress took exception to the SEC releasing fresh schedule for the elections. APCC president Sake Sailajanath wondered what prompted the SEC to take the unilateral decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/parties-divided-on-sec-notification/articleshow/80190905.cms||Gopi Dara
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BKC building’s builder, residents at war over society formation||MUMBAI: Residents of a plush new Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC) tower, Signia Pearl, and the builder, Sunteck Realty, are at daggers drawn over the formation of a housing society. The dispute escalated earlier last week with bouncers stationed outside the 18-storey tower with the two sides accusing each other of arm-twisting. Residents said they had to call the police after the developer brought bouncers in front of the builder. The developer, though, accused the residents of threatening and preventing the staff of the tower’s facility management from leaving the premises on Saturday evening. Signia Pearl, one of the most expensive residential properties in the commercial business district of BKC, was built by Sunteck Realty. Luxury flats were sold for Rs 20 crore to Rs 25 crore each. Families moved in a few years ago and the dispute started soon after over registration of the society. Last August, the district deputy registrar of cooperative societies ordered the registration of the housing society. The developer, though, challenged the order before the divisional joint registrar, stating the Signia Pearl Condominium was already registered on September 16, 2020, two days before the deputy registrar’s order was received. A condominium agreement allows the builder to control the property even after flats are sold and the building occupied. It also allows it to control its future development benefits. On the other hand, registration of a society gives the entire control of the building to flat owners. A Sunteck spokesperson told TOI the agreement of sale clearly mentioned the building will have a condominium of flat owners, not a housing society. Amarpal Sethi, one of the flat owners leading the fight, alleged the builder now also wants to add six more floors on top of the already-occupied tower. The developer, though, said the residents were aware of plans to build the tower till 24 floors with 96 flats. The building currently has 18 floors with 80 flats. “We already have FSI for the additional floors but were unable to build because of aviation height restrictions. Recently, the civil aviation ministry relaxed these restrictions and we can now build those additional floors,” said the Sunteck spokesperson. In its appeal before the joint registrar, the developer said the deputy registrar hastily issued the registration certificate for the formation of the society without verifying the proposal and documents on record. It accused the chief promoter of the society of submitting an incomplete registration proposal. The developer claimed the criterion of minimum members needed to form a society was not fulfilled. It accused flat buyers of using the order and registration certificate in an “illegal and mala fide” way to “illegally” and “unlawfully” usurp the maintenance of the building taken care of by the developer along with Jones Lang LaSalle and Clarissa Facility Management.  The divisional joint registrar, in his order, though, ruled in favour of the flat owners, stating the builder was already in a high court-appointed mediation process in respect of registration of the society. The order said the condominium was formed after the society had already been formed by the flat owners. “We will challenge this order,” said the Sunteck spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bkc-bldgs-builder-residents-at-war-over-society-formation/articleshow/80191102.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||PhDs at Mumbai University hit a wall as research meets not held||MUMBAI: Raji Rao, a commerce faculty, registered for her PhD at Mumbai University in 2017. While she paid her fees, completed her courseware and submitted her synopsis in October 2019 and submitted her thesis in February 2020, she is yet to get a date for the viva voce. Like Rao, another faculty has applied to be enlisted as a guide. Close to 15 months have gone by but he has not heard from MU. Despite a critical dearth of guides who can mentor budding researchers, Mumbai University has not been able to update its list of research guides. Cases like these are aplenty with the MU failing to conduct the crucial research and recognition committee (RRC) meeting since several months. For researchers, the RRC is where all the crucial decisions are taken, from providing clearance for the research topic to taking stock of the progress reports, to forwarding the synopsis to a panel of experts, and lastly, accepting the thesis and conducting the viva voce before deciding whether to confer the doctorate on the candidate or not. The RRC also regularly looks at updates in the count of guides. “I am following up since October 2019 regarding my thesis submission. I have even paid the fees, but the RRC is just not being scheduled,” said a faculty member who has been following up with varsity officials for close to year. Several faculty members have complained to unions and informed experts that research and clearances have come to a standstill. This also prompted the Mumbai University College Teachers’ Association to write to the governor to intervene in the matter. “There are several complaints about the conduct of RRC and criminal loss of researchers’ time as the RRC is not conducted on regular intervals, researchers are losing interest due to this delay in topic approval, issuance of letters, conduct of open defence etc,” the MUCTA letter to the chancellor read. “Several candidates cleared PET and are still waiting for an allotment of guides to start the research work.” Pro-vice chancellor Ravindra Kulkarni said the university has planned several RRCs almost back to back and all subjects would be covered by January-end. “We have also worked to bring the entire PhD track under one department of the university. Earlier, doctoral aspirants had to work with several units, one to register for the entrance exam, another to get coursework, another for submitting their thesis, and so on. Now, it is all under one umbrella called the research and promotion department,” said Kulkarni. RRCs are now taking place in a blended mode, allowing students from far-flung areas to present thesis online. (Some names changed)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/phds-at-mumbai-university-hit-a-wall-as-research-meets-not-held/articleshow/80190833.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Seven arrested for trying to sell sand boa in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Police caught seven college students red-handed while trying to sell a sand boa in Nellore on Saturday. District forest officials said they had launched a decoy operation after coming across a Facebook post listing the boa for sale at an exorbitant price. Cops said that the students had come to know that sand boas hold a high value in the black market for their medicinal properties. They put up an advertisement, putting up the snake for sale at Rs 75 lakh. The forest officials approached them, carried out a negotiation before supposedly agreeing to buy the snake following which they arrested the students in the act with the help of local police. Police later confirmed that a sand boa’s value in the international market stands at around Rs 2 crore. They also seized two cars from the accused, all of whom are college students from Kadapa and Nellore districts. They had decided to hunt and sell sand boas in a bid to make easy money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/7-arrested-for-trying-to-sell-sand-boa/articleshow/80191431.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||Man accused of raping, blackmailing his former subordinate||Vadodara: A former principal of a private educational institution was booked on Friday at Waghodiya police station for rape, sexual harassment, unnatural offence, criminal intimidation and under sections of Information Technology Act, after an assistant professor, who worked under him in the past lodged a complaint. The 31-year-old rape survivor alleged that the accused Dr Navjot Trivedi, who is yet to be arrested, blackmailed and raped her twice between August 2019 and September 2020. She told cops that Trivedi, a native of Deesa in Banaskantha district blackmailed her by saying that he will share her intimate photos and chats on social media. By issuing such threats Trivedi raped her in his car on national highway-48. The woman has also alleged that Trivedi recorded a video while she was unconscious in Delhi. Trivedi and the woman had gone to Delhi along with students for an academic event. Using that video, Trivedi raped the woman again. “We are in the process of collecting evidence against the accused and once we have that we will arrest him,” said assistant superintendent of Vadodara rural police Jagdish Bangarwa. He added that both, the accused and the complainant, do not work at the educational institution any more. On Saturday, the rape survivor’s medical test was conducted and her mobile was sent to forensic experts for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-accused-of-raping-blackmailing-his-former-subordinate/articleshow/80190990.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Not against Divis plant if it is safe for environment, says Pawan Kalyan||KAKINADA: Jana Sena leader Pawan Kalyan on Saturday said the state government should convince fishermen and farmers in East Godavari district that the proposed pharmaceutical plant by Divis Laboratories will not pollute the region. There should be a scientific evidence that the plant is safe for the local environment and it would not pollute air, land and sea. "I am not against industries. But, they should be responsible and pollution free”, Pawan Kalyan said addressing a public meeting at Kothapakala village of Thondangi mandal in East Godavari district. Stating that he was not against Divis Laboratories, Pawan asked the state government and the management of the pharma unit to form a committee with all the stakeholders and environmental experts to prove that the plant would be free of pollution. Pointing out that there is a technology to treat effluents, he said that no industry is willing to take it up. He demanded that the government release 36 people, who were arrested for protesting against the location of the unit in their village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/not-against-divis-plant-pawan-kalyan/articleshow/80191475.cms||Samson Raj
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||‘Our lifestyle, existing vaccination drives have protected most of us’||Executive director of Serum Institute of India (SII), Dr Suresh S Jadhav, hails from Vidarbha. Born and brought up in Amravati, he holds a degree in pharmacy from Nagpur University. A researcher par excellence, his illustrious career in the field of vaccine manufacturing and administration spans over four decades. Dr Jadhav’s advice and expertise has been sought by WHO on several occasions. He is one of the few experts in the world who understand the nuances of the vaccine. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Dr Jadhav talks about the upcoming vaccination drive, Covishield and whether Indians have better immunity than the others. Excerpts... Q. When do you think the vaccine will be available for everyone? A. As declared by the government, our doctors, health workers, policemen and people above 50 years of age having co-morbid conditions will get the vaccine shots as per the pre-decided phases of the schedule. This process is expected to take six to eight weeks. After that, manufacturers like SII will apply for the marketing licence of the vaccine. On getting the licence, the vaccine will be made available in medical stores just like any other drug. I can only tell you about the SII Covishield vaccine with which we shall hit the market by June-July 2021. Q. What’s the reason behind the low Covid-19 mortality rate in the Indian subcontinent? A. It’s our immunity that has enabled most of us to recover from the infection even without realizing that we have got infected. Now, the secret of our immunity lies in our lifestyle. The way we are brought up in public life makes us immune to many viruses. In rural areas like Amravati where I grew up, we used to drink water directly from the school tap. Playing in mud was an inseparable part of our childhood. Eating food from roadside stalls was a part of our lives. These factors indirectly strengthened our immunity. Too much sanitization and hygiene has made people from Europe and America vulnerable to viral infections. On the other hand, people from India and countries from our subcontinent are recovering in a large numbers on the basis of their own immune power despite challenges like population density. Q. Will you advice parents to let children play in mud? A. Of course. We should let children play in natural conditions. Secondly, too much processed water is also harmful. It results in Vitamin D Deficiency. Water filtered through traditional ways is enough for most of us. Children already have a strong immune system. We don’t have a scientific study or documents to prove that our lifestyle has contributed towards the low mortality rate in subcontinent. We have decided to conduct a meta-analysis of the situation. This study will clarify in detail about the immunity of people in the subcontinent. Another important reason behind immunity in India could be the massive public vaccination drives that we have implemented in the last six decades. Q. You mean BCG and other vaccines have played their part? A. I can definitely say so. We have an effective vaccination drive of BCG across the country. Almost every child is getting BCG, pulse polio and many other vaccines. Recently, several states conducted drives for the MMR vaccine which is against measles, mumps and rubella. This has increased the immunity in kids very effectively. The results are there for all of us to see. Q. How challenging was it to make a vaccine for Covid-19? A. It takes decades to develop a vaccine. The current situation is unprecedented. The virus is highly infective. We had to work out a vaccine effective for every aspect of this virus. Making a vaccine in less than a year is no mean feat. Covid spurred global cooperation for vaccine research. The vaccine has been developed at lightning speed. We must remember that the governments and authorities are permitting the use of the vaccines in emergencies. After we submit the complete reports of the final trials, we will get the final marketing rights. As far as Covishield is concerned, ours will be the first vaccine which is expected to be administered in India. Q. How many vaccines will SII provide worldwide? A. Being the world’s biggest vaccine maker, SII plans to manufacture Covishield on a massive scale. India has been our priority and our CEO Adar Poonawala has committed that we will provide 50% of our vaccines to the Indian population. After this, we will fulfil our international commitments. The government of India is yet to place an order with the SII but we are ready with the stock of 50 million vaccines. We have orders as big as 100 million and 200 million vaccines and many smaller orders up to 7 and 8 million vaccines. SII will provide vaccines to all the needy nations under the WHO and international collaborations. Like always, SII will make India proud by providing protection to millions of people across the world through Covishield.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/our-lifestyle-existing-vaccination-drives-have-protected-most-of-us/articleshow/80192028.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Rainfall hits 342 hectare of grape vineyards in dist||Nashik: The unseasonal rain that lashed Nashik district on January 7 took a heavy toll on the grape vineyards.According to resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doifode grapes across 342 hectare where damaged. In Niphad alone, grapes in 210 hectare were damaged, while in Dindori, 130 grapes hectare of grape vineyards were affected. In Yeola taluka, meanwhile, the rain damaged 12 hectare of grapes vineyards. In many cases, the heavy rains caused the grapevines to collapse, while in other cases, waterlogging affected fruit development.Across Nashik district, the rainfall affected crops in 402.6 hectare — including 342 hectare of grape vineyards. The other crop to feel the brunt was mango — 12.8-hectare plantation in Peth taluka and 9.8 hectare in Trimbakeshwar taluka were damaged.Across the district, 694 farmers in 49 villages suffered crop damage. Niphad taluka was the worst hit as 419 farmers in 30 villages here were affected. The damage in Dindori taluka was limited to four villages, but 200 farmers have suffered losses here.“This year, we thought the climate would be fine and the Covid-19 losses could be recovered. But the climate has now threatened our future. Grapes grown on my entire 0.7 hectare of land have been damaged badly,” said Keshav Patil, a farmer in Niphad.The administration has said that initial crop damage was estimated at 402.6 hectare and the same has been conveyed to the government. The final assessment would be carried out soon and that too would be conveyed to the government so that it can decide on the ways to help the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rainfall-hits-342-hectare-of-grape-vineyards-in-dist/articleshow/80190916.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 10, 2021||Rajkot||Stray dog chases away lioness in Gujarat's Sasan forest||RAJKOT: A video went viral on social media where a canine dared to show the king of the jungle, it’s definitely better to be an alive dog than a dead lion. The short video shows a lioness being chased away by a stray dog in Sasan forest. It seems to have been recorded by a tourist during a jungle safari ride as a bunch of visitors are seen standing in a hoodless jeep near the spot where the fight ensued. #Watch: Stray dog in #Sasan forest fighting with a lioness to save its life. #Gujarat https://t.co/43ak4KeUCy— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1610248302000In the 1.34 minute video, the dog is seen barking ferociously at an adult lioness. It also lunges forward at the lioness to attack it, but it dodges the dog. The dog then retreats and moves away from the lioness, but turns around and again attacks the big cat. Meanwhile, tourists are seen witnessing the fight onboard their vehicles. However, it’s not confirmed when the video was recorded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/stray-dog-chases-away-lioness-in-sasan-forest-video-goes-viral/articleshow/80191406.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||‘Onus on MLAs to better Goa’s happiness GDP’||Panaji: Goa governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Saturday said that if legislators “do what they say” then like in other fields where Goa enjoys superior ratings, the state could also be ahead in “GDP of happiness” as compared to other states. He was speaking at Goa Legislators’ Day function at Porvorim. He added that if state legislators follow this dictum of doing what they say, then from “the sea to the Himalayas, only Goa would be mentioned by the people. He was in praise for the beautiful state. Referring to chief minister Pramod Sawant’s and leader of opposition Digambar Kamat’s speeches at the function, Koshyari said that the Goa legislature is very beautiful and in the future it will not only remain beautiful but will always be delightful in its duty. “It is easy to give speeches and lectures, but we are MLAs. The legislature comes from the same society and as we are part of society. Society looks at us how we behave. Legislators give good speeches. What is wrong in giving good speeches? What good you speak, in reality you do those things?” Koshyari said. “Always remember, poor people also look at us how we behave and based on our behavior people do our assessment, and not from our speeches. We have to speak good and also behave good,” he said, adding that there should be no difference between “our speech and our character”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/onus-on-mlas-to-better-goas-happiness-gdp/articleshow/80192029.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Legislators should not suppress voices: Kamat||Panaji: Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that legislators should not suppress the voice of people, and instead resolve such issues through discussion in the House. Kamat said that the state government should request the central government to allow the state to host the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association conference in Goa. Speaking at the Goa Legislators’ Day function at Porvorim, Kamat said that members of the Legislators’ Forum should share their experiences with MLAs and the government and guide them. He also said that the forum should organise a function on completion of 75 years of Revolution Day on June 18, 2021. The Margao MLA also said that the farmers’issues should be resolved. He also urged the speaker to consider constructing an MLA Bhavan in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/legislators-should-not-suppress-voices-kamat/articleshow/80192025.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Decision against spirit of democracy: Ministers||VIJAYAWADA: Several ministers, legislators and leaders of the ruling party raised objections to the decision of the State Election Commission (SEC) for issuing the notification for election to gram panchayats and announcing the model code of conduct without taking into consideration the pandemic. The ministers alleged that State Election Commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar’s action was against the spirit of democracy and judgements of the highest courts of the country. Ministers Botcha Satyanarayana, Peddireddy Ramachandra Reddy, Adimulapu Suresh, Kurasala Kannababu, Avanthi Srinivas, Cherukuvada Sriranganatha Raju, Sidiri Appala Raju, Perni Venkatramaiah and others raised came down on the SEC’s decision, which they said was taken unilaterally. The ministers expressed regret that the SEC did not take into consideration the Covid-19 threat and the Centre’s exercise to roll out the Covid-19 vaccine. Minister Appala Raju questioned the intentions of SEC Ramesh Kumar in holding elections in the midst of the pandemic and the SEC on its failure to conduct elections in 2018 as per schedule. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav sought to advise the SEC to follow the Centre’s instructions in fighting Covid-19 and advised the SEC not to risk government employees’ lives. Party MLA Gudivada Amarnath alleged the SEC was acting to please TDP chief and leader of the opposition Chandrababu Naidu. “The poll schedule was decided at a meeting with Chandrababu Naidu and Sujana Chowdary,” he alleged. Party MLA and spokesman Ambati Rambabu alleged the poll schedule was announced to save the TDP from a humiliating defeat. He said the TDP would lose its deposits in the impending Lok Sabha by-election in Tirupati and hence the TDP chief had influenced the SEC to hold local polls ahead of the Tirupati by-poll.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/decision-against-spirit-of-democracy-mins/articleshow/80190919.cms||Gopi Dara
January 10, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Inquiry against top cop over ‘sarcastic replies’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has initiated an inquiry against IPS officer J Jayanath citing insubordination, indiscipline and replying sarcastically to communications received by him from police headquarters. As per the order issued by the chief secretary, the charges against him include refusing to comply with the lawful directions of the state police chief, sarcastically responding to official correspondence, violating the rule 3 of the all India service (conduct) rules, 1968. The government has appointed senior IAS officer B Ashok and Biswanath Sinha as the presenting officer and inquiry authority, respectively to inquire the charges against Jayanath and has asked to submit the report within two months. Jayanath, commandant of Kerala armed police battalion-3, Adoor, had on multiple occasions openly criticized several policies and practices in his official communications to state police chief Loknath Behera. In a notice given to him by the state police chief in April last year citing that he had refused to undertake Sabarimla duty, he had replied that it is natural for people to seek exemption from such duties on medical grounds. However, in his reply then, he had cited that he is replying in the administrative language Malayalam because the state police chief’s letter that was drafted in English had several grammatical mistakes that has exposed the sender’s lack of command over English language. In his latest letter to the state police chief on December 28 last year, he had said even though the government is providing crores of rupees for conduct of elections and modernization of the police force, lack of proper planning is stopping the police from achieving desired results. While a section of the officials say that he is rightful in being outspoken and the criticism raised by him are justified, another section also feels that as a member of a disciplined force, he should not use such words that have the tone and tenor of insulting the superiors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/inquiry-against-top-cop-over-sarcastic-replies/articleshow/80190921.cms||KP Saikiran
January 10, 2021||Kochi||OP wing of Plkd medical college to start on Jan 20||Palakkad: The outpatient (OP) block of Palakkad Government Medical College at Yakkara will be inaugurated on January 20, the medical college authorities here said. Two other blocks under construction will be completed in March. After this, clinical OP will start functioning from the college, authorities said. To construct the three blocks, Rs 297 crore was allotted by the scheduled caste & scheduled tribes department, which runs the college. The completed works include that of the hospital block, academic block, main block, hostels, underground water storage tank, electrical, fire safety, lift, etc. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/op-wing-of-plkd-medical-college-to-start-on-jan-20/articleshow/80190933.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kochi||VS vacates official residence||Thiruvananthapuram: Veteran CPM leader and administrative reforms commission chairman V S Achuthanandan has vacated his official residence at Kowdiar here. According to sources, VS would relinquish the post after submitting a couple of reports that are almost complete. Achuthanandan is not keeping well for some time now and had stopped making public appearances long before the outbreak of Covid-19. He did not even cast his vote in the recently-concluded local body election as his health condition was not satisfactory for taking out a journey from Thiruvananthapuram to Alappuzha . According to sources close to VS, the decision to quit the post was not something new. His health had deteriorated a few months ago necessitating constant medical attention .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/vs-vacates-official-residence/articleshow/80190945.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Kite sellers’ business hit in Old City||HYDERABAD: Kite sellers in the Old City have been hit by the pandemic and police restrictions. They said that they are suffering huge losses in their business due to the less number of customers. “Many kite sellers have incurred a loss due to early closure of shops. We request the police to allow us to run our business till late at night during festivals to cope with the loss,” Aslam, a kite seller said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kite-sellers-business-hit-in-old-city/articleshow/80192038.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Pandemic hits kids’ care too, doctors advise prompt action||NEW DELHI: Every year, AIIMS registers 500 new children with chronic respiratory problems. Last year, from March to November, not a single such patient was registered. Further, two to three children are diagnosed with cystic fibrosis (CF), a genetic disorder that can lead to chronic lung infections and nutritional deficiencies among others, on a monthly basis. But, from March 2020 to November 2020, paediatricians at the premier medical institute and hospital say not a single patient with CF visited the OPD. These are just a few examples. Child specialists at AIIMS and other top hospitals say due to the Covid-19 pandemic, care of the other illnesses have been adversely affected, which could lead to a serious crisis in future. To prevent that, the government must restore routine services, the doctors say. According to an editorial published in The Indian Journal of Paediatrics by Dr SK Kabra and Dr Rakesh Lodha, professors in the paediatric department of AIIMS, the institute had registered 180 new children with tuberculosis (TB) during March to October 2019, while during corresponding period in 2020, only five children were diagnosed with TB, who got hospitalised through emergency room due to severe illness. “These indicative observations (about decline in the registration of cases of chronic respiratory problems, CF and TB) suggest that these illnesses are missed and those in follow-up got less than optimal care,” the editorial says. According to the IJP editorial, the impact of missed or delayed diagnosis of conditions, such as CF or TB, is quite serious. “Similarly, less optimal treatment for children with chronic respiratory problems can affect the final outcome that we are likely to encounter in the coming months and years,” it adds. According to Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo hospitals group and senior paediatrician gastroenterologist and hepatologist, many children undergoing treatment at their hospital missed their follow-ups and tests. “People visited only for emergency needs. Chronic illnesses were ignored during the peak of the outbreak,” he said. Dr Sibal added that “people must realise that Covid-19 is going to be around for some time and fear of the infection should not let them ignore other serious illnesses that can prove fatal.” Dr Lodha and Dr Kabra argue in the IJP editorial that phased opening of non-Covid services without creating apprehensions among the general public as well as HCPs or increasing the risk of surge in infections is the need of the hour and should be initiated as soon as possible. “Facility-specific plans should be developed to ensure protection of both patients and healthcare providers (HCPs) from exposure to the virus, while accounting for shortage of HCPs and infrastructure (both for the care of patients with Covid-19 and non-Covid conditions), and prioritising the access to patients with various acute and chronic conditions,”they add.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pandemic-hits-kids-care-too-doctors-advise-prompt-action/articleshow/80193552.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Bhavani Deeksha concludes||Vijayawada: The Bhavani Deeksha Viramana officially concluded here on Saturday. Temple Sthana Acharya Shiva Prasada Sharma and chief priest LD Prasad performed ‘Poorna Ahuti’ marking the end of festivities. Temple executive officer MV Suresh Babu, trust board chairman Paula Sominaidu and others participated in festivities. The number of devotees increased on Saturday. Temple authorities estimate the rush of devotees will continue till Monday. “We are happy the festivities concluded on a grand note,” Paula Sominaidu said. — Venu Lanka||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bhavani-deeksha-concludes/articleshow/80190937.cms||Venu Lanka
January 10, 2021||Chennai||AIADMK puts up show of unity; general council backs Edappadi K Palaniswami for CM job||CHENNAI: In a show of unity, the AIADMK general council and executive committee on Saturday unanimously passed a resolution endorsing chief minister and joint coordinator Edappadi K Palaniswami as the party’s CM candidate for the forthcoming assembly election. The high-level bodies of the AIADMK authorized deputy CM and party’s coordinator O Panneerselvam and Palaniswami to evolve electoral strategies, decide on alliances and seat sharing to ensure the party’s “resounding victory” in the poll. Sixteen resolutions were passed during the four-hour-long meeting. A resolution, 16A, ratified the constitution of the 11-member steering committee, a condition laid down by OPS to endorse EPS’s candidature in October. “Retaining power is essential to provide peaceful governance, to ensure people live in peace and assure further achievements,” a resolution said. Without naming its arch-rival, the DMK, the party vowed to strive to checkmate “evil forces and violent mob and put an end to dynastic politics”. The general council hit out at DMK chief M K Stalin and the party for indulging in criticism without maturity and culture. Later, Palaniswami profusely thanked the general council for reposing faith in him. “Never had I left the party at any time, under any circumstances. I participated in multiple agitations and went to jail. I don’t think there is greater merit than being a true loyalist. I am a true loyalist of the party,” Palaniswami said. While he may not be not be like “towering leaders” M G Ramachandran and J Jayalalithaa, he had discharged well his duties entrusted by the party. “I will continue to serve the people of Tamil Nadu and the party in the future better than I have ever done before,” the CM said, assuring that it would be a golden era for the AIADMK cadres. Dismissing the corruption charges levelled against him and his regime in a memorandum submitted by the DMK to the Tamil Nadu governor, the chief minister said they were baseless. He urged partymen to counter Stalin’s “slanderous campaign”. He said former CM J Jayalalithaa’s memorial will be unveiled next month on her birth anniversary. For his part, Panneerselvam asked cadres to remain loyal to the party. “The AIADMK celebrates its golden jubilee in 2022. While we celebrate, the party must be in power for which we have to stay united and work hard for the victory in the assembly election. It is our duty to see a historic victory in 2021. It would be a thanksgiving for Amma,” the leader said. In one of the resolutions, the party thanked Palaniswami for announcing free Covid-19 vaccine to the people of Tamil Nadu. It thanked the Centre too. Other resolutions congratulated the EPS government for its initiatives to promote industrial development, setting up mini clinics, 7.5% NEET quota for government school students, allocation of Rs 600 crore for cyclone relief and Rs 2500 Pongal cash gift. The party urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intervene directly to ensure the provincial councils in Sri Lanka are not done away with to ensure devolution of power to Tamils. The leadership later held a meeting with ministers, district secretaries and zonal in-charge to take stock of the election work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/aiadmk-puts-up-show-of-unity-gen-council-backs-eps-for-cm-job/articleshow/80192043.cms||Julie Mariappan
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Fewer than 1,000 active cases in Nashik city||Nashik: The number of active Covid-19 cases in the limits of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has now dropped to below the 1,000-mark for the first time in 10 months. “This shows that citizens have understood the importance of personal hygiene and cleanliness in keeping the infection at bay,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of NMC. He, however, warned people against lowering their guard. “Every day, around 1,500 Covid tests are being done. The number of positive cases has declined rapidly recently, which is a good sign,” the officer said, adding that the testing would be increased as per the orders of Deepak Mhaisekar, the chief advisor of the chief minister’s task force on Covid-19. The officer added that a serosurvey was being conducted in Nashik city and the health teams were active in the city. “Both the health service teams and the serosurvey teams are strengthening the information education and communication (IEC) campaign,” Nagargoje said. When the pandemic was at its peak in September-October, Nashik city had more than 6,000 active cases. The number has now fallen below 1,000 with more than 70% of these patients are being treated at their homes as they have no-to-very mild symptoms. The officer said the administration was keeping an eye on patients. They were also tracing, tracking and compulsory testing all people who fell in high-risk category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fewer-than-1000-active-cases-in-nashik-city/articleshow/80190935.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Goa||Debate on key issuesmust in House: Godinho||Panaji: Pointing out that more than 3,000 NGOs exist in Goa, minister for legislative affairs Mauvin Godinho on Saturday said that they would only cause ‘disruption’ for their ‘own vested interest’ if the issues pertaining to the state are not discussed or debated enough in the state legislative assembly. Speaking at the Goa Legislators’ Day function at Porvorim, Godinho said that Goa is the most progressive state with contributions from everyone. “Goa ranks number one in so many spheres,” he said. Further, he said that the legislators’ forum should come forward with new ideas, if any, so that those can be deliberated and legislators can implement the same. “We have been living up to the expectations of the people,” he said. “Today we look around in society and ponder whether we do enough for the people,” he said. He said that in present times, social media monitors everything and legislators are being scrutinised day in and day out. “We have to pull our socks up to meet the rising expectations of the people. We have to take it as a challenge and give results,” he said. Godinho said that people should not blame legislators, and instead come out with ideas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/debate-on-key-issuesmust-in-house-godinho/articleshow/80192036.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||New HC building to be inaugurated in March: Goa CM||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Saturday said that the new complex of the high court of Bombay at Porvorim will be inaugurated in March. Sawant along with law minister Nilesh Cabral and Justice Mahesh Sonak of the high court visited the new complex to take a review. “We have set a target to complete work on the new high court building by February and we are planning to inaugurate it in March,” Sawant said. He also said that target dates have been given to the respective contractors who will complete the work accordingly. “90% of major works are completed, and 10% that includes finishing works are pending,” he said. The foundation stone for the new high court complex was laid in December 2013. Work on the project, which is coming up opposite the assembly complex across the highway, is being executed by Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC). The building is a ground floor plus 2 RCC framed structure, with a basement for parking and services. This building offers emphasis on sustainable and energy efficient architecture in order to achieve GRIHA Certification for Green Building. The new building will have seven court rooms. It also comprises the chief justice court hall, chamber of the chief justice, chamber for registrar general, chamber for registrar/PPS to the chief justice, chamber for PS/PA to the chief justice, record room, store room, visitor’s room, court halls for the judges, chambers for the judges, video conferencing halls, dining hall for judges, conference hall for judges and staff members, chambers for registrar (administration), administration section, protocol section, maintenance section, judicial section, board section, computer section, accounts section, post disposal section, supreme court section record section, stationery section, library and other ancillary areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/new-hc-bldg-to-be-inaugurated-in-march-cm/articleshow/80192032.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Four proctors fired for harassing Mumbai girl students after exams||MUMBAI: Four proctors—two each from Gurgaon and Bengaluru—who allegedly harassed girl students from a premier city management institute after remotely proctoring their exams, have been terminated from their service by their agency. While the Gurgaon-based agency said it had reported the matter to the police, the institute is yet to file a complaint. The institute has set up an internal committee to investigate the complaints. TOI on Saturday had reported how girl students from the institute were allegedly stalked and harassed by individuals claiming to be their proctors on personal numbers after exams. While many have criticized the institute for compromising students’ personal details, officials from the institute and the firm, Mercer Mettl, said personal data of students are not shared with the proctors. An institute official told TOI the students are expected to show their college identity cards (which carry their numbers) on camera for a few seconds before the exam starts, to ensure dummy candidates are not appearing in their place. “It is unfortunate that this small window has been used by the perpetrators,” said the official. He said around six girls have reported the matter to them. When asked why the institute has not filed an independent complaint, the official said they are contemplating it and will consult their legal team before initiating action by Monday. A spokesperson from Mercer Mettl said they have been providing online solutions for educational institutions for the past four years. “We follow a rigorous screening process before appointing the exam proctors and train them in using the software. We have around 1,500 proctors working for us. This was an unfortunate incident. We have already identified the proctors who messaged students from our platform and have terminated their services. A written apology has been sought, which has been shared with the students. A police complaint has been filed in both these locations and we will pursue it till there is a proper closure,” he said. The agency has appointed 200 female proctors after the incident. The posts of upset students went viral on social media. Women’s activist and advocate Flavia Agnes said, “Sinceproctoring was outsourced by the institute, it is implied when students share their ID for verification, it is not meant to be used by the proctor for any other purpose, least of all for unwanted or inappropriate communication and violation of privacy.” Advocate Pranav Badheka said, “If the students have already complained to the institute, then it can even file an FIR for the offence of stalking under the IT Act and the IPC.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/4-proctors-fired-for-harassing-city-girl-students-after-exams/articleshow/80191554.cms||Yogita Rao
January 10, 2021||Goa||Serious gaps in EIA for Mollem projects, reveal key findings||PANAJI: Journal of Threatened Taxa (JoTT) published a monograph which critiques the inadequacies of the environment impact assessments (EIAs) for the three infrastructure projects at Mollem. The report highlights several gaps and unanswered questions in the three EIAs with respect to biodiversity documentation and assessments of cumulative impacts and their mitigation measures. The published review also covers the shortcomings of the mitigation measures wherein the cumulative impacts on wildlife and human communities are not taken into consideration. “The EIA for the road was observed to be of poor quality, with no attempts to document insect life, herpetofauna (reptiles and amphibians) and inadequate documentation of multiple other groups. Although the EIA mentions a bird survey being conducted, there is no checklist provided except for the mention of a single bird – Indian Robin,” states the report. It further points out that no details of the sampling methods are provided for plants and mammals. The land use map provided is for the whole state, and acquired from a secondary source, not prepared specifically for this report. Hence, it does not match up with the tabular data provided, and it neither directly indicates the project site details within it, nor clearly shows the impacts of the project on land use and land cover in this area. The EIA for the road widening goes so far as to state that terrestrial fauna will not be affected, and hence this report does not outline any mitigation measures. The transmission line inspection report states that minimal trees would be cut, but does not specify what this minimal number would be. “The railway report’s socio-economic survey of 60 families conducted in four villages does not report the total number of affected families, demographics and livelihood patterns in the concerned villages,” it reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/serious-gaps-in-eia-for-mollem-projects-reveal-key-findings/articleshow/80192041.cms||Nida Sayed
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Complete Dwarka Expressway by 2022: PM Narendra Modi to road transport minister||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi has directed the road transport and highways ministry to complete the 29-km Dwarka Expressway project by September 2022. The 8-lane access controlled expressway project came up for review in the last Pragati meeting chaired by the PM on December 30. According to the minutes of the meeting, the Delhi government and Delhi Transco Ltd have been instructed to complete the shifting of 220 KV underground cables by this May. Similarly, the housing and urban affairs ministry and DDA would complete the plantation by this April. Sources in NHAI said two stretches of the project in Gurgaon totalling approximately 19 km would be completed by June this year. Other two stretches falling in Delhi with cumulative length of 10 km would be completed by September 2022. Work on Delhi stretches started late as forest clearance was awaited. “The work is in progress in all stretches and there has been regular monitoring at the level of NHAI chairman,” an official said. The expressway will take off from Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway at Shiv Murti in Mahipalpur and will terminate at Kherki Daula toll plaza. It will reduce traffic load on the existing expressway and also be an additional link from Delhi to Gurgaon. The foundation stone for the expressway was laid by then finance minister Arun Jaitley, then external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj and highways minister Nitin Gadkari in March, 2019. The Dwarka Expressway was planned in 2006 by the Haryana government and contract awarded in 2011. But the work got delayed due to several hurdles in land acquisition and lack of coordination between Haryana and Delhi governments. In 2016, Gadkari had accepted the Haryana government’s request to declare the inter-state road as NH and he had announced NHAI would build the road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/complete-dwarka-e-way-by-2022-pm-to-road-transport-min/articleshow/80193581.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Sanitation worker who handled Covid victims’ bodies honoured||Trichy:While doctors, nurses and other hospital workers get applause in the fight against Covid-19, the service of a sanitation worker who wrapped and safely disposed hundreds of dead bodies of patients during the pandemic received accolades from a private organisation in Trichy. Though the work of any of the sanitary worker cannot be undermined, the spirit of serving patients by risking his health made A Nagarajan, 48 stand out and got him a cash reward of Rs 10,000 and a shield from Vdart Technologies Private Limited, for his selfless service.Nagarajan, a n employee of the health wing of Trichy corporation, is on deputation to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Trichy for nearly 15 years. His prime assignment is to dispose of bodies of patients who died due to infectious diseases such as rabies, H1N1, Covid-19 etc. Though he handled thousands of such dead bodies at the hospital, he still feels like he is doing his job on the first day. Nagarajan said that he would handle three to four cases of rabies deaths in a year. “Since rabies is highly contagious, I will handle it wearing safety suits. The outbreak of H1N1 had led to several casualties and the disposal of such bodies was also risky. The Covid-19 pandemic also let me handle hundreds of bodies but I feel happy that I am healthy to take the risk for the life of others,” he said on Saturday. His work won’t finish by wrapping the body, but he will be present till the last rites of the patient are done. Nagarajan said that his wife, son and daughter have never discouraged him from taking up the job. “Only a few get government jobs. Since I got the opportunity, I am indebted to serve the society despite the risks. The support from the administration helps me maintain my health,” he said. Nagarajan also recalled the love and support he received from the doctors and nurses at the hospital and he also mentioned the memento awarded by former dean S Saradha. Lead-CSR of the organisation Manoj Dharmar said that the organisation awarded Rs 10,000 each to 12 staff including Nagarajan. “Our organisation has decided to highlight the yeoman service of unsung heroes. We feel happy,” he said. The others who received the reward for their contribution to Covid-19 controlare – Shankar, Veerammal, Ravichandran, Varadharajan from corporation, Mathaiah, Lakshmi, Senthilkumar, Nagarajan, Thenmozhi, lab technician Hemalatha from MGMGH, Manikandan from ‘No Food Waste’ team and Popular Front of India for performing the last rites to Covid-19 casualties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/sanitation-worker-who-handled-covid-victims-bodies-honoured/articleshow/80193029.cms||Gokul Rajendran
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Identity theft on social media rising, Rajasthan cops sound alert||JAIPUR: The arrest of a 25-year-old for duping 500 persons by impersonating them on social media is just the tip of the iceberg of cybercrimes being committed in the state. The accused Sandeep Choudhary from Jhunjhunu has created over 1,000 fake profiles on Facebook. He would send messages to the actual account holders’ friends and relatives seeking money. This is one of the biggest cybercrime exposes in the state. Police were astonished to see that he had made profiles of a 1,000 persons including several reputed ones, to target their families and relatives. He had used multiple mobile phones for the fraud. “Identity theft is the most common cyber fraud and is easily avoidable. The fraudster takes advantage of user’s carelessness and the lack of know-how on privacy settings. One should always keep their friends’ list hidden and customise the privacy of their photo album to keep them safe from theft,” said Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime consultant, Jaipur police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Jaipur stood 7th in the country in terms of the highest number of cybercrimes recorded among the cities. It recorded 544 cases, while Rajasthan recorded 1,762 cases in the same year. The most common modus operandi used by the cyber criminals were fake profile impersonation, google business listing, ATM cloning, OLX fraud and E-wallet KYC to dupe people. The law enforcement agencies are at their wits’ end to provide any immediate relief from these new-age criminals. They have opened four cyber police stations in Jaipur functioning from January 1. “Jaipur has been ranking in top 10 cities affected by cybercrimes and the city police have developed a very well meaning mechanism to register the complaints and to solve the cases,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police, police commissionerate, Jaipur. He also informed that they are taking the help of private cybercrime consultants to ensure the cases can be solved in real time, especially those related to the law and order problems. Jaipur police have tied up with almost all banks and have been jointly carrying out awareness campaigns, believing that prevention is the best policy. The police may have taken steps but lack of awareness is making even highly educated persons fall for the cyber frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/identity-theft-on-social-media-rising-raj-cops-sound-alert/articleshow/80192045.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Covid toll at 747 after two deaths at GMC, active cases up at 866||PANAJI: With two casualties reported on Saturday, Goa’s Covid-19 toll rose to 747. A 58-year-old man from Goa Velha and a 65-year-old woman from Curchorem succumbed to the virus at Goa Medical College (GMC), Bambolim. The man suffered from alcoholic liver disease, while the woman had hypertension and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) as comorbidities. The state reported 81 fresh cases and 89 recoveries, taking the tally of active cases to 866. The case positivity rate was at 4% with 2,207 swab tests done during the day, while the recovery rate touched 97% As many as 36 patients were hospitalised and 73 isolated at home. Caseload of the centres at Margao and Panaji that have comparatively higher cases went below 50. The primary health centre at Cansarvanem which reported nil cases on Friday, detected one case during the day. Ponda and Margao’s tally rose marginally to 61 and 102 respectively. Meanwhile, the North Goa magistrate de-notified the premises of Hotel Ansh in Calangute, Ocean Wellness Resort, Sangolda and Hotel Shubhankar near Karmali railway station as paid covid care centres with effect from December 31, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/covid-toll-at-747-after-two-deaths-at-gmc-active-cases-up-at-866/articleshow/80192039.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ajmer||Identity theft on social media rising, Rajasthan cops sound alert||JAIPUR: The arrest of a 25-year-old for duping 500 persons by impersonating them on social media is just the tip of the iceberg of cybercrimes being committed in the state. The accused Sandeep Choudhary from Jhunjhunu has created over 1,000 fake profiles on Facebook. He would send messages to the actual account holders’ friends and relatives seeking money. This is one of the biggest cybercrime exposes in the state. Police were astonished to see that he had made profiles of a 1,000 persons including several reputed ones, to target their families and relatives. He had used multiple mobile phones for the fraud. “Identity theft is the most common cyber fraud and is easily avoidable. The fraudster takes advantage of user’s carelessness and the lack of know-how on privacy settings. One should always keep their friends’ list hidden and customise the privacy of their photo album to keep them safe from theft,” said Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime consultant, Jaipur police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Jaipur stood 7th in the country in terms of the highest number of cybercrimes recorded among the cities. It recorded 544 cases, while Rajasthan recorded 1,762 cases in the same year. The most common modus operandi used by the cyber criminals were fake profile impersonation, google business listing, ATM cloning, OLX fraud and E-wallet KYC to dupe people. The law enforcement agencies are at their wits’ end to provide any immediate relief from these new-age criminals. They have opened four cyber police stations in Jaipur functioning from January 1. “Jaipur has been ranking in top 10 cities affected by cybercrimes and the city police have developed a very well meaning mechanism to register the complaints and to solve the cases,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police, police commissionerate, Jaipur. He also informed that they are taking the help of private cybercrime consultants to ensure the cases can be solved in real time, especially those related to the law and order problems. Jaipur police have tied up with almost all banks and have been jointly carrying out awareness campaigns, believing that prevention is the best policy. The police may have taken steps but lack of awareness is making even highly educated persons fall for the cyber frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/identity-theft-on-social-media-rising-raj-cops-sound-alert/articleshow/80194559.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Identity theft on social media rising, Rajasthan cops sound alert||JAIPUR: The arrest of a 25-year-old for duping 500 persons by impersonating them on social media is just the tip of the iceberg of cybercrimes being committed in the state. The accused Sandeep Choudhary from Jhunjhunu has created over 1,000 fake profiles on Facebook. He would send messages to the actual account holders’ friends and relatives seeking money. This is one of the biggest cybercrime exposes in the state. Police were astonished to see that he had made profiles of a 1,000 persons including several reputed ones, to target their families and relatives. He had used multiple mobile phones for the fraud. “Identity theft is the most common cyber fraud and is easily avoidable. The fraudster takes advantage of user’s carelessness and the lack of know-how on privacy settings. One should always keep their friends’ list hidden and customise the privacy of their photo album to keep them safe from theft,” said Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime consultant, Jaipur police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Jaipur stood 7th in the country in terms of the highest number of cybercrimes recorded among the cities. It recorded 544 cases, while Rajasthan recorded 1,762 cases in the same year. The most common modus operandi used by the cyber criminals were fake profile impersonation, google business listing, ATM cloning, OLX fraud and E-wallet KYC to dupe people. The law enforcement agencies are at their wits’ end to provide any immediate relief from these new-age criminals. They have opened four cyber police stations in Jaipur functioning from January 1. “Jaipur has been ranking in top 10 cities affected by cybercrimes and the city police have developed a very well meaning mechanism to register the complaints and to solve the cases,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police, police commissionerate, Jaipur. He also informed that they are taking the help of private cybercrime consultants to ensure the cases can be solved in real time, especially those related to the law and order problems. Jaipur police have tied up with almost all banks and have been jointly carrying out awareness campaigns, believing that prevention is the best policy. The police may have taken steps but lack of awareness is making even highly educated persons fall for the cyber frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/identity-theft-on-social-media-rising-raj-cops-sound-alert/articleshow/80194556.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Udaipur||Identity theft on social media rising, Rajasthan cops sound alert||JAIPUR: The arrest of a 25-year-old for duping 500 persons by impersonating them on social media is just the tip of the iceberg of cybercrimes being committed in the state. The accused Sandeep Choudhary from Jhunjhunu has created over 1,000 fake profiles on Facebook. He would send messages to the actual account holders’ friends and relatives seeking money. This is one of the biggest cybercrime exposes in the state. Police were astonished to see that he had made profiles of a 1,000 persons including several reputed ones, to target their families and relatives. He had used multiple mobile phones for the fraud. “Identity theft is the most common cyber fraud and is easily avoidable. The fraudster takes advantage of user’s carelessness and the lack of know-how on privacy settings. One should always keep their friends’ list hidden and customise the privacy of their photo album to keep them safe from theft,” said Mukesh Choudhary, a cybercrime consultant, Jaipur police. As per National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data, Jaipur stood 7th in the country in terms of the highest number of cybercrimes recorded among the cities. It recorded 544 cases, while Rajasthan recorded 1,762 cases in the same year. The most common modus operandi used by the cyber criminals were fake profile impersonation, google business listing, ATM cloning, OLX fraud and E-wallet KYC to dupe people. The law enforcement agencies are at their wits’ end to provide any immediate relief from these new-age criminals. They have opened four cyber police stations in Jaipur functioning from January 1. “Jaipur has been ranking in top 10 cities affected by cybercrimes and the city police have developed a very well meaning mechanism to register the complaints and to solve the cases,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police, police commissionerate, Jaipur. He also informed that they are taking the help of private cybercrime consultants to ensure the cases can be solved in real time, especially those related to the law and order problems. Jaipur police have tied up with almost all banks and have been jointly carrying out awareness campaigns, believing that prevention is the best policy. The police may have taken steps but lack of awareness is making even highly educated persons fall for the cyber frauds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/identity-theft-on-social-media-rising-raj-cops-sound-alert/articleshow/80194558.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: UK strain more potent than its wild variant, say experts||HYDERABAD: Indian researchers, including those from the city, have found that the mutations in the new UK strain could work to the advantage of the virus giving it higher fitness. This in other words means the UK strain would be more potent as compared to its wild ancestor that first infected people in China in December 2019. The researchers, who studied the UK variant, said the mutations in proteins (S and ORF8) could have significant impact on viral transmission and host immune responses. The result of the study was published in preprint journal BioRxiv. The researchers were drawn from the Institute of Molecular Medicine, Jamia Hamdard, the National Institute of Pathology, New Delhi, BioInception Pvt Ltd, United Kingdom, IIT, Delhi, and Dr Reddy’s Institute of Life Sciences, Hyderabad. The study, whose lead author is eminent scientist Dr Seyed E Hasnain, said in the current scenarioadvent of this new strain variant has raised concerns on its possible role in disease severity and antibody responses. The researchers said: “We have highlighted crucial non-synonymous mutations and deletions occurring in the UK variant (S, N and ORF8 proteins) and their impact on structure-function of proteins. These proteins were selected owing to their curial role in host-viral interactome (molecular interactions within a cell). Some of these mutations might confer higher fitness to the virus. According to a WHO report, the mutation in the UK variant leading to deletion (at position 69/70) was found to affect the performance of some diagnostic PCR assays with an S gene target. It, however, added that since most PCR assays in use worldwide use multiple targets the impact of variant on diagnostics is not anticipated to be significant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uk-strain-more-potent-than-its-wild-variant-experts/articleshow/80192081.cms||Syed Akbar
January 10, 2021||Meerut||Demolition of unsafe school bldgs stuck in official apathy||Bijnor: Days after 24 people died when the roof of a newly constructed shelter at a cremation ground in Muradnagar collapsed, concerns have been expressed over the state of dilapidated government school buildings that are on the verge of collapse in UP. They are yet to be demolished due to lackadaisical attitude of the departments concerned. According to official sources, years ago, 139 buildings were identified for demolition in Amroha district but so far, only 39 have been razed to the ground.Official sources in Amroha acknowledged that these school buildings had neither been repaired nor any steps taken to vacate them. Satyaveer Singh, Amroha's district coordinator, erection branch, said, “We had identified 139 dilapidated buildings in Amroha last year. Out of these, 40 were demolished. The procedure for the demolition of the rest is underway. Cost of these buildings is being evaluated by authority concerned so that they can be auctioned.” Similarly, in Bijnor, 120 primary buildings were declared dilapidated in 2019. Officials here said only a few schools are still run in crumbling buildings but most are standing adjacent to fairly new rooms where classes are held. These derelict buildings on school campuses are a threat to the children who often play and roam about the premises. The stumbling block in the way if the demolition is valuation of the buildings and their material by the officials concerned. In Bijnor for instance, so far only Seohara block has assessed the value of the dilapidated buildings.Bijnor district coordinator Salim Beg said, “Over 100 schools in the district may collapse any time. The valuation of the buildings is yet to be made by block education officers and RES (Rural Engineering Service) construction agency. Last year, the district magistrate instructed officials concerned to valuate and auction dilapidated buildings standing in the premises of primary and upper primary schools. This time around, basic shiksha adhikari instructed the officials to prepare their report so that these buildings can be auctioned.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/demolition-of-unsafe-school-bldgs-stuck-in-official-apathy/articleshow/80190968.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Houses to get 24/7 water supply from August 2023: Project head||Coimbatore: The city corporation’s plan to provide drinking water 24 hours a day, seven days a week, to 60 wards from August 2023 is on track, P Gopalakrishnan, team leader of the project monitoring committee, said here on Saturday.There are 36 service reservoirs and Suez Projects Private Limited is in the process of constructing another 32 reservoirs. “The 68 reservoir distribution areas will further be divided into 108 district metering areas. We are approaching each metering area stage-by-stage and are in the process of upgrading service pipelines,” Gopalakrishnan, who was speaking at the Coimbatore Vizha, said.New pipes are being laid in the old city limits, the engineer said. “Work has been completed in R S Puram, in areas along the Perur Road and in some areas along Trichy Road like SIHS Colony, Annai Velankanni Nagar near Sowripalayam.”Addressing the growing concerns regarding privatizing water supply, Gopalakrishnan said Suez was only a distribution agent, whixh was receiving water from the master reservoirs and distributing it to households. “Though Suez will collect water bills, our cheques and money will be addressed to the Coimbatore corporation. The corporation will fix the tariffs. Once every drop of water used is billed and accounted for, the civic body’s revenue will increase, which may prompt them not to increase water usage charges.”Promising a time when Coimbatorians do not need to construct large overhead tanks, sumps and the poor don’t have to keep pots to store water, the engineer said this will eventually save people money and water. “We supplied 200MLD of water to 13 to 15 lakh people, which is more than government norms of 135 litre per person per day. In intermittent water supply, which is practiced now, leaks go unnoticed until we lose lakhs of litres,” said the former TWAD chief engineer. “When water supply is continuous and monitored, people have an incentive to use water economically, and leaks can be detected and plugged instantly,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/houses-to-get-24/7-water-supply-from-august-2023-project-head/articleshow/80192071.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||23 seafarers stranded in China to return home on January 14||NEW DELHI: The 23 Indian seafarers stranded in China will return home on January 14, the government said on Saturday. “Our seafarers stuck in China are coming back to India! Ship MV Jag Anand, having 23 Indian crews, stuck in China, is set to sail towards Chiba, Japan to carry out crew change ... will reach India on 14th January. This could only happen due to the strong leadership of PM Narendra Modi,” tweeted Union minister, Mansukh Mandaviya. He added, “I deeply appreciate the humanitarian approach of the Great Eastern Shipping Company towards the seafarers and standing by them in this crucial time!” In another tweet, the minister said, “The seafarers will reach Chiba Port, Japan on 14th January and after following due procedure related to Covid protocols, they will fly back to India.” The Indian merchant ship Jag Anand is of the Mumbai-based company Great Eastern Shipping Ltd and it had been stuck at China’s northern Jingtank port since June. Recently, the minister had told reporters that diplomatic discussion was going on with China and seafarers would return to India very soon. There were reports that the Indian crew members on board have been living in a very unpleasant situation. Two ships with 39 sailors aboard - MV Jag Anand and MV Anastasia - were reportedly not allowed by the Chinese authorities to either dock or go for a crew change over coronavirus restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/23-seafarers-stranded-in-china-to-return-home-on-january-14/articleshow/80193878.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||State aims for 51,000 daily vaccinations at 511 centres||Pune: The state health department aims to vaccinate nearly 51,000 beneficiaries daily when Covid-19 inoculation drives begin for the priority groups. Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services, said the drives will be carried out via 511 vaccination centres across Maharashtra. Officials are currently identifying such sites and Dr Patil added that every municipal corporation in the state will have eight to 10 designated vaccination centres within its limits. “Basic facilities that are required at these sites include internet connectivity and trained IT personnel who know the CoWIN system well,” she said. CoWin (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) is the system the government has set up to monitor vaccine distribution nationwide. “We already have the cold chain infrastructure. We also have teams in place to monitor adverse events,” Dr Patil said. She added each site will aim to inoculate at least 100 beneficiaries every day. “There are ample vaccine carriers for the drives. The state has nearly 4,000 cold chain points with ice-lined refrigerators (ILRs), deep freezers, and cold boxes. At regional and district headquarters, we have 21 walk-in coolers and four walk-in freezers for vaccine storage. The vaccine will be stored in ice-lined refrigerators (ILR) and transported to the sites in the vaccine carriers,” she said. As for additional equipment, Dr Patil said the state was expecting 549 ILRs from the Centre soon. This is apart from 150 more deep freezers, six walk-in freezers and two walk-in coolers. “Additional vaccine carriers will also be supplied, but existing infrastructure, including syringes from ongoing immunization programmes, will suffice during phase I of Covid drives in Maharashtra,” she said. The National Health Mission commissioner for the state Dr N Ramaswami, said, “Preparations have been made to identify 511 vaccination sites for launch day. We do not expect any issues as there are enough facilities for storage, transport and manpower. The success of the dry runs has also reinforced state’s preparedness. Technology issues with the CoWIN app are also being resolved.” Dr Ramaswami said reports of spotty internet connectivity were only from remote regions of Gadchiroli, Nandurbar and Nashik. He added that data of eight lakh frontline health workers from the state has been uploaded onto the CoWin app for priority vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-aims-for-51000-daily-vaccinations-at-511-centres/articleshow/80192109.cms||Neha Madaan
January 10, 2021||Agra||CBI conducts lie detector tests on six murder suspects of polytechnic student||Agra: The CBI, on behalf of the Aligarh police, has conducted lie-detector tests on six suspects in connection with the alleged murder of a 22-year-old polytechnic student in Gorai village last year. Police had registered an FIR of murder against unidentified persons in June last year after Hemant Kumar’s body was found in a vacant ITI campus building in Aligarh. A gunshot injury was found on his body, said police. The student had gone out with two of his friends a day earlier. Iglas circle officer Mohsin Khan told TOI on Saturday that though the CBI is not investigating the case, tests were conducted by their officials after taking the permission from the court. The results will be revealed within a week. He said, “Total six persons were taken for the tests, including the deceased’s friends — Ajay and Tarun.” Khan said that during the investigations, it was revealed that the deceased student had an alleged affair with a married woman. Four persons from the woman’s family— Jitendra Kumar, Lokesh Singh, Raja Babu and Munesh -- have also been subjected to the lie detector tests to ascertain their involvement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cbi-conducts-lie-detector-tests-on-six-murder-suspects-of-polytechnic-student/articleshow/80190982.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Include panchayat raj workers on priority list: Chief secretary||HYDERABAD: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar has urged Union cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba to include public representatives and panchayat raj department workers on the priority list for Covid-19 vaccination. Somesh told Gauda that Telangana has made all arrangements required for rolling out vaccination in the entire state. During a video-conference on Saturday with chief secretaries and lieutenant governors of Union territories on the preparedness for Covid-19 vaccination, Gauba said that elaborate arrangements should be made for administering the vaccine. The video-conference was conducted on a day when PM Narendra Modi also reviewed the country’s preparedness for vaccination to be taken up. It was decided that the vaccination would be taken up from January 16. Somesh Kumar said panchayat raj workers run the high risk of contracting infection due to exposure and hence should get vaccinated. Health secretary Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of Drug Control Administration Dr Preeti Meena, director of medical education Dr K Ramesh Reddy and senior officials attended the video-conference.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cs-include-panchayat-raj-workers-on-priority-list/articleshow/80192220.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Trichy city police, civic body join hands to check menace||Trichy: The city police and the civic body have joined hands to impound stray cattle and file chargesheet against erring cattle owners. City commissioner of police J Loganathan said on Saturday that it was part of their continuous effort to put an end to the menace. “The process is on to file chargesheet against the violators in court and get them punishment,” the commissioner added. “We have been keeping vigil on the issue as it has been causing inconvenience to everyone. After registering cases against cattle owners, the police are now aiding the Trichy Corporation to catch the stray cattle and impose fine on the owners,” he told TOI. The commissioner said that the corporation and the police have decided to impose fine against the owners who brazenly let their cattle out on the roads. “We have found that most of the cattle owners don’t have sheds. They simply let their cattle stray unmindful of the danger to the public,” he said. In August 2020, Trichy city police cracked the whip against the cattle owners by booking them on charges of causing obstruction in a public way and posing danger to the public under IPC, Tamil Nadu city police (TNCP) Act, Cattle Trespass Act and prevention of the cruelty Act. The owners were reprimanded besides being advised not to let the cattle loose. Yet, the menace prevailed as cattle owners were least bothered. It may be pointed out that The haphazard movement of stray cattle led to a series of accidents near central prison on Trichy – Pudukottai main road in Trichy leaving three persons injured and damage to four vehicles on November 30, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-city-police-civic-body-join-hands-to-check-menace/articleshow/80193040.cms||Gokul Rajendran
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM greenlights sheep disbursal scheme||HYDERABAD: In what could gladden the hearts of the traditional shepherd community of Kurmas and Yadavas (Gollas) in the state, chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Saturday gave a green signal to not only resume and complete the first phase of sheep distribution scheme, but also launch the second phase. He said funds for the scheme would be allocated in the ensuing budget for the 2021-22 fiscal. The resumption of sheep distribution scheme, which was stopped due to the pandemic, assumes significance as there are over 60,000 Yadava and Kurma voters in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency, which is going to bypolls soon. Animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav held a review meeting immediately after the CM’s decision and announced that sheep distribution will resume on January 16 coinciding with Sankranti. An amount of Rs 360 crore will be spent on the scheme. About 30,000 beneficiaries, who have submitted their share of financial contribution and are awaiting sheep distribution, would be covered in this round. The programme will be launched in Nalgonda district. Nagarjuna Sagar is one of the assembly constituencies in the erstwhile Nalgonda district. The second phase of sheep distribution would start in the ensuing 2021-22 fiscal. A unit of animals, comprising 20 sheep and a ram (male sheep), costs Rs 1.25 lakh. The CM had launched the scheme in June 2017. As part of the scheme, sheep is distributed on 75% subsidy to the beneficiaries. The scheme was launched with the twin objective of supporting the shepherd community and simultaneously strengthening the rural economy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-greenlights-sheep-disbursal-scheme/articleshow/80192103.cms||Roushan Ali
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid-19 vaccination drive may begin on Wednesday||Coimbatore: Covid-19 vaccine administration may begin from Wednesday, sources here said. The vaccine is likely to be administered at more than five centres in the district including Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, ESI Hospital, PSG Medical College and Hospital, Karpagam Medical College and Hospital, and District Headquarters Hospital in Pollachi.Senior officials in the public health department were called for an emergency video conference convened by the state government on Saturday afternoon. “We were told to be prepared to administer the vaccine from Wednesday. We were also told that one centre should be equipped with a webcam, because the Prime Minister may want to view the proceedings across the country,” said an official.“However, we are yet to receive the beneficiary list. We do not know which of the approved vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — to administer,” he said.Sources said the district may have six to 10 vaccination booths initially. The initial days may see around 300 to 400 vaccination booths across the state.Meanwhile, the district recorded 69 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases past the 53,000-case mark to 53,049. With 90 people getting discharged, the number of active cases stands at 712. The district recorded no deaths. The total number of positive cases stands at 51,677, taking the recovery rate to 97.4%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-vaccination-drive-may-begin-on-wednesday/articleshow/80192107.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||When superbikes spread road safety awareness||Coimbatore: People who happened to drive along the Avinashi Road around 8am on Saturday got a glimpse of superbikes zooming past them. Coimbatore Vizha and Cotton City, in a bid to involve the city’s vibrant biker clubs and culture and to spread road safety, had organized a bike show at Cosmopolitan Club at Race Course. The rally had 30 superbikes including BMW, Harley-Davidson, Hayabusa, Kawasaki, Ducati and Triumph, which rode from the club till JM Bakery signal at Avinashi Road. From there they began their rally to spread awareness on road safety.“We had volunteers holding placards with road safety messages at all signals. Whenever the bikes arrived, since they were the eye-catchers, the volunteers stood next to the bikes so the message would also get some eyeballs,” said P Shanmugam, a spokesperson for Coimbatore Vizha. “The volunteers also distributed gifts to some people, who followed road safety rules.”The bike show was inaugurated by assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Saravanan and president of the club and racer D Vidyaprakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/when-superbikes-spread-road-safety-awareness/articleshow/80192087.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||3 of family killed in car accident||Coimbatore: Three members of a family were killed and three others suffered injuries after the car in which they were travelling rammed into a truck from behind at Vellakoil in Tirupur district on Saturday morning.The deceased were identified as Mayilsamy, 39, his wife Indhu, 27 and his mother Kousalya, 60, of Singnallur in Coimbatore. Mayilsamy’s son Guru Gowtham, 12, daughter Ramya Gandhimathi, 10, and his sister Kalaivani, 35, are undergoing treatment at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital .Mayilsamy, who was working in Dubai, had returned due to the pandemic. The accident happened when the family members were going to Thanjavur to visit temples there. “Mayilsamy was behind the wheel. Due to heavy rain, visibility was low on the busy Trichy Road. Truck driver R Babu of Trichy was repairing the vehicle, which had suffered a breakdown. Mayilsamy did not notice the parked truck and rammed it from behind around 4.30am. Mayilsamy, Indhu and Kousalya died on the spot,” a police officer said.The bodies were handed over to the family following postmortem.The Vellakoil police registered a case and picked up Babu for interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/3-of-family-killed-in-car-accident/articleshow/80192099.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Extension given to VC completely wrong: Profs||Salem: Professors and lecturers of Salem Periyar University claimed that extension given to the vice-chancellor on his last day of his tenure was completely wrong. “The governor did not follow the guidelines prescribed for tenure extension,” they said.One of the senior professors of the university told TOI on condition of anonymity that the extension order was given to P Kolandaivel from the governor’s office after he went back home following the send-off party. “Tenure extension was not given to any of the VCs in the state in the last 10 years,” he added.The Tamil Nadu governor Banwarlal Purohit had issued an order on Thursday extending the period of the VC Kolandaivel until further orders. The governor also mentioned in the order that the VC also could be in the post until he (governor) appoints a new VC.The syndicate members of the varsity constituted a steering committee to run the varsity until the governor appoints a new vice chancellor. The syndicate too approved the steering committee at the end of the meeting on Thursday. Followeing the meeting, members of both senate and syndicate organised the send-off party to Kolandaivel.All the members were surprised after they were informed that the VC could continue his term in the varsity until further orders or a new VC assumed charges.The professors commented that the VCs tenure could be extended only during an emergency situation. “There’s no such emergency or a crisis situation in the varsity and the governor did not follow the rules and regulations,” he said, adding that the governor has shown a wrong example to other varsity VCs.The governor office did not set up any committee to appoint a new VC for the university. However, the governor's office did not mind it even after notifying it on several occasions. The search committee was constituted at the eleventh hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/extension-given-to-vc-completely-wrong-profs/articleshow/80192124.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Decision on re-opening colleges in Maharashtra by January 20: Uday Samant||MUMBAI: A decision to re-open colleges in the state with 50% attendance will be taken by January 20, said higher and technical education minister Uday Samant on Saturday. The department will take stock of the Covid-19 situation from district and ZP officials and take feedback on the condition of colleges and hostels in the state, which were used as quarantine centres, in 10 days. The decision will be made known after consulting the CM, said Samant. He was speaking on a live social medial platform. “Since fresh cases are dropping and a vaccine likely to be available soon, the state will seriously consider re-opening campuses. There will be fear among students and parents, but we will take all that into account while taking a final decision. A separate standard operating procedure can be prepared for the same,” Samant said. Savitribai Phule Pune University had issued a circular announcing the re-opening of campuses from Monday, but it was withdrawn after the department issued the varsity a notice. On complaints from law and polytechnic aspirants about technical issues in online admissions, Samant said the dates would be extended. The department approved around 260 teaching posts in colleges and some more in universities. Samant announced a committee under Hridaynath Mangeshkar to help set up an international music university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/decision-on-re-opening-colleges-by-jan-20-min/articleshow/80193042.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Congress demands repeal of farm laws||HYDERABAD: Top Congress leaders, including TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy, participated in the Rythu Deeksha organized by its legislature party, a protest programme near Indira park on Saturday, extending solidarity to the striking farmers in New Delhi. They demanded the repeal of three farm laws brought by the Narendra Modi government. The Congress will organise ‘Gherao Raj Bhavan’ on January 15, stage dharna at all the district collectorates on January 11 and a round table meeting will be held on Sunday (January 10) demanding MSP to agriculture produce of the farmers and repeal of three farm laws. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, working president A Revanth Reddy, and many veteran leaders, alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was not considering the demands of farmers even on humanitarian grounds, and instead was was trying to crush the agitation by prolonging the discussions. Uttam said the Modi government was not willing to give guarantee for Minimum Support Price (MSP) to the agricultural produce even after holding several rounds of talks with farmers’ organisations. “Telangana BJP leaders have no moral right to talk about the welfare of the state until they prevail upon the Modi-government to implement the promises of setting up a rail coach factory, tribal university and a steel plant in Telangana as promised in the State Reorganisation Act,” he said. Bhatti Vikramarka broke his fast in the evening. Bhatti along with several other Congress leaders had taken up a day’s fasting in support of striking farmers in Delhi. He announced that the Congress MLAs are donating their one month salary towards the cause of the striking farmers in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/congress-demands-repeal-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80192118.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops attacked by 3-member gang||Thiruvananthapuram: The police officers of Fort police station who were trying to apprehend a wanted criminal was attacked by his gang. It was a three-member gang that attacked the cops. They rammed their Maruti Alto car into the Mahindra Bolero SUV of police on SS Kovil Road near Thampanoor in a bid to escape. According to police, the incident occurred around 6.30pm. The accused, Chandrabose, Deepak alias Firoze and Vishnu have been apprehended by the cops and handed over to Thampanoor police. Fort station house officer inspector J Rakesh said Chandrabose was wanted in connection with a robbery of a family residing at Kamaleswaram under Fort police station limits in December. Police had been tracking his mobile phone signals to locate him. On Saturday evening, they received information from cyber cell officials that Chandrabose was at SS Kovil Road. “Following this, a five-member team led by SI Premachandran set out to SS Kovil Road. While three cops, including the SI remained in the SUV, two cops proceeded on foot to the car in which Chandrabose was in to confirm that it was indeed him. But they saw the cops signalling from the vehicle that was parked at a distance. Trying to escape, they rammed into the police vehicle that was coming from the opposite direction. They tried to flee again but our cops managed to overpower them and apprehend them,’’ inspector Rakesh said. All three men are involved in numerous crimes, including immoral trafficking and murder. They were all part of a sex racket that was busted a few years ago. Deepak was even involved in the murder of one of the members of the racket, which happened under Medical College police station limits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-attacked-by-3-member-gang/articleshow/80191482.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Storage capacity of Erode LPG bottling plant increased||Erode: To meet out the increasing demand, additional storage facility of 1,800 metric tonne was inaugurated at the LPG bottling plant in Perundurai on Saturday. Indian Oil’s Erode Indane LPG bottling plant at SIPCOT industrial area in Perundurai has a storage capacity of 1,850 metric tonne. “Additional storage facility of 1,800 metric tonne was added to the bottling plant,” R Thamarai Selvan, the chief plant manager of the Erode LPG bottling plant, told reporters.The plant currently fills around 34,000 LPG cylinders per day, translating in to an annual bottling capacity of 1,20,000 metric tonne, he added. The plant, which was commissioned in 2001, is spread across 61 acres. In Tamil Nadu, Indian Oil has 1.6 crore LPG domestic customers. Supplies to customers are made through a network of 900 distributors. It has a market share of 57.7% in the state.Mock fire safety drill was also performed in the plant on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/storage-capacity-of-erode-lpg-bottling-plant-increased/articleshow/80192146.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||OTS for power consumers gets poor response, extended to Jan 31||Panaji: The state cabinet on Wednesday extended the One-Time Settlement (OTS) Scheme 2020 by a month, till January 31. The scheme aims at giving relief to power consumers to pay their outstanding bills with full or part waiver of delay payment charges (DPC) Chief minister Pramod Sawant told reporters that though the department received a poor response initially, people are still inquiring about the scheme and hence, the decision to extend it. The scheme was launched in December 2020 for power consumers who have defaulted on bill payments. An amount of over Rs 400 crore has to be recovered, of which DPC itself amounts to nearly Rs 91 crore. According to the scheme, interested consumers had to apply for an OTS within one month from the launch date. Special counters were set up at sub-division offices to assist people from villages who wanted to avail the scheme. The scheme also offered power consumers, who pay their outstanding amounts within two months, a waiver on the DPC. The cabinet note approved a structured waiver of the DPC - 100% waiver for two installments; 80% for three installments; 60% for four installments; 40% for five installments and 20% for six installments. Despite all efforts undertaken for recovery power dues, there is still a huge amount of arrears piled up against consumers whose installations have been temporarily or permanently disconnected and RCC cases, which up to March 31, 2020, amounted to Rs 56 crore. Accumulated arrears of existing connections which are yet to be disconnected amount to Rs137 crore, up to September 30, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ots-for-power-consumers-gets-poor-response-extended-to-jan-31/articleshow/80192236.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||PMC shuts 27 corona hubs, releases over 2,400 reserved beds in hospitals||Pune: The civic body has closed down 27 Covid care centres so far and has released over 2,400 beds from 20 hospitals for non-Covid treatment because of a drop in coronavirus infection cases, but the civic officials said plans were in place to restart the hubs in case of a spurt in patients. An official of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said a part of reserved beds in over 25 hospitals for Covid-19 treatment had also been released. A total of 2,432 beds had been converted from Covid to non-Covid, he said. The administration has also reduced the staffers deployed on Covid-19 duty and the ward offices have been told to handle Covid-19-related work. The daily caseload in the PMC limits has significantly dropped over the last few days. The active cases have dropped to about 2,700 and around 50% patients are in home isolation, further reducing the demand for beds in the hospitals. Mayor Muralidhar Mohol said the administration had been told to keep track of every case and continue with rigorous contact tracing to prevent a spurt in cases. “Release of beds in the hospitals will ensure treatment for other ailments. However, hospitals have been told to be ready to reserve beds for Covid patients as per requirements,” Mohol said, adding that though the cases had dropped in the last two months in the city, citizens should avoid unnecessary gatherings. “The administration was operating the Covid care centres at various places across the city, including hostels of educational institutes, PMC-owned buildings and sports complexes. Most of them have been closed down in phases in the last two months. Now, the patients are being admitted only at selected treatment centres such as Naidu Hospital, Sassoon General Hospital, jumbo Covid units and a few Covid centres,” another PMC official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-shuts-27-corona-hubs-releases-over-2400-reserved-beds-in-hospitals/articleshow/80192144.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Lumpy skin disease in cattle worries livestock farmers||Coimbatore: Three weeks ago, when 44-year-old Ramesh Babu went to his cattle farm to milk cows, he noticed a small lump on the body of one of the animals. He dismissed it as a mosquito bite and continued his work only to regret a day later.The next morning, visible lumps and wounds were found all over the body of the cow, which appeared tired. Scared, Babu rushed to a veterinarian, who confirmed it as the lumpy skin disease.Within a few days, similar lumps were found on other cows and as of now, five of his cows are affected by the disease. Babu said that he had never seen such lumps on the animals. “It was more like chickenpox that humans get. Affected cows becomes tired and stop taking food. After applying medicine on the skin, the lumps subsidized within a couple of weeks,” he told TOI. “Milk production of the affected cow has been reduced significantly. Instead of 12 litres, it gives less than two litres. Even though the doctor has assured that the disease will not affect productivity, we are worried.”The disease, which was prevalent in Dharmapuri and other nearby districts, has started to spread among the cattle in the district in the last few weeks, said R Perumalsamy, joint director of the animal husbandry department. “We noticed the disease recently and are conducting camps to create awareness among farmers. We have also directed field workers to collect data on the affected cattle.”The disease spreads through blood transmission by mosquitoes, flies and lice, Perumalsamy said. “The affected animal should be isolated. We have asked farmers to apply a paste of small onion, garlic, turmeric powder, neem, tulsi, marudhani and kuppaimeni leaves sauteed in gingelly oil on the lumps. There is no specific vaccine for the disease.” C Radhakrishnan of Periyanaickenpalayam said he had started to take precautionary measures to safeguard his cattle. “To reduce body heat of the cow, I am adding more kambu to its diet and planning to apply the paste all over its body,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/lumpy-skin-disease-in-cattle-worries-livestock-farmers/articleshow/80192147.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 10, 2021||Pune||At 6.5%, Covid positivity rate across Pune civic limits hits five-week low||PUNE: The weekly Covid-19 test positivity rate within Pune municipal limits fell to 6.5% between January 1 and 7 — the lowest in five weeks. The PMC had reported a positivity rate of 9.2% during the week from December 4 to 10. The value then increased to 9.5% during the third week, from December 18 to 24. But since then, officials said, it has been a steady drop. Encouragingly, the rate has also stayed low despite an increase in testing. The PMC conducted over 28,000 tests from January 1 to 7, with over 1,900 samples returning as positive. In the previous four weeks, testing had not gone above 23,000. The test positivity rate is a key measure of infection prevalence in a community. It’s the portion of tests that return as positive within a specific period. According to the latest data then, the PMC seems to be finding fewer new cases in the community despite the increase in Covid-19 testing. Officials from the civic body’s health department said the dip in the positivity rate also showed the city hasn’t had new spikes. “We have been monitoring the caseload. For a month now, Pune city’s positivity rate has been in the single digits. Some civic wards reported a 1% increase in cases in the week ended January 7,” an official said. Sanjeev Wavare, the assistant medical chief of the health department, said that the drop has continued alongside increased testing. “We are now urging citizens with symptoms to get themselves tested. Early detection is key to effective treatment,” Wavare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-6-5-covid-positivity-rate-across-pune-civic-limits-hits-five-week-low/articleshow/80192149.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Mourning newborn, Bhojapur’s tribals eagerly await Maharashtra CM||BHANDARA: The news and preparation in the run up to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s visit on Sunday afternoon has the Gond tribal community of Bhojapur village in Bhandara district in awe and amusement. The Behre family from the community had lost a newborn in the Bhandara district hospital fire on Saturday. The residents of the village, which is just 4km from the Bhandara hospital, are waiting outside their homes since early Sunday morning. The tribal are spectators to the heavy police deployment and drills in the narrow lanes leading to Vishwanath Behre’s two room small home. The community, mainly inhabited by petty labourers, is witnessing such national attention for the first time in life. Officials and cops are standing guard preventing entry of anyone to meet or talk to the family. More cops have taken advantage positions atop pucca homes and in the neighbourhood. “Amid heightened threat perception the security has been beefed up for the CM visit. The grieving family also needs to been left alone for a while. They are not looking fearful because of cops inside their home but because of repeated media queries,” said a top cop. TOI spoke to neighbours who also happen to be close relatives of the Behres. “We are receiving all support and help from the government,” said Vishwanath’s uncle Shubham. Bharat Behre, another uncle, said he has never seen such police presence and media attention in his life at the village. At the district general hospital, cops have restricted the entry of media and activists ahead of the CM’s visit. Former Union minister and Rajya Sabha MP Praful Patel, who visited the burned ward at the hospital, said the fire fighting system like sprinklers and smoke detectors could have prevented the death of at least seven more babies who died not of burns but suffocation. Patel also visited the new ward where the seven rescued babies were shifted after the fire. He sought fire audit and installation of latest systems in all government buildings. He also said that his MP fund has already been exhausted but he would contribute personally if needed||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mourning-newborn-bhojapurs-tribals-eagerly-await-cm/articleshow/80196405.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Mudumalai Tiger Reserve reopens||Udhagamandalam: The Mudumalai Tiger Reserve (MTR) in the Nilgiris was opened to visitors on Saturday after a gap of 10 months.The reserve was closed last March due to the pandemic. The forest department has issued a set of standard operating procedures to enter the reserve for jungle safari. Visitors should wear mask and undergo thermal scanning before entering the reserve. They should produce ID proof, medical certificate and travel history, and keep a distance of 2m from each other.Vehicle safari will be conducted between 6.30am and 10am, and 2pm and 5pm. The safari vehicles will carry only 50% of the seating capacity.Rest houses in the reserve will be reopened on Monday. Only two people will be allowed to stay in a suite while dormitories with have 50% occupancy. Only 30 people will be allowed to visit the elephant camp at Theppakadu in the reserve during feeding time of the animals.People with symptoms such as cough and fever will not be allowed to enter the reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/mudumalai-tiger-reserve-reopens/articleshow/80192161.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Rainwater harvesting structures replenish groundwater table||Coimbatore: Following the severe drought in Coimbatore district in 2016, the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA) started constructing rainwater harvesting structures in farmlands in village panchayats by reviving one of the oldest agriculture practices to recharge groundwater table. In the last four years, the agency constructed 12,755 earthen bunds in the district and as a result, groundwater level, which was at 29.62 metres in May 2017, went up to 14.63 metres in May 2020. “Earthen bunding is nothing but raising the bunds of farmland for up to two feet. By doing so, we would be able to keep water stagnant in the farmland and it would percolate into the ground. The structures will also help to retain nutrients in the top soil and increase yield,” project director Rooban Sankar Raja said.Earthen bunding is constructed under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) at farmlands of small and marginal farmers, Raja said. “Of the total cultivation area of 1,65,260 hectares, 71,385 are owned by small and marginal farmers. Most of them are dependent on borewells for irrigation. Of the 228 village panchayats, underground water in 213 panchayats is overexploited and 15 others are in semi-critical zone,” he said.The agency started constructing earthen bunds in 2017 and as of now, as many as 12,755 such structures are constructed at a cost of Rs 172.11 crore. “Considering that the average rainfall in the district is 690mm, we could save up to 30 lakh litres of rainwater in one acre a year. Groundwater level in May was 14.63 metres and in November, it increased to 12 metres,” the official said.DRDA also constructed 44 farm ponds, 438 sunken ponds and 13,88 earthen trenches this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rainwater-harvesting-structures-replenish-groundwater-table/articleshow/80192140.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Candle march in Old City in support of farmers||HYDERABAD: Youth congress workers organised a candle march in support of agitating framers, in Old City of Hyderabad on Friday night. Youth Congress, City Congress and Pradesh Congress workers gathered in front of the Charminar, where they raised anti-BJP slogans and slogans against PM Modi. They sought immediate roll back of the contentious farm laws. “We have gathered here to express our solidarity and support for the protesting farmers in Delhi. We want the PM Modi regime to come out with effective solutions to the problem faced by the farmers,” senior congress leader Moosa Quadri said. Taking strong exception against chief minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and BJP president Bandi Sanjay, Youth Congress leaders alleged that they had indirect ties and had nothing to do with the farmers’ problems. “We want to give a message to the stubborn government that our support and agitation will continue. Youth Congress is always with farmers in India,’’ Sailender, a member of Youth Congress said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/candle-march-in-old-city-in-support-of-farmers/articleshow/80192156.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid pandemic, salary hike to adversely impact Telangana budget||HYDERABAD: The coronavirus pandemic and property registrations being stopped for three months is likely to have an adverse impact on the annual budget of Telangana state for the ensuing 2021-22 fiscal. The financial burden is only going to further increase on the state government due to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s decision to hike the salaries of 9.3 lakh employees, implement the pay revision commission (PRC) and fill up at least 50,000 vacancies in the government sector. The salary hike decision and pay packages to 50,000 candidates to be recruited in the government sector alone are likely to cost the state government an additional Rs 10,000 crore. While finance department officials have started the initial pre-budget exercise keeping in view the income, revenue and expenditure status of the state government up to December 31, 2020, the state budget exercise will pick up pace after just 20 days when the Modi government presents the Union budget on February 1. Telangana will get clarity on the devolution of funds from the Centre after the presentation of the union budget. The state budget for the current 2020-21 financial year was pegged at Rs 1.82 lakh crore. Officials in the finance department are keeping their finger crossed over the expected budget outlay for the ensuing financial year. “In 2020-21 the state was expected to generate Rs 16,000 crore from state excise duty, an increase of over 20% from the revised estimates of 2019-20, and Rs 10,000 crore from stamp duty and registration fees, which is an increase of over 40% from the revised estimate of 2019-20. But we are way behind achieving the targeted revenue as on date,” said an official. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has instructed the officials of commercial taxes, prohibition and excise, stamps and registration departments to work hard towards improving the revenues in the last quarter of the current financial year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covid-pandemic-salary-hike-to-adversely-impact-state-budget/articleshow/80192145.cms||Roushan Ali
January 10, 2021||Agra||HC relief to AMU till Jan 31 in property tax case||Agra: In a big relief, the Allahabad high court has directed the state government not to take any coercive action against Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) in connection with the recovery notices issued to it over non-payment of Rs 14.83 crore as property tax dues till the disposal of the application. The court also directed the government to make all the varsity’s bank account operative till January 31, which were earlier seized by Aligarh Municipal Corporation. The university authorities had filed the petition in the court after the civic body seized the institution’s bank accounts over non-payment of property tax. Disposing of the petition, the court directed the small cause court, Aligarh/Appellate Authority to pass appropriate orders on the stay application filed by the university, on January 11. The court also stated that if the application could not be decided on given date on account of any reason, then it will be decided within a period of 15 days. According to AMU officials, “The university has been paying house tax for residential areas, and has got exemption for the classrooms, laboratories and libraries from the Aligarh Nagar Palika. But the municipal corporation claims that the earlier order was applicable during the tenure of the nagar palika only.” Officials claim that other central institutions, including Banaras Hindu University, had also got house tax exemption from the high court and no tax is levied on classrooms, laboratories and libraries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/hc-relief-to-amu-till-jan-31-in-property-tax-case/articleshow/80190544.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu man ends life after losing Rs 7 lakh in online games||COIMBATORE: A 29-year-old Avarampalayam resident, who lost Rs 7 lakh in online gambling, committed suicide by jumping in front of a running train in Tirupur district, police said. S Elvin Fredric, who was working in a private firm in the city, had gone missing from his rented house at Ilango Nagar in Avarampalayam on Tuesday. Preliminary inquiry revealed that Fredric took the extreme step after losing money in online gambling. “His mother Elizabeth had left for her hometown in Thoothukudi on Sunday. She returned on Tuesday morning and did not find her son at the house. We were not able to trace him as he had left behind his mobile phone,” a police officer said. On Tuesday, an unidentified body was found on the railway track along the Kongu Main Road in Tirupur. On Friday, cops from the Peelamedu police station took Elizabeth and her husband Siulvai Anthony to the Tirupur government hospital, where the body was kept. They confirmed that the dead person was their son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/man-loses-rs-7l-in-online-gambling-kills-self/articleshow/80192177.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||SFI maintains winning streak in KU university, senate elections||Thiruvananthapuram: SFI has maintained its winning streak in the elections to Kerala University union and senate held here on Friday. SFI won eight of the total 10 seats to the senate while AISF and KSU won one seat each. Anila Rajan, first-year MCom student at TKMM College, Nangiarkulangara, was elected as the union chairperson. Vice-chairpersons are Aisha Babu (S N College, Kollam), Drisyamol T K (NSS College, Pandalam), Sruthi P V(Iqbal Training College, Peringamala). Nakul Jayachandran (Sanskrit College, Thiruvananthapuram) was elected as the union general secretary. SFI candidates won chairperson, vice-chairperson and joint secretary seats and 14 of the total 15 seats to the executive council. It won all five seats in the election to accounts committee. SFI and AISF contested together in the university elections this time. SFI district president Riyas Wahab termed the party’s victory this time as historic. The election procedure, which began in the morning at the university headquarters, concluded late on Friday evening. Those elected to senate are Aleena Amal (CSI Institute of Legal Studies, Cheruvarakkonam), P L Anand (Kerala Law Academy), A Ananthu (S N College, Kollam), Ananthu S Pochayil (Kerala Law Academy), Arya Prasad (D B College, Sasthamcotta), A L Chanthu (University College), N Noufal (Kariavattom campus), Riyas Wahab (Kariavattom campus), Sachu S Nair (Government Law College).The only KSU candidate who got elected from the KSU panel was Joyal John Joseph (Law Academy). Meanwhile, KSU workers staged a protest in front of the university, alleging election rigging by SFI workers and leaders. The KSU workers claimed that SFI workers did not allow many of their activists to cast vote.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/sfi-maintains-winning-streak-in-ku-university-senate-elections/articleshow/80191491.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Kolhapur admin seeks cooperation of local bodies||Kolhapur: The operators and owners of the commercial and trading establishments in Kolhapur city and towns in the district are not providing details of their businesses to the surveyors assigned to carry out the 7th Economic Census. Resident district collector Bhausaheb Galande said, “We have written to the administrative heads to ensure local authorities assist the surveyors during the field visits. We need full assistance from the civic bodies to complete the task before March this year.” The surveyors have completed the survey for all the business establishments and household cottage industries. In January, the surveyors faced opposition from locals. District collector Daulat Desai had to intervene and clarify that the volunteers assigned to carry out the survey were actual surveyors. Officials said the economic census was important since it measured the workforce in various establishments and therefore helped in drawing up policies for the welfare of workers. .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/kolhapur-admin-seeks-cooperation-of-local-bodies/articleshow/80191003.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Meerut||Police barracks get a major facelift to provide ‘cleanliness & positivity’||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Dilapidated rooms, leaking roofs, exposed live wires and unclean floors were a common sight as one entered police personnel barracks in police lines, but not any more. Taken up as a pilot project by the Muzaffarnagar police, one of the barracks has been turned around with plastic paint on the walls, LED lights and well furnished area in addition to clean beds with boxes inside and aesthetically chosen curtains and bed lights. "Police personnel face a lot of negativity handling crime which is quite depressing in the true sense of the term. In this high stress job at least they deserve decent surroundings when they return to their barracks. The aim to give a facelift to these barracks is to instill a sense of positivity in the lives of these men who work day and night to maintain peace in the lives of common citizens. This is a pilot project and we will replicate the model in rest of the barracks as well," Abhishek Yadav, Muzaffarnagar SSP said. The spruced up barrack was inaugurated by the elderly head constable Rambir Singh, who joined the police force 41 years ago. According to police, the barracks were restructured in police lines. The same development will be seen in future in every police station across Muzaffarnagar even as thousands of sub-inspectors, inspectors, constables and head constables live in old ones. Although some police stations were rebuilt in Muzaffarnagar, still, some of them are several decades old. Now, cops after working for long hours can at least experience a good living condition somewhat like a hotel room, said Kapil Kumar, a constable. Notably, healthy organic meals, fresh fruit juices, smoothie, daliya, poha, and food cooked in olive oil are all being dished out for the men in uniform in Muzaffarnagar. Dedicating a unique outlet for its cadre, the police department had recently opened a state-of-the-art cafe-cum-gym which not only provides "healthy and nutritious food", but also lends an opportunity to train themselves to remain physically fit for the task. The cafe also delivers food orders to various city spots for cops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/police-barracks-get-a-major-facelift-to-provide-cleanliness-positivity/articleshow/80191009.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 10, 2021||Pune||Covid-19: Day’s recoveries exceed infections after 2 days in Pune Metropolitan Region||PUNE: The Covid-19 recoveries surpassed new cases, though marginally, after a gap of two days in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) on Saturday. While 654 patients were declared cured in PMR on Saturday, 648 people tested positive, taking the region’s discharges and caseload above 3.54 lakh and 3.68 lakh, respectively. As many as 347 patients recovered in the PMC limits in the last 24 hours as compared to 282 new cases. The PCMC and rural areas reported 158 and 149 discharges, respectively. When it comes to new cases, the rural areas added 199 patients, followed by the PCMC limits (167). Covid-19 sample testing increased above 19.50 lakh on Saturday, following the addition of 9,423 tests in the last 24 hours. The PMC areas conducted 4,480 tests, which pushed its total testing above 9.55 lakh. The PCMC tested 2,843 samples, while the rural areas conducted 2,100 tests in the last 24 hours. With this, the total tests in the PCMC areas have reached above 5.74 lakh, while in the rural areas, they have risen above 4.21 lakh so far. The region recorded nine more deaths due to the infection, which took the region’s death toll to 8,899. Four patients each died in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, while one death was reported in the rural area. The tally of active patients in the region reached 5,726 on Saturday evening, including 3,805 patients in home isolation and 1,921 in hospitals, a report released by district health officer Bhagwan Pawar stated. A report released by the PMC health department stated that as many as 210 patients were at critical stage in the municipal limits. As many as 310 patients were on oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/days-recoveries-exceed-infections-after-2-days/articleshow/80192182.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Degree student kills self in Telangana, lens on loan app||HYDERABAD: A 23-year-old degree final year student, who returned to his native place, Galipalli village in Rajanna-Siricilla district, from Hyderabad 12 days ago, allegedly committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling at his residence on Friday. Though his family claimed he might have taken the extreme step due to harassment from instant loan app executives, police were yet to find any evidence. If the victim — M Pavan Kalyan Reddy — is found to have killed himself due to the alleged harassment, then the death toll due to loan app harassment would rise to six in the state. On Saturday, Ellanthakunta police met Kalyan’s family members to gather more information about the harassment as claimed by the family in their complaint. “In the first week of December, Pavan’s cousin received a message on her phone that he had taken a loan from an app and was to due to pay Rs 3,392. The cousin was one of Pavan’s references when he applied for a loan. His family said none of them had got any calls from app representatives,” Ellanthakunta sub-inspector Rafeeq told STOI. Police said the youngster’s phone has been sent to a forensic laboratory for analysis as it has a password and fingerprint protection. Pavan’s family has no financial problems and he never told them that he was being harassed. It was only after Pavan’s cousin alerted his family that they found out about his loan. “In the complaint, Pavan’s family alleged that he took his life after instant loan app executives harassed him to repay. He, however, did not leave any suicide note,” Rafeeq said. Police were yet to ascertain what Pavan did with the money. Police said that only after accessing apps used by Pavan could they know how much money he borrowed and how much he owed, apart from finding out if he was being harassed by recovery agents. Though Pavan was a native of Siricilla, his stayed in Dilsukhnagar to pursue studies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/degree-student-kills-self-lens-on-loan-app/articleshow/80192191.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Man gets bail on ground of parity in 2020 riot case||NEW DELHI: In a case of rioting in northeast Delhi where a businessman reportedly lost Rs 3.5 crore after his car showroom was vandalised, a Delhi court has granted bail to the accused stating “no useful purpose would be served by keeping him behind bars” as the trial would take a long time. Additional sessions judge Vinod Yadav also observed that four co-accused persons, Imran, Dildar, Faraza and Rafat, had already been granted bail at the initial stage of the investigation even before the chargesheet was filed in the case and interim protection was given to another accused. “It is further a matter of record that recently as many as eleven co-accused persons have also been enlarged on bail by this court vide various orders,” the court added. The bail was sought on the ground of parity with the other accused persons who had been granted bail earlier as the role attributed to Khalid was reportedly on the same lines as them. “The applicant is neither named in the FIR nor has any specific role been alleged against him in the matter…. applicant was not present at the alleged scene of crime on the date of incident,” his counsel Salim Malik submitted. The court noted that special prosecutor D K Bhatia had “very fairly conceded” that the role assigned to Khalid was the same and the material being relied upon against the applicant was also the same. However, the prosecutor submitted that though the chargesheet had been filed, the investigation of the case was in progress. Praying for the dismissal of the bail plea, the prosecutor said that there was every chance that if released on bail, the applicant could threaten witnesses, who were residents of the same locality. But the court opined that Khalid was also entitled to bail on the ground of parity for the role attributed to him was on same or identical footing as the other co-accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-gets-bail-on-ground-of-parity-in-2020-riot-case/articleshow/80193274.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||Jumbo facilities’ closure unlikely to hamper treatment in Pune region: Experts||PUNE: Health experts have said closure of the Covid-19 jumbo units was unlikely to hit bed availability in PMR, with new admissions already being stopped at the two facilities — CoEP ground and Annasaheb Magar Stadium — and new cases recording a multi-month low. Data on the Pune divisional commissioner office’s bed availability dashboard showed that over 17,000 beds were available at any given time (in civic and private hospitals) across Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural areas. The experts said PMR had major facilities like Sassoon hospital, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial hospital, Autocluster facility and Baner dedicated Covid hospital, with a combined bed availability of 1,051. State Covid-19 task force committee member Subhash Salunkhe told TOI, “The decision to stop admissions in both the jumbo units was taken after a careful review of the current situation... The jumbo facilities are not being demolished. If need arises, their services can be resumed within a week.” Health activist Abhijit More said there were enough medical hubs in the Pune civic limits to take care of the present cases. Activist Maruti Bhapkar said the jumbo units had been very helpful in treating patients, especially from the rural parts. “The existing medical facilities of the civic body can handle the patient load now. It will reduce the financial burden on both the civic bodies,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-facilities-closure-unlikely-to-hamper-treatment-in-region-experts/articleshow/80192195.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Ooty district records 2 fresh cases||Udhagamandalam: With two fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the Nilgiris district recorded the lowest number of cases in a day for the first time in five months. Of the 1900 RTPCR tests conducted, only two people tested positive leaving the positivity rate at 0.1% , according to a health official.The tally of the district now stands at 8033, even though the district has seen 7896 patients recover including 13 people who were discharged on Saturday. The hill district has conducted as many as 2, 91,920 PCR tests so far.Of the 90 active cases in the district, at least 25 people are being treated at government and private facilities in Coimbatore, while 19 people are kept in home isolation and being monitored. The remaining cases are admitted at government hospitals in Ooty, Coonoor and Gudalur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ooty-district-records-2-fresh-cases/articleshow/80192193.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Noise from new year renovations puts neighbourly tolerance to test||The only drums that Kanjurmarg-based music producer Abhimanyu Saha seems worried about these days are the ones in his ears. Unlike the continuous soundtrack of trains supplied by the railway station near his home, he finds it hard to tune out the shrill, high-frequency, metal-against-metal sound that has been rudely invading his consciousness through the partially-sound-proofed walls of his workstation for over two months now. "It starts every morning around ten, just when I am about to start thinking and focusing on work," says the musician about the renovation work in the next building, inadvertently making his wife, Prachi--a media professional who has had to mute quite a few official calls thanks to the noise--chuckle. As if there weren't enough ambient sounds to distract them already, the familiar Mumbai surround sound of frantic renovation in the wake of unlocking have started driving several work-from-home employees in Mumbai up the wall. The long lull of lockdown coupled with the start of a new year have predictably exacerbated the urge to renovate interiors of a space where home and office now converge. And though relentless urban home improvements are hardly a new irritant in the city, the fact that many can no longer escape the drilling, pounding and screeching makes neighbourly tolerance a tricky affair. "Sometimes, it feels like the ceiling's going to fall on me," says Thane-based brand project manager Jasmin Mani about the sounds of flooring and tile work that reach her second-floor home all the way from the sixth floor. Not only does the cacophony often reduce her family members to characters in an unintentional silent comedy movie by drowning out exchanges but also makes her bolt the bedroom door tight while taking official calls during her daily ten-hour-long, work-from-home shift. Recently, during Christmas, when her elder sister was over for two weeks along with her seven-month-old, the cries of the bawling baby only intensified the auditory chaos. "My nephew couldn't sleep because of the noise," says Mani. In Borivli, five-year-old Sohan Patil has been waking up to the sound of drilling in his neighbour's flat on the eighth floor for two months now. It has become the persistent background score of his day even as he munches his breakfast, showers and plonks before his mother's laptop for online school. "It's a struggle to go through an hour of online school everyday with so much noise in the background. Earphones do not drown out the noise completely. It's just increased my irritation and my son's crankiness," Sohan's mother, Anjali, says wearily. Excruciated by the incessant drilling, a man living next door to a goon in Juhu is seriously contemplating moving out. Those who aren't complaining are firms and private contractors who will tell you in confidence that their workers travel in local trains illegally (only certain categories of travellers are permitted as of now) to meet the huge uptick in business. In fact, home services platform Urban Company's home repairs, painting and maintenance business is currently at about 1.5 to two times its pre-Covid peak. "More growth is expected this summer. This is a busy time for us, and we continue to be bullish on the growth prospects for 2021," said Abhiraj Singh, co-founder of Urban Company. The search for the elusive Mumbai phenomenon of silence drives many to co-working spaces. "Noise is very much a part of an individual's decision making process to opt for a coworking space. Whenever people step into our establishment, for instance, the first remark they make is how quiet and calm the place is," said Marlies Bloemendaal, Founder, Ministry of New, a co-working space based out of Fort. "It leads to better work productivity as you get less distracted,” she said. Experiencing the benefits of silence for the first time during the lockdown seems to have amplified the nuisance value of unsolicited noises. "It's high time the government brought in norms for construction and home repairs. Currently, there are none. There has to be something in black and white on the kind of equipment permitted or timings when work can be undertaken," said anti-noise activist Sumaira Abdulali who has noticed complaints of noise from construction and renovation surging post unlock. While some housing societies try to put in restrictions such as disallowing carpentry work during afternoons, not all do. "Neighbours are affected the most. If they speak up against the noise, there is likely to be bad blood forever with the individual whose home is being renovated. So they simply bear it quietly," says Abdulali, explaining why Kanjurmarg-based musician Saha's eardrums are adjusting to the new sound of "metal" in his life.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/noise-from-new-year-renovations-puts-neighbourly-tolerance-to-test/articleshow/80193081.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Actor’s ex-manager, UK man held; 200kg ganja seized||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested a UK national, former manager of a Bollywood actor and her sister in a case of smuggling of 200kg of high quality ganja into the country. Karan Sajnani (40), a UK national, Rahila Furniturewala and her sister Shaista were booked under NDPS Act sections 27 and 27A (financing, trafficking and harbouring), which attract a maximum sentence of 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment. Rahila is the former manager of an actor but the latter has no role in the smuggling, officials said. Acting on a tip-off, NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede and team intercepted a parcel couriered to Bandra (W). In the absence of human drug mules since stoppage of international flights from March 22 due to Covid-19, smugglers are using postal and courier services, NCB said. In a follow-up, NCB searched Karan’s flat at Jaswant Heights in Khar (W) and claimed to have found 200kg of ganja. His interrogation led sleuths to his friend Rahila’s house, from where they recovered a small quantity of weed. NCB claimed it found ganja at Shaista’s flat too. Imported strains of ganja like OG Kush and curated marijuana have been recovered and contraband was sourced from the US and locally, NCB said. “The weed recovered from Rahila’s house is of the same quality seized from drug peddler Anuj Keshwani’s house last year. Rahila was being investigated in the case initiated after actor Sushant Singh Rajput died by suicide,’’ an official said. NCB claimed the ganja was in the form of joints, to be distributed in Goa, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Meghalaya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actors-ex-manager-uk-man-held-200kg-ganja-seized/articleshow/80191784.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 10, 2021||Pune||Youth vandalises 4 cars after robbing pedestrian||Pune: Police are searching for a young man who robbed a pedestrian of Rs500 and then vandalised four cars parked on a road at Sainathnagar in Nidgi early on Friday morning. The residents of the area alerted the Nigdi police about the incident. The CCTV footage from the crime scene revealed that a man, wielding a wooden stick, robbed a pedestrian and then damaged the windshields of the cars, said assistant police inspector Laxman Sonawane of the Nigdi police. Later in the night, the pedestrian, Sunny alias Mukund Mahadev Kamble (22), lodged a complaint with the Nigdi police. According to the complaint, Kamble was walking to his workplace around 6am when the robber accosted him, issued threats and forcibly took Rs500 from him, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/youth-vandalises-4-cars-after-robbing-pedestrian/articleshow/80192223.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Frequent power outages irk Trichy city residents||Trichy: The frequent power outages reported in Big Bazaar Street and Rockfort localities in Trichy city have irked the residents, particularly, the professionals working from home. Even as many of the professionals continue to work from home, the power shutdowns have disrupted their quality of work. Residents said that since the last week of December 2020, at least five days have witnessed power outages. Usually occurring during the day time, the power shutdowns last anywhere between 20 minutes to one hour.While the inverter powered electricity may help them to operate ceiling fans and lights, residents said that internet connection did not have battery backup in most homes. “We can cope up with scheduled power cuts but these sudden outages leave us frustrated,” K P Rangaprasad, a resident of Big bazaar street said. “The outages were due to minor faults in transmission between Ambikapuram substation and EB road substation that facilitates power supply to Rockfort and Big Bazaar Street. We have carried out a periodical maintenance drive recently to prevent major snags. ,” a Tangedco official said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/frequent-power-outages-irk-trichy-city-residents/articleshow/80193054.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||State govt to cap plan fund expenses for depts at 75%||Thiruvananthapuram: The state government has decided to cap the plan fund expenditure this year at 75% for the government departments, it is learnt. As the financial year enters the final quarter, the gross plan fund expenditure of the departments has crossed 50%. While the plan funds of the departments, excluding local self-government institutions, reached 54%, which is considered to be a decent achievement while factoring in the working days lost due to Covid-19 lockdown, the LSG institutions across the state where new administrative bodies have taken charge have spent 44% plan funds allotted to them till now. In 2020-21, when Covid-19 pandemic had derailed the plans of the departments from the beginning of the financial year, the government had informally taken a decision to enforce a 40% cut on the plan funds for the departments. However, the state finances bounced back after the GST collection improved significantly in the last couple of months and the Centre also permitted the state to borrow above the originally fixed limit. “The cap on the plan funds originally decided at 60% has been revised and fixed at 75% now. This mainly was because of the buoyed GST revenue as well as the lesser expenditure in the non-plan funds saving more funds for plan expenditure,” a senior finance department official said. The state recorded a GST revenue of Rs 1,776 crore in December last year when compared to Rs 1,650 crore in the same period the previous year, marking an increase of 8%. The government has also received a nod from the Centre to borrow 1.25% of the gross state domestic product (GSDP) additionally from the market, above the borrowing cap of 3%. This would mean that the state can approximately borrow Rs 12, 225 crore additionally, given that the GSDP of the state for 2020-21 has been projected to be Rs 9, 78, 064 crore. The implementation of 213 reforms in various departments as part of the ease of doing business made the state eligible for additional borrowing. Departments like agriculture (80.5%), forests and wildlife (71.5%), public works (111%), cooperation (55.6%), health (51%), etc have crossed 50% expenditure, food and civil supplies (34.7%), but revenue (21.8%) and water resources (29.4%) are lagging. As per figures of planning board, expenditure of the finance department is 902.47%, that was arrived at by including the Rs 1,449 crore, which is the share of Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (KIIFB) from the motor vehicle taxes. The expenditure break-up of finance department’s plan funds shows that expenditure is nil in case of MLA special development fund, which is Rs 1 crore per MLA per year (Rs 141 crore), for undertaking small works of capital nature in their constituencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-govt-to-cap-plan-fund-expenses-for-depts-at-75/articleshow/80191513.cms||KP Saikiran
January 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Courts in district to work in two shifts from tomorrow||PUNE: All courts in the district will resume work in two shifts from Monday. Principal district and sessions judge Neeraj Dhote on Friday issued an order stating that courts will function from 11am to 1.30pm and from 2pm to 4.30pm with full presence of judges and court staff in both the shifts. Cases at the stage of recording evidence will be scheduled in the first shift, while those awaiting judgment, orders or hearing of arguments will be taken up in the second shift. Until now, the courts were functioning from 11am to 2pm, and hearing bail and anticipatory bail pleas, remand pleas and other urgent matters. As per the standard operating procedure (SOP) of the Bombay High Court issued on November 27 last year, courts cannot pass adverse orders in case lawyers, litigants, witnesses and accused persons are absent. Earlier, the hearing of cases in the district was put on hold after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic. The Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, and the Pune Bar Association (PBA) had demanded reopening of the courts in two shifts for expediting hearing of cases stating that the subordinate courts had started functioning in the state. Rajendra Umap, member, Bar Council of Maharashtra and Goa, told TOI, “The council members on January 5 held a meeting with the high court chief justice and urged him to ensure that the subordinate courts function in two shifts because all government offices had started functioning and the judiciary should not remain behind because it had a huge backlog of pending cases. We shall also request the high court to revise the SOP clause related to not passing adverse order because it has come to our notice that certain categories of people were taking undue advantage of prolonged hearing in court cases for an indefinite period.” PBA vice-president Sachin Hingnekar said, “The courts had initially started working on a single shift for hearing urgent matters because many lawyers, litigants, accused and court staff were infected with the virus. The Bar had demanded that judiciary should work in two shifts for reducing pendency of cases and, second, large number of lawyers, mostly juniors, were suffering from financial constraints.” Hinganekar said, “The court halls, Bar rooms, library, canteens and washrooms have been sanitised. The civic body has cleaned and sanitised the district and sessions courts premises at Shivajinagar. Only litigants whose cases have been listed for hearing will be allowed to enter the court premises.” Lawyer Shirish Shinde said, “It is not possible to complete the process of recording evidence in the first shift because cases (ready board) which are ready for hearing will get priority. Cases (un-ready board) which are pending will not be listed for hearing. The functioning of courts can be streamlined if it operates from 11am to 5.30pm.” He added, “There is no plan in place to prevent overcrowding of lawyers, litigants and others, and maintain cleanliness if thousands of litigants tun up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/courts-in-district-to-work-in-two-shifts-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80192219.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Cattle owners flex political muscle to escape action||Trichy: Although the Trichy corporation is coming under criticism for lack of enforcement in preventing stray cattle from disturbing road traffic, officials are facing political pressure from influential people to drop charges levelled against negligent cattle owners. The recent attempts by the local body to impound cattle straying near the Trichy railway junction resulted in cattle owners flexing their political muscle to either reduce or scrap the penalty levied.Trichy Corporation sources said that all the bovines hindering vehicular movement on roads have proper owners. To cut down the feed cost, the cattle are made to wander on the city roads, feeding on food waste dumped on vacant plots. For almost the entire day, cattle including cows rest on the road endangering the safety of pedestrians and two-wheeler riders. This apart, on an average around 3-4 livestock get injured after being run over by heavy vehicles. Corporation officials said that attempts to impound stray cattle always end in verbal altercation with the owners. “Recently, we seized six livestock on Rockins road for causing a public nuisance. The cattle owners, upset over the move, started calling politically influential people for support. Despite the threats, we levied a penalty of Rs 2,000,” an official with the corporation said. While it is usual to levy a penalty of Rs 500 to Rs 1,000 per animal, due to political intervention officials reduce the penalty.The staff said that such political pressure is keeping them away from securing cattle and penalising the owners. Although the city corporation has no elected ward councillors now, the influence of local functionaries, mostly from the ruling party, is making local body officials ignore the menace. “Only the police can resolve the issue by booking cases under IPC section 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal). We cannot confront the political influence,” another official with the corporation added. With assembly election round the corner, corporation sources said sustained impounding of cattle straying on roads is an unlikely task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cattle-owners-flex-political-muscle-to-escape-action/articleshow/80193080.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||SCB gets ready for dry run, centres identified||SECUNDERABAD: Arrangements to conduct first phase of Covid vaccine dry run in Secunderabad Cantonment are on in full swing.  Officials of the SCB and Telangana health department have identified 1,057 health staff who will be attending vaccine dry run in the first phase to be held on January 13 most likely. The vaccine dry run will be conducted in Picket, Trimulgherry and Bowenpally primary health centres for medical and health staff including Auxiliary nurse midwifes and para-medical staff, who will play a key role in the vaccination drive, SCB senior superintendent, M Devender told TOI. TNN Officials of SCB and Telangana health department have jointly identified 1,057 health staff who will be attending Covid-19 vaccine dry run in the first phase to be held on January 13||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/scb-gets-ready-for-dry-run-centres-identified/articleshow/80192249.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||PM Modi to interact with health workers of 2 centres in Telangana||HYDERABAD: PM Narendra Modi will interact with health workers and staff at two centres in the state when Covid-19 vaccination will be administered on January 16. On January 16, vaccination will be done in 139 centres in all the districts, health minister Eatala Rajender said. On the first day, 13,900 people would be given the vaccine. He said 2.9 lakh people would be given the vaccine in the state. Rajender participated in the dry run at PRK Hospital at Serilingampally. For the second consecutive day, a dry run was conducted on vaccination process in the state with district officials saying that the system is in place. Narayanpet district collector D Hari Chandana on Saturday described the dry run as successful. Nagarkurnool district collector L Sharman said the dry run was conducted in 17 hospitals and 21 PHCs in all mandals by following the protocols issued by the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-to-interact-with-health-workers-of-2-centres-in-t/articleshow/80192242.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 10, 2021||Pune||Aurangabad man poses as MLA’s PA and dupes auto driver of Rs 5,500||PUNE: An unemployed man from Aurangabad district was arrested on Thursday night on the charges of posing as an MLA’s personal assistant and cheating an autorickshaw driver from Pune city of Rs 5,500 in May last year on the promise of providing dry ration kits for the needy during the lockdown. The Dattawadi police said the suspect was posing as the personal assistant to a MLA from Pune rural on different social media sites, where he claimed of having many dry ration kits, which he wanted to give away for free for the benefit of the needy. Assistant inspector Nandkumar Kenche of the Dattawadi police said, “We have arrested Aniruddha Temkar (31) of Bhalgaon in Aurangabad district. We had laid a trap to arrest him on many occasions in the last few days and finally succeeded on Thursday. Temkar is unemployed and has done diploma in engineering,” Kenche said. He said the police suspected that Temkar might have duped more people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-poses-as-mlas-pa-dupes-auto-driver-of-rs-5-5k/articleshow/80192231.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Bike lifter arrested, 5 vehicles recovered||Coimbatore: The city police recovered five stolen motorcycles from a notorious motorcycle thief on Friday. The arrested person was identified as A Ashiq Ahmed, 28, of Ashoka Street at Selvapuram. “Ashiq and his two accomplices had stolen 15 motorcycles from the city in the last three months,” Race Course inspector Sujatha said. “Two years ago, he attempted to murder a police sub-inspector in Palani.” Ashiq was remanded in judicial custody. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/bike-lifter-arrested-5-vehicles-recovered/articleshow/80192238.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Key sewerage works in city under AMRUT get a move on||Thiruvananthapuram: With two months left for AMRUT project period to end, city corporation is going ahead with four sewerage works for which excess tender was quoted.The state high-powered steering committee (SHPSC), which had approved tender excess for the works considering technical difficulties, assessed the progress of implementation of decisions regarding the works in the latest meeting held in December. The corporation has executed agreement for the work with the contractor for the project that will provide new network in the missing areas of core city. Forty per cent tender excess has been approved for three sub-works. These include providing sewerage facility to eastern side of Amayizhanjan canal between Vanchiyoor junction and Samad Hospital road junction, rehabilitation of sewer line including cleaning and replacing damaged lines at Kaithamukku, Thengappara area and rehabilitation of damaged sewer network at Palkulangara. An excess amount of Rs 20 lakh will be spent on this work. Based on the SHPSC decision, the corporation also executed work agreement on 27% tender excess for the work that involves laying transmission main and sewer networks in Karamanal collection and conveyance system. The corporation is yet to execute agreement on another work for which 40% tender excess was approved earlier. This includes laying sewer network from Murinjapalam to Kannamoola. The excess amount will be met from the savings in six completed storm-water drainage sub-projects of the work. The administrative sanction was revised from Rs 1.3 crore to Rs 1.64 crore for the work. Another work has been approved at 45% tender excess. The work involves laying of pipe and construction of new manholes at Chengalloor and Vattavila of Punnakamugal ward. The high-powered committee approved the tender excess citing that the state faces an acute shortage of experienced contractors in sewerage sector and high risks are involved in executing the work. It was pointed out that although the tender excess is high, the amount involved is comparatively less. The administrative sanction for sewerage pump house at Edathara was fixed at Rs 5.87 crore and the amount had to be revised later. The contractor had cited that the site for construction was slushy and there was high risk for tilting of the well. Due to slushy soil, there could be possibility of caving in resulting in collapse of nearby structures during dredging. This would necessitate heavy precautionary measures, besides the site is adjacent to Amayizhanjan canal and there will be water throughout the year which will mean that quantity of water which has to be bailed out will be more and the scheduled rate for bailing of water was less compared to the market rate, the contractor cited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/key-sewerage-works-in-city-under-amrut-get-a-move-on/articleshow/80191512.cms||Aswin J Kumar
January 10, 2021||Coimbatore||Cargo express train service to be launched||Coimbatore: The Salem division of Southern Railway, which introduced a new parcel cargo express train to Rajkot on Friday, is all set to introduce another train by January-end.The new train will leave from Vanjipalayam in Tirupur and will travel up to Guwahati. This will be the third parcel cargo express train introduced by the division from August. Officials said that a third parcel cargo train has been allotted to Bengaluru -based Visskan Logistics, which participated in the tender. “This train, like the other two, will have 350 tonnes capacity and will have around five major stops for loading and unloading,” said divisional commercial manager E Harikrishnan. It is expected to earn the division around Rs 25 lakh per round trip.The other two trains depart from Coimbatore North station and run until Patel Nagar and Rajkot once a week each. While the train to Patel Nagar earns the division Rs 27 lakh per round trip, the train to Rajkot earns 24 lakh. Both have been allotted to Salem-based Star Associates. The tender is for six years. “The single train to Patel Nagar, from August-end, has earned the division Rs 2.47 crore so far,” said Harikrishnan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/cargo-express-train-service-to-be-launched/articleshow/80192226.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||TRS-BJP slugfest mars KT Rama Rao’s whirlwind tour of Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao’s whirlwind tour of the city, laying foundations and inaugurating city infrastructure projects was marred by protests and arrests of BJP and Congress cadre on Saturday. Tension prevailed as TRS and BJP cadre raised slogans of “CM KCR zindabad, Modi down down,” and “Modi zindabad and CM KCR down down” respectively, raising the political temperature ahead of elections to Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency, seven municipal bodies and two graduates MLC constituencies. All this happened at the inauguration of a sports complex at Adikmet and 2-BHK dignity housing project at Baghlingampally. Both the venues fall under the Musheerabad assembly constituency represented by Mutha Gopal of the ruling TRS and Secunderabad parliamentary constituency represented by Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy of BJP. The ruckus happened in the presence of KTR and Kishan Reddy. BJP leaders alleged protocol was not followed as newly-elected corporators were not invited to the programmes. However, GHMC and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board officials maintained that protocol was followed strictly as all the elected representatives, including the corporators currently holding the office of oath, were invited. “When there is already an elected body in the office, how can we invite newly-elected corporators to the programmes. The new-elected body will assume office after February 10 only after which they would be invited to official programmes as per protocol,” a senior GHMC official said. Even municipal minister KT Rama Rao, during his speech at the inaugural of 2-BHK housing project at Lambadi Thanda in Baghlingampally, said there was a need for cooperation between the elected representatives of all parties for the development of the city. Some local people obstructed KTR’s convoy stating their names were not on the beneficiary list of 2-BHK allotment and KTR assured to allot the houses to them also. As if this was not enough, Malkajgiri MP and Congress working president A Revanth Reddy and his followers charged the ruling TRS with intentionally heaping insults on them. They were taken into police custody and later released. Revanth said he was given 12.30pm as inauguration time in the invite sent to him, but the minister inaugurated the two reservoirs half-an-hour before the given schedule. The venue of the programme was under the Malkajgiri parliamentary constituency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/trs-bjp-slugfest-mars-ktrs-whirlwind-tour-of-city/articleshow/80192235.cms||Roushan Ali
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Karur collector permits rooster duels||Trichy: Karur district collector S Malarvizhi has given permission to conduct rooster duels for three days during the Pongal festival this year. Rooster duels were conducted over the last two years and permission was given this year as well. While rooster duel was permitted for four days in 2019 and 2020, this year it will be organised from January 13 to 15 with the same guidelines laid down by the high court. This time, the organisers have to also follow Covid-19 norms, said the district collector. The district administration has laid down a 21-point regulation to be strictly followed by the organisers. Roosters were allowed to take part in the event only after undergoing medical examination by a team from the animal husbandry. The district administration banned rooster duels in 2014 following the death of two people in Tirupur. They sustained injuries from the knives tied on the claws of fighter roosters. Karur is also popular for rooster duels. Organisers of the event in Poolamvalasu however managed to get permission in 2019 from the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/karur-collector-permits-rooster-duels/articleshow/80193129.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Udaipur||Lockdown took toll on mental health: Experts||JAIPUR: The suicide of city resident Giriraj Rana, who killed his family before ending his life recently allegedly due to financial stress, has again highlighted the disastrous consequences of untreated mental health issues. City-based psychologists confirmed that the number of persons suffering from stress and depression has increased manifold in the recent months. Dr RK Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Hospital, said there has been a change in the pattern of cases he and his team have been receiving since the start of the lockdown. “Initially, the distress calls were primarily due to uncertainty of life, future, career etc. Thereafter, the focus entirely shifted to the financial stress and uncertainty over career or future. The cases related to the latter are more vulnerable due to nine months of continuous pressure on families and individuals waiting to explode,” said Solanki. He agreed that not all can reach out to the counsellors but believes that an aware family, relatives, friends and society can help in preventing these illnesses from becoming another pandemic. The footfall has increased almost by 30%. Psychologist Neha Khaturia said every family should be careful of any change in the behaviour of their family members. “The stress and anxiety always leave their imprints in behavioural changes like living in isolation, anger, less intake of food, sleep issues and dizziness,” said Khaturia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/lockdown-took-toll-on-mental-health-experts/articleshow/80194552.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: FIR filed over lewd posts, threats on social media||AHMEDABAD: A 22 -year-old woman of Maninagar filed a complaint with cybercrime cell of the city police on Saturday alleging that in August 2020 a Facebook user by the name of Dipak Thakor had tagged her. His account had her and her friend’s profile pictures on it, said a cybercrime cell official. According to the complaint the Thakor then started sending her threatening and lewd messages on Facebook messenger. Cybercrime officials said the woman, who works as a receptionist in a private clinic, then reported the Facebook account and had it blocked. “In October 2020, she was tagged with another Facebook ID in which too her and her friend’s pictures were kept as profile pictures. She again received messages threatening to defame her,” said a cybercrime official. Police said they have obtained the IP log address of the device from which the accused’s Facebook account was made and they will soon apprehend the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-receives-threatening-lewd-messages-on-fb/articleshow/80191525.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Intranasal vaccine excels in animal studies: Bharat Bio||HYDERABAD: Even as Bharat Biotech has applied to the Indian drug regulator for permission to conduct Phase I/II trials of its intranasal Covid-19 candidate code named BBV154, the company said the candidate has already shown superior protection against SARS-CoV-2 in animal studies. Being developed in collaboration with the University of Washington School of Medicine at St Louis (WashU), BBV154 is a single-dose vaccine made using novel chimpanzee adenovirus. The company plans to produce about 1 billion doses of the vaccine. “Mice and Hamsters immunized with a single dose of ChAd-SARS-CoV-2-S conferred superior protection against SARS-CoV-2 challenge, more so than one or two intramuscular immunizations of the same vaccine and dose. Post-challenge with SARS-CoV-2, viral clearance was observed in both lower and upper airways,” the company said on its website. Pre-clinical testing for toxicology, immunogenicity and challenge studies were conducted in US and India. The results of the study have also been uploaded on biorxiv, a server that carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed. Bharat Biotech said nasal route offers excellent potential for vaccination due to organised immune systems of the nasal mucosa and an intranasal vaccine stimulates a broad immune response. “Immune responses at the site of infection are essential for blocking both infection and transmission of Covid-19,” it said. Bharat Biotech CMD Dr Krishna Ella too has called it “potent and better than any injectable vaccine”, including Covaxin. “... nasal vaccine will protect mucosal immunity, knock of virus and stop transmission...the nasal vaccine is the best choice because Covid also goes through the nose and you need mucosal immunity, which produces IgA (immunoglobulin A) response which is a more potent immune response...,” he had said. Firm said the vaccine is suited for both children and adults.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/intranasal-vaccine-excels-in-animal-studies-bharat-bio/articleshow/80192259.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 10, 2021||Ajmer||Lockdown took toll on mental health: Experts||JAIPUR: The suicide of city resident Giriraj Rana, who killed his family before ending his life recently allegedly due to financial stress, has again highlighted the disastrous consequences of untreated mental health issues. City-based psychologists confirmed that the number of persons suffering from stress and depression has increased manifold in the recent months. Dr RK Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Hospital, said there has been a change in the pattern of cases he and his team have been receiving since the start of the lockdown. “Initially, the distress calls were primarily due to uncertainty of life, future, career etc. Thereafter, the focus entirely shifted to the financial stress and uncertainty over career or future. The cases related to the latter are more vulnerable due to nine months of continuous pressure on families and individuals waiting to explode,” said Solanki. He agreed that not all can reach out to the counsellors but believes that an aware family, relatives, friends and society can help in preventing these illnesses from becoming another pandemic. The footfall has increased almost by 30%. Psychologist Neha Khaturia said every family should be careful of any change in the behaviour of their family members. “The stress and anxiety always leave their imprints in behavioural changes like living in isolation, anger, less intake of food, sleep issues and dizziness,” said Khaturia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/lockdown-took-toll-on-mental-health-experts/articleshow/80194554.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Lockdown took toll on mental health: Experts||JAIPUR: The suicide of city resident Giriraj Rana, who killed his family before ending his life recently allegedly due to financial stress, has again highlighted the disastrous consequences of untreated mental health issues. City-based psychologists confirmed that the number of persons suffering from stress and depression has increased manifold in the recent months. Dr RK Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Hospital, said there has been a change in the pattern of cases he and his team have been receiving since the start of the lockdown. “Initially, the distress calls were primarily due to uncertainty of life, future, career etc. Thereafter, the focus entirely shifted to the financial stress and uncertainty over career or future. The cases related to the latter are more vulnerable due to nine months of continuous pressure on families and individuals waiting to explode,” said Solanki. He agreed that not all can reach out to the counsellors but believes that an aware family, relatives, friends and society can help in preventing these illnesses from becoming another pandemic. The footfall has increased almost by 30%. Psychologist Neha Khaturia said every family should be careful of any change in the behaviour of their family members. “The stress and anxiety always leave their imprints in behavioural changes like living in isolation, anger, less intake of food, sleep issues and dizziness,” said Khaturia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lockdown-took-toll-on-mental-health-experts/articleshow/80192262.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jodhpur||Lockdown took toll on mental health: Experts||JAIPUR: The suicide of city resident Giriraj Rana, who killed his family before ending his life recently allegedly due to financial stress, has again highlighted the disastrous consequences of untreated mental health issues. City-based psychologists confirmed that the number of persons suffering from stress and depression has increased manifold in the recent months. Dr RK Solanki, senior professor and unit head, department of psychiatry, SMS Hospital, said there has been a change in the pattern of cases he and his team have been receiving since the start of the lockdown. “Initially, the distress calls were primarily due to uncertainty of life, future, career etc. Thereafter, the focus entirely shifted to the financial stress and uncertainty over career or future. The cases related to the latter are more vulnerable due to nine months of continuous pressure on families and individuals waiting to explode,” said Solanki. He agreed that not all can reach out to the counsellors but believes that an aware family, relatives, friends and society can help in preventing these illnesses from becoming another pandemic. The footfall has increased almost by 30%. Psychologist Neha Khaturia said every family should be careful of any change in the behaviour of their family members. “The stress and anxiety always leave their imprints in behavioural changes like living in isolation, anger, less intake of food, sleep issues and dizziness,” said Khaturia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/lockdown-took-toll-on-mental-health-experts/articleshow/80194553.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Another central team visits bird flu-hit areas||ALAPPUZHA: A second team from Centre visited the district on Saturday to conduct a study on avian influenza (H5N8) outbreaks and the health department’s Covid-19 preventive activities in the district. Minhaj Alam, joint secretary, ministry of food processing industries, and S K Singh, director, National Centre for Disease Control, reached the district on Saturday and directed officials here to keep strict vigil for three months in bird flu-hit regions. They held discussions with district collector A Alexander and other concerned department heads. The three-member central team that reached Alappuzha on Thursday also joined them. The earlier team comprises Ruchi Jain, public health expert, Union ministry of health and family welfare, Shailesh Pawar, scientist, National Institute of Virology, Pune and Dr Anith Jindal, physician, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, Delhi. On Saturday, both the teams jointly visited the bird flu-affected Karuvatta and Thakazhi in the district and collected details from affected farmers. According to the central team, bird flu was reported from the same places that were affected in 2016 too. The central team directed forest department officials to collect samples from migratory birds for testing. They asked officials to continue sample collection from affected regions for examination. So far, the rapid response teams of the district administration culled 49,958 birds in tune with central government guidelines. Also, 3,22,550 eggs and 5,070kg food for the birds were destroyed. Animal husbandry department officials briefed the central team about culling activities within 1km of affected areas —Thakazhi, Karuvatta, Nedumudi and Pallipad. The central team also collected details on Covid-19 preventive activities from the health department.The central team advised more vigilance as the district opened its tourist destinations. They asked officials to track tourists, autorickshaw and taxi drivers, who are vulnerable to Covid-19, conduct tests and create awareness among them. The central team will leave for Thiruvananthapuram on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/another-central-team-visits-bird-flu-hit-areas/articleshow/80191530.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||Arundhati Roy lends support to farmers protest||BATHINDA: In a show of solidarity to their agitation against the Centre’s controversial farm reform laws, novelist Arundhati Roy on Saturday addressed a gathering of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) members at a protest site at Bahadurgarh. Roy said, “I wanted to come in the initial phase of the protest, but was afraid that if I visited, the farmers would be tagged Naxalites. But the government started calling the protesters ‘atankwadi’ (terrorists) and Naxalites anyway. So I felt it was time to meet the brave people, who have been protesting against all odds.” She said the entire country is watching this historic struggle with a lot of expectation. “We were writing and reading about highhandedness of governments and protests for decades, but this struggle has shown the ground reality and also what is happening in our country.” “Before every election, politicians tell you they are with you, but soon after, they get cozy with the corporate sector. If we look into the history, we see that the government had been providing benefits to some corporates at the cost of people,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arundhati-roy-lends-support-to-farmers-protest/articleshow/80193892.cms||Neel Kamal
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Armed robbers loot truck driver of Rs 20 lakh in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: At least six armed dacoits chased a truck for a few kilometers and took the driver and cleaner hostage and managed to rob Rs 20 lakh from their possession near Jaipur road in Dausa district on Saturday. After thrashing the driver and cleaner, the accused dropped them near a village on the Uttar Pradesh border. According to police, the dacoits put boulders on the road and later threw stones on the truck breaking the windscreen. “Thereafter, the truck driver stopped the vehicle and armed robbers got into the vehicle. The driver and cleaner was assaulted and later the dacoits robbed nearly Rs 20 lakh from their possession,” said a senior officer of Sadar police station area. After robbing the truck, the robbers threw the driver and cleaner at an isolated location on Rajasthan-Uttar Pradesh border near Bharatpur. “The driver and cleaner informed the owner of the truck and arrived at Dausa to lodge an FIR,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/armed-robbers-loot-truck-driver-of-rs-20l/articleshow/80192272.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||SC orders inquiry into 2019 rioting incident in Jaipur jail||JAIPUR: The Supreme Court has ordered an inquiry into the rioting and assault that took place at Jaipur jail during a search operation in 2019. A bench comprising Justice N V Ramana, Surya Kant and Aniruddha Das passed the order on Friday while hearing a plea filed by an accused seeking bail in a case of rioting and assault to deter a public servant from discharge of duty. The court noted that the allegation against the petitioner was that while opposing the search being conducted by the jail authorities in Jaipur, he along with other inmates assaulted the jail staff on March 30, 2019. The petitioner while refuting these allegations, claimed that he was mercilessly thrashed by the jail authorities which is self-evident from the medical report on April 6, 2019. The counsel for the petitioner submitted that the petitioner had made a complaint to the judicial magistrate in respect of the 11 injuries suffered by him while in custody and pursuant thereto an inquiry was ordered. However, the fate of the inquiry is not known. The advocate general told the apex court that the complaint was investigated by police and a report was submitted to the magistrate. “Taking into consideration the peculiar facts and circumstances of the case and particularly the fact that the petitioner has suffered 11 injuries while in custody, we think it is a fit case to grant him bail,” the bench said. The court added, “In view of the nature of allegations made by the petitioner against the jail authorities, even though a report is said to have been submitted to the magistrate by police, we direct the state government to conduct a fact-finding inquiry by a senior IAS officer of the state cadre and take appropriate action against the jail/police officers/officials who will be found guilty in such inquiry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sc-orders-inquiry-into-2019-rioting-incident-in-jaipur-jail/articleshow/80192264.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Fire concern at nursing homes in Mumbai||MUMBAI: After the death of 10 babies in a blaze at the neonatal care unit of the district general hospital in Bhandara, it has emerged that several nursing homes in the city have been violating fire safety rules, mainly in slum pockets. Activist Shakeel Shaikh obtained a list of 35 registered and 24 unregistered nursing homes in M-East ward, mainly in the slums of Govandi, using the RTI in 2018. He had demanded action against these for fire safety violations, but the BMC failed to move against these The BMC said it had completed a survey but could not act because of the Covid-19 lockdown in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fire-concern-at-nursing-homes/articleshow/80193141.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||GIDC plans to auction part of SEZ land sans consultant||PANAJI: After the attempt to appoint a consultant to auction the SEZ land failed, the Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) has proposed to auction 5 lakh sqm of land on its own. With the corporation having to pay a monthly instalment of close to Rs 4 crore, it wants to auction the land as quickly as possible in order to repay the Rs 200 crore short term loan taken from the Oriental Bank of Commerce. The GIDC took the loan in May 2019 to pay back the SEZ promoters and reacquire 38.4 lakh sqm as part of an out-of-court settlement. “GIDC will try to auction the land by itself through the regular route. The file is with the government,” a GIDC official said. The interest on the loan amounts to Rs 1.1 crore per month. The GIDC tried to appoint a consultancy firm to auction the land, but the contract terms kept reputed consultants away. As TOI reported in November, global consultancy firms showed interest in the property advisory contract, but stayed away because the success fee clause was unfavourable. The GIDC also continues to encounter a delay in the selection of the mine developer cum operator (MDO) for the Dongri Tal II coal block at Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh. The Nagpur-based consultant, a’XYKno Capital Services Private Limited has yet to finalise and float the Request for Proposal (RFP). In September 2019, the Union ministry for coal had allocated the Dongri Tal II coal block to GIDC and had sought Rs 196 crore as a performance guarantee. Since then, the state has dragged its feet in formally taking over the coal block for exploration and utilisation. Meanwhile, the GIDC will start issuing construction and occupancy licences online as part of a slew of reforms undertaken to improve the ease of doing business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gidc-plans-to-auction-part-of-sez-land-sans-consultant/articleshow/80192278.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Art festival at MGM tomorrow||Aurangabad: Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu), in association with Mahatma Gandhi Mission (MGM), has organised an art festival on Monday to mark the first death anniversary of Shashikant Barhanpurkar, a theatre personality and former head of dramatics department at Bamu.  Performances of various folk arts will be staged along with an exhibition on the works of Barhanpurkar. The festival, named Dr Shashikant Barhanpurkar Kalavakash Utsav-2021, will also witness a special drama performance ‘Kahanika Rangmanch’ based on the concept of the late artist and one-act plays. It will conclude with a music session by Atul Dive and Aarti Patankar. The event will be held at Rukmini Hall of MGM from 10 am to 8 pm and is free for all.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/art-festival-at-mgm-tomorrow/articleshow/80191046.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Covid recovered patient in ICU shifted to Ngp, dies on way||Nagpur: After the fire broke out in Bhandara district general hospital in the wee hours of Saturday, a Covid-19 recovered woman, who was undergoing treatment in the ICU and was dependent on oxygen, was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Nagpur along with another patient. However, the Covid-19 recovered patient died on the way and was declared brought dead by the GMCH doctors.The deceased has been identified as Alka Dinesh Rohankar (40), a resident of Pendri in Lakhandur tehsil of Bhandara district.One of the doctors from Bhandara hospital, who referred the patient to Nagpur, told TOI, “Rohankar recovered from Covid, but she continued to be in the ICU as her condition was serious. The ICU is adjacent to the sick newborn care unit (SNCU) where the fire broke out. As fire could have reached this ICU, all patients there had to be shifted. Rohankar was referred to GMCH in Nagpur as she needed ICU support. Other patients were managed in wards having oxygen facility.”The deceased’s relative Prabhu Borkute said, “The hospital had arranged an ambulance in which Rohankar and one more female patient were referred to the GMCH. Rohankar died before reaching GMCH at around 3am. Doctors at the GMCH said post-mortem will have to be conducted as she was brought dead. They also said body may or may not be handed over to us considering Covid situation.”“We requested the driver of the same ambulance to help us in taking the body back to Bhandara hospital. But, the driver refused. Thereafter, we hired a private vehicle and brought the body to Bhandara district general hospital where post-mortem was conducted,” he said.Borkute said, “Rohankar was admitted to district general hospital for Covid-19 on December 13. She was doing well, but required oxygen. The patient had food in the evening on Friday. She died due to negligence of the district general hospital. The patient was shifted because of the fire incident and was taken to GMCH Nagpur with portable oxygen cylinder in the ambulance. God knows if she got sufficient oxygen or not. Government should give compensation to the family members.”GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande said, “Rohankar was brought to GMCH casualty ward at around 3am. Relatives also presented required papers. After the patient was declared dead, doctors informed the kin that post mortem would have to be carried out. However, the relatives took the body and went.”Bhandara civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate said, “I have no information about any patient having been referred from the hospital to GMCH after the fire incident.”Borkute said, “The other patient, who was referred to Nagpur along with his relative, has been admitted to the GMCH.”The doctor from Bhandara hospital said, “Second patient was not admitted in the ward. The patient was serious and brought to the casualty when the fire broke out. The ambulance was ready with Rohankar to leave for GMCH so the second patient was also sent in that vehicle.”Condition of the second patient could not be known from GMCH doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-recovered-patient-in-icu-shifted-to-ngp-dies-on-way/articleshow/80191049.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||At Saptak: A violin tour de force with Gujarat link||Ahmedabad: As Vidushi N Rajam plays her violin, the bow traces the arc from her musical enlightenment to the origin of her inspiration. The starting point of her art lies in the sanctum of the Hindustani tradition, where her Bhadran-born guru Pandit Omkarnath Thakur is an epic presence. Rajam’s recital was featured at e-Saptak on Saturday. She rendered Khamaj among other ragas. Barricading themselves against Covid, rasikas viewing the programme at home would have let her raga essays work as inoculation against the infections of everyday life. The symptoms of that disease are boredom, despair, and the Sisyphean necessity to relive drudgeries. Vidhwan Kumaresh, a violinist and titan among Carnatic musicians, explained why Rajam is a canon-shaping instrumentalist. “Though Rajam ji talks about the gayaki style on the instrument, I think it is the other way around,” Kumaresh told TOI. “Many musicians have tried to incorporate her sound through their voice.” Rajam’s negotiation of the trickiest raga twists reflects the self-assurance and creative acumen she needed to take the most significant turn in her life of music. As a young learner, she sought Pandit Thakur’s mentorship to move from the Carnatic to the Hindustani genre. To understand the impact of the switch, a hint can be taken from Kumaresh’s praise — Carnatic music did not lose, Hindustani did not win; a great artist found the perfect voice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/at-saptak-a-violin-tour-de-force-with-gujarat-link/articleshow/80191535.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara fire: Braveheart nurses raised alarm, facilitated rescue operations||BHANDARA: Their blackened aprons bore testimony to courage and resilience shown by the district general hospital on-duty staff in the wee hours of Saturday. Even after going through the nightmare, Shubhangi Sathawane (32) and Smita Ambilduke (34), who were on duty nurses at the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU), had no time to rest. Both were among the rescuers paraded to the civil surgeon’s chamber each time a minister visited the stricken hospital to narrate the episode. As TOI approached them after all the day-long VIP visits came to an end, Shubhangi and Smita requested to be left alone. “They don’t want to recall the incident once again,” said a senior doctor. On being prodded , the duo spared sometime to once again narrate the incident as they stepped out after being over 18 hours on duty. “We had just finished feeding the babies and came out to record the details. We heard multiple blasts and rushed inside. As we opened the door, there was a big cloud of smoke and we couldn’t see anything or breathe for a while,” said Shubhangi. The duo immediately raised an alarm which alerted security guards, ambulance drivers and locals. Even as the fire brigade started deploying personnel, attendant Ajit Purjekar went up from the backside of the hospital and opened the emergency door to let the smoke exit quickly. Ajit couldn’t be contacted as he left for home. Incharge nurse Jyoti Choudhary, who had returned home, too rushed back to assist her colleagues. “Ajit helped us to pass on the babies that were alive and we shifted them to a safer place on the ground floor,” said Shubhangi. The other staff members said the seven babies were saved mainly due to the efforts of Shubhangi, Smita and Ajit. “Their courageous efforts ensured the toll didn’t rise,” they said. Shubhangi and Smita lamented the fact that they couldn’t do much for the 10 infants who were in the inside room. The duo had prioritized those in the front room. “It would have taken longer,” said a doctor. Shubhangi said Dr Archana Meshram and Dr Mansi Nanda too joined the rescue efforts which went on till 4am. The braveheart nurses and attendant were applauded by all the ministers who visited the spot. There were also some like private ambulance driver Imran Sheikh, his friend Dhanasheel Khobragade and Rajakumar Dahakar who reached the hospital from different parts of the district to help out. “There was no problem at all when I left at around 1.30am. In the morning, I was shocked to get numerous calls. I immediately rushed back in case they needed ambulance service,” said Imran, who was at the hospital till late Saturday evening. Dhanasheel travelled from Lakhni, 20 kms away, to volunteer in case there was shortage of hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/braveheart-nurses-raised-alarm-facilitated-rescue-ops/articleshow/80191064.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Jaipur||Murder and suicide case: Arrest of more moneylenders likely||JAIPUR: Police investigating the case in which a man killed his wife, daughter and son and later committed suicide on Saturday said there could be more arrests of money lenders in the case. The deceased in his suicide note had mentioned the name of the money lender who was harassing him. Acting swiftly, police arrested the money lender for abetment of suicide and extortion and was produced before a local court. “We have got three-day police remand of the accused where he would be further interrogated. We wish to collect more evidence in the case to make our case strong for the prosecution,” said Rai Singh Beniwal, assistant commissioner of police, Vaishali Nagar. Beniwal has been assigned the task of investigating the case since it has been lodged under SC/ST atrocities Act. He added that the investigation had so far found that there were more money lenders who were harassing deceased Giriraj and his family residing at Bunkar Colony in Khatipura. “Arrests of more money lenders in the case totally depends on evidence. We are trying to collect evidence and there could be more arrests,” Beniwal added. He added that for the case, statements of Giriraj’s sister of deceased would be most important. “Giriraj during his visit to the village had not only named the money lender harassing him, but had also indicated that money lenders had made his life miserable. He had narrated his plight before his sister. Thus, she is most important person as evidence in the case,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-and-suicide-case-arrest-of-more-moneylenders-likely/articleshow/80192276.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Devpt authority failed, merge 42 villages in KMC limits: Activists||Kolhapur: Activists from Kolhapur have claimed that the urban development authority formed to carry out development in the fringe villages had not worked in the past three years and it would be better if the villages are merged into the city limits. The state had formed Kolhapur Urban Area Development Authority to carry out development of the 42 villages in the fringe areas three years back. Urban development minister Eknath Shinde on Friday asked civic authorities to send a fresh proposal to extend the limits of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation by merging the fringe villages. During a meeting with the civic officials on Friday, the activists said that the rapidly urbanising villages on the fringes of the Kolhapur city were putting strain on the civic amenities. Baba Indulkar, activist of a forum supporting the merger, said Kolhapur has remained of the same size as it was founded few decades ago. The KUADA was given the task of approving building permissions in 42 villages but it had no staff, no town planners and no surveyors. “The government again relegated the task of sanctioning plans to village administration. Therefore, KUADA must be scrapped,” he said. The activists of the forum are going to meet civic chief Kadambari Balkawade on Monday and discuss the merger issue. The civic authorities claim that only highly urbanised fringe villages can be taken into consideration and the village panchayats should pass resolutions accepting the merger. The resolutions should be sent separately to the government through Zilla Parishad. KUADA officials claimed that three people have been recruited recently, which includes town planners and surveyors. The first chief executive officer of KUADA, Shivraj Patil, has retired recently and his charge has been handed over to additional director of town planning Prasad Gaikwad. “I have taken charge recently and would not be able to comment on the claims being made by the activists and civic officials regarding KUADA,” said Gaikwad. TIMELINE: 24 July 1989: First proposal to extend civic limits prepared by KMC. It had proposed inclusion of 42 fringe villages 20 April 1992: State government issued notification of inclusion. Congress leaders objected, extension put on hold 11 July 2001: Fresh proposal made by KMC, which excludes 25 villages from the list of 42 18 March 2002: The proposal sent to urban development department (UDD) 2006: Local leaders against opposed it 2012: UDD asked for a proposal, KMC sent the old one September 2012: UDD sought changes in the proposal according to the Census 2011 report December 2013: Bombay High Court asked state government to take decision about extension by July 2014 August 2014: The chief minister stayed merger of 17 villages into KMC’s civic limit 18 March 2015: UDD rejected KMC’s merger proposal 16 August 2017: KUADA notified for 42 villages||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/devpt-authority-failed-merge-42-villages-in-kmc-limits-activists/articleshow/80191055.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kochi||Duck deaths in Thrissur spark bird flu fears||Thrissur: Death of a couple of ducks at Nedupuzha has triggered fears about possible spread of avian influenza in the district. However, according to veterinarians with the animal husbandry department (AHD), preliminary observations indicate that the duck deaths could be due to bacterial disease and not bird flu. District animal husbandry officer O G Suraja said about eight ducks were found dead in Thoppil Canal in the last two days. Preliminary indications are that the ducks suffered Pasteurellosis, caused by the bacteria Pasterulla. The samples collected from the carcasses are being tested at the AHD district laboratory, and the results are expected by Monday. If results reveal any further complications, the samples will be sent to AHD regional laboratory, and to high security laboratory at Bhopal. Dr Suraja said there are no reports of further bird deaths anywhere in the district. However, the department has stepped up vigil to take measures in case of any outbreak. A control room has been opened at the district veterinary centre at Paravattani to monitor the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/duck-deaths-in-thrissur-spark-bird-flu-fears/articleshow/80191545.cms||T Ramavarman
January 10, 2021||Pune||Unseasonal rainfall ruins grape plantation in district||Pune: Jaisingh Waykar (42), a grapes grower from Gunjalwadi village in Junnar tehsil, has lost about 150 tonnes of grapes worth over Rs1.2 crore in the current market price because of unseasonal rain in the past three days.“You require over Rs3 lakh capital investment for the plantation of grapes on an acre of land. This year, I had spent over Rs50 lakh on spraying pesticides, fertilizers and on other things for the plantation on 15 acres. The export quality grapes were in the harvesting stage. I wanted to export them to the gulf countries this year. Going by the current rates, I would have earned Rs1.2 crore. But untimely rain completely damaged the harvest. Now, I won’t be able to even get my capital back,” Waykar told TOI over the phone on Saturday from Gunjalwadi village, about 120km from the city.Like him many grapes growers, particularly in Junnar, Indapur and Baramati tehsils, are facing the similar situation. Many farmers in Junnar usually trim their plantations in August to get the harvest in January and February to get the harvest in the beginning of the grapes season, when the prices are high in the market.Jitendra Bidwai, the president of Junnar Grapes’ Association, claimed that plantations on 700 hectares out of a total 2,000 hectares in the tehsil were in the last stage of the harvest and they faced over 90% losses in the last three days. “To make matters worse, maximum growers don’thave crop insurance. Now, they don’t know how to get back their capital. The government should help us,” Bidwai said.Another grape farmer, Kaluram Karhe from Indapur tehsil, claimed to have faced losses in two consecutive years. “Last year, I had lost about 70% of the total harvest because of untimely rain. This year, I was expecting a good return from the harvest, but my entire plantation has been damaged in the rain. I didn’t opt for crop insurance because of the capital issue,” he added.Somkuwar, the acting director of the National Research Centre for Grapes (NRCG) at Manjri, said, “Berry cracking has developed on many plantations because of the rainfall. To avoid further losses of the less affected plantations, we have advised growers to carry out spraying of insecticides scientifically. Our scientists have run live sessions for the growers on social media platforms to give them scientific guidance to mitigate the situation. This effort will go on for the next few days so that the growers can reduce their losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/unseasonal-rainfall-ruins-grape-plantation-in-district/articleshow/80192275.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 10, 2021||Kolhapur||Supply of veggies to Kolhapur city hit due ro rains||Kolhapur: The supply of vegetables to Kolhapur city from interior areas of the district has affected by around 30% on an average owing to the untimely rainfall occurring intermittently since the last few days. The agriculture produce market committee (APMC) was almost deserted on Saturday as there was less inflow of vegetables from the rural pockets. Farmers usually carry their produce to the APMC on the day they harvest it, followed by auctioning of the same. Traders buy the produce and sell it to small vendors who further sell these vegetables in mandi’s or roadside markets. The APMC authorities claim that the rainfall has halted harvesting in some parts of the district while farmers of some areas are reluctant to harvest their produce anticipating losses during transportation. The period between December and February is usually considered as the season for harvesting of vegetables. A week ago, 783 bags full of brinjal was supplied to APMC with one bag weighing 10 kg each. On Friday, the supply was cut down to 512 bags. At the same time, around 3,700 kg carrots were being supplied to the wholesale market a week ago while it has now dropped to 1,120 kg. Similarly, around 11,000 kg green peas was supplied a week ago and at present, it come down to 3,706 kg. All these vegetables are part of a special delicacy prepared in every household on the first day of Makar Sankranti. Secretary of APMC Mohan Salape said, “The untimely rainfall, especially during evening and night time, is creating problems for farmers. Also, the vendors do not buy a lot of produce from the APMC fearing that it might get damaged due to rainfall.” Moreover, a large quantity of vegetables arrive in Kolhapur APMC from nearby Sangli district. However, Sangli, too, has been witnessing unusual rainfall for a few hours every day, affecting the supply. The prices of vegetables in city’s mandis are sky-rocketing. For instance, brinjal is being sold at Rs 50 per kg which earlier was around Rs 40 per kg. At present, locals whose farms are located along river banks and backyards are bringing their produce to local mandis. According to IMD Mumbai, light showers are expected in Kolhapur, Sangli, Satara and Solapur districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/supply-of-veggies-to-kolhapur-city-hit-due-ro-rains/articleshow/80191065.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||FC Road pending street work to be complete by March-end||PUNE: The civic body plans to complete all ongoing and pending street design work and realignment of footpaths between Khanduji Baba and Agriculture college junctions along Fergusson College Road by the end of March. The completion of the work will be a big relief for pedestrians facing hardships for a long time, as the project has lagged since the past few months because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The barricades and machinery kept on the road and footpaths were also affecting the traffic. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the work was expedited in all the remaining patches and would get over in two months. The project includes redesigning of footpaths, parking lots for two- and four-wheelers, approach roads to the thoroughfare and provision of ducts for utility services, bus stops for PMPML, beautification and installation of smart elements. Dinkar Gojare, an officer attached to the PMC’s road development department, said work at most crucial junctions was over. “The latest patch where the work got over was ahead of Goodluck Chowk towards the Garware subway. We will complete the work till the Khanduji Baba Chowk. The pending work at a patch towards the Agriculture college chowk has also been completed,” he added. Gojare said all the work was carried out in accordance with the urban street design guidelines and alterations would be made as per requirements. Sai Sakhare, who uses the road frequently, said, “We also want the administration to ensure proper maintenance and avoid misuse of whatever ‘smart’ facilities are being installed along the road. The administration should ensure action against people flouting the parking rules along the road.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fc-road-pending-street-work-to-be-complete-by-march-end/articleshow/80192274.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 10, 2021||India||Farmers protest: Govt’s firm stand based on feedback from BJP meets||NEW DELHI: As the deadlock with farm unions continues, the Centre’s firm no to the demand of repealing the three farm laws stems from an exhaustive feedback and consultation campaign BJP has conducted, party sources said. Starting from the first week of December till December 25, the birth anniversary of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, which BJP celebrates as “Sushashan Diwas”, the saffron party has organised thousands of big meetings and over one lakh local “kisan panchayats” through which farmers were made aware of the changes brought through the three laws. The events were organised in three phases for which party cadres at block and village levels were mobilised. Digital copies of booklets were sent to them to be shared with the farmers. Senior BJP members are of the view that resistance of a certain group of farmers can’t be construed as the entire farming community’s sentiment. They argue that had there been resistance elsewhere, the party’s countrywide campaign in favour of the laws could not have been possible. “I personally addressed several farmers’ rallies during the campaign period … did not come across any example when someone spoke against the three farm laws,” said BJP general secretary and Rajya Sabha MP Arun Singh. Referring to a time in 2008 when farmers of Punjab and Haryana had protested sale of wheat at the MSP, BJP spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Sudhanshu Trivedi said there seems to be a crisis of credibility even of some of the farmer leaders. “In 2008 protests were staged that farmers of Punjab and Haryana were being forced to sell on MSP whereas wheat sale prices in the international market was far higher,” Trivedi recalled, saying the farm leaders protesting the recent laws should revisit their own stance of the past. He took a swipe at BKU leader Rakesh Tikait, claiming that the latter had welcomed the farm laws and had also on several occasions demanded that the government liberate farmers from middlemen. Singh said BJP workers organised consultations and ‘kisan panchayats’ in villages also but farmers never raised their voice against the new farm laws barring some places in Punjab. On the occasion of “Susashan Diyas” on December 25, senior party functionaries were physically present among villagers to listen to the PM’s address together. Home minister Amit Shah was at Kishangarh village and Defence minister Rajnath Singh was among farmers at Nazafgarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-govts-firm-stand-based-on-feedback-from-bjp-meets/articleshow/80193895.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Vasavinagar locals to get regular water supply||Hyderabad: Minister for municipal administration & urban development, K T Rama Rao inaugurated twin reservoirs in Vasavinagar on Saturday. The water board had proposed these reservoirs under ‘Water Supply Project for Peripheral Circles of GHMC’, with HUDCO aid, with a total of 5 million litres capacity and spent Rs 9.42 crore for construction. Residents of 20 residential colonies in Vasavinagar will finally get uninterrupted water supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/vasavinagar-locals-to-get-regular-water-supply/articleshow/80192281.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||‘Used fire ladder, broke open door to rescue babies’||BHANDARA: "It was 1.47am when I got a call from a security guard at the general hospital. I reached the hospital gate and met Rahul Gupta and hospital staffer Munna Thakur. We all went to the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on the first floor and on opening the door, saw it was burning like hell," narrated Rajkumar ‘Prince’ Dahekar, one of the five youngsters who saved the lives of seven newborns at the district general hospital in Bhandara, where 10 infants were choked to death in the wee hours of Saturday. The youths carried these seven babies in their arms, used fire tenders’ ladders and broke open another door on the first floor in order to rescue them. The fire that killed 10 babies in the ‘Out Born’ section might have killed seven more in the ‘In Born’ section, had these youths not reached the spot in time. Rahul Gupta, Rajkumar ‘Prince’ Dahekar, Gaurav Rehpade, Shivam Madawi and Ajit Kurzekar are the names of these daredevil heroes, who risked their lives to help save the babies. Rahul and Prince are private ambulance operators, and Gaurav and Shivam are security personnel. Ajit is a hospital attendant. Narrating the harrowing moments, Rahul stated, "The SNCU room was filled with smoke and fire. We tried to venture inside but retreated due to burning sensation in eyes and limbs. Pieces of shattered glass were lying everywhere on the floor. We could see red flames around the oxygen supply inside the room and hear an explosive sound.” Meanwhile, he added, “The fire tenders had also reached the spot. We all came out of the main building and used a fire tending vehicle’s ladder to gain access to the back door of the SNCU. We broke open the back door to enter the SNC unit." Prince, who was with Rahul, explained, "There are two partitions in one SNC unit. The In Born section is for neonatal children born at civil hospital, while the Out Born section is for severely ill neonatal children born in rural hospitals or primary health centres.” He added, “We rescued all 7 babies from In Born, but couldn’t reach the 10 babies in Out Born section as there was heavy smoke and fire in that area. We also saw two machines on fire along with the babies. It was heart-rending." "The smoke was so intense that we felt breathless," said Rahul, adding that the security guards and hospital staffers helped them in rescue. "We picked up the babies with our bare hands, broke open another exit door on the first floor and ran down the stairs to safeguard the 7 babies," Prince added. Electricity inspectors and fire college experts reached the spot to ascertain the reasons of fire. Prima facie it is assumed that the machine kept near the air conditioning system caught fire first, due to short circuit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/used-fire-ladder-broke-open-door-to-rescue-babies/articleshow/80191068.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||Pune: Second-hand gadgets password to reset life for many in society||PUNE: The good old Juna Bazaar is much more than a broke hipster’s hunting ground for the freshly polished antique gramophones or wooden furniture in the time of Covid-19. A walk through the crowd and a peek into the stalls reveal items unseen in one of the city’s oldest markets in Kasba Peth — pre-used and refurbished laptops, desktops, tabs, smartphones and hard disks. “I have two pre-used laptops, both branded, three desktops, a hard disk and quite a few smartphones. We have a bhangar (scrap) unit at Nana Peth, where people discard their devices. Many people had to upgrade their computers because of the work-from-home arrangement. Some people sold off their old gadgets. We buy and repair the gadgets and sell those,” says a seller, who is in his early twenties and identifies himself as Asgar. “The laptops are available for anything between Rs8,000 and Rs20,000, depending upon the configuration. A desktop will come for anything between Rs5,000 and Rs12,000. But the hotcake remains the smartphone,” he says. Asgar’s friend, Salim, says, “Smartphones are in much demand among people who cannot buy new and costly devices for their children’s online education. The pandemic has made life difficult for all.” A child’s dreamPiyush Bhule is barely 10, but his little fingers swiftly shift between interfaces on the cellphone his parents have bought him to attend the online classes arranged by the zilla parishad school where he studies. “My teacher sends me questions on the phone, and I submit the answers. I like the ‘Diksha’ app. But I want the school to reopen,” says the boy as he fiddles with his smartphone in a rundown accommodation provided to his construction-worker parents by their employer. It was not easy for Piyush’s parents to buy him a Rs7,000-smartphone. “We work at a construction site near Kondhwa as daily wagers. We saved money to buy him a phone, if not a computer. I want to see the child getting the opportunity to study,” says Piyush’s mother, Archana, who is from Buldhana and is in Pune for nearly three years. “I know many like us, who could not provide their children with a support system. For people like us, reopening of the schools is very important,” she says. Used devices in demand Lokesh Kasat, founder-director of leading technical solutions provider GNR Solutions Private Limited, says the pandemic-induced lockdown witnessed a 400-500-time rise in the demand for used computers and laptops. “Before the lockdown, the city needed 2,000-3,000 refurbished desktops and laptops a month. The demand flew to over 1 lakh per month once the lockdown was imposed. The demand for computers on a rent also went up by 300-400 times. We are into this business for over 15 years. But we have never witnessed such a situation,” he says. “Many companies provided their employees with mainframes for the work-from-home arrangement. But many firms told their employees either to get their own computers or look for options. I know quite a few people who sold off their ornaments to buy refurbished computers for their children’s online education. We witnessed an unusual time when having computers at home was a must, after food,” says Kasat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/second-hand-gadgets-password-to-reset-life-for-many-in-society/articleshow/80192285.cms||Saumyadipta Chatterjee
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Man molests woman from dating app||MUMBAI: A 23-year-old woman who met an entrepreneur over a dating app registered a molestation complaint against him. Samta Nagar police said the accused has switched off his phone and is on the run. The woman is an architect. She met the 26-year-old accused after their profiles matched in October 2020. The two met a few times in cafes. Around Christmas, he invited her to his house in Kandivali (east). “The woman said that he began touching her inappropriately. She took objection and left,” an officer said. The two met again on January 1 at the accused’s house. He started to touch her again, despite her having told him off earlier. On Friday, she told him over the phone that she was going to the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-molests-woman-from-dating-app/articleshow/80193196.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kozhikode||CPM dist secy’s presence at Samastha programme a clear signal to IUML||Kozhikode: The presence of CPM district secretary P Mohanan at the reception to the Munnetta Yathra by the Samastha Kerala Sunni Students Federation (SKSSF), the feeder organization of the Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema, at Mukkam has raised many eyebrows. Mohanan shared the stage with Umar Faizy, Samastha mushavara (consultation body) member, who was blamed for taking a pro-CPM position against the wishes of the IUML leadership. His words of praise on the LDF government at the Kerala Yathra of Pinarayi Vijayan in Kozhikode on December 27 had drawn flak from the IUML state secretary M C Mayin Haji. Haji was also accused of blocking Samastha general secretary K Alikutty Musaliar from participating in the Kerala Yathra at Malappuram on December 28. Though Haji had denied the allegation, it was heard in his voice clip that someone from the IUML had asked Musaliar ‘not to attend the programme of the communists.’ Observers feel that invitation for Mohanan was a clear signal to the IUML that the organizers will be not cowed down by the dictates of the party. The incident is seen as the latest example of the declaration of independence of the Samastha, which is often portrayed as a ‘pro-IUML’ organization. CPM leader A M Arif, MP, has attended the reception for Yathra at Thrikkunnapuzha. But inviting CPM district secretary, who is not even a people’s representative, is a master stroke against the IUML, which has launched a campaign against communism saying that it is nothing but atheism. Addressing the meeting, Mohanan said Muslims are being hunted down in India and various parts of the country. While the US is leading the hunt in the world, it is done by the ruling party in India, he said. “Muslims in the country have a fear that they will be targeted at any moment. This apprehension resulted in the formation of some fringe groups of extremists among the Muslims,” he said. “While the Sangh Parivar is trying to build a country based on religion, the extremists among the minorities encourage them by professing another form of theocracy,” Mohanan said, lauding Samastha for fighting both forms of extremism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-dist-secys-presence-at-samastha-programme-a-clear-signal-to-iuml/articleshow/80191549.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolhapur||‘Govt wont allow unauthorized construction’||Kolhapur: Urban development minister Eknath Shinde has warned that the state government will not entertain unauthorized constructions in the future. Addressing a review meeting in Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation on Saturday, Shinde said that government has taken a major decision on regularizing constructions on Gunthewari system. “It is the responsibility of the local governing body to ensure that such unauthorized constructions do not crop up in the city in future”. Shinde promised that the state government would effectively conduct a follow up about all pending issues of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation. Shinde said that he would take sincere efforts to complete projects, including widening of Sangi-Miraj road and turning it into a six-lane one, sewage treatment plant at Sherinala as well as garbage disposal. Shinde said that government would provide financial assistance for all these projects. According to Shinde, the government would soon sanction development plan of Sangli Miraj Kupwad municipal corporation for planned growth and beautification of the city. He said that the government would also assist in underground drainage of Kupwad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/govt-wont-allow-unauthorized-construction/articleshow/80191077.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Farmers for convening grievance day meet||Trichy: A section of farmers affiliated to Tamil Nadu Farmers Association petitioned the district collector demanding that the farmers’ monthly grievance day meeting be convene as usual. When commercial establishments and cinema halls have started to resume their business , they alleged that the district administration is showing no interest in conducting the meetings for the past nine months. When political parties including the AIADMK are campaigning for the ensuing assembly polls without adopting the standard operating procedure with regard to the Covid-19 situation, the district administration has stalled the farmers’ meetings. It is unfair, opined the farmers To know the farmer’s grievances and their needs, the meeting is the only avenue, said MP Chinnadurai, the district president of the association. Meanwhile, district collector S Sivarasu met the protesters on the spot and received their memorandum and assured to do the needful to convene the meeting, Chinnadurai told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farmers-for-convening-grievance-day-meet/articleshow/80193171.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||Villagers at Pingori decide to boycott panchayat elections over shabby thoroughfares||PUNE: Upset over the terrible condition of connecting road, villagers at Pingori in Purandar tehsil, around 35km from here, have decided to boycott the grampanchayat election. All the candidates who were to contest the election withdrew their nominations to register their protest. The village, which has a seven-member grampanchayat, is off Pune-Jejuri road. The villagers said that they have been pursuing the matter with various authorities since the last few years, but in vain. “This time, we set aside our political aspirations and took unanimous decision to boycott the polls to draw the attention of the authorities to our problems. The five km connecting stretch is the only road in the village,” said Baba Shinde, a villager. Ajay Bhosale, executive engineer, public works department, said, “Temporary repairs were carried out on the stretch two months ago, so the road is motorable but is not properly tarred. The government has sanctioned Rs8.15 crore for the road, but the work can’t be executed immediately due to the code of conduct for the grampanchayat elections. The actual work will begin by the end of March.” Tehsildar Rupali Sarnobat of Purandar tehsil claimed that they haven’t received any application in this regard from the villagers. “We have informed the state election commission about the villagers’ decision. Till then the government-appointed administrator will be in charge,” she added. MP Supriya Sule told TOI she has discussed the issue with local MLA Sanjay Jagtap and the actual work will begin soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/villagers-decide-to-boycott-panchayat-elections-over-shabby-thoroughfares/articleshow/80192279.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Sick leopard dies in Warangal zoo||WARANGAL: An 18-year-old leopard named Sravanthi died at the Warangal Zoological Park in the wee hours of Saturday.  She was brought from Nehru Zoological Park, Hyderabad in 2017. According to conservator of forest Dr G Ramalingam, the leopard suffered from liver and constipation diseases. The animal took ill a few days back and did not eat anything for about a week. Noticing the condition of the animal, zoo authorities contacted Dr Hakeem of the Nehru Zoological Park. After examining the condition of the leopard, Hakeem said that the animal was having a liver condition due to old age. For the past two days, zoo doctor Praveen and PVNR veterinary university assistant professor Dr Vamshi took care before Sravanthi died on Saturday. After the autopsy, the animal was buried in the zoo premises. Male leopard Deva is now alone at the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sick-leopard-dies-in-warangal-zoo/articleshow/80192282.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chicken rates dip by Rs 10 to Rs 20, eggs Rs 3 cheaper||MUMBAI: Retail prices of chicken have reduced marginally in the city on the back of the bird flu scare in north India, although the disease is not known to beset poultry farms in and around Mumbai as yet. Retail rates of unbranded chicken dropped by Rs 10-20 per kilo on Saturday as consumers started to stay away, and poultry farmers began to dispose of birds in a hurry. Broiler rates in retail markets reduced from Rs 95 per kilo to Rs 75 on Saturday. Vencobb published rates reduced from Rs 90 to Rs 80. “Visuals of bird flu having struck north Indian states has had a psychological effect in Mumbai. However, not a single case of infected poultry has come to light in Maharashtra. We ourselves own chicken farms near Panvel and our birds are healthy as before,” said Asad Khan of Aziz Poultry, Bandra. Abdul Hafeez Qureshi, a trader in Goregaon, reported sales had dropped by up to 50%. The owner of another shop, also Aziz Poultry, at Four Bungalows, Andheri, said the price had fallen by Rs 20 on an average to Rs 160. A negligible dip of Rs 2-3 was seen in egg prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chicken-rates-dip-by-rs-10-to-rs-20-eggs-rs-3-cheaper/articleshow/80191553.cms||Bella Jaisinghani
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||ED court issues summons to Andhra Pradesh CM and others||HYDERABAD: A special Enforcement Directorate court has issued summons to AP chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy, YSRC MP Y Vijayasai Reddy, seven directors of pharma companies — Hetero, Aurobindo and Trident Life Sciences — along with scores of former officials of APIIC asking them to appear before it on January 11 in connection with a case. The ED case is an offshoot of CBI’s quid pro quo case wherein the pharma companies were charged with bribing Jagan’s firms by way of investments in lieu of the land allotments they got when his late father YS Rajasekhara Reddy was the CM in 2004-09 when the state was united. The case was recently transferred from Nampally metropolitan sessions judge court to ED special court which renumbered the case and issued fresh summons. With this, all the six chargesheets filed by the ED in the quid pro quo case have now reached the ED special court which will hear all the cases along with the CBI’s 11 chargesheets filed in the same case. The CBI court, it can be recalled, was earlier designated as ED special court to hear the cases filed under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The CBI case against these pharma companies was that they had entered into a criminal conspiracy with the accused to get 150 acres of land at Jadcherla SEZ in Telangana in lieu of Rs 29 crore investment they made in Jagan’s media house, Jagathi Publications. But, advocates representing the AP CM and the pharma companies have denied these charges and termed them as politically motivated. Though this was shown as a disproportionate assets case, the allegations made by the probe agencies were in fact more disproportionate, the advocates for AP CM and the pharma companies said. Look at the amount of land the companies got and the quantum of the investment they made, the advocates said adding that the investment was far higher than the alleged benefit they derived. An ED appellate tribunal too found force in their argument last year and wondered why any industrialist would lose Rs 29 crore for deriving a benefit of Rs 21 crore from the state and modified an attachment order made by the authorities of ED in respect of Hetero, Aurobindo and Trident companies. The ED made this attachment as part of its probe into Jagan’s disproportionate assets case in its pharma companies’ charge sheet. The ED filed its case basing on a CBI case that said AP when YSR was at the helm gave 75 acres of land each to Hetero and Aurobindo at Jadcherla SEZ on lease. The ED attached assets worth Rs 51 crore. The companies later challenged the action before the appellate tribunal in Delhi. The tribunal found fault with the action of ED officials in terming unconnected assets of the accused companies as proceeds of crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-court-issues-summons-to-andhra-cm-and-others/articleshow/80192277.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 10, 2021||Meerut||Leopard found dead near railway track in Baghpat||MEERUT: Just two days after villagers in Saharanpur brutally hacked a juvenile leopard to death, a leopard’s carcass was found near a railway track in neighbouring Baghpat district. Officials suspect that the leopard was hit by a train. This is the third leopard death in the region in a month’s time. Kalyan Singh, DFO of Baghpat, said, “A team had reached the site of the accident on Friday night. The leopard was hit by a train on Delhi-Saharanpur rail track. The carcass was found close to Lohda underpass. It has been sent for a post-mortem to Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute." Earlier, a leopard was found dead with a wound on the head in Baghpat’s Binoli region but the cause of death is yet to be ascertained. According to officials, leopards often take refuge amid long cane stalks, especially during breeding season. However, cane harvesting exposes these big cats and they tend to venture towards human habitation, raising the chances of man-animal conflict.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/leopard-found-dead-near-rly-track-in-baghpat/articleshow/80191079.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 10, 2021||Nashik||Raise awareness about vaccination: Mhaisekar||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: Deepak Mhaisekar, chief advisor to the chief minister’s task force on Covid-19, has asked the Nashik district administration to carry out awareness about the vaccination program. “Detailed publicity about vaccination should be carried out among the beneficiaries and the vaccinators also should be made aware about the vaccine storage, handling of vaccines, inoculation and likely side-effects, so that they are well prepared,” said Mhaisekar. On the vaccination program, Mhaisekar suggested that the staff working at high-risk levels should be given priority for the vaccination. Also, proper teams should be formed for observation of the vaccination campaign at various levels. He asked the administration to involve private medical professionals in the vaccination program. He also alerted the administration that the passengers returning to India after November 2020 and their immediate companions in the family should be traced and RT-PCR test should be conducted. The officer also asked the administration to keep a close watch on the people who were in high risk especially - the truckers, vegetable sellers, shopkeepers, fruit sellers, milk vendors. Mhaisekar reviewed the Covid-19 situation of Nashik on Saturday with district collector Suraj Mandhare, Nashik civic chief Kailash Jadhav, ZP chief executive officer Leena Bansod, district deputy SP Sharmistha Walawalkar, district surgeon Ratna Raokande, district health officer Kapil Aher, NMC’s medical superintendent Bapusaheb Nagargoje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/raise-awareness-about-vaccination-mhaisekar/articleshow/80191081.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 10, 2021||Rajkot||Four crows found dead in Junagadh||Rajkot: Four crows of the ten sick ones rescued from Loj village of Mangrol taluka in Junagadh district died on Friday evening. The district administration has increased the surveillance in the area following alert with regard to bird flu. Officials have so far confirmed bird flu in samples collected from the carcass of two lapwings out of the 53 that were found dead near Kharo reservoir in Bantva taluka of Junagadh. According to Junagadh district administration, the dead crows are from the forest area. Talking to TOI, district collector P S Zamsingh said, “We are taking all the steps in wake of the bird flu alert. We have disinfected the area and surveying the villages from where the birds were found. Villagers have been asked to inform immediately if any symptoms are found in humans. Poultry farms are also under surveillance.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-crows-found-dead-in-junagadh/articleshow/80191428.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccination from January 16: Gujarat CM||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Saturday tweeted that Gujarat will start the Covid-19 vaccination drive from January 16 – exactly a week from now – along with the rest of India. The tweet came in the response of PM Narendra Modi’s announcement for the same. PM Modi tweeted, ‘On 16th January, India takes a landmark step forward in fighting COVID-19. Starting that day, India’s nation-wide vaccination drive begins. Priority will be given to our brave doctors, healthcare workers, frontline workers including Safai Karamcharis.’ In response, Rupani tweeted, ‘Congratulations Narendra Modiji for announcing the beginning of nationwide vaccination drive. Under your visionary leadership, we have made all the preparations in Gujarat to start state wide vaccination drive from 16th January for our doctors, healthcare & frontline workers.’ “The state has so far carried out four widespread dry runs that took stock of the various aspects of vaccination drive ranging from cold storage of vials to checking the SMS sent to beneficiaries and following it with the beneficiaries after the vaccination is over,” said a senior state health department official. “So far, we have not faced any major issue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-vaccination-from-january-16-cm/articleshow/80192330.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Surat||2 docs booked for negligence 5 months after patient’s death||Surat: Over five months after a dengue patient died during treatment at a private hospital in Varachha, two doctors were booked after a panel postmortem confirmed negligence during treatment.Dr Mahesh Navadiya, an MD and Dr Ghanshyam Patel, BHMS, both working with Maruti Multi Speciality Hospital were charged for causing the death of Viral Korat (33), a cable operator in Varachha area. The in this regard was lodged by Korat’s brother-in-law Paras Vaghasiya in July last year. The accused were booked under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 304A (causing death by negligence), 336 (a negligent act that can endanger human life) and others. Korat had died on July 28, 2020, about 60 hours of being admitted to the hospital for viral dengue. In his complaint, Vaghasiya alleged that Korat was given the treatment of haemorrhagic dengue fever which caused his death. Vaghasiya also claimed that the hospital forged treatment documents.Police had initially registered an accidental death case and started an investigation. “Police got a penal postmortem done. The doctors in the panel confirmed that the patient was given the wrong treatment based on which the offence was registered,” said a police officer of Varachha police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/2-docs-booked-for-negligence-5-months-after-patients-death/articleshow/80191222.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nashik||‘Increase force in Deolali Camp police station’||Nashik: Commissioner of Police Deepak Pandey on Saturday appealed to residents of the Deolali Camp to inform police if they come across any illegal activity in their locality or if they are being harassed in any manner. The CP conducted a meeting with Deolali Camp residents at the Deolali Camp police station as part of his weekly visits to police stations on Saturday. Besides Pandey, DCP (Zone 2) Vijay Kharat, ACP Sameer Shaikh, ACP (Crime) Mohan Thakur, senior PI of Deolali Camp Subhashchandra Deshmukh and CEO Ajay Kumar of Cantonment Board Deolali were also present during the CP’s visit. Pandey told people that police have undertaken a special drive against hooligans who hang around in corners of lanes and by-lanes of the city and engage in activities such as eve-teasing. Meanwhile, citizens present at the meeting said that while the population of Deolali Camp was over 50,000, the force of Deolali Camp was very sparse. Former vice-president of the cantonment board Bhagwan Kataria said, “Apart from population of Deolali Camp, the police station has a large number of villages under its jurisdiction and the force available with the police station is very meagre. On this backdrop, we have appealed to CP Deepak Pandey to increase the strength of personnel of the police station.” Further, citizens also requested Pandey to start a police chowky in the old bus stand area and at the same time take measures to get rid of traffic snarls on the stretch between Sansari Naka and Orient Guest House. “We have requested the CP to provide at least two traffic constables to manage the vehicular traffic on this stretch during the evening hours. The CP has assured to look into the problem at the earliest,” said Kataria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/increase-force-in-deolali-camp-police-station/articleshow/80191085.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 10, 2021||Pune||Auto driver throws stone at MSRTC bus windshield||Pune: An autorickshaw driver vandalised a Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) bus on Friday night on the old Pune-Mumbai highway in Kasarwadi after overtaking it, but all 25 passengers on board and the transport utility’s staffers escaped unhurt. The Bhosari police arrested the autorickshaw driver, Ramkisan Game (21) of Bhosari, and seized his vehicle soon after the bus driver, Sharad Parbhane (29) of Palghar, lodged a complaint. Parbhane in his complaint stated that the incident occurred while he was driving towards Pune from Palghar at a slow speed because of traffic on the highway. “Game in his autorickshaw was trailing behind the bus in the traffic. He attempted to overtake the bus a few times on the Pune-Mumbai highway, but failed. This enraged Game. After he overtook the bus near the Kasarwadi signal, he stopped his autorickshaw in front of the bus and alighted from his vehicle. He hurled abuses at the bus driver and smashed its windshield with a stone. This was a case of road rage,” senior inspector Shankar Awatade of the Bhosari police said. The officer said Game could not flee the scene because of the traffic. “The police personnel present at a nearby chowk impounded the autorickshaw and took Game to the police station,” he said. The officer said the police had invoked sections 336 (endangering human life or the personal safety of others), 427 (mischief), 186 (obstructing a public servant in discharge of public functions) of the Indian Penal Code and the relevant provisions of the Prevention of Damage to the Public Property Act against the autorickshaw driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-throws-stone-at-msrtc-bus-windshield/articleshow/80192289.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Many Ahmedabad hospitals go back to their core competency||AHMEDABAD: On November 21, Ahmedabad recorded 354 positive cases of Covid-19 in a day – the highest ever for the city. On January 9 – 49 days later – the figure reached 125, which accounted for 65% drop. Likewise, on Friday, the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) de-requisited 60% of the beds in the private hospitals in the city. The move has long-term implications for the private hospitals – especially in the mid and smaller hospital segments – for whom the amount received from the civic authority was a lifeline at the time when footfalls for all other ailments recorded sharp decline. Dr Bharat Gadhvi, president of Ahmedabad Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (AHNA), said that several of the member hospitals are now going back to their core competency. “These hospitals had created infrastructure to cater to Covid-19 patients including ICU beds, oxygen supply and hiring specialized staff,” he said. “Our stand is, let the hospitals decide now onwards whether they wish to admit Covid patients as the situation has improved now. There is no need for requisition.” As of Saturday, out of 522 requisited beds by AMC, 45 were occupied, whereas out of 3,440 beds available with the private hospitals, 330 were occupied. Mukesh Kumar, the municipal commissioner, AMC, said that the hospitals are released from Covid-19 designated status on the condition that they could be designated again if requirement arises. Dr Ketu Parekh, director of Parekh’s Hospital, said that his hospital reverted back to the non-Covid status in the second half of December after drastic drop in Covid-19 cases. “It makes more sense in hospitals specializing in surgical procedure. The non-Covid status would also instill confidence in patients,” he said. A few hospitals however are looking at hybrid model to stay afloat. “We have converted one of the floors into Covid-19 facility, whereas another would be for the non-Covid patients. As we have put the protocols in place, we are confident of getting both classes of patients,” said Dr Alpesh Patel, director of Trisha Multispecialty Hospital. Dr Rajesh Desai, director of Sunrise Hospital, said that compared to over 90% occupancy they had seen in November last year, the number of patients now consist of about 50% of the total capacity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/many-hospitals-go-back-to-their-core-competency/articleshow/80192286.cms||Parth Shastri
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||What ban? Chinese manja still freely available in city||Nagpur: A few days ago, a loose string of nylon manja caused life-threatening injuries to a 17-year-old boy. Despite this mishap, the deadly thread is easily available in markets in black. The National Green Tribunal (NGT) had banned the sale of nylon and synthetic manja via an order in July 2017. Since then, it is the same old story every Makar Sankranti – sale of the banned kite-flying thread continues illegally and that too on a large scale. This year, there were tip-offs that Chinese manja was being sold through social media, particularly through private WhatsApp groups. To know the ground reality, members of environment NGO Green Vigil Foundation along with TOI went to shops in different areas only to find that one can obtain nylon manja after hardly a few minutes of convincing the shopkeepers. Sellers have found a way to avoid identification of the banned manja. They take the empty reel, similar to that of the cotton threads, and wrap different quantities of nylon manja on it. At a shop in Gopal Nagar, the NGO members bought around 900 meters of the banned thread for Rs500. “The rates of nylon manja this year are between Rs500-2500. There has been a good demand for it. Till now, I have sold around 300 reels and by the festive day, I expect to sell another 600,” the seller said. This roadside seller had put on display all the cotton kite-flying threads. When the activists, posing as prospective buyers, demanded nylon manja, he got it within seconds from a nearby room. At another similar shop in Tilak Nagar, a seller was found storing the banned manja in a four-wheeler parked nearby. He showed photographs of different types of Chinese manja on his mobile. “You can choose any brand. I can arrange it for you,” he said. There were few shopkeepers who denied stocking it. “I had it but I sold it before January 1 as I knew the authorities would start conducting raids,” he said. The Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has been carrying out raids in different areas. From December 27 last year till date, the team has seized 11 reels of nylon manja and 1,268 plastic kites. “We are trying our best to catch hold of nylon manja sellers. However, citizens too need to realize that if they don’t demand it, the sale will automatically stop. What we need to realize is that nylon manja is a killer,” said Virsen Tambe, commandant of NDS. According to activists, authorities need to go to the root of the problem. “If nylon manja is so easily available, it means that the thread is being manufactured on a large scale. This is what needs to be stopped. If there is no manufacturing, the thread will never reach the markets,” said Kaustubh Chatterjee, founder of Green Vigil. The NMC should get into action months before the festive season, added team leader Surbhi Jaiswal. “Once the manja reaches the markets, it is very difficult to stop the sale,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/what-ban-chinese-manja-still-freely-available-in-city/articleshow/80192301.cms||Manka Behl
January 10, 2021||Aurangabad||Niti Ayog declares Rs3cr funding for Osmanabad||Aurangabad: Niti Ayog has declared funding of Rs 3 crore to Osmanabad district in Marathwada in recogNition of its performance in agricultural and water resources sector. In a communication to the state government, Niti Ayog CEO Amitabh Kant has said that Osmanabad district has secured good rank in the identified fields on the basis of performance in the month of October-November last year. “Niti Ayog provides additional allocation to districts securing ranks through the challenge method under the Aspirational Districts Programme (ADP). As per the scheme guidelines, districts are to prepare a plan of action or project proposal and send the same to Niti Ayog for final approval before January 20 for availing the additional allocation,” an official release said. Along with Osmanabad, Gadchiroli and Washim districts have secured good rank in overall and are entitled to receiving additional allocation of Rs 3 crore, said the statement. The ADP aims to quickly and effectively transform the identified districts with the broad contours of the initiative involve convergence of central and state schemes, collaboration between central and state government officials and promoting competition among districts. Osmanabad district collector Kaustubh Diwegaokar was not available for comment despite several attempts to reach him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/niti-ayog-declares-rs3cr-funding-for-osmanabad/articleshow/80191093.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Pune||MAITRI cell for Pune gets online start||Pune: The state government launched a virtual Maharashtra Industry, Trade, and Investor (MAITRI) Facilitation Cell in Pune on Friday. The centre, inaugurated by state development commissioner of industries Harshdeep Kamble, is aimed at helping MSMEs and investors start projects with appropriate permissions and licences at the regional level. A similar cell is already operational in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region. The cell, chaired by the joint director of industries for Pune division, will include representatives from MIDC, MPCB, local labour and revenue offices, MSEDCL and and urban local bodies. MAITRI, which will operate virtually in the region for now, will also act as a grievance redressal forum. Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industry, and Agriculture welcomed the development. “This will be very beneficial to regional industrial units. We have a ways to go in improving ease of doing business, and facilitators such as this make that achievable,” a spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maitri-cell-for-pune-gets-online-start/articleshow/80192298.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Bird flu ‘unlikely’ among pet avians; Maharashtra prepares for outbreak, if any||THANE: Recent as yet unexplained bird deaths in Mumbai Metropolitan Region have pet owners worried. Experts, though, say chances of bird flu among pet avians are low. Meanwhile, the state animal husbandry department said on Saturday there has been no bird flu death in Maharashtra so far, but it has started preparations to tackle any possible outbreak. Crucial autopsy reports from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal were still awaited, said officials. Veterinarians admitted to getting anxious calls from pet owners and assuaged their fears saying infection among pet birds is unlikely and have advised them to simply follow precautions. Pet owner Mandira Sawant of Kurla said, “I used to keep my two love birds near the window to bask in early morning sun but now have started to avoid it. Oddly, nowadays, they themselves refrain from being kept there and start calling out as if to move them,” said “As of now, I have kept our African grey parrot, a conure and a cockatiel in a bedroom and away from the window. I also regularly spray a disinfectant at home, even when someone comes from outside,” said Saket Ghag of Borivli. Prominent symptoms in infected birds include coughing, sneezing and diarrhoea, said experts. “Waterfowl birds are carriers of the infection, which gets transmitted to other birds when they migrate as they shed droplets and faecal matter in the air. So, birds that come in contact with these can get infected,” said Dr Rina Dev, an avian and exotic birds specialist. “As pet birds are indoors, they are safe as of now. Also, at this moment, one should refrain from buying pet birds,” added Dr Dev.  State officials reserved commenting further on the bird flu issue till NIHSAD reports are released. “Our team of doctors is trained to handle carcasses of birds, conduct autopsy and mass culling if any outbreak is reported here. There is no confirmed bird flu death in the state yet but we are taking all precautions to ensure our staff is equipped to handle any emergency situation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Two bird deaths, of a pond heron and a parakeet, were reported in Thane city on Saturday, the municipal veterinary department announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/bird-flu-unlikely-among-pet-avians-state-prepares-for-outbreak-if-any/articleshow/80194932.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Minor girl delivers baby: Man booked under Pocso||Mayiladuthurai: A 15-year-old girl delivered a baby girl on Wednesday at the government hospital in Mayiladuthurai, following which the all women police booked a man under Pocso Act on charges of marrying and impregnating the minor girl. Police are on the lookout for the accused is on the run. According to the police, the accused has been identified as Akash, 28, a daily wager and native of Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. He was in a relationship with the minor girl since two years when he visited the girl’s village in Mayiladuthurai district, to meet his friend. Despite opposition from the girl’s parents, the couple eloped during the lockdown and subsequently got married. After an intensive search by the girl's parents, they found them and brought the girl back to their house a few weeks back, when they realized she is pregnant. As the girl developed labour pain, she was admitted to the government hospital where she delivered a baby girl on Wednesday. On information, the authorities from the district child welfare office came to the hospital and collected all the details about the girl and lodged a complaint with the Mayiladuthurai all women police. SI Radha registered a case against the accused under Pocso Act on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/minor-girl-delivers-baby-man-booked-under-pocso/articleshow/80193235.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Thane||Bird flu ‘unlikely’ among pet avians; Maharashtra prepares for outbreak, if any||THANE: Recent as yet unexplained bird deaths in Mumbai Metropolitan Region have pet owners worried. Experts, though, say chances of bird flu among pet avians are low. Meanwhile, the state animal husbandry department said on Saturday there has been no bird flu death in Maharashtra so far, but it has started preparations to tackle any possible outbreak. Crucial autopsy reports from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal were still awaited, said officials. Veterinarians admitted to getting anxious calls from pet owners and assuaged their fears saying infection among pet birds is unlikely and have advised them to simply follow precautions. Pet owner Mandira Sawant of Kurla said, “I used to keep my two love birds near the window to bask in early morning sun but now have started to avoid it. Oddly, nowadays, they themselves refrain from being kept there and start calling out as if to move them,” said “As of now, I have kept our African grey parrot, a conure and a cockatiel in a bedroom and away from the window. I also regularly spray a disinfectant at home, even when someone comes from outside,” said Saket Ghag of Borivli. Prominent symptoms in infected birds include coughing, sneezing and diarrhoea, said experts. “Waterfowl birds are carriers of the infection, which gets transmitted to other birds when they migrate as they shed droplets and faecal matter in the air. So, birds that come in contact with these can get infected,” said Dr Rina Dev, an avian and exotic birds specialist. “As pet birds are indoors, they are safe as of now. Also, at this moment, one should refrain from buying pet birds,” added Dr Dev.  State officials reserved commenting further on the bird flu issue till NIHSAD reports are released. “Our team of doctors is trained to handle carcasses of birds, conduct autopsy and mass culling if any outbreak is reported here. There is no confirmed bird flu death in the state yet but we are taking all precautions to ensure our staff is equipped to handle any emergency situation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Two bird deaths, of a pond heron and a parakeet, were reported in Thane city on Saturday, the municipal veterinary department announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/bird-flu-unlikely-among-pet-avians-state-prepares-for-outbreak-if-any/articleshow/80194931.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Bird flu ‘unlikely’ among pet avians; Maharashtra prepares for outbreak, if any||THANE: Recent as yet unexplained bird deaths in Mumbai Metropolitan Region have pet owners worried. Experts, though, say chances of bird flu among pet avians are low. Meanwhile, the state animal husbandry department said on Saturday there has been no bird flu death in Maharashtra so far, but it has started preparations to tackle any possible outbreak. Crucial autopsy reports from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal were still awaited, said officials. Veterinarians admitted to getting anxious calls from pet owners and assuaged their fears saying infection among pet birds is unlikely and have advised them to simply follow precautions. Pet owner Mandira Sawant of Kurla said, “I used to keep my two love birds near the window to bask in early morning sun but now have started to avoid it. Oddly, nowadays, they themselves refrain from being kept there and start calling out as if to move them,” said “As of now, I have kept our African grey parrot, a conure and a cockatiel in a bedroom and away from the window. I also regularly spray a disinfectant at home, even when someone comes from outside,” said Saket Ghag of Borivli. Prominent symptoms in infected birds include coughing, sneezing and diarrhoea, said experts. “Waterfowl birds are carriers of the infection, which gets transmitted to other birds when they migrate as they shed droplets and faecal matter in the air. So, birds that come in contact with these can get infected,” said Dr Rina Dev, an avian and exotic birds specialist. “As pet birds are indoors, they are safe as of now. Also, at this moment, one should refrain from buying pet birds,” added Dr Dev.  State officials reserved commenting further on the bird flu issue till NIHSAD reports are released. “Our team of doctors is trained to handle carcasses of birds, conduct autopsy and mass culling if any outbreak is reported here. There is no confirmed bird flu death in the state yet but we are taking all precautions to ensure our staff is equipped to handle any emergency situation,” said a senior bureaucrat. Two bird deaths, of a pond heron and a parakeet, were reported in Thane city on Saturday, the municipal veterinary department announced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bird-flu-unlikely-among-pet-avians-state-prepares-for-outbreak-if-any/articleshow/80191552.cms||Shrutika Sukhi
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Upset with boss, constable takes to VHF set to complain||HYDERABAD: Upset with his superior, a head traffic constable, on Saturday, took to the VHF set (wireless communication) to air his grouse. Mohammed Najamuddin, posted at the Charminar traffic police station even threatened to complain to the commissioner of police, against his boss – inspector, K Srinivas Rao. Sources said that Najamuddin—who has been in service for over 30 years—was unhappy has his superior for allegedly using foul language while talking to him. At the time of the incident, he was deputed at Madina Circle in the Old City. “It was a routine call that the inspector had made to the head constable. During the conversation, the former apparently said something rudely about Najamuddin not discharging his duties sincerely. That made him upset. It wasn’t a major incident,” said K Ravi, ACP (traffic) of Charminar. The head constable had complained to him too over the VHF set. The complaint, meanwhile, created a flutter among traffic personnel briefly with some senior officers immediately reaching out to the head constable to pacify him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/upset-with-boss-constable-takes-to-vhf-set-to-complain/articleshow/80192299.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Health department to formulate action plan||Thiruvananthapuram: The election commission has asked the health department to frame a detailed action plan for the conduct of upcoming assembly elections in the wake of Covid-19. Election commission of India (ECI) has framed broad guidelines for postal votes and health protocols that are to be observed during elections. On the basis of these guidelines, chief electoral officer Teeka Ram Meena has instructed health department to formulate the action plan. ECI’s guidelines include detailed information on the protocols to be followed by political parties, officials and voters. The chief electoral officer held a discussion with principal secretary (health and family welfare) Rajan Khobragade and other officials on how to implement these guidelines in state during assembly elections. Health department will also appoint a state-level nodal officer for polls. Under the state nodal officer, there would be district-level nodal officers, who will be medical officers, and under them there would be nodal officers in each constituency and each booth. Covid-19-affected citizens will be allowed to wear personal protection equipment kits and come to the booth for voting or will be allowed to opt for postal votes. In addition to Covid-19 patients, citizens who are aged over 80 and others who are disabled can also opt for postal votes. Those who wish to apply for postal votes should apply to the respective returning officer within five days of the election notification. The chief electoral officer said that details of the distribution and collection of postal votes will be informed later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/health-department-to-formulate-action-plan/articleshow/80191550.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||Eight tourists rescued in two days on North Goa beaches||Calangute/Saligao: As the peak of tourist inflow into the state continues, eight tourists were rescued from drowning by lifeguards over Friday and Saturday in the North Goa beach belt itself. On Saturday, four tourists from Delhi were saved from drowning at Calangute. Aged between 22-25 years, the four were part of a group of 17, who were swept away into deep waters by a rip current. Lifeguards rushed to their aid and brought them safely to the shore on a jetski. A day earlier, on Friday, three tourists from Karnataka were similarly rescued from drowning at Calangute. The three were part of a group frolicking in deep waters. When they were being swept into the sea by rip currents, others in the group immediately raised an alarm, following which, lifeguards rushed into the water and brought them safely to the shore, Drishti Marine stated in its press release. Two of them were 28-years-old while the third one was 30-year-old. The same day, lifeguards rescued a 27-year-old tourist from Uttar Pradesh from drowning at Arambol beach.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/eight-tourists-rescued-in-two-days-on-north-goa-beaches/articleshow/80192305.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Naliya coldest at 6.4°C||Ahmedabad: On third consecutive day, the city experienced cloudy weather with foggy morning and slightly warmer nights. A forecast by India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Saturday mentioned that the minimum temperature on Sunday for Ahmedabad is likely to be around 15°C, slightly up from 14.5 degrees recorded on Saturday. The maximum temperature of 28.1 degrees was 0.4 degrees higher than the normal. The southern districts received rainfall on Saturday, which would also continue on Sunday. The change in weather is due to a trough extending from a cyclonic circulation over southeast Arabian Sea to Gujarat. The weather is likely to be dry from Monday onwards. Naliya was the coldest weather station in Gujarat with minimum temperature of 6.4°C, followed by 9.6 degrees in Bhuj, 10 degrees in Kandla, and 10.2 degrees in Rajkot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/naliya-coldest-at-6-4c/articleshow/80192325.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||TDB seeks more funds for Makaravilakku||Thiruvananthapuram: As many as 1,16,706 devotees visited Sabarimala in the ongoing festival season, and the temple earned Rs 14.11 crore till Friday in the ongoing Mandala-Makaravilakku season. After reviewing preparations and the conduct of the festival till now at Sabarimala on Saturday, Travancore devaswom president N Vasu said that even in the midst of Covid-19 pandemic, the board could manage a fool-proof festival season. He said that the revenue earned is not sufficient for future preparations and the board has requested the government for more funds. He said that in the last six months, the board received Rs 70 crore from the government, including Rs 40 crore for the conduct of the festival. For Makaravilakku on January 14, only 5,000 devotees who booked in advance will be allowed, and no one will be allowed to station at Pulmedu, Panchalimedu and Parunthumpara for witnessing Makaravilakku. The Makaravilakku festival will conclude with the closing of the temple on January 20 morning, Vasu said. As many as 473 devotees were detected positive for Covid-19 during the ongoing festival season. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tdb-seeks-more-funds-for-makaravilakku/articleshow/80191556.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Pune||SPPU admin in talks with Maharashtra govt on offline classes||PUNE: A decision on reopening colleges is expected be taken over the next three to four days, pro-vice-chancellor of Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) NS Umrani said during the senate meeting on Saturday. Umrani said the university administration is in talks with the state government regarding the reopening process as well as affiliated colleges on their view about offline classes. SPPU had issued a circular regarding reopening its departments and colleges from January 11. However, the state government challenged the decision and issued a show cause notice to the varsity on January 7 regarding the basis on which the reopening was announced. The varsity then issued another circular on January 7, retracting its decision to reopen colleges. Umrani told senate members on Saturday, “The decision to reopen colleges was taken after an elaborate meeting conducted with college principals by the vice-chancellor after taking a review of their preparedness and they were all willing to reopen their institutions in the interest of students. However, after the state government notice, it was decided to give full information to the authority and then make a positive announcement in the next three to four days.” The pro-vice-chancellor said that the university was in talks with the state government as well as colleges regarding the reopening. He further stated, “There are many aspects, such as placements, career-related activities and practical modules, that cannot be done online. Students, colleges, institution heads are all motivated to reopen colleges and a favourable decision would be announced soon.” Meanwhile, some senate members condemned the government’s decision to issue a show cause notice to SPPU stating that it was a breach of university autonomy. Members stated that the university was autonomous and had the freedom to take the decision on reopening after consulting local authorities. Senate member Bhagyashree Manthalkar said, “The government has opened cinema halls, temples, playgrounds and many other social institutions so why has it taken so long to reopen colleges. The college-going students are old enough to understand their safety. In any case, they are not confined to their homes. They might as well start attending offline classes with all due precautions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sppu-admin-in-talks-with-state-govt-on-offline-classes/articleshow/80192304.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 10, 2021||Pune||Sambhaji Bhide visits memorial at Vadu Budruk with followers||Pune: Shiva Partisthan president Sambhaji Bhide visited the Sambhaji Maharaj memorial at Vadhu Budruk village with his 25 followers on Saturday, nine days after the muted observation of the 203rd anniversary of the Koregaon Bhima battle at Perne village.Bhide was booked for allegedly inciting the January 1, 2018, riots at Koregaon Bhima and adjoining hamlets. The Pune rural police had booked over 200 people for the violence in which one person was killed, while many vehicles and shops were torched. Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Abhinav Deshmukh told TOI on Saturday that Bhide had gone to Ahmednagar for some work with his followers. While returning, they went to Vajewadi village near Shikrapur.“Bhide, with a group of 25 workers, then visited the memorial and sat there for a while. When the police told them to leave, they left,” he said.Deshmukh said every year, as a precautionary measure, the police restrain 150 people, including Bhide, from visiting the victory pillar of Koregaon Bhima and the Sambhaji Maharaj memorials at Vadhu Budruk and Tulapur villages. The restriction remains effective between December 27 and January 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sambhaji-bhide-visits-memorial-at-vadu-budruk-with-followers/articleshow/80192308.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Active cases in city fall below 2.4k||Ahmedabad: The city reported 125 fresh Covid-19 cases and two deaths on Saturday. With 147 patients discharged, the active cases in the city fell below 2,400 to 2,366 cases. Officials said that of the 2,366 active cases, South Zone which includes Maninagar, Khokhra, Behrampura and Danilimda, registered 432 — the highest number of active cases in the city. This was followed by West Zone including areas like Usmanpura, Paldi, Navrangpura, Naranpura and Ranip, with 412 active cases. North West Zone including areas like Bodakdev, Thaltej, Gota, Ghatlodia had 373 active cases while the South West Zone with areas like Bopal, Jodhpur, Vejalpur and Sarkhej had 346 cases. The Central Zone which includes the Walled City areas has 244 active cases. The North Zone registered 307 cases while East Zone had 252 cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/active-cases-in-city-fall-below-2-4k/articleshow/80192322.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gold price declines by Rs 2,100 in 2 days||Ahmedabad: Tracing its decline in the international market, the price of gold declined by Rs 2,100 in merely two days, down from Thursday’s Rs 53,400 per 10 gram to Rs 51,300 per 10 gram on Saturday. According to analysts, gold prices declined as in the US president-elect, Joe Biden is set to take charge as the President in less than two weeks and the US dollar has strengthened. In the international market, gold traded lower at US $1,889 per ounce. A reduction in yellow metal prices in the run-up to the upcoming wedding season is a good sign, according to jewellers, as it will fuel jewellery purchases and boost import of gold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gold-price-declines-by-rs-2100-in-2-days/articleshow/80192328.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||50-year-old woman stabbed to death by son in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A man who has been harassing his mother for money allegedly killed her on Saturday, at Balkampet in SR Nagar. SR Nagar police said that Sangeetha (50) died after she was beaten up and stabbed with a knife by her son, Santosh. “Santosh is unemployed and used to frequently harass his mother to give money. On Saturday afternoon, they had a quarrel on the same issue and he stabbed her to death,” SR Nagar police said. According to police, the accused fled after stabbing his mother. Locals, on hearing the fight, rushed to her house and found Sangeetha in pool of blood, where as the accused gave slip to them. Police registered a case under section 302 (murder) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/50-year-old-woman-stabbed-to-death-by-son/articleshow/80192316.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman alleges harassment by Omani husband’s family||HYDERABAD: The Indian embassy in Oman, Muscat is looking into a complaint of a 26-year-old Indian woman from Hyderabad who said she had been deceived into marrying an Omani national who turned out to be a mentally ill person. “The embassy will look into it for possible necessary action,” the embassy said in response to the plea of Fatima Begum, a resident of Gazi Banda, Hyderabad, urging that her daughter Farheen Begum be rescued and helped to return to India. Majlis Bachao Tehreek (MBT) leader Amjed Ullah Khan provided the embassy with all the details. In her complaint, Fatima Begum said her family had been approached by two agents—Sayeed of Nawab Saheb Kunta and Qadeer of Moghalpura—last year, who told them that a rich Omani family wanted to get their son married to a girl in Hyderabad. They advised the family to talk to one Abdullah, also an agent, from Muscat. The family was told that an Omani national Saleem Nasser Salim Nasser Al Salim’s family owned two houses and he also had a government job. During the nikah—that was performed in Hyderabad, at the house of the girl on November 10, 2019—an amount of Rs 1 lakh was kept in front of them and after a video was taken, the money was taken away. Three family members of the bridegroom were also present at the wedding. After Farheen left for Oman in December 2019 she realised that her husband’s behaviour was abnormal. “My daughter was shocked and she came to know later that he was mentally ill,” Fatima Begum said. In a video appeal, the victim Farheen Begum said her husband was also not employed and that his family had got her married to him with the intention of making her take care of him. Farheen Begum also explained that she was being tortured by her husband’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-woman-alleges-harassment-by-omani-husbands-family/articleshow/80192306.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 10, 2021||Kochi||Jose K Mani quits RS seat||Idukki: Jose K Mani, chairman of Kerala Congress (M), resigned as Rajya Sabha MP. He submitted his resignation to Vice-President M Venkiah Naidu on Saturday. According to sources, Mani would be contesting Pala seat in the assembly elections. Mani won the MP post while being part of UDF. The decision to allot RS MP seat to KC(M) had created an internal divide within Congress. Leaders, including former KPCC president V M Sudheeran, had criticized former chief minister Oommen Chandy’s decision to cede the RS seat. After Mani switched to LDF, Congress criticized him for not quitting RS seat. Jose had announced in October that he would soon resign his Rajya Sabha membership. The vacant RS seat would be allotted to Kerala Congress by LDF, sources said. “Earlier, I had announced that I was resigning from the Rajya Sabha when KC(M) had taken a political stand. However, there were some technical hurdles related to the legal battle over the party’s title and symbol, which delayed it,” Jose said, after submitting resignation. Jose refused to divulge whether he would contest from Pala or Kaduthuruthy. “The party has not taken any decision on this. Neither our party nor LDF has commenced any formal discussions for assembly elections. Party would take a decision at an appropriate time,” Jose said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jose-k-mani-quits-rs-seat/articleshow/80191560.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Former Gujarat CM Madhavsinh Solanki dead||AHMEDABAD: Former Gujarat chief minister and ex-Union minister Madhavsinh Solanki passed away at his residence in Gandhinagar on Saturday. He was 93. The mortal remains of Madhavsinh Solanki, who died of cardiac arrest, will be kept at the Gujarat Pradesh Congress Committee (GPCC) headquarters in Ahmedabad between 3pm and 5pm on Sunday for people to pay their last respects before it is cremated with full state honour at the crematorium beside VS Hospital. Madhavsinh Solanki’s son and senior Congress leader Bharatsinh Solanki is away in the US and is expected to return to Ahmedabad by 2pm on Sunday. Born on July 30, 1927, the nonagenarian leader was chief minister of Gujarat four times and also Union external affairs minister. Under his leadership, the Congress rode to power in the Gujarat assembly in 1985, winning 149 of the 182 seats — an electoral feat that has not been matched so far. Solanki rode to power in Gujarat in the 1980s based on the famed KHAM (Kshatriya Harijan Adivasi Muslim) coalition, which he stitched together. A number of leaders from across the political spectrum paid tributes to Madhavsinh Solanki. A lawyer by profession, Madhavsinh worked as a journalist, professor and public relations officer before entering politics. Hailing from a poor family, Madhavsinh was a zealous student and graduated in economics and politics. He then acquired a degree in law and pursued his legal practice in the Gujarat high court. Before entering politics, he briefly worked for a Gujarati daily published from Ahmedabad, taught law at a city college and even worked as public relations officer for the AMC. An avid reader, Solanki was keenly interested in education and remained a member of the Sardar Patel University senate for 17 years. He also served as the vice-president of Gujarat Natural History Society and wrote a series of articles on Indian birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kham-architect-madhavsih-solanki-bids-adieu-at-93/articleshow/80192332.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Residents plant saplings on slushy road||Thanjavur: Highlighting the poor condition of road in their area which had become slushy and muddy due to the recent rains residents of a village near Ammapettai in Thanjavur staged a novel protest by planting saplings on the road. They demanded that the road be repaired immediately. “We are not able to walk or ride on the road since it was badly damaged during the recent rains,” P Govindasamy, a resident of Pillaiyar Koil Street in Manappadugai panchayat in Ammapettai union, said. They also condemned the inactiveness of the concerned union authorities. “Already the road was in a very bad condition for years. Residents of Manappadugai have petitioned to the concerned authorities demanding to relay the road properly as it had a number of pits and craters. The recent rains have turned the road to worst from bad. “The entire road is like a ploughed farmland. No one can even walk along the road,” R Senthilkumar, Ammapettai Union secretary of CPI, who led the protest told. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/residents-plant-saplings-on-slushy-road/articleshow/80193260.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Goa||Commercial tax dept recovers Rs 5cr||Panaji: Steps taken by the state’s commercial tax department to freeze bank accounts of big defaulters have begun yielding results after the government treasury received at least Rs 5 crore on the first day of the account-freezing process, a senior official said. More recoveries have been scheduled for the coming days, the official added. The commercial tax department recently initiated action against 77 firms for recovery of tax dues amounting to Rs 120 crore. The amount recoverable from them is in the form of tax, interest and penalty and have been outstanding under various categories such as VAT, luxury tax, entertainment tax and entry tax that are administered by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commercial-tax-dept-recovers-rs-5cr/articleshow/80192320.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||High court refuses to entertain plaints over MBBS admissions||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court has made it clear it will not examine complaints against non-implementation of the Article 371-D and the Presidential Order in the ongoing MBBS admissions because of the amendment carried out to the provisions of the Medical Council of India Act. It also said there are clear pronouncements from the high court and the Supreme Court on its applicability. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao said this while hearing a petition filed by G Apoorva, A Harshita, and others complaining about procedural irregularities in implementing the existing rules of admissions. The bench, however, assured the petitioners that it would examine the issue of less meritorious getting seats to the detriment of the more meritorious, only if the persons likely to be affected on account of this litigation were made respondents here. The contention of the petitioners is that the more meritorious students from Telangana who could gain seats in the unreserved 15 percent are being shown in the 85 percent local quota and this is adversely affecting the Telangana students. The bench sought a counter from the Kaloji University within two weeks from now and posted the case to February 19. The Kaloji varsity has been saying that it could only effect changes in tune with the options given by the meritorious students. If they settle with the initial allotments and do not apply for any change in the subsequent counselling, the varsity would not be in a position to affect the changes on its own, the university said in a press release while explaining its case. Additional advocate general J Ramachandra Rao responded to a query from the bench about the applicability of the Presidential Order given the legal pronouncements and explained that the university has been implementing it as the AP Reorganisation Act asks them to implement it till 2023. There were certain subsequent court orders too clarifying the position in this regard, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/high-court-refuses-to-entertain-plaints-over-mbbs-admissions/articleshow/80192319.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||HC to state: Explain steps to protect lake||Hyderabad: The Telangana high court has issued notice to the state, its revenue, municipal and irrigation officials to explain the steps they are initiating to protect the land and lake of Devuni Kunta Cheruvu located in Asifnagar of Hyderabad. The bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice M S Ramachandra Rao issued notices to the authorities and sought replies from the within four weeks while hearing a PIL. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-to-state-explain-steps-to-protect-lake/articleshow/80192329.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Candidate walks off with answer sheet, returns it later||Jind: A woman gram sachiv candidate took the answer key along with her in the morning shift after appearing for her exam in Jind district of Haryana, triggering panic among the officials. However, officials claimed that the girl took the answer sheet along with her inadvertently, which was taken back later. There were 37 exam centres in Jind district and the woman candidate appeared for her exam in SD Senior Secondary School located in the city. She stepped out of the centre without submitting her answer key. Later, when answer keys mismatched, a search was launched. District officials made an announcement at the bus stand urging the person to submit the answer key at the school. Evnetually, she went back to the school and submitted the answer sheet. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/candidate-walks-off-with-answer-sheet-returns-it-later/articleshow/80192321.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Four electrocuted in Telangana||MAHABUBABAD: Four persons were electrocuted in Amanagal village in Mahabubabad district on Saturday. The deceased were identified as Ch Sattaiah (55), his wife Radhamma (48), Dasari Lingaiah (55) and his wife Lakshmi (50). According to RDO D Komuraiah, Sattaiah and his wife tried to dry the clothes on a wire. However, the wet clothes touched live wires causing electric shock. Noticing this their neighbours Lingaiah and Lakshmi tried to rescue them but they also got electrocuted. Minister Satyawathi Rathod expressed her condolences and said that the government will help the families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/4-electrocuted/articleshow/80192317.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops bust MP-based gang for supplying weapons to Punjab gangsters||CHANDIGARH: With the arrest of two persons, the Punjab police on Saturday busted a gang of Madhya Pradesh-based weapon smugglers. The accused were supplying illegal arms and ammunition to gangsters in Punjab. The police seized a huge cache of arms, including 12 country-made pistols and 15 magazines, from their possession. The gang has links with Punjab-based terrorists and is suspected to have supplied over two dozen .32 bore pistols to gangsters and criminals in the state during the last three months. Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta said the intelligence operation was carried out under the supervision of Dhruv Dahiya, SSP, Amritsar (Rural), and the suspects - Mahesh Selotia and Jaggu - were nabbed from their native villages in Khargone, MP, by a team led by DSP Gurinder Nagra. Gupta said the raids in Khargone were conducted after investigations into the recent seizure of four illegal .32 bore country-made pistols by Amritsar (Rural) police revealed the involvement of the MP-based gang, which is led by accused Rahul. The DGP said investigations have revealed that the gang has been involved in smuggling several major weapon consignments for Punjab gangsters. He said the gang also provided a weapon consignment of six .32 bore pistols, which were seized by the Patiala Police in September 2020. Besides this, involvement of the gang also figured in a case of seizure of illegal weapons at Chattiwind, Amritsar (Rural). Gupta said possibility of this gang having links with Punjab terrorists cannot be ruled out as investigations indicate that the kingpin, Rahul, was in contact with several gangsters and hardliners lodged in Punjab jails and had been actively supplying them illegal weapons. He was in close contact with Akashdeep Singh, the prime accused in the drone module, busted by the Punjab Police in 2019. He is currently lodged in Amritsar Jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-bust-mp-gang-for-supplying-weapons-to-pb-gangsters/articleshow/80192315.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Jathedar junks talk of mediation||Amritsar: The officiating jathedar of Akal Takht, Giani Harpreet Singh, on Saturday clarified that the issue of farm laws was a legal one and should be resolved amicably between the farm leaders and the central government. The officiating jathedar issued the statement after rumours of the Centre approaching him to mediate with farmers. In a message issued here, Harpreet said the farmer issue was not related to Sikh religion, Sikh Rehat Maryada (Sikh code of religious living) or an issue of ideological differences. “The issue can be resolved only through a process of dialogue between Centre and farmers. Sooner it is resolved, the better,” he said. He said the Akal Takht had already issued an appeal to extend support to farmers and farm organisations. He appealed to agitating farmers to maintain peace and have patience.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/jathedar-junks-talk-of-mediation/articleshow/80192338.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Madhavsinh Solanki’s electoral feat of 149||AHMEDABAD: Riding on the KHAM (Kshatriya, Harijan, Adivasi, Muslim) coalition propounded by Madhavsinh Solanki in the 1980s, the Congress rode to a spectacular electoral win in 1985, winning 149 of the 182 seats in the Gujarat assembly. Madhavsinh Solanki’s remarkable election performance of 1985 has not been surpassed by either the BJP or the Congress since. Although the KHAM axis alienated the powerful and influential Patidar community from the Congress and pushed it towards the BJP, the KHAM experiment created a vote bank for the Congress that remained intact for much after 1985. The KHAM alliance worked wonders for the Congress in the 1980s under Madhavsinh’s leadership. He had to step down from the post of CM after he cleared reservations for other backward classes (OBCs) on the recommendations of the Justice Baxi Commission, which triggered widespread anti-quota protests in the state, particularly from the Patidar community. Sensing an opportunity in the prevailing social scenario at that time, Solanki consolidated the Congress’ hold over Kshatriyas, Harijans (Dalits), Adivasis (Tribals) and Muslims through his hugely successful social engineering experiment, which came to be known as the KHAM theory. Paradoxically, the KHAM formula which gave the Congress its best electoral win in the assembly polls, became a trigger for the rise of the BJP in Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/solankis-electoral-feat-of-149-seats-unmatched/articleshow/80192351.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||CM: Lies show Mann’s ‘incompetence’ as MP||Chandigarh: The state government had already finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts and would do so at an opportune time on the advice of legal experts, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Saturday, adding that it was unfortunate that “people like him (AAP’s Bhagwant Mann), who had no knowledge about the Indian Constitution and legislative procedures, were in politics, and were making illogical statements with the sole motive of misleading the people”. “Just like his bosses, Mann too has mastered the art of lying and deception but while doing so he has exposed his incompetence as a parliamentarian by making frivolous statements on matters pertaining to the Constitution and legislative procedures,” alleged Amarinder while referring to Sangrur MP Mann’s claims of a collusion between the chief minister and the governor over sending the agriculture laws, passed unanimously in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha to the President. “You really have no knowledge of how legislative work is done,” said Amarinder, adding that he was advising Mann not to shoot his mouth off on matters of such vital importance. “If you think that you can mislead the people of Punjab by your lies, you are utterly mistaken, as every Punjabi has seen through your webs of deceit and your betrayal of the farmers’ cause,” said Amarinder. The CM said contrary to Mann’s claims, state’s advocate general Atul Nanda had already prepared and finalised requisite petitions for challenging the three central Acts. “Since these Acts impact the lives and futures of our farmers, all decisions will be taken carefully and judiciously at an opportune time,” he added. Capt Amarinder claimed that although matters related to agriculture are mentioned in List II (State List) of the Constitution of India and fall under the exclusive domain of the state government, the Government of India had enacted the three laws under the provisions related to agriculture marketing mentioned in List III (Concurrent List). Being a central legislation, the state government had limited options under Article 254(2) of the Constitution and it had exercised the same with the Punjab assembly passing the Bills. As per the law of the land any Bills passed by the state assembly must be sent to the governor, who after studying them had to give his consent for forwarding them to the President for approval. The chief minister said the state government was following the laid down procedures and would be taking remedial legal actions after exhausting other options.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cm-lies-show-manns-incompetence-as-mp/articleshow/80192331.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kochi||‘Go Glowrious’ for fashionistas||Kochi: The Times of India is launching a platform titled ‘Go Glowrious’ for the fashion enthusiasts, covering a series of interactions on various aspects of fashion and trends. The project will bring the best of the industry experts and domain specialists of fashion and trends. There will be curated workshops and grooming sessions for modelling aspirants, interested to know more about the fashion industry trends, with a wide range of topics from industry experts and domain specialists. All sessions are online and there is no criterion to apply for the initial rounds. The sessions will feature big names from the fashion and modelling industry like Narendra Kumar (designer), Chaitanya Rao (designer), Sanjay Nigam (Talent Factory), Lakshmi Rana (supermodel) and more. The workshops will be by Dr Amit Karkhanis (official skincare expert for Femina Miss India). Bharat Gupta (official stylist for Femina Miss India), Dr Varun Katyal (nutritionist and wellness expert), Nishi Bhardwaj (Miss India Earth 2018), Bia Sandhu (jury for various national and international beauty pageants), Renuka C Shekhar (designer), Riju Muhammed Salim (Mr International India Universe 2019), Seny P Arukattu (fashion photographer) and Sham Khan (show director) will also be part of the programme. The programme will culminate into a virtual competition. The winner will be titled as Miss Go Glowrious 2021. Bhima Jewellers is the presenting partner for Go Glowrious season I. Modelopedia, Indyu Skin Care Clinic & Cosmetology Centre, Facets Dental and Edupackt are the supporting partners. For details log on to www.goglowrious.com. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/go-glowrious-for-fashionistas/articleshow/80191596.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Ganja worth Rs 83 lakh seized in Hyderabad, eight held||HYDERABAD: Eight persons allegedly involved in transporting 650 kgs of ganja, worth Rs 83.60 lakh, was nabbed by Rachakonda police at Hayathnagar on Saturday. Rachakonda police said P Nagesh, M Hari, R Venkata Kishore Reddy, G Kannama Naidu, Ganji Teja, M Chakravarthy, G Appal Reddy and P Shivaji were arrested while the receiver of the contraband, Karthik Rathod, is at large. Nagesh, prime accused in the case, was previously involved in illegal transportation of ganja and a case was pending against him. Nagesh hatched a plan with other accused to earn easy money by directing them to visit Visakha Agency in Andhra Pradesh and purchase ganja. The accused had bought ganja for Rs 3,000 per kg and later they planned to sell it for Rs 10,000 per kg. Officials said Nagesh and his associates tried to transport ganja to Zaheerabad from where it was supposed to reach adjoining states. Police said they seized 300 packets of ganja, while it was being transported in a van. Police said the value of the seized ganja was Rs 83.60 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ganja-worth-rs-83l-seized-eight-held/articleshow/80192334.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Congress wants to divide Mumbai with two civic chiefs: BJP||MUMBAI: A war of words erupted between BJP and Congress after the latter demanded two civic commissionerates for Mumbai. BJP’s Kandivli MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar said, “Why Congress wants to divide the city? We strongly oppose it. A decade back, Congress made a similar demand but withdrew it after we protested.” Congress MLA and guardian minister of the island city Aslam Shaikh on Friday demanded two commissioners and said he was pursuing the matter with the state urban development (UD) department. Shaikh said, “There is no question of dividing the city. We are demanding two civic commissioners, like we have two collectors (island city and suburbs) in Mumbai for better administration. We should take the case of Delhi, which is of similar size, and has three municipal corporations. BJP is in power at the Centre, why cannot it make Delhi into one municipal commissionerate?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-wants-to-divide-city-with-2-civic-chiefs-bjp/articleshow/80193265.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 10, 2021||Pune||FC Road pending street designwork to get over by March-end||Pune: The civic body plans to complete all ongoing and pending street design work and realignment of footpaths between Khanduji Baba and Agriculture college junctions along Fergusson College Road by the end of March. The completion of the work will be a big relief for pedestrians facing hardships for a long time, as the project has lagged since the past few months because of the Covid-induced lockdown. The barricades and machinery kept on the road and footpaths were also affecting the traffic. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) officials said the work was expedited in all the remaining patches and would get over in two months. The project includes redesigning of footpaths, parking lots for two- and four-wheelers, approach roads to the thoroughfare and provision of ducts for utility services, bus stops for PMPML, beautification and installation of smart elements. Dinkar Gojare, an officer attached to the PMC’s road development department, said work at most crucial junctions was over. “The latest patch where the work got over was ahead of Goodluck Chowk towards the Garware subway. We will complete the work till the Khanduji Baba Chowk. The pending work at a patch towards the Agriculture college chowk has also been completed,” he added.Gojare said all the work was carried out in accordance with the urban street design guidelines and alterations would be made as per requirements.Sai Sakhare, who uses the road frequently, said, “We also want the administration to ensure proper maintenance and avoid misuse of whatever ‘smart’ facilities are being installed along the road. The administration should ensure action against people flouting the parking rules along the road.” Goodluck Chowk to get cultural corner Pune: The civic body will set up a triangle-shaped corner at Goodluck Chowk for people to display street art.A senior Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) official said the work on the “cultural corner” has been started and would get over within a month. The official said there was no plan to use the facility for organizing big events or use it commercially. “We are developing the space for people willing to showcase street art or hang out for sometime. The space is being designed in such a way that it will not obstruct traffic and pedestrians,” said Dinkar Gojare, an officer attached to the PMC’s road development department. Gojare said the administration had consulted city-based artists before finalizing its structure. Opinions were also sought from the traffic police to ensure that the facility did not affect vehicular flow. Plans are afoot to install a replica of a camera at the chowk.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fc-road-pending-street-designwork-to-get-over-by-march-end/articleshow/80192339.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Police custody for 26 customers held in bar raid||MUMBAI: Thirty-five people, including 26 customers at an orchestra bar in Ghatkopar (E) and five staff arrested for violation of pandemic outbreak and indulging in indecent behaviour, were remanded in police custody on Saturday by a holiday court. The 45th metropolitan magistrate K K Shah remanded all to police custody till January 11. Customers are rrely remanded to police custody, a police officer said. Police booked the accused under IPC sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 294 (indecent behaviour in public place), and Maharashtra Prohibition of Obscene Dance in Hotels, Restaurants and Bar Rooms and Protection of Dignity of Women (working therein) Act, 2016. Police said offences under the special act are non-bailable. The social service branch of Mumbai Police late on Friday night raided Guthu Bar and Restaurant at 90 Feet Road in Garodia Nagar, Ghatkopar (E). Police said they had received complaints against the bar. A police team video-recorded the incident. Police also seized a laptop, music system and Rs63,000. “The women were sent to rehabilitation homes and we are looking for the owner and manager,’’ said senior inspector Suhash Kamble.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-custody-for-26-customers-held-in-bar-raid/articleshow/80192355.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||5 herons found dead in Karnal, samples sent to lab||KARNAL: Five herons were found dead at Commando Complex Newal in Karnal district, officials said on Saturday. In view of the bird flu scare, the officials have sent the viscera to Jalandhar for testing. Although, as of now, there is no confirmation of bird flu in the district, the poultry farmers are worried as the state government has already said that the bird flu has been detected in Panchkula and several birds have died in the state in the past couple of days. Dharmender Singh, deputy director, animal husbandry, Uchani in Karnal, said, “There is no need to panic, as there is no case of bird flu in Karnal so far. We are keeping a close watch on the situation.” He confirmed that five herons were found dead and soon after getting the information, a team of experts was sent to the spot, who recovered the dead birds. “Post-mortem has been conducted, in which no symptoms of bird flu were found. The viscera of birds have been sent to the Regional Diseases Diagnostic Laboratory in Jalandhar to know the exact cause of death,” he said. Singh said the poultry farmers have been asked to adopt all necessary precautions and the movement of outsiders was banned. Besides, farmers had been told to inform the department if they found anything unusual. On the other hand, the poultry farmers said there has been a significant drop in the prices of chicken and eggs in the last week, causing huge losses to them. Surjeet Rana, a poultry farmer from the district, said rates of eggs have come down from Rs 5.75 to Rs 2.80 each on Saturday. He said people are hesitating to consume chicken meat too, as they are concerned about bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/5-herons-found-dead-samples-sent-to-lab/articleshow/80192337.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Community library opens in Trichy, first under govt scheme||Trichy: District collector S Sivarasu on Saturday inaugurated the state’s first community library launched under the state government scheme announced last year, at Rohini Garden enclaves ‘C’ block. As the name suggests, it is managed by the community and will be attached to the central library in the district. According to the scheme, residents willing to establish a community library have to pay a caution deposit of Rs 20,000 to the local library authority. They must provide the space and furniture while the authority will give books and guide them. Besides encouraging and increasing reading habits among people, the objective of the scheme is to start libraries in gated communities. Though lockdown was imposed soon after the scheme was announced by the state government, Trichy residents have been the first to show interest in starting one. During the inauguration, the collector offered Rs 20,000 from his discretionary fund to the library and appreciated the residents for realising the importance of libraries. “By establishing the first community library in the state, the residents of Rohini Garden enclaves have become an example for others,” he said. Addressing residents, the collector said though there is a need to learn English language, we should be proficient in our mother tongue. He asked women, especially homemakers in gated communities, to make use of the library. Trichy district library officer A P Siva Kumar said they will circulate books from the central library every month based on the requirement. “Since people in gated communities may not find time to visit libraries due to their busy life a community library will help them have access to books,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/community-library-opens-in-trichy-first-under-govt-scheme/articleshow/80193264.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Kisan panchayats as per schedule: Khattar||Chandigarh: While farmers are holding the fort on Delhi-Haryana borders, back in Haryana a new stand off — this time between Haryana farmers and local administration — has begin over chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s kisan panchayats, starting from Sunday in Karnal. The meeting is scheduled to be held at Kairana in Karnal. While local farmer leaders have asserted that they would not allow this to happen, the local administration and police officers are holding various rounds of meetings with farmers. Administration and its officers are trying to convince the farmers to not obstruct the kisan panchayat and heavy police deployment is made. The farmer leaders have maintained that the meetings are targeted to dislodge the protests. “CM Khattar and his high command thinks that farmers are unaware about the benefits of the three laws passed by Union government. Had those laws been beneficial, why would farmers be camping at borders in biting chill. Farmers are struggling to get the laws repealed,’’ said Akshay Narwal, a senior leader of Kisan Khet Majdoor Union. Khattar has already reiterated in Gurgaon on Friday about holding kisan panchayats across the state. “We are hopeful of solution between Centre and farmers by January 15. There will certainly be a solution to end the standoff. The kisan panchayat programmes will continue,’’ said Khattar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kisan-panchayats-as-per-schedule-khattar/articleshow/80192348.cms||Manvir Saini
January 10, 2021||Goa||Tourism dept to launch app to keep check on illegalities||PANAJI: The state tourism department will launch an app by February-end to check illegalities on Goan beaches. Stakeholders such as shack allottees, lifeguards, beach cleaners and beach wardens will be given access to the app, and it will be their responsibility to report any illegal activity, a tourism department official told TOI. “The app is being created by Goa Electronics Ltd. It got delayed due to the pandemic, but they are now readying it for rollout within a month,” the official said. “We are aware that shacks put more deck beds than they are permitted. But when we go to check, they are already removed. The app will help us to keep them in check as photo evidence will be available,” he said. The app, he said, will also come in handy against those consuming liquor on the beach. Once the authority, in this case — police, is notified, it will have to take immediate action. One of the biggest issues faced by the authorities is the presence of hawkers on the beaches. No commercial activity, other than beach shacks and photographers are allowed to operate on the beaches. The stakeholders will have a duty to inform about the presence of hawkers through the app. Once a complaint is posted through the app, the department will know if action has been taken and if not, and question the same, the official said. Another advantage of the app, he said, is that they will know if shack operators choose to be silent about an illegality that may happen in his vicinity as it may be reported by another stakeholder. “There is a scope for questioning shack operators on the basis of the complaints received,” the official said. It is often seen that these beach hawkers are employed at the shacks as cleaners or washers and enjoy immunity when police or the tourism department goes to take action. “They sell their goods or operate as massage therapists in their spare time, but rush to the shack they are employed at if police are spotted. In fact, they have informers spread across the length and breath of the beach and at any hint of police coming after them, they disappear,” a shack operator said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourism-dept-to-launch-app-to-keep-illegalities-on-beaches-under-check/articleshow/80192360.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Pb to construct 7 hostels for working women with daycare facility’||Chandigarh: Punjab will be contructing seven new hostels at a cost of R. 50 crore for working women at different locations to provide safe and convenient accommodation for working women. The hostels will have daycare facilities for the children of women staying in these hostels. Punjab’s social security, women & child development minister Aruna Chaudhary, whose department would be building these hostels, said it was second major step towards women empowerment after obtaining 33% reservation in government jobs for them. The specialized hostels would be constructed in Jalandhar, Patiala, Mohali, Mansa, Barnala, Ludhiana and Amritsar. The land for Mohali hostel has been allotted, while funds for Jalandhar hostel released and proposals for Mansa and Amritsar hostels have been received, which are under process. Remaining districts would be covered in the next phase, she said, adding nine hostels for working women were already running in the state. During a press conference here at Punjab Bhawan, Chaudhary said 50% subsidized fare for all women in state-run buses, which was delayed due to Covid crisis, would be implemented soon. She said that earlier this facility was provided to women after reaching the age of 60. The process of constructing two government-run old age homes in Barnala and Mansa at a Cost of Rs 5.56 crore each was under way. While, one government run home is being run in Hoshiarpur, 50 NGO-run old age homes are operating in the state under Senior Citizen, Welfare and Maintenance Act, wherein 1,409 persons were residing. The minister said financial assistance of Rs 1,695.93 crore had been disbursed to 25,54,473 beneficiaries of old age pension, widows and destitute women, dependent children and persons with disabilities up November 2020 in the current financial year. In addition, 1,22,274 new beneficiaries under pension schemes were incorporated. Caption: Minister Aruna Chaudhary, accompanied by principal secretary Raji P Shrivastava and director Vipul Ujjwal||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-to-construct-7-hostels-for-working-women-with-daycare-facility/articleshow/80192347.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Karnal admin makes elaborate arrangements for CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s event||KARNAL: The Karnal district administration has made elaborate arrangements for the chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s kisan panchayat scheduled to be held on Sunday in Karnal’s Kaimla village. Amid the threat of the protest by farmers, heavy police force have been deployed for the event. Duty magistrates have also been appointed to monitor the law and order situation in the village. Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and Karnal superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia held a meeting with some farmer union leaders and requested them not to disturb the programme. The activists of BKU (Charuni) had announced that they would not allow the chief minister to hold the kisan panchayat. On Friday, they held a protest march in the village against the chief minister’s proposed visit, but they were stopped by the villagers and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters, leading to a face-off between them. However, on Saturday some residents of the Kaimla village have also extended support to the protesting farmers and took out a protest march against the CM visit. Deputy commissioner Yadav said, “We held a meeting with the farmer leaders and requested them not to disturb the CM’s programme and they have agreed. Strict action will be taken against those who will try to disrupt the event. Farmers are allowed to protest at Bastara toll plaza.”  On the other hand, Jagdeep Singh Aulakh, a farmer leader aasoictated with BKU (Charuni) , claimed that thousands of farmers would gather at Karnal toll plaza and take out a procession towards the Kaimla village as the villagers are also against the kisan panchayat. Gharaunda MLA Harvinder Kalyan, the organiser of the event, said, “Kisan panchayat is being organised to inform the farmers about the benefits of the three agriculture laws. The farm laws are in favour of the farmers, but they are being misled by the Congress.” In the run-up to the Ambala municipal elections last month, Khattar had faced strong protest by farm activists while going to address poll meetings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/karnal-admin-makes-elaborate-arrangements-for-cms-event/articleshow/80192353.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana Congress set to gherao Raj Bhawan on January 15||CHANDIGARH: Haryana Congress, on Saturday, decided to gherao Haryana Raj Bhawan on January 15. However, the party high command is yet to take a call on the issue of contesting Panchayat elections on the party symbol. Discussions on these issues were held during a meeting held in Gurdwara Rakabganj Road, New Delhi. Haryana Congress in-charge Vivek Bansal, who chaired the meeting, said party leaders talked about the farmers’ movement and the upcoming panchayat elections to be held in Haryana. Reiterating the party’s support to the farmers’ movement, he said the state Congress would gherao Raj Bhavan in support of the farmers. Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee (HPCC) president Kumari Selja said several aspects of the panchayat elections were discussed in the meeting. In the days to come, a detailed discussion would be held with party leaders, after which a decision would be taken on the issue of contesting the election on the party symbol, she said. Selja accused the Centre of pretending to negotiate with farmers instead of repealing the agri laws. As over 60 persons have lost their lives in the agitation, she said the Congress is voicing the concerns of farmers and labourers. Leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said even as farmers brave the bitter cold out in the open at Delhi border, the BJP government is acting in a dictatorial manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-cong-set-to-gherao-raj-bhawan-on-jan-15/articleshow/80192361.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Driver booked for fatal mishap||The Poladpur police have booked the injured tempo driver, Nilesh Dalvi, for causing death by negligence, going by the commuters’ account. Three persons were killed and many injured after the tempo fell into a valley on Friday. The passengers had warned him against speeding but he ignored them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-booked-for-fatal-mishap/articleshow/80193269.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kochi||Pettimudy landslide: Kin of victims, survivors get payout||IDUKKI: On Saturday, revenue minister E Chandrasekharan distributed compensation to the immediate kin of Pettimudy landslide victims at a function held in Munnar panchayat hall. The compensation was deposited in their bank accounts and the pass book was handed over to families at the event. “House construction, which is part of the rehabilitation process, is progressing in 50 cents at Kuttiyar valley. It will be completed soon. District administration provided all timely assistance to the kin of landslide victims. We too are providing all possible help,” he said. Officials said that Rs 1.95 crore was distributed to 89 family members of 39 victims on Saturday. Kin of other victims will also be given their due amount after all paperwork is cleared in the near future, said officials. The landslide occurred early on August 7 and 30 houses in four tea estate layams (cluster of workers’ quarters) were destroyed. Twelve persons were rescued and 66 bodies were recovered. Power minister MM Mani presided over the meeting. Devikulam MLA S Rajendran, collector H Dineshan, Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan attended the event. District administration expects to hand over the new homes to survivors and the kin of victims on Jan 26. Title deeds has been given in the name of the victims. Earlier Kanan Devan Hills Plantations Company had allotted Rs 1 crore for their rehabilitation process. Meanwhile, Samagra Shiksha Kerala (SSK) provided smart phones and other assistance to 21 children, aged below, 17, who survived Pettimudy landslide. On Saturday, a function was organized at Munnar Kannimala GUP School where SSK project director AP Kuttikrishnan distributed smartphones, dress and food kits to the children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kin-of-victims-survivors-get-payout/articleshow/80191619.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: More festival specials to run as demand for train tickets high||CHENNAI: The demand for tickets for travel during the Pongal festival is so high that Chennai-Madurai-Chennai Tejas Express were booked soon after reservation opened. The train was discontinued due to low patronage and was reintroduced a few days ago. Railways has also introduced special trains to southern towns of Tamil Nadu for Pongal holidays. On Tejas Express, chair car seats are on waitlist 24 for travel to Madurai on January 13, a day before the festival. The waitlist is at 49 on Madurai-Chennai route for travel on January 17, when most of the people will be returning to start work on Monday. Madurai, Nagercoil, Tuticorin and some of the most popular routes for travel during the harvest festival. The night train to Madurai is booked as well as trains from Tambaram to Nagercoil. The demand is also high to come to Chennai. In view of the demand for the already announced specials, Southern Railway on Saturday announced a few more special trains, between Chennai Egmore and Nagercoil Junction. They will be operated as fully reserved festival special trains. Train No 06091 Chennai Egmore – Nagercoil Junction superfast festival special will leave at 10.30pm on January 12 and 13 and reach Nagercoil Junction at 11.10am the next day. In the return direction, Train No 06092 Nagercoil Junction – Chennai Egmore superfast festival special will leave at 2.45pm on January 16 and 17 and reach Chennai Egmore at 3.40am the next day. A railway official said the demand has picked up for train travel. “Travelling during Pongal will help people take up train trips more frequently. Reservation status of more south-bound trains will be monitored to find out if additional services need to be introduced.” The demand for seats on trains to far away destinations like Varanasi and places in Rajasthan are high too. “The festival is expected to instil confidence among the people to use trains for overnight journeys as well,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/railway-introduces-more-specials-due-to-high-demand/articleshow/80193267.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Goa||State eyes turtle nesting sites for blue flag certification||Panaji: After failing to avail the earlier opportunity to get blue flag certification for any of the beaches of Goa, the state government will try its luck yet again. Beaches of Agonda, Morjim and Galgibaga are likely to be considered. A senior official said they are in early stages of discussion, and it was felt that it would be a good idea to strive for the certification for beaches having turtle nesting sites. Last year, eight beaches in India - Radhanagar in Andaman and Nicobar Island; Golden beach in Puri, Odisha; Rushikonda in Andhra Pradesh; Kappad in Kerala; Ghoghla in Dui; Shivrajpur and Kasarkod in Gujarat and Padubidri in Karnataka - were granted blue flag certification. “It is ironic that Goa could not get blue flag certification, but beaches of other states did, even though Goan beaches are better,” the official said. In Goa, Miramar beach was among those listed for the certification under the central government scheme. The state government, however, had to let go off it due to opposition by local fishermen and activists who felt they would lose control of the beach and that fishermen would not be able to use part of the beach to park their boats. Obtaining blue tag certification for beaches is tough, officials said, as there are several parameters that the beach under consideration must meet. One important criterion is quality of water. This is checked at regular intervals, and if it drops, the flag is taken off. Interestingly, Goa’s Tourism Policy 2020 states that Goa Tourism must strive to obtain blue tag certification, or any other similar certification, for some, if not all, beaches. This task, however, has been rendered difficult as almost all Goan beaches have seasonal shacks and a move like this would most likely face opposition from shack operators as well as other stakeholders. “Though the tourism department permits only shacks, there is a lot of commercial activity happening on Goan beaches. Shack operators mostly occupy more space than what is allotted to them by putting deck beds. Unless the government takes a tough stand, it will not be possible to obtain blue or any other certification for beaches of the state,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-eyes-turtle-nesting-sites-for-blue-flag-certification/articleshow/80192373.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Trichy||Trichy-born engineer’s posting as US Army info officer excites village||TRICHY: If US vice-president-elect Kamala Harris’s Tamil roots whipped up much excitement in the state, Raj Iyer has just given it another reason to celebrate. Appointed chief information officer of the US Army, the 50-year-old Indian-American hails from Manakkal in Lalgudi in the district. An alumnus of National Institute of Technology (NIT) Trichy, Iyer is the first civilian to be appointed to the post equivalent to an army general. “Raj didn’t apply for the job, it was offered to him,” clarified Manakkal K Ganesan, his proud father speaking to TOI from Coimbatore. He said Raj was associated with the US Army on a few projects when he was working for Deloitte. “They were looking for an information technology person for the job. The US is a country that recognises merit and he was offered the job based on his capabilities,” he said. An NIT Trichy alumnus of 1992 batch, Raj moved to the US after finishing his BTech in electrical engineering. After doing his MS and PhD in electrical engineering, he switched to information technology and worked for a few companies. Manakkal, a quiet and little known village, is getting into a celebratory mood after news of his appointment broke in social media on Friday and locals started sharing messages. Many member of the 80-odd families in the village started receiving calls and messages from relatives asking about Raj’s family. Some of the elderly members in the village recalled his grandfather Kandaswamy Iyer, fondly known as Kanthaiyer, having lived in Keezha Agrahara Theru. With most of their close relatives moving out of the village, Raj’s father Ganesan too shifted to Bengaluru with family for his job in MECON Limited, formerly known as Metallurgical and Engineering Consultants, a PSU under the ministry of steel. “Every year the family including Raj Iyer used to visit their ancestral village, though last year they couldn’t due to the lockdown,” said V Vijaya Kumar, 65, former panchayat president of Manakkal. “I remember Ganesan but cannot recall Raj Iyer as they had shifted to Bengaluru,” he said. While Raj didn’t visit his alma mater in the recent past, NIT Trichy director Mini Shaji Thomas said they are trying to contact him through their alumni group in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-born-engineers-posting-as-us-army-info-officer-excites-village/articleshow/80193270.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||15-year-old raped at gunpoint, brother thrashed while trying to nab accused||Bareilly: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly raped at gunpoint in her house by a local youth when her parents had gone out. The accused also thrashed the girl’s elder brother when the latter attempted to catch him. The crime took place at a village in Kaanth area of Shahjahanpur district on Friday night. On Saturday, the minor girl’s family members alleged that they were pressured to reach a compromise by the relatives of the accused but decided to file a complaint. Later, the rape accused fled the village after the her family approached the police. On the basis of the complaint, police have registered an FIR under IPC sections 452 (house trespass with intent to hurt), 376 (rape) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against the accused. The girl’s mother said, “We had gone to attend a marriage in a neighbouring village when the accused barged into my house and raped my daughter at gunpoint and thrashed my son. The family and relatives of the accused even pressurised us to reach a compromise, but we didn’t relent. My son is admitted at the hospital and he is in a state of shock. We are scared and expecting police to give us justice.” Meanwhile, SHO Kaanth police station Kunwar Bahadur Singh told TOI, “We received a complaint on Saturday following which I went to the village and started investigation. An FIR was registered under relevant sections of the IPC, but the POCSO charges were not added as the age of the girl was not mentioned in the complaint. The girl’s statement is getting registered and we will send her for medico-legal examination. We will add the POCSO Act in the FIR once the family provides the girl’s ID proof. The accused will be arrested soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/15-year-old-raped-at-gunpoint-brother-thrashed-while-trying-to-nab-accused/articleshow/80191141.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||40 villagers join sugarcane ‘smugglers’ to thrash SSB jawans in Pilibhit; FIR lodged||Pilibhit: A group of five men who were ‘smuggling’ sugarcane to Nepal, along with a mob of around 40 villagers including women, assaulted a patrolling team of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) and attempted to torch the vehicle of the assistant commandant when the personnel were patrolling near the Nepal border in Pilibhit.According to SSB officials, the attack took place when the patrolling team, comprising of around eight jawans, waylaid a sugarcane-laden trolley driven by the smugglers at 1.30 am on Friday near pillar number 34 and 35 on the border.However, the jawans were quickly outnumbered when the smugglers called on the villagers. As the SSB could not apply force because some miscreants comprised of women, the smugglers succeeded in fleeing to Nepal. Taking advantage of the situation, the villagers manhandled a few SSB jawans as well.Following a written complaint of SSB assistant commandant Jogesh Chandra Mandal, the police booked five identified smugglers and 40 unidentified persons belonging from Tilla Number 4 village in Pilibhit.SHO of Hazaara police station, Umesh Kumar Solanki said an FIR was lodged on Saturday evening under section 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke the breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/40-villagers-join-sugarcane-smugglers-to-thrash-ssb-jawans-in-pilibhit-fir-lodged/articleshow/80191142.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 10, 2021||Thane||Woman arrested with fake notes in Palghar||A woman was arrested for circulating fake Rs 200 notes in a market in Palghar on Friday. Her aides managed to flee. The woman, residing in Nalasopara, was circulating the fake notes by buying goods from small shops, said Palghar cops. She confessed to have printed them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/woman-arrested-with-fake-notes/articleshow/80193273.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Amritsar||Inspired by Indian farm protest, Pakistan singer releases track||AMRITSAR: The farm protest in India is making its presence felt in Pakistan too, at least when it comes to music. Inspired by the agitation, Jawad Ahmad, a singer from Pakistan’s Punjab province, has released a song called “Kisana”, which is going viral on social media, reports Yudhvir Rana. In the nearly three-minute track, Ahmad sings about farmers’ significance and predicaments and calls upon them to sink past differences and join hands to fight oppression. “Teri sohni dharti mata, tu jag da palan har, hun tu jeea hai (This beautiful earth belongs to you, you are the caretaker of this earth, rise and live),” the lyrics say, adding: “Prime minister, president, general, judge and police officer, all eat what you feed. If you don’t sow and reap, they will all die of hunger.” Talking to TOI from Lahore on Saturday, he drew a parallel between the condition of farmers in undivided India and now in the two countries. “The situation of peasants in Pakistan is dismal too. We need a rights movement of peasants all over the world,“ he said, adding he created the video on seeing how the movement in India made waves in farming community across the world.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/inspired-by-stir-pak-singer-releases-track/articleshow/80193903.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Decide on tax deadline: Gujarat HC||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court has ordered the central government to take a decision in two days on extending the deadline to file the income tax returns (ITR) for taxpayers and tax audit report (TAR) for tax practitioners due to the Covid-19 situation. The deadline for filing ITR is January 10 and for filing TAR is January 15. Asking the Centre to reconsider the deadlines, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora said, “The power given to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) is beneficial in nature to be exercised for proper administration of fiscal law so that undue hardship may not be caused to the taxpayers. The purpose is of just, proper and efficient management of the work of assessment and the public interest.” The court said so because the All Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants has been demanding extension since the month of October 2019. However, as the government kept extending the deadlines, the hearing on the petition got delayed. The petition seeks the deadline to be extended till January 31. The central government and the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) vehemently opposed the petition and submitted that the government time and again delayed the deadlines from June last year only because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The petitioner has demanded that the revenue authorities and the central government should not make any changes in forms and utilities or in tax compliance requirements after the beginning of the assessment year in which the same are made applicable. It also demanded that taxpayers and tax practitioners should be provided a clear period of six months and seven months respectively to prepare and submit returns and reports. For this purpose, the petitioner sought extension in due date for filing ITR and TAR for 2020-21. Petitioner’s advocate B S Soparkar submitted that due to Covid-19 situation and orders by the home ministry for work from home, staggering of work/business hours and reduced workforce in the workplace, it was not possible for the tax practitioners to complete the audit work to issue required certificates. He also argued that even in 2019, most of the filings had taken place after office hours. This showed how overburdened the tax practitioners would be. The HC has ordered the Centre to take a decision on extending deadlines by January 12 and report to the court in this regard the next day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/decide-on-tax-deadline-hc/articleshow/80191649.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Khar teen case: Forensic team believes an accidental death unlikely||MUMBAI: A forensic team that on Saturday carried out a reconstruction of the crime scene in connection with teenager Jhanvi Kukreja’s death is not convinced it was an accidental fall. Kukreja (19) had been to Bhagwati Heights in Khar (W) for a New Year’s Eve party on the terrace with Shree Jogdhankar and Diya Padalkar. Her body was found on the ground floor with a skull fracture and multiple injuries. Jogdhankar and Padalkar were present at Bhagwati Heights on Saturday, where verification of their statements was attempted through the reconstruction.  The forensic team and police prepared a dummy of the same height and weight as Kukreja. What happened between the second and ground floors on the dimly-lit staircase has been a mystery as there were bloodstains all over but no cameras or witnesses. The dummy was placed at the top and attempts were made to see where it landed. “It was to verify if the dummy landed at spots where bloodstains were found. The injuries were represented in the form of a powder for reconstruction of the crime. Injuries sustained in an accidental fall will differ from those in a homicide,” said an officer. Late on Saturday, medical teams (one reconstructed the crime scene, another conducted Kukreja’s autopsy and a third examined Jogdhankar and Padalkar for injuries) went into a huddle with their findings. The teams will help police draw up a sequence of events. Padalkar’s family told police she has to see a psychiatrist after what she went through, and her father met doctors at Cooper Hospital. Jogdhankar’s lawyer, Ganesh Gupta, said the big question remains as to how a bigger and older boy (Jogdhankar is 22 while the victim was a teen) could have suffered serious injuries, including a fracture. Jogdhankar was discharged from hospital on Thursday evening but has not recovered fully, Gupta said. Once the accused are remanded to judicial custody, police will seek court permission for a lie detector test on Jogdhankar, after his consent. Police are awaiting blood and urine test reports of guests at the party, which will confirm if drugs had been consumed. On Friday, the investigating officer, inspector Dilip Utekar, tested positive for Covid-19, so the probe has been handed over to senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule. Kukreja’s lawyer, Trivan Karnani, said the family wanted a change of public prosecutor at the pre-trial stage and wants a special public prosecutor to be appointed. “We will assist a competent SPP to work towards speedy and fair justice,” Karnani said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/forensic-team-believes-accidental-death-unlikely-in-khar-teens-case/articleshow/80191794.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Bareilly||Dargah Ala Hazrat clerics oppose BDA’s move to demolish century-old shrine||Bareilly: After the clerics at Dargah Ala Hazrat opposed the Bareilly Development Authority's (BDA) move to demolish the century-old shrine of Hazrat Ogah Shah Baba near its 'residential yojana', the BDA has granted permission to "re-establish the shrine's tomb".The decision was made after clerics and thousands of devotees, among others, gathered near the demolition site and opposed the move, and later visited BDA officials to withdraw it.On Thursday, BDA had demolished the construction that had come up around 100 sqm area surrounding the shrine, stating that the place was mentioned as a 'graveyard’ in the revenue department records.National vice-president, Jamaat Raza-e-Mustafa Salman Hasan Khan said, “We had a meeting with the BDA vice-chairman regarding demolition work carried out at the shrine site. The shrine is over a century old. No notice was served by the authority. Moreover, there are thousands of devotees who have been visiting the place for years. We have demanded the authority to permit reconstruction at the site.”Officials at BDA said that permission has been granted to re-establish the portion of the tomb at the shrine, while other areas, which was illegally occupied and is part of graveyard land in the records, shall be exempted.“Due to illegal construction that recently came up in the surrounding area of the shrine, the approach road towards Ramganga Nagar Awas Yojana, which was around 17-metre-wide, became narrow. Directions have been issued for reconstruction leaving the road portion which was partially encroached earlier. We have deputed JCB machines to clear the debris so that reconstruction can be taken up,” superintending engineer Rajiv Dixit said.On Thursday, BDA had demolished the shrine developed upon 100 sqm land, after it came to light that the construction was done over the land mentioned as graveyard in revenue department records. Besides, a few shops opposite the shrine, which were also illegally built, were demolished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/dargah-ala-hazrat-clerics-oppose-bdas-move-to-demolish-century-old-shrine/articleshow/80191148.cms||Maria Khan
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||No gift for son’s birthday, Ahmedabad woman kills self||AHMEDABAD: A Vastral resident killed herself after her husband allegedly refused to give her money to get a gift for her child’s first birthday. Bhavna Vaghela hanged herself at her home on Thursday, two days before her son’s birthday. Her brother Pradeep Solanki accused her husband Jeetu and her mother-in-law Maniben of abetment. A complaint has been lodged with Ramol police. Inspector K S Dave said cops picked up Maniben and are searching for Jeetu. Bhavna got married to Jeetu in April 2018 and lived with him in his joint family. The FIR stated, “Bhavna was harassed by her husband and mother-in-law for petty issues. After she gave birth to a son, the two used to beat her, claiming they had wanted a girl.” Solanki told police, on January 6, Bhavna called him up, saying it was her son’s birthday on Saturday but her husband was not giving her money to buy a gift for him. “Bhavna said that she felt like dying.” Solanki told police, adding that next morning he learned Bhavna had hung herself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-gift-for-sons-bday-woman-kills-self/articleshow/80191671.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||6 held for Rs 44 lakh robbery in Changodar||AHMEDABAD: Ahmedabad rural police, in the matter of four hours, cracked a case of armed robbery, of Rs 44.50 lakh, which took place at a factory near the Changodar railway crossing on Friday evening. Police sources said six persons, including the factory watchman Jeeetendra Parmar, 34, and his brother, Hardev Parmar, 23, were arrested. The others arrested are Narendra Vaniya, 21, of Sanand; Bhavesh Bambha, 21, of Wadhwan; Rakesh Mer, 21, of Dholera, and Suresh Rathod, 20, of Chuda. They were all caught hiding in some bushes near the scene of the crime and the full booty of Rs 44.50 lakh was recovered from them. SP, Ahmedabad rural, Virendra Yadav, said that on Friday evening, an employee of Madhu Fragrance Pvt Ltd, located in Tajpur, Sandeepkumar Yadav, and Sanojkumar Sharma, the brother of the labour contractor of the company, Harendra Sharma, had set off from the company premises with the money in a cloth bag, to pay salaries of workers who were staying nearby, at Chunaravaas. “As the two reached Moraiya Crossroads near Changodar railway station, two men on a motorcycle rode up from behind and hit Yadav with a stick. As he fell off the motorcycle, the robbers hit Sharma and while brandishing a knife, snatched the bag containing the money and fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/6-held-for-rs-44-lakh-robbery-in-changodar/articleshow/80191722.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two indulge in bike stunts, arrested||The Vikhroli police on Friday arrested two youths for performing dangerous bike stunt and uploading it on the social media. Police have arrested Arman Kayyum Shaikh (21) and Arbaaz Haroon Khan (20) for standing on moving bikes and seized their bikes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-indulge-in-bike-stunts-arrested/articleshow/80193275.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||High prevalence of chronic ailments in elderly Punjabis||CHANDIGARH: People of Punjab in the age group of 50 and above are not in good health. According to the latest report of Longitudinal Ageing Study in India, high prevalence of co-morbidities has been found among them. What is more worrying is that the average of several chronic ailments Punjab’s elderly are suffering from is higher than the national average. Findings of the report are in line with the pattern of Covid deaths in Punjab, where elderly people with underlying health conditions account for majority of deaths. Of the total death count, about 65% deaths have been reported in the age group of 50 and above. Government data also reveals that in 88% of deaths, patients had underlying health conditions like diabetes, hypertension, heart disease, kidney disease and lung ailments. With 10.3% of the state’s total population of 27,743,338 in the category of senior citizens, Punjab is among the five states -- Kerala (12.6%), Goa (11.2%), Tamil Nadu (10.4%) and Himachal Pradesh (10.2%)-- which are home to greater proportions of older population than the national average of 8.6%. According to the report, which was released by union health minister Harsh Vardhan, around half of the older adult population aged 45 and above in Punjab (49%) are overweight or obese, third highest in the country. Chandigarh, capital of Punjab, tops the list with 55.8% of adults found to be overweight. In this age group, the mean waist and hip circumference, which indicates abdominal obesity and risk of hypertension, non-insulin-dependent diabetes and stroke, is higher in Chandigarh and Punjab. High blood pressure, which also refers to hypertension, is prevalent in 48.6% of the population in the age group of 60 years and above against the national average of 36.1%. Despite the large number of elderly people suffering from hypertension, 48% of those diagnosed with it in the state remain undertreated. Cardiovascular diseases (CVDs) -- disorders of the heart and blood vessels -- have been found in 39.4% of the elderly population in Punjab, sixth highest in the country, against the All-India average of 27.7%. Diabetes mellitus, a chronic disease caused by inherited or acquired deficiency in insulin production by pancreas, is in 15.4% people of this age group. Overall, in India, 11.5% of the elderly population suffers from diabetes. Against the national average of 2.1%, high cholesterol has been found among 12.2% of the elderly. Chronic lung diseases are prevalent in 5.4% of the said population while prevalence of kidney diseases has been recorded at 4.7% of people aged 60 and above and 6.6% in older adults aged 45 to 59 years. The proportion of elderly with ear or hearing-related problems is highest in the country and 23% of the population aged 60 and above has been diagnosed with these ailments. Oral health problems are also common among the elderly. In Punjab, 25% of the population aged 60 and above were found to be suffering from the problem. On an average, a household in Punjab spends 13.5% of consumption expenditure on health against the national average of 13%. With respect to out-patient care, medicine accounts for 70.8% of the total expenditure in Punjab followed by tests, 14% and doctors’ fees, 4.8%. Prof Aswini Kumar Nanda of the Chandigarh-based Centre for Research in Rural and Industrial Development (CRRID) maintained that there has been a rise in non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in Punjab, which is one of the most affluent states in the country. He attributed NCDs in Punjab to change in lifestyle, sedentary occupation and rapid urbanisation. “More prosperous the state, higher the chances of rise in NCDs,” said Prof Nanda, adding, “The findings of the report are in conformity with the ground reality.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/elderly-pbis-among-most-afflicted-by-diseases-in-country-report/articleshow/80192441.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Poultry prices down 35% as demand hit||AHMEDABAD: Soon after the bird flu alert issued by the state health department, the consumption of poultry — chicken and eggs — has taken a major hit and prices have dropped, according to poultry farm owners and wholesalers in Ahmedabad. Suresh Patel, member, Poultry Farmers’ Association - Gujarat, said, “The demand has crashed due to panic, even though there is no proof that bird flu has penetrated poultry. As a result, wholesale price of chicken has declined by 35% from Rs 100 per kg to Rs 65 per kg in Ahmedabad.” As a consequence, even retail price of chicken has declined from Rs 200-220 a kg to Rs 120-140 a kg. “We procure some 5 tonnes of chicken every day. However, since the past week or so, the procurement has come down to 2-2.5 tonnes in a single day. The demand took a hit not just from individuals but also from hoteliers and restaurateurs,” said Mohammad Ali Ahmed, a Vejalpur-based supplier of meat and poultry. Industry estimates also suggest that the wholesale price of eggs have declined by 32%. “Wholesale egg prices went down from Rs 6.2 per egg to Rs 4.7 per unit, as procurement by hoteliers as well as individuals went down significantly,” said Mohammad Hussain Shaikh, president, Gujarat Bakers’ Federation. However, there is no significant change in retail price of eggs. In fact, hotels have also begun making stringent checks of their vendors to doubly ensure quality, and some have not promoted chicken preparations on their menu. Jay Sudhakaran, general manager, Novotel – Ahmedabad, said, “With bird flu hitting the news we have not seen concerned guests yet, as they trust the process and handling followed in reputed hotels. The cooking process is important here and our chefs are well trained in food handling and cooking at right temperatures. They have also introduced more Indian preparations in our buffets that require boiling than only grilling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/poultry-prices-down-35-as-demand-hit/articleshow/80191740.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 10, 2021||Meerut||UP: Huge cache of arms, equipment seized from illicit firearms unit, three held||MUZAFFARNAGAR: Three people were arrested during a raid on an illicit firearms unit in a jungle at Jola village in Muzaffarnagar’s Budhana area on Saturday. A huge cache of illegal arms and equipment were seized from them. Police have seized 11 countrymade pistols, two muskets, live cartridges and raw material and equipment for making illegal weapons. The raid was conducted following a tip-off. The arrested trio, Pankaj, Rahul, and Akil, made illegal weapons and sold them at prices ranging between Rs 2,000 and 25,000, police said. Arpit Vijayvargiya, SP (city), said, “Keeping in mind the upcoming gram panchayat elections, a drive against illegal weapons is being conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/huge-cache-of-arms-equipment-seized-from-illicit-firearms-unit-3-held/articleshow/80076012.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to identify 110 locations for vaccination||CHANDIGARH: With the much-awaited Covd-19 vaccination drive starting from January 16, the Punjab government has started the process of identifying 110 locations across the state where beneficiaries will be immunised. As per the directions of the central government, the state has to identify five locations in each district, besides identifying vaccinators and appointing nodal officers for each site. The state government has to also identify cold chains from where vaccine shots will be supplied to vaccination centres. Punjab director of health services Dr G B Singh said the state had already identified 74 sites on which dry run was carried out and the remaining sites would be identified by tomorrow. “All details requested by the central government will be shared by Sunday evening,” said Dr G B Singh. For crowd management and to ensure social distancing, each site must have a vaccination room and waiting area, as per the guidelines issued by the Union government, besides an observation room for monitoring the vaccinated person for 30 minutes for any adverse event after shots are administered. As per the guidelines, for better crowd management and to ensure social distancing, each site must have a vaccination room and waiting area, besides an observation room for monitoring the vaccinated person for 30 minutes for any adverse event after shots are administered. In Punjab, there are about 11,000 sites which are used during routine vaccination drives. Health workers — doctors, medical students, nurses, paramedic staff, and Asha units – will be the first to be immunised. Punjab has identified 1.58 lakh health workers to receive the first dose of the vaccine. Second on the list are frontline workers engaged in delivery of essential services such as police, officials of the revenue department and municipal workers, who have been classified as sanitation workers in Covid care centre, waste collectors, sweeper, waste-processing plant operators, urban local bodies staff, cremation ground staff, maintenance staff and miscellaneous staff. All people above 50 will be vaccinated in the third phase, followed by all people below 50 with comorbidity as on January 1, 2021. In total, the Punjab government has a plan to vaccinate 70 lakh beneficiaries and, by doing so, it will cover over 25% of its population. Punjab has a population of 2.77 crore, as per Census 2011 data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-identify-110-locations-for-vaccination/articleshow/80192447.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 10, 2021||Jammu||Prevalance of diagnosed cancer highest in HP: Survey on ageing||Shimla: Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI), a full-scale national survey of scientific investigation of health, economic, and social determinants and consequences of population aging in India, has revealed that self-reported prevalence of diagnosed cancer is the highest in Himachal Pradesh (2.2%) compared to national average of 0.6% when it comes to the older population. Survey data revealed that overall death rate in the state is also higher than national average. The state has an overall death rate of 9.5%, against the national average of 7.7%. In the state, 1.6% people with the condition in the 45-59 age group self-reported prevalence of diagnosed cancer or malignant tumour, against the national average of 0.5%. In the 60 and above age group, 2.9% people self-reported prevalence of diagnosed cancer against the national average of 0.7%. In the self-reported prevalence of diagnosed cancer, Himachal Pradesh is followed by Kerala (1.6%), Uttarakhand (1.3%), and Tripura (1.2%). Himachal Pradesh has a higher prevalence of mild obstructive lung disease among elderly aged 60 and above. With 17% prevalence, state has topped in country followed by Jammu and Kashmir (13%). Further, the prevalence of moderate-severe obstructive lung disease among elderly aged 60 and above is second highest (10%) in Himachal Pradesh after Puducherry 27%. The state also has the second highest percentage of self-reported prevalence of urogenital condition among older adults aged 45 and above in the country. Mizoram tops the list with 14% and Himachal Pradesh is a close second with 12%. The self-reported prevalence of kidney stones in Himachal Pradesh is 7.4%, which is third highest in country. Also, 27% people in the age group of 60 and above have reported cataract, while 12.6% are diagnosed with hearing or ear-related problems. Also, 26% peopel have been diagnosed with prevalence complete edentulism (loss of all teeth). The prevalence of multimorbidity conditions among older adults aged 60 and above is 18.6% in the state. The prevalence of angina pectoris among older adults aged 45 and above varied from 19% in Himachal Pradesh to 2% in Lakshadweep and Haryana. In the 0-14 year’s age group, the hill state has recorded 1.3% death rate against the national average of 2.5%, while in 15-59 year age group, state has recorded 3.2% death rate against national average of 3.5%. In the age group of 45-59, survey showed 26.5% had hypertension, 2.9% heart disease, 1.5% stroke and 27.9% cardio-vascular disease. In the 60 year and above age group, 32.1% had hypertension, 5.7% heart disease, 2.2% stroke and 34.9% cardio-vascular disease. In the age group of 45-59, 8.9% were having diabetes, 2.8% high cholesterol and 9.4% anaemia while in the age group of 60 or above, 16.1% were having diabetes and 4.9% high cholesterol, 8.1% anaemia. Self-reported prevalence of diagnosed chronic lung diseases among older adults in the age group of 45-59 showed that 1.1% were having asthma, 0.2% bronchitis, 0.8% COPD and 1.9% any chronic lung disease. In the age group of 60 or above, 3.7% were having asthma, 0.5% bronchitis, 1.3% COPD and 5.1% any chronic lung disease. The self-reported prevalence of chronic bone or joint diseases in the age group of 45-59 showed that 4.3% had arthritis, 1.5% rheumatism, 0.8% osteoporosis and 9.2% any bone or joint disease. In age group of 60 or above, 7.3% had arthritis, 3.4% rheumatism, 2.5% osteoporosis and 14.1% any bone or joint disease. Box: 81.3% seniors are farmers Percent distribution of working older adults by type of main job according to age (45-59) showed that 68% are involved in agriculture and allied activities, 6.5% are self-employed, and 25.4% are wage and salary workers. Percent distribution of currently working older adults by type of main job according to age (60 and above) showed that 81.3% are involved in agriculture and allied activities, 8.9% are self employed, and 9.8% are wage and salary workers. Mean monthly earnings of currently working older adults from work=related activities by age and main job showed that those in the age group of 45-59, are earning Rs 5,680 from agriculture and allied activities, those who are self employed are earning Rs 12,718, while wage and salary workers are earning Rs 20,665. Those in the age group of 60 or above are earning Rs 6098 from agriculture and allied activities, self employed are earning Rs 9,508, and wage and salary workers are earning Rs 7,496. Also, 42.7% people aged 60 and above are receiving pension, while 4.7% are expecting to receive pension in future. In Himachal Pradesh, 17.5% women are heading the households, while the literacy rate of household population is 85.6%. The state has a per capita income of Rs 62,784, which is higher than the national average of Rs 44,901.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/prevalance-of-diagnosed-cancer-highest-in-hp-survey-on-ageing/articleshow/80197958.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: Officials under ‘strain’ to figure out bird flu variant||AHMEDABAD: That bird flu has hit Gujarat is confirmed. But officials of the state animal husbandry department are scratching their heads trying to figure out which strain of avian flu has been detected in the two samples collected from lapwings that died near Bantva Dam in Manavadar taluka of Junagadh. The samples had been sent to ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease laboratory in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, which sent the report to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. A copy of the report sent to the Gujarat animal husbandry department stated, “two tissue pools (four each) positive for H5 avian influence virus by real-time RT-PCR. One tissue pool (five samples) negative for avian influenza virus.” However, the report did not mention the strain of H5 avian flu detected in the lapwings. A senior official from the department said that it has sought details about the strain of the virus. The official said, “The samples were received by ICAR on January 6 and the report was sent to the Ministry at 8 pm on January 7.” The officials said this could be the primary report. A detailed report will be available soon, he said. Bird flu is a viral infection reported mostly in birds, but has the potential to affect humans and other animals. The most common strain that causes severe respiratory disease in birds is H5N1; various other strains like H7, H8 too, cause infection. Samples from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala have tested positive for the A (H5N8) strain of the virus, which according to experts is less infectious. Meanwhile, in a letter to Junagadh district collector, the animal husbandry department stated that since the lapwings are wild birds and were found at the dam site, the animal husbandry department and the district administration should also work in coordination with the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/officials-under-strain-to-figure-out-bird-flu-variant/articleshow/80195913.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 10, 2021||Surat||Gujarat: Officials under ‘strain’ to figure out bird flu variant||AHMEDABAD: That bird flu has hit Gujarat is confirmed. But officials of the state animal husbandry department are scratching their heads trying to figure out which strain of avian flu has been detected in the two samples collected from lapwings that died near Bantva Dam in Manavadar taluka of Junagadh. The samples had been sent to ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease laboratory in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, which sent the report to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. A copy of the report sent to the Gujarat animal husbandry department stated, “two tissue pools (four each) positive for H5 avian influence virus by real-time RT-PCR. One tissue pool (five samples) negative for avian influenza virus.” However, the report did not mention the strain of H5 avian flu detected in the lapwings. A senior official from the department said that it has sought details about the strain of the virus. The official said, “The samples were received by ICAR on January 6 and the report was sent to the Ministry at 8 pm on January 7.” The officials said this could be the primary report. A detailed report will be available soon, he said. Bird flu is a viral infection reported mostly in birds, but has the potential to affect humans and other animals. The most common strain that causes severe respiratory disease in birds is H5N1; various other strains like H7, H8 too, cause infection. Samples from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala have tested positive for the A (H5N8) strain of the virus, which according to experts is less infectious. Meanwhile, in a letter to Junagadh district collector, the animal husbandry department stated that since the lapwings are wild birds and were found at the dam site, the animal husbandry department and the district administration should also work in coordination with the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/officials-under-strain-to-figure-out-bird-flu-variant/articleshow/80195914.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Officials under ‘strain’ to figure out bird flu variant||AHMEDABAD: That bird flu has hit Gujarat is confirmed. But officials of the state animal husbandry department are scratching their heads trying to figure out which strain of avian flu has been detected in the two samples collected from lapwings that died near Bantva Dam in Manavadar taluka of Junagadh. The samples had been sent to ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease laboratory in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, which sent the report to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. A copy of the report sent to the Gujarat animal husbandry department stated, “two tissue pools (four each) positive for H5 avian influence virus by real-time RT-PCR. One tissue pool (five samples) negative for avian influenza virus.” However, the report did not mention the strain of H5 avian flu detected in the lapwings. A senior official from the department said that it has sought details about the strain of the virus. The official said, “The samples were received by ICAR on January 6 and the report was sent to the Ministry at 8 pm on January 7.” The officials said this could be the primary report. A detailed report will be available soon, he said. Bird flu is a viral infection reported mostly in birds, but has the potential to affect humans and other animals. The most common strain that causes severe respiratory disease in birds is H5N1; various other strains like H7, H8 too, cause infection. Samples from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala have tested positive for the A (H5N8) strain of the virus, which according to experts is less infectious. Meanwhile, in a letter to Junagadh district collector, the animal husbandry department stated that since the lapwings are wild birds and were found at the dam site, the animal husbandry department and the district administration should also work in coordination with the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/officials-under-strain-to-figure-out-bird-flu-variant/articleshow/80195912.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 10, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Officials under ‘strain’ to figure out bird flu variant||AHMEDABAD: That bird flu has hit Gujarat is confirmed. But officials of the state animal husbandry department are scratching their heads trying to figure out which strain of avian flu has been detected in the two samples collected from lapwings that died near Bantva Dam in Manavadar taluka of Junagadh. The samples had been sent to ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease laboratory in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, which sent the report to the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying. A copy of the report sent to the Gujarat animal husbandry department stated, “two tissue pools (four each) positive for H5 avian influence virus by real-time RT-PCR. One tissue pool (five samples) negative for avian influenza virus.” However, the report did not mention the strain of H5 avian flu detected in the lapwings. A senior official from the department said that it has sought details about the strain of the virus. The official said, “The samples were received by ICAR on January 6 and the report was sent to the Ministry at 8 pm on January 7.” The officials said this could be the primary report. A detailed report will be available soon, he said. Bird flu is a viral infection reported mostly in birds, but has the potential to affect humans and other animals. The most common strain that causes severe respiratory disease in birds is H5N1; various other strains like H7, H8 too, cause infection. Samples from Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Kerala have tested positive for the A (H5N8) strain of the virus, which according to experts is less infectious. Meanwhile, in a letter to Junagadh district collector, the animal husbandry department stated that since the lapwings are wild birds and were found at the dam site, the animal husbandry department and the district administration should also work in coordination with the forest department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/officials-under-strain-to-figure-out-bird-flu-variant/articleshow/80191743.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Nikam prosecutor in Pen murder case||Advocate Ujjwal Nikam will represent the state in the Pen tribal toddler’s rape and murder case. The police will complete the probe and consult Nikam, before filing the chargesheet. The accused, Adesh Patil, has been remanded to judicial custody for 14 days by court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/nikam-prosecutor-in-pen-murder-case/articleshow/80193276.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 10, 2021||Surat||Worker designs high-speed needle machine in lockdown||Surat: Where there is a will, there is a way. The saying has been aptly proved by this small-time textile worker, who refurbished a worn-out machine into a high-speed crochet fabric needle machine during the lockdown. Meet Chandrakant Patil, 38, a needle machine operator, who manufactured the machine that costs half than the similar machines manufactured in China. Talking with TOI, Patil said, “When the lockdown was imposed in March, I thought of designing an automatic crochet fabric needle machine. I started working on the project and used the parts available with me in my factory. Since the cost of making the machine was very high, I had to sell the jewellery of my wife and borrowed money from friends.” Patil added, “The machine was ready in three months at the cost of Rs 21 lakh. I had the manual needle machine, which I converted into the high-speed machine with the help of a motor.” Crochet fabric is used in garments, hats, scarf, purse and other upholstery items. According to Patil, the crochet fabric needle machine manufactured in China cost about Rs 48 lakh, while his version is worth Rs 21 lakh. Also, the Chinese machine can manufacture 140 metres of fabric in 12 hours, while his machine is capable of manufacturing 200 metres in 12 hours. The Southern Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (SGCCI) has given free space to Patil at the ongoing Surat International Textile Expo (SITEX) for displaying his invention to the public. Union Textile Minister, Smriti Irani visited Patil’s stall at SITEX and appreciated his efforts for the ‘Make In India’ and Aatmanirbhar Bharat. Patil said, “I am planning for the mass production of the machine in Surat and that it will be a game-changer for Surat’s textile industry.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/worker-designs-high-speed-needle-machine-in-lockdown/articleshow/80191212.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Asian waterbird census from next week amid bird flu fears||RANCHI: The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) will kick off in Jharkhand on January 15 amid a bird flu scare. The exercise will be carried out by AWC volunteers and Indian Bird Conservation Network (IBCN) across 10 different wetlands in the state for a headcount of migratory and indigenous birds. During the exercise, surveyors will also report suspected bird flu deaths to the government, officials said. AWC state coordinator Satya Prakash said, “We are working out plans to begin our annual rollout of the census from January 15 now. Usually, it is done between December and January, but this year, it was delayed due to the pandemic.” He added that the survey will be done on parameters prescribed by AWC, an international global waterbird monitoring programme of the International Waterbird Census (IWC) which is coordinated by Wetlands International. In India, AWC was initiated in 1987 with an objective to study birds that mostly migrate from one place to the other during winters. The movement provides key indicators to study the changing environmental scenario. Prakash added that they are currently fine-tuning logistics and volunteers for the exercise. “We will head to about 10 waterbodies like Topchanchi in Dhanbad, Massanjore in Dumka, Udhwa bird sanctuary and other prominent waterbodies that are known as abodes of migratory birds,” he said, adding that besides the ongoing pandemic, the bird flu outbreak in the country may have affected the usual migratory habits of a few species of birds. In 2016-17, the survey was held for the first time in coordination with the state forest department. As many as 71,833 birds were observed, of which 42,223 were migratory. In terms of species, there were a total of 71 of which nine were endangered, 21 resident migrants, 25 migratory and so on. Another round of census two years later witnessed decline in the population to 51,669 birds, of which 26,072 were migratory. It included a total of 73 species comprising 12 threatened, 21 resident migrants, 24 migratory etc. Chief wildlife warden Rajiv Ranjan said, “This time, we couldn’t plan for the census due to various reasons, but we shall plan it regularly from the next fiscal year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/asian-waterbird-census-from-next-week-amid-bird-flu-fears/articleshow/80191789.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||Bootlegger’s wife raped, blackmailed by his biz associate||Vadodara: A 24-year-old woman lodged a complaint of rape against his bootlegger husband’s business associates at Bhadarwa police station on Friday. The woman living in Savli taluka told police that the accused Jahid Vaghela took a video of hers while she was taking bath at her home and used it to blackmail her. She said that Jahid took advantage of the situation as her husband had been sent to Bhuj Jail under Prevention of Anti-Social Activities (PASA) Act between August and December last year. On the night of August 29 last year, Jahid went to the woman’s house along with his accomplice Dileep Vaghela. Since the woman knew them, she allowed them inside her home. Jahid then showed her the video he had recorded and threatened to defame her using it and also kill her children. Jahid dragged the woman to the other room where he raped her and asked Dileep to keep a watch. He raped her thrice on the following nights. On November 5, Jahid raped in a moving car while she was going to a jeweller to take back her pawned ornaments. When the woman’s husband got released and returned home on December 31, she told him about Jahid’s crimes. Initially, the woman’s husband got angry on her but after intervention of a friend, the couple agreed to approach police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bootleggers-wife-raped-blackmailed-by-his-biz-associate/articleshow/80191005.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Ranchi||Same-sex couple applies for Aadhaar card for ‘their child’||GUMLA: Two women took officials of an Aadhaar registration centre here by surpise when they came to get the unique identification number (UID) for "their child", as no same-sex marriage has been registered legally in the district so far. Same-sex marriage is not legal in India. According to the officials, a 26-year-old visually impaired woman another 22-year-old woman said they are husband and wife and are parents of the minor girl. The officials accepted their application for the Aadhaar card for their child and referred them to their superiors at the Gumla nagar parishad. Community organizer of the parishad, Vimla, said, said, “The older woman, who is a Class XI dropout, wanted to register herself as the father and the younger as the mother of the minor girl. When we asked them, they said they got married in 2012 and are living together at a rented house in Baraik Muhalla locality of Gumla town." The visually-impaired woman is a Nagpuri singer and hails from Raidih block of Gumla while the other is from Jashpur district in Chhattisgarh. Both are orphans. According to Vimla, the Nagpuri singer is blind in one eye at birth and got married to a man. They gave birth to the girl. "In 2012, her husband died after which she started living at a rented house. Meanwhile, she also lost her second eye. Later, she met the 22-year-old girl at a marriage ceremony and the two of them fell in love." Vimla said adding that they tied the knot at Happamuni temple in Ghaghra block in the presence of a priest. The younger woman, who left her studies after Class VII, runs the family by working as a domestic help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/same-sex-couple-applies-for-aadhaar-card-for-their-child/articleshow/80191780.cms||K A Gupta
January 10, 2021||Jamshedpur||‘Health department workers equipped to tackle all vaccination problems’||RANCHI: Adversities during any immunization drive are common and every centre has a proper protocol in place to handle cases of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI), however, with Covid-19 being a new virus and its vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — newer, a higher degree of alertness is required to avoid untoward situations. Keeping the risk factor in mind, all vaccination centres will mandatorily have an observation room where people getting vaccine shots will be kept under observation for half an hour. “We have trained manpower to keep an eye on vaccinated people and minutely observe any eventuality to handle them under the protocols of AEFI,” said Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, state head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Under AEFI, adverse events are categorised as mild, severe and serious. To deal with mild instances like breathlessness, blackening out, allergic eruptions on the skin, dizziness and others, ANMs or medical staff are provided with AEFI kits to administer required antidotes. According to WHO, an AEFI is considered serious when it results in death, is life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. Severe is used to describe the intensity of a specific event (as in mild, moderate or severe); the event itself, however, may be of relatively minor medical significance. Experts believe that ‘severe’ events may change to ‘serious’ or vice versa. Mild symptoms can range from minor itchy skin eruption to fever or sometimes redness of skin, nausea, giddiness or stomach upset but these symptoms often subside on their own in a short span. Anaphylaxis is a serious condition of a person showing reactions to the vaccines and as per WHO findings, such instances are rare and seen one in every million vaccinations of any type. Cold chain technician at Bokaro district hospital Santosh Kumar Sharma said that they are geared up to handle serious cases as well. “An AEFI room with 13 beds, of which one is equipped with a ventilator and other 12 with high flow oxygen, are ready. A medical officer, nodal AEFI officer and an ANM will be present to take care of anyone who turns serious taking a shot of the vaccine,” Sharma said. Karn explained that apart from keeping AEFI rooms ready near the vaccination centres, the health department has also roped in services of the 108 ambulance. “Though we are hopeful of an event-free vaccination drive, under medical protocols, we are keeping everything ready, including treatment, in case of severe or serious adverse reactions,” he said. Medical officers, paramedical staff and ANMs have been trained to handle syringes, vaccines vials swabs and antiseptic lotions carefully. Instructions have also been given to maintain very high degrees of contamination-free environment. “ “Sometimes the body reacts adversely to vaccine shot if the safety guidelines and instructions issued by the manufacturers are not properly followed. In case of Covid-19 vaccines, maintaining the temperature is one such requirement. Though all vaccine packs are fitted with thermal sensors and any breach of temperature will render them useless, we must ensure that the vaccinators adhere to these factors diligently,” said one of the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/health-dept-workers-equipped-to-tackle-all-vaccination-problems/articleshow/80195216.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 10, 2021||Ranchi||Ranchi sadar hospital conducts first ever total hip replacement operation under PM-JAY||RANCHI: Fifty-six year old Rukmini Devi got a fresh lease of life after a team of specialised doctors on Saturday performed the first total hip replacement surgery at the Ranchi district hospital under Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana-Ayushman Bharat (PM-JAY) as a part of the upgradation of cashless healthcare facilities at the hospital. The surgery was performed by a team of doctors led by orthopaedic surgeon Dr Nitesh Priya along with other members, including Dr Abhishek, Dr Muzzamil, and Dr Prabhat. Talking to TOI, Priya said, “The patient had already undergone a tumour surgery at CMC Vellore six months ago and wasn’t able to walk properly. As the patient came from a poor economic background, we decided to conduct her surgery under PM-JAY at the district hospital and it was done for the first time. The patient is currently stable and she will start walking from Sunday with support.” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad said, “I congratulate the team of doctors on the feat. We are committed to provide the best in class treatment to all our patients by upgrading our services at the district hospital.” On being asked how did the district hospital arrange for the infrastructure at the hospital, Prasad said, “Upgradation of health services at the state-run hospital is one of the objectives of the Ayushman Bharat scheme and we have been working on it for the last one-and-a-half-year. We had roped in two regular orthopaedic surgeons for performing regular complications and as we got a patient for THR we called in our empanelled super-specialist surgeon Dr Nitesh Priya and he planned the surgery and conducted it successfully.” Meanwhile, Ranchi DC Chhavi Ranjan congratulated the team of doctors and said the district administration is committed towards providing all kinds of support to the hospital. “The doctors have done a fantastic job as they performed a successful operation with limited resources. I assure the health services that administration will be extend its support for any such initiative in the future as it will benefit poor patients who cannot afford private hospitals.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ranchi-sadar-hosp-conducts-1st-ever-total-hip-replacement-operation-under-pm-jay/articleshow/80191761.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 10, 2021||Ranchi||‘Health department workers equipped to tackle all vaccination problems’||RANCHI: Adversities during any immunization drive are common and every centre has a proper protocol in place to handle cases of Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI), however, with Covid-19 being a new virus and its vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin — newer, a higher degree of alertness is required to avoid untoward situations. Keeping the risk factor in mind, all vaccination centres will mandatorily have an observation room where people getting vaccine shots will be kept under observation for half an hour. “We have trained manpower to keep an eye on vaccinated people and minutely observe any eventuality to handle them under the protocols of AEFI,” said Dr Praveen Kumar Karn, state head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP). Under AEFI, adverse events are categorised as mild, severe and serious. To deal with mild instances like breathlessness, blackening out, allergic eruptions on the skin, dizziness and others, ANMs or medical staff are provided with AEFI kits to administer required antidotes. According to WHO, an AEFI is considered serious when it results in death, is life-threatening, requires in-patient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, is a congenital anomaly/birth defect, or requires intervention to prevent permanent impairment or damage. Severe is used to describe the intensity of a specific event (as in mild, moderate or severe); the event itself, however, may be of relatively minor medical significance. Experts believe that ‘severe’ events may change to ‘serious’ or vice versa. Mild symptoms can range from minor itchy skin eruption to fever or sometimes redness of skin, nausea, giddiness or stomach upset but these symptoms often subside on their own in a short span. Anaphylaxis is a serious condition of a person showing reactions to the vaccines and as per WHO findings, such instances are rare and seen one in every million vaccinations of any type. Cold chain technician at Bokaro district hospital Santosh Kumar Sharma said that they are geared up to handle serious cases as well. “An AEFI room with 13 beds, of which one is equipped with a ventilator and other 12 with high flow oxygen, are ready. A medical officer, nodal AEFI officer and an ANM will be present to take care of anyone who turns serious taking a shot of the vaccine,” Sharma said. Karn explained that apart from keeping AEFI rooms ready near the vaccination centres, the health department has also roped in services of the 108 ambulance. “Though we are hopeful of an event-free vaccination drive, under medical protocols, we are keeping everything ready, including treatment, in case of severe or serious adverse reactions,” he said. Medical officers, paramedical staff and ANMs have been trained to handle syringes, vaccines vials swabs and antiseptic lotions carefully. Instructions have also been given to maintain very high degrees of contamination-free environment. “ “Sometimes the body reacts adversely to vaccine shot if the safety guidelines and instructions issued by the manufacturers are not properly followed. In case of Covid-19 vaccines, maintaining the temperature is one such requirement. Though all vaccine packs are fitted with thermal sensors and any breach of temperature will render them useless, we must ensure that the vaccinators adhere to these factors diligently,” said one of the health officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/health-dept-workers-equipped-to-tackle-all-vaccination-problems/articleshow/80191796.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||More cases, less recoveries for 9th day in a row in region||Nagpur: The first nine days of the New Year have seen 7,129 Covid-19 cases in Vidarbha as against 6,024 recoveries. The number of new cases has been more than recoveries constantly during January so far. Due to this, the number of patients under treatment which was less than 7,000 at the start of the year has gone up to 7,860 in just 9 days. Increasing number of under-treatment patients hints at increasing hospitalization rate which is not a good indicator. On Saturday, Vidarbha reported 765 new cases and 635 recoveries. Now, cases in Vidarbha are inching towards the 2.6-lakh mark while the recoveries are nearing 2.45 lakh. Recovery rate is still above 94% but in the last four days, it has seen constant decrease by some decimal points daily. Vidarbha’s recovery rate is still less than the state average of 94.59% and national average which is already above 96%. Total 14 deaths were reported in the region on Saturday. Of them, 12 came from Nagpur district alone. Nagpur’s 12 deaths include 7 from the city, 2 from rural and 3 from other states/districts. Case fatality rate in Vidarbha is 2.58% which is higher than state and national averages. Day’s 765 new cases came from Nagpur (460), Amravati (67), Buldhana (50), Chandrapur (48), Akola (48), Wardha (41), Yavatmal (29), Gadchiroli (11), and Washim (11) while 635 recoveries came from Nagpur (367), Amravati (58), Buldhana (58), Akola (44), Chandrapur (39), Yavatmal (26), Gadchiroli (20), Wardha (15), and Washim (8). Reports from tragedy-hit Bhandara district and adjacent Gondia district were not received on Saturday. Yavatmal: The district administration received 239 test reports of which 29 were found positive. Currently, 426 active positive patients are undergoing treatment in the district. Of the 13,127 positive cases so far, 12,294 including 26 of Saturday have recovered. The total deaths remained at 410. Wardha: Two men (aged 79 and 93 years) from city died taking the toll to 280. Total 41 new cases took the caseload to 9,469 while 15 patients were discharged after which the recoveries touched 8,822. The cases were detected from Wardha (34), Hinganghat (4), Selu, Deoli and Arvi (1 each). Currently, 367 patients are being treated in the district. Chandrapur: Cases were up by 48, while 39 patients were discharged. There was no death in district. Total caseload has risen to 22,652, while recoveries amount to 21,936. There are 339 active cases in the district. Amravati: Total 67 new cases took the district’s caseload to 20,273. The day recorded 58 recoveries taking the total to 19,550 ( 96.43%). No death was recorded on Saturday. Now, there are 322 active cases here. Akola: Of more than 650 reports received in the last 24 hours, 48 tested positive in the district taking the number of cases to 10,866. On the other hand, 44 patients recovered taking the number of recoveries to 9,954. Akola’s recovery rate is more than 90%. With 323 total deaths reported till date, now 589 patients are under treatment in Akola. Buldhana: Of the total 419 reports received in a day, 50 tested positive. Total number of cases reached 12,914. On the other hand, 58 patients recovered. This took the number of recovered patients to 12,440. The recovery rate is 96.3%. No death was reported. Total 317 patients are under treatment. Washim: The district reported 11 new cases while 8 patients recovered. Total cases reached 6,756 while 6,505 of them have recovered. Recovery rate of Washim is 96.2%. The district recorded no death. With 151 deaths reported till date, total 99 patients are under-treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 11 new cases while 20 recovered. No death was reported, so the toll remained unchanged at 104. Now, the district has 9,193 cases, 8,915 recoveries and 144 patients under treatment. Recovery rate is 94.29%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-cases-less-recoveries-for-9th-day-in-a-row-in-region/articleshow/80191774.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Sex victim’s GF now faces murder charge||Nagpur: The rural police have on Saturday registered an offence of murder against girlfriend of the man, who died trying bondage sex position at a private hotel room at Khaparkheda on Thursday. The woman, in her 20s and MBA graduate, was booked following a complaint by relatives of the deceased Ziauddin Ansari. The woman had been rounded up and taken for medical examination before placing her under arrest. Ansari’s family members alleged that the girlfriend strangled him to death as he had started living happily with his wife and also became father around 22 days back. On the other hand, the girlfriend had claimed before the police that Ansari was planning to elope with her and settle in Mumbai or Pune. Ansari’s legs were tied to a chair and his hands too had been tied behind him. His neck was tightly tied to a window grill as the couple decided to try bondage sex play. After the woman had gone to bathroom, Ansari had fallen on the floor as the chair broke and got strangulated, the woman had told police. Khaparkheda police had initially registered a case of accidental death before initiating a thorough probe. Forensic department’s findings stating ‘death due to constriction in the neck’ led to the decision of registering the case as murder, it’s learnt. The cops, under SP Rakesh Ola, decided to invoke murder charges after the woman failed to explain the reason behind tying a tight knot around the man’s neck. It is also learnt that Ansari had multiple injury marks on his hands, leaving an impression that he had struggled. Senior inspector PM Bhatkar of Khaparkheda police station said police will now interrogate the woman and also examine the post-mortem report along with the outcome of chemical analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/sex-victims-gf-now-faces-murder-charge/articleshow/80191781.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 10, 2021||India||Priyanka asks Congress MPs to take cue from US lawmakers in showing solidarity with farmers||NEW DELHI: Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Saturday asked a meeting of party general secretaries and state in charges that like Democrat MPs took a knee to protest the recent US Capitol Hill siege, Congress’s Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha MPs should join, at least for a day, their party colleagues from Punjab who have been sitting in protest at Jantar Mantar to express solidarity with farmers against the contentious new farm laws. In a virtual strategy meeting led by general secretary administration K C Venugopal to chalk out the party’s programme to strengthen farmers’ protests against the three farm laws, Congress also decided it will lead rallies and ‘gherao’ Raj Bhawans across India on January 15, coinciding with the next round of talks between the government and farmer unions. “The government is merely trying to tire the farmers out by leading them into meaningless talks that have yielded no results. To show our solidarity to farmers, and to show that the Modi government is sold out to few capitalists, Congress will observe January 15 as the “Kisan Adhikar Diwas”. It is time now to listen to farmers’ voices,” said Randeep Singh Surjewala, Congress’ general secretary and communications head. Congress also said it will decide the next course of action on January 16, the day after the next round of talks, when another strategy meeting has been called. On Saturday, Surjewala also slammed PM Modi, saying he had failed to pay homage to 60 farmers who had died while protesting over the last 45 days, a clear sign that the government is beholden to its “capitalist masters”. Congress will also run a social media campaign, ‘SpeakUpForFarmers’, to coincide with the countrywide physical protests. Sources said while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is expected to be back in the country in time for the protests, it remains unclear whether he will join the protests in Delhi or in Kerala, from where he has been elected as MP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-to-gherao-raj-bhawans-on-january-15/articleshow/80193927.cms||---
January 10, 2021||India||Reliance seals Karnataka rice deal, to pay above MSP||RAICHUR: In the first big transaction between a large corporate entity and farmers since the promulgation of the amended APMC Act in Karnataka, Reliance Retail Ltd has closed a deal for the purchase of 1,000 quintals of Sona Masoori paddy from the farmers of Sindhanur taluk in Raichur district. Around a fortnight ago, agents registered with Reliance signed an agreement with Swasthya Farmers Producing Company (SFPC). Though SFPC primarily trades in oil, the firm now has ventured into procurement and sale of paddy; close to 1,100 paddy farmers have registered with it. Reliance Retail stipulated that there should be less than 16% moisture in the crop. Moreover, the company is offering Rs 1,950 per quintal of Sona Masoori, which is Rs 82 more than the minimum support price (MSP) for the crop set by the government (Rs 1,868). The understanding between SFPC and the farmers entitles the former to a 1.5% commission for every Rs 100 transaction. The farmers have to bear the expenses of the sacks used to pack the crop and transporting it to the warehouse in Sindhanur. SFPC managing director Mallikarjun Valkaldinni said that the quality of the paddy currently stored at the warehouse will be tested by a third party. “Once the quality is found to be satisfactory, Reliance’s agents will procure the crop. Currently, there are 500 quintals of paddy stored in the warehouse. We are expecting the purchase to go through anytime now. Once they have procured the crop, Reliance will transfer the money to SFPC online and we will credit the money directly to the farmers’ accounts,” he said. In order to ensure that the crops are not tampered with at any stage, vehicles used for transporting paddy will be tracked using GPS, he said. However, not everyone is enthused about the development. President of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sense Chamarasa Malipatil said corporate entities would entice the farmers by offering more than the MSP initially, whi-ch would deal a severe blow to the APMC mandis. “But later, corporate companies will start exploiting the farmers. We must be wary of such tactics,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reliance-seals-karnataka-rice-deal-to-pay-above-msp/articleshow/80193932.cms||Shreyas HS
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: 39% decrease in human trafficking cases in 2020||VIJAYAWADA: Andhra Pradesh saw a 39% decrease in human trafficking cases in 2020 compared to 2019. The drop is cases is largely attributed to the Covid-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown. As per district-wise data, Guntur (urban), Vizag city and West Godavari district stand to be top contributors of trafficking cases. Conversely, Visakhapatnam (rural), Srikakulam and Vizianagaram have registered the least number of cases in the said. Through the whole of 2020, Andhra Pradesh registered 142 cases under the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 (ITPA). A total of 322 trafficked victims were rescued and 609 traffickers arrested. Despite the decreasing trend in ITPA cases, it is pertinent to note that Andhra Pradesh ranked second in human trafficking in the country, according to the 2019 National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data. Unfortunately, yet unsurprisingly, nearly 100% victims of human trafficking happened to be young girls and women. Data released by state police show that a majority of victims were trafficked for sexual exploitation or prostitution. Of all victims trafficked for sexual exploitation, Andhra Pradesh has the third highest number. A slew of recent incidents in the state exposed the existence of organised child trafficking networks dealing in young girls. Three major bonded labour cases were reported from Guntur, Prakasam and Anantapur, where young girls were found to have been trafficked in recent months. A recent report released by the Union ministry of women and child development — ‘Commercial sexual exploitation in India’ — revealed that trafficking runs rampant among semi-nomadic tribal communities residing in slums across various towns in the country. According to data of trafficked children rescued in Andhra Pradesh, around 10% were found to have been forced into bonded labour. A majority, 40%, of trafficked children, were forced into labour whereas 10% were found to have been sexually exploited. Five per cent of trafficked children were engaged in begging while a small number was also found to have been engaged in drug smuggling and theft. According to National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) data from 2019, seven per cent of all victims of human trafficking happen to be children. NCRB data showed that 74% of trafficked victims were subject to sexual exploitation while 7% were forced into domestic servitude. Anti-trafficking activists have demanded that the government set up and activate anti-human trafficking units (AHTUs) in all districts according to the advisory from the Union ministry of home affairs. Meharuneesa, state convenor of Vimukthi, said that the woman safety division of MHA issued an advisory in July 2020 asking ‘all states and union territories to immediately set up AHTUs in all districts to prevent and combat human trafficking during the period of the Covid-19 pandemic’. “Many sex workers, who are earning members of their families responsible for feeding their children, have been forced to take loans under exorbitant rates during the lockdown period. Local loan sharks not registered under the Money Lenders’ Act, operating in red light areas, are encouraging women to take loans with high interest. This is showing a severe impact,” Meharuneesa said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/39-decrease-in-human-trafficking-cases-in-2020/articleshow/80191280.cms||Venu Lanka
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: International red sanders smuggler arrested||TIRUPATI: Kadapa police have arrested an international red sanders smuggler from Chennai and seized logs worth around Rs 1 crore. Following the arrest of the kingpin R Bhaskaran, 16 other local smugglers were also arrested. A United States-made pistol and five rounds of ammunition were also seized from the accused. Kadapa police, who have stepped up efforts to curb red sanders smuggling over the last few months, arrested Bhaskaran and six other interstate smugglers near the Andhra Pradesh-Tamil Nadu border near Nagari on Thursday evening. Cops seized 55 red sanders logs weighing 1.3 tons, two cars, two bikes, 300 grams of gold and seven mobile phones from the accused. According to Kadapa SP KKN Anburajan, Bhaskaran has managed to evade arrest in 21 red sanders smuggling cases registered at various police stations across the district. He is said to have links with smugglers from Katiganahalli and Bengaluru in Karnataka, and local smugglers in AP with whose help, he illegally exports red sanders logs to international markets. Following his arrest, cops conducted raids at multiple locations and confiscated more logs and arrested several local smugglers on Friday. Among the arrested were T Raghavendra Reddy, an interstate smuggler; K Subhan Basha, I Arjun, C Arun Kumar, K Ramaraju, B Krishna Reddy, B Sridhar Reddy, K Venkata Subbaiah and VY Chandan, all smugglers from Kadapa; Shaik Yasir and B Mohammed Jishan from Chittoor; A Anil Kumar, G Nageswara Rao and C Manohar from Nellore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/intl-red-sanders-smuggler-arrested/articleshow/80191304.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 10, 2021||Amaravati||199 +ve Covid cases, 1 death in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 199 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,84,689. This is the second time in the last one week that the state reported less than 200 cases.  The toll increased to 7,128 as one more patient from Krishna district succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. This is the third consecutive day for the state to record only one fatality and that too from Krishna district. As many as 423 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 2,607 active cases with 8,74,954 cumulative recoveries and 7,128 deaths. Krishna and Guntur districts recorded 35 new infections each on Saturday. The remaining 11 districts posted less than 30 new cases. Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported only two cases each. Andhra Pradesh conducted 50,445 Covid-19 tests on Saturday and detected 199 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.4%, the lowest in the last seven months. The state so far conducted 1.22 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.2%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/199-ve-cases-1-death-in-ap/articleshow/80195940.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||199 +ve Covid cases, 1 death in Andhra Pradesh||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 199 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,84,689. This is the second time in the last one week that the state reported less than 200 cases.  The toll increased to 7,128 as one more patient from Krishna district succumbed to the novel coronavirus disease. This is the third consecutive day for the state to record only one fatality and that too from Krishna district. As many as 423 patients were declared cured on Saturday. There are currently 2,607 active cases with 8,74,954 cumulative recoveries and 7,128 deaths. Krishna and Guntur districts recorded 35 new infections each on Saturday. The remaining 11 districts posted less than 30 new cases. Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram reported only two cases each. Andhra Pradesh conducted 50,445 Covid-19 tests on Saturday and detected 199 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of less than 0.4%, the lowest in the last seven months. The state so far conducted 1.22 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.2%. The mortality rate remained stable at 0.8%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/199-ve-cases-1-death-in-ap/articleshow/80191317.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Cockfight organisers in a fix as cops up vigil||BHIMAVARAM: With only days to go for Sankranti, organisers of cockfights find themselves in a fix as makers of rooster-knives and persons to tie these knives to roosters have become hard to come by. This, as police across the state are strategically implementing the court-ordered ban on cockfights by binding over knife-makers and tiers. Police action along with the pandemic and losses due to heavy rain and cyclones have culminated into a huge roadblock for organisers of cockfights. In wake of the current situation, prices of rooster knives are said to have gone up by four times their original price. According to KM Raju, a rooster trainer from Bhimavaram, cockfight betting in the state will stay below the Rs 200 crore-mark this year compared to the usual range of Rs 600 crore to Rs 800 crore during the Sankranti season. In both Godavari districts, cockfights during Sankranti are a major draw for visitors from across the country. However this time around, police have already seized over 10,000 rooster knives from makers and tiers. “Police are acting strategically and binding over thousands of organisers, knife-makers and others connected to cockfights in both Godavari districts. Due to the pandemic and crop losses, even people are not in a position to fund high-stakes gambles,” a punter from Konaseema in East Godavari told STOI. An estimated five to six hundred rooster knife-makers operate in the two Godavari districts and are said to have connections with organisers.West Godavari SP, Narayan Naik, said that they have already formed teams which are seizing rooster knives and also binding over knife-makers and tying experts. “We are following court orders and will not allow cockfights. So far, we have seized more than 4,000 rooster knives and bound over nearly 4,000 persons,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cockfight-organisers-in-a-fix-as-cops-up-vigil/articleshow/80191320.cms||Siva G
January 10, 2021||Vijayawada||66 arrested for cockfighting in Andhra Pradesh's Krishna district||VIJAYAWADA: Police have booked 18 cases against cockfighting rackets and 370 cases against gamblic rackets in Krishna district in the span of a week. Speaking to the media on Saturday, Krishna district SP M Ravindranath Babu said that police have arrested 370 persons involved in gambling and 66 persons involved in cockfighting. 16 roosters and 1,238 cockfighting knives were seized. The raids were conducted at Ghantasala, Mylavaram and Visannapet areas in the district, the SP said. The SP further informed that people arrested for using cockfighting knives will be booked under the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/66-arrested-for-cockfighting-in-krishna/articleshow/80191331.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: Cops launch ID system to keep track of autorickshaw drivers||VISAKHAPATNAM: Autorickshaws plying within Vizag city limits will now be part of a unique numbering system to enable easy identification. Under the system, each autorickshaw will be allotted a unique number and be verified by traffic and crime wing police in a database that can retrieve the history of the autorickshaw driver. Autorickshaw drivers will have to get the number and the name of the police station under the jurisdiction of which it operates painted on the front, left, right sides and rear of the vehicle. The initiative has been planned by city police in the wake of a string of crimes committed by autorickshaw drivers in the past year. A senior police officer said that as more autorickshaws are added to the city’s roads, issues such as change in ownership of the vehicles and address details have emerged, adding that the unique numbering system will identify the owner and the driver of the vehicle. Speaking to TOI, ADCP (traffic) Ch Adinarayana said around six years back, there were around 25,000 autorickshaws plying under city limits but this number was around 40,000 as of December 2020, with more autorickshaws now plying on the city’s outskirts. Traffic police will collect details of the drivers, authenticate address details and violations committed by drivers. Later, crime wing police will collect previous criminal history, if any, of the drivers. “We will allot the driver of the autorickshaw a unique number which needs to be painted prominently on the vehicle where it will be clearly visible to passengers,” he added. Speaking to TOI, ACP (crimes) D Sravan Kumar said the unique number would notbe allotted if an auto driver was found guilty of any crime against a passenger, dacoity, burglary, robbery, or other offences in the past. Under the new system, an offending autorickshaw driver can be traced immediately if the passenger who traveled in the vehicle remembers its unique number, he added. Police said they have so far verified details of over 3,500 autorickshaws and issued unique numbers to over 1,500 drivers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-launch-id-system-to-keep-track-of-autorickshaw-drivers/articleshow/80191335.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 10, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh: Mobile essentials dispensing units to be launched in February||VISAKHAPATNAM: As part of implementation of the Novel Welfare Self-Employment scheme, mobile dispensing units that will door-deliver subsidised essential commodities will be launched across the state from February 1, according to the civil supplies department. Under the scheme, minority youth will be provided with mini-truck mobile dispensing units. Speaking to TOI, Srikakulam district civil supplies officer D Venkata Ramana said, “As many as 530 vehicles have been kept ready for our district. Each vehicle will have to cover at least 90 beneficiaries per day. The government will launch the initiative across the state from February 1.” The state will have 9,260 MDUs, including 828 in Visakhapatnam district. Some districts have already completed formalities such as identification of beneficiaries. Sources said nearly one lakh people have applied for the scheme, under which the applicant needs to contribute 10 per cent of the vehicle cost. The government had selected almost all beneficiaries by the end of December. “Nearly 85 candidates withdrew at the last minute due to personal reasons like failing to deposit the beneficiary’s contribution. We will finalise all the beneficiaries by end of this month,” said executive director of Visakhapatnam District SC Corporation M Sobha Rani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/mobile-essentials-dispensing-units-to-be-launched-in-feb/articleshow/80191339.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||2 robbed at knifepoint||Vadodara: A football coach and a production technician of ONGC were robbed within a span of 10 minutes in Fatehgunj and Nizampura areas on Friday early morning. Police suspect involvement of same three robbers in both the crimes. The football coach Mahesh Rathwa was on his way to the football ground on his bike when he was targeted near Mehsananagar garba ground at 6.20am. Rathwa said that the three robbers threatened him at knifepoint. Since Rathwa was afraid, he gave away his mobile phone, his wallet which had Rs 600 cash, his PAN card, Aadhar card, driving license and voter’s identification card. Just 10 minutes later, the ONGC employee Immanuel Khristi was targeted outside a church near Hirabaug in Fatehgunj. The distance of the church from the garba ground is just 3 km away. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/2-robbed-at-knifepoint/articleshow/80191056.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Second wave worries: Lalbagh flower show may not be held||BENGALURU: The Lalbagh flower show, which normally draws lakhs of visitors, is unlikely to be held on the Republic Day this time as health officials remain focused on preventing a second wave of coronavirus infections. The tradition of organising the flower show dates back to 1912. It’s now the 213th edition of the event, whose modernday version, starting in 1951, is held twice a year — on January 26 to mark the Republic Day and August 15 to celebrate the Independence Day. It has been cancelled only thrice in more than a century: during the Second World War, 1994 plague and August 2020 pandemic. A fourth time seems likely as the detection of cases of the new coronavirus variant has prompted authorities to be extra cautious. “With everything opening up, we were hopeful of hosting the flower show this Republic Day, but there is no consensus among the stakeholders. Some are concerned that the show could become a super-spreader event. Another section is of the opinion that it should be allowed on a reduced scale. It’s up to the chief minister to decide now,” said an official in the horticulture department. The show is jointly organised by the horticulture department and the Mysore Horticulture Society. Members of the society are also reportedly divided over the issue. Lalbagh houses a 240-acre garden with more than 3,500 species of flowers and plants. “We need at least four to five months to grow and shape ornamental plants for the show. We are not prepared and we are in the discussion stage,” said M Jagadeesh, joint director (parks and gardens), horticulture department. M Kuppuswamy, treasurer, Mysore Horticulture society, said that the issue would be discussed at a meeting on Monday. According to horticulture department principal secretary Rajendra Kumar Kataria, the show may not be held in its original scale. But the government will try to hold a small event to ensure the tradition’s continuity. “As we speak, we don’t know if the show will be rolled out. If we do, to keep up the tradition, it will be a lowkey affair. We are yet to chalk out a plan,” Kataria added. In January last year, more than 2.3 lakh people attended the show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lalbagh-flower-show-could-be-cancelled/articleshow/80191938.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Two Karnataka hospitals picked for vaccination launch event||BENGALURU: The Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI) and the Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS), Hubballi, are among select facilities in the country where Prime Minister Narendra Modi will launch Covid-19 vaccination during a live webcast on January 16. Overall, the vaccination drive will begin simultaneously at 5,000 sites in the country. “Of these, 235 sites are in Karnataka, which will receive 13.9 lakh vaccine doses shortly. We have more than 29,000 storage units, where vaccines can be kept safely,” health minister K Sudhakar said on Saturday. Healthcare workers who will receive vaccine shots at BMCRI and KIMS will later interact with a central team during the webcast. Government teams are pressing ahead with preparations for the nationwide launch. On January 11, Modi will interact with the chief ministers of all states in a videoconference. Karnataka is likely to get the consignment of Covid-19 vaccines from the Serum Institute of India, Pune, according to a senior official in the health and family welfare department. Ten walk-in coolers, four walk-in freezers, 3,201 ice-lined refrigerators, 3,312 cold boxes, 46,591 vaccine carriers and more than 2.2 lakh ice packs have been readied for storage and transportation of vaccines in the state. There are some concerns about the arrangements at BMCRI as a dry run at the government-run facility on Friday didn’t go off smoothly. The Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network, or CoWIN, faced some glitches. The software is specially designed to monitor vaccine delivery, register names of recipients and provide a vaccination certificate. Time to deliver“There is pressure as vaccine recipients will be part of a live interaction with the Union government. We are thinking about choosing another hospital or a medical centre for the launch. A decision will be taken soon,” said another senior official of the health department. Polio drive deferredMeanwhile, with Covid-19 vaccination beginning from January 16, government officials have decided to postpone the pulse polio immunisation programme that was scheduled to begin across the country on January 17. An order was issued on Saturday. In Karnataka, the target was to cover 65 lakh children aged below five. The state received stocks of polio vaccine last month and they have already been distributed among districts. “The government may have taken the call to postpone the programme to avoid a resource drain or a clash with Covid-19 vaccination,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-ktaka-hospitals-part-of-natl-launch/articleshow/80191951.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka CM breaks ground for 400-acre toy manufacturing cluster in Koppal||KOPPAL: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa performed the ground-breaking ceremony of a toy manufacturing hub here on Saturday, describing the 400-acre project as a landmark for the Karnataka government’s product-specific industrial cluster development programme. This cluster, he said, intends to attract an investment of Rs 5,000 crore and generate direct and indirect employment for an estimated 1 lakh people in the region. “The toy manufacturing industry is labour-oriented, and most workers are women. Hence, this cluster is a bold step towards empowering women,” he said. The cluster is promoted by Aequs SEZ Pvt Ltd in partnership with the Karnataka government. Aravind Melligeri’s Aequs operates a large aerospace SEZ in Belagavi as well. Jagadish Shettar, minister for large and medium scale industries, said Koppal has a tradition of making Kinnal toys. “We aim to make Koppal the country’s toy-making hub by promoting this art.” ‘Global toy makers keen to buy from Koppal facility’If all goes as per plan, this could become India’s biggest toy manufacturing destination. Melligeri said his vision is to have several units — component makers, assembling units, toolmaking units, warehouses — making puzzles, soft toys and electronic toys, among others. He said global toy makers like Hasbro, Mattel, Spin Master and MGA Entertainment have expressed interest in buying from the Koppal facility. On Saturday, six MoUs were signed. Two are for Aequs’ own units and the others are with Playgro (for remote-controlled toy cars), Micro Plastics (for toy exports), Sterling (for packaging), and Hong Kong company Hot Shot for toy moulding tools. Aequs’s Belagavi SEZ already hosts two toymaking units. Melligeri had earlier said that India’s tensions with China, by far the world’s biggest toy manufacturer, and resulting restrictions on tie-ups with Chinese firms would make toy-making in India difficult. But, he said, the company has gained experience from Belagavi. Combined with the ecosystem being created in Koppal and government incentives, he is confident of competing with China and Vietnam. India imports almost two-thirds of the $1 billion worth of toys it consumes, most of that from China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cm-breaks-ground-for-400-acre-toy-mfg-cluster-in-koppal/articleshow/80191947.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Security for Maharashtra CM’s Bhandara visit stalls food delivery to patients||BHANDARA: Having travelled 70km, Dharmendra Raut and his friend Nitesh Bharwe have been forced to wait further to deliver food to the former’s wife admitted to the District General Hospital. No time has been given to them as they endlessly wait outside the hospital gate around 12 noon. The duo had set off early morning from their village Dongri Mines to bring tiffin for Raut’s wife who underwent C-section on January 7. The chief minister’s visit later in the day has brought in heavy security and all entry points sealed at the hospital. Uddhav Thackeray would be meeting the parents of babies who died in Sick New Born Unit on Saturday. “We have been asked to wait till the CM leaves. This is first time we are facing this problem,” said Raut. Similar is the ordeal of Bhupesh Shinde, a resident of Mahalgoan in Sakoli, which is 60km from here. Shinde has been trying to get in from different gates but each time is not allowed to enter. Shinde’s wife delivered on December 31. Stressed due to the cops’ ruthless snub to his appeals, Shinde quietly stands near the roadside curiously watching the media persons capture VIPs. Deoram Meshram has been waiting since 10.30am. But, Ram Prasad Khandar, who lives in the city, has double trouble. My wife is with my daughter, who was operated for some illness. “I have brought the food for both but can’t hand it over to them. They are not allowing her to come outside also,” Khandar said. Even as TOI spotted several men and women waiting with tiffin in their hand outside, cops come charging to chase them further away from the gates. “They are using abusive language while VIPs and ministers are here. This doesn’t look good,” said a constable. Yet, the crowd further swells and more relatives gather with undelivered food in their hands while their patients and care takers remain hungry. “We hope the CM winds up his visit soon,,” said one of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/security-for-cms-bhandara-visit-stalls-food-delivery-to-patients/articleshow/80197274.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||India||Sick Newborn Care Unit fire: Nurses, drivers, other staff risked lives to save babies||BHANDARA: They had just finished feeding the babies and were about to record details when they heard multiple blasts. They were caught in a thick cloud of smoke and could hardly see anything. Yet, on-duty nurses Shubhangi Sathawane (32) and Smita Ambilduke (34) managed to carry seven babies out after fire broke out at the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) at the District General Hospital here early on Saturday morning. The duo raised an alarm which alerted security guards, ambulance drivers and locals. Even as the fire brigade started deploying personnel, attendant Ajit Purjekar went up the hospital building from the back side and opened the emergency door to let the smoke out. In-charge nurse Jyoti Choudhary, who had returned home, too rushed back to assist her colleagues. “Ajit helped us to rescue the babies that were alive and we shifted them to a safer place,” said Shubhangi. The other staff members said the seven babies were saved mainly due to the efforts of Shubhangi, Smita and Ajit. Shubhangi and Smita lamented that they couldn’t do much for the 10 infants who were in a room inside. There were also private ambulance driver Imran Sheikh and his friend Dhanasheel Khobragade who reached the hospital from different parts of the district to help. Dhanasheel travelled from Lakhni, 20 km away, to volunteer. The others — Rahul Gupta, another private ambulance operator, and security staff Gaurav Rehpade and Shivam Madavi — risked their lives to save the babies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sick-newborn-care-unit-fire-nurses-drivers-other-staff-risked-lives-to-save-babies/articleshow/80193939.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 10, 2021||Surat||Govt apathy adds to stone agony for minor beggar girl||Surat: For this three-year-old destitute, the promise of succour from the unbearable pain that agonizes the little body seemed more like a unicorn that she hoped to ride after she was rescued while begging in Adajan streets. Apathetic officials are seen to be towing the rule book more than human kindness.It’s been more than 13 days now after the minor beggar girl was rescued by anti-human trafficking unit (AHTU) of city police’s crime branch on December 26, 2020. But her stay at the government facility seems to be getting agonizingly longer sans a decision to operate on her 22 mm bladder stone.Government officials concerned claim that the decision not to conduct surgery in government custody was taken as the girl’s parents are alive. “We were not given NOC by the police and hence, we did not get the surgery done. She will be handed over to her parents who will take further decisions,” said Jayendra Thakor, district child protection officer (DCPO), Surat. Thakor further said that, “We (DCPO) can’t do anything if the minor girl is pushed back to begging by her parents.” The authorities’ decision to return the child to her parents may as well be her going back to square one again. The girl has three more siblings of 3 to 10 years of age while their father had allegedly given them a target of earning Rs 500 per day by begging near Star Bazaar crossroad. The father has been booked by Adajan police for allegedly forcing his minor children into begging. “The girl has been kept in a government facility as her parents could not produce necessary papers to establish their relationship. When the parents are alive, the government cannot get the girl’s surgery done,” Dhaval Patel, district collector, Surat told TOI. As part of a special drive, AHTU sleuths rescued total 19 beggar children from the city in the past 15 days who were admitted to the government children homes. “At the time of admission, medical examination of all the children was done which revealed that the minor has a stone in her bladder,” a police officer told TOI on condition of anonymity. While the doctors at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) advised the children home officials for immediate surgery to remove the stone, the district administration is not in a hurry to decide, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/govt-apathy-adds-to-stone-agony-for-minor-beggar-girl/articleshow/80191229.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 10, 2021||Rajkot||Jeweller cheated of Rs 17 lakh worth gold||Rajkot: A jeweller has lodged a cheating complaint with A division police on Saturday alleging he was duped of Rs 17 lakh by a jewellery-maker in Rajkot. Pradip Radhanpura accused Alpesh Barbhaya of cheating him of gold. Radhapuura who has a jewellery shop in Soni bazaar had given 707.60 gram gold to Barbhaya for making jewellery in August last year. Barbhaya who has a shop on Laxmivadi main road was also given a cheque of Rs 35,000 as advance payment of making charge. The accused was supposed to give Radhanpura the jewellery within two weeks, which he failed to do so and had been buying time. Radhanpura told the police that in September he gave a promissory note of 400 gram gold and also promised to supply the jewellery for the remaining 307.6 gram gold within a few days. But he again failed to keep his promise and Radhanpura approached the cops with his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/jeweller-cheated-of-rs-17-lakh-worth-gold/articleshow/80191476.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Registration & construction of houses on revenue sites barred||BENGALURU: The state government has banned sale and purchase of revenue sites registered outside the municipal corporation after 2013. Sites developed on agricultural lands without land conversion won’t be registered by the stamps and registration department. The government recently issued a memo to all sub-registrars directing them not to register plots that have no permission issued by competent authorities, municipal or panchayat as applicable. For instance, if anyone bought a revenue site after 2013 in Rajanakunte or Nelamangala on the outskirts of Bengaluru, they can neither sell/purchase the site nor build a house. “Registration of revenue sites in the state was stopped by chief minister BS Yediyurappa on the advice of a senior BJP MLA from north Bengaluru,’’ officials in the stamps and registration department said. “This affected our revenue and caused severe problems for middle-class people,’’ they added. The move is an offshoot of increasing irregularities involving land sharks, and sub-registrar and gram panchayat officials. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan said, “While the decision may impact revenue of the stamps and registration department, which has set a target of Rs 12,655 crore for 2020-21, it is essential to control malpractices. There are reports about unscrupulous persons selling sites without land conversion or prior approval.” He added, “In some instances, people have sold revenue sites to multiple people with the collusion of sub-registrars and gram panchayat officials. Unless all documents are in place, properties will not be registered.” This has alarmed hundreds of urban middle-class people, who invested in cheap revenue sites on the city’s outskirts. They hope the government will take a definitive step in regularising theses sites. “We bought a revenue site in Rajanakunte because we were given a sale deed by the government (registered at a sub-registrar office) and therefore thought it was genuine. If there were lapses, why punish the people?’’ asked B Nagendra, a Group D government employee. Some revenue officials say the move could be a blessing for people who prefer apartments instead of sites. ‘Process on in some offices’Sources said registration continues in some offices on the outskirts despite the government diktat if one goes through touts. They said at the Chikkajala sub-registrar office, for example, registration can be done with the help of some middlemen who reportedly possess documents prior to 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/registration-construction-of-houses-on-revenue-sites-barred/articleshow/80191675.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
January 10, 2021||Vadodara||Accused cops deny lie-detection, narco||Vadodara: A sessions court here denied permission to the CID (crime) for conducting lie detection, brain mapping and narco-analysis tests of six cops accused of killing Sheikh Babu Nishar at Fatehgunj police station. The investigating agency had filed an appeal in the sessions court last month after a magisterial court denied them permission for the same tests. The court of additional district judge Y A Bhavsar denied the permission as the accused cops did not give their consents for the tests. During the hearing before the trial court too, the six accused had submitted written statements to the court denying their consent. The sessions court took that into account while relying on the judgements of the Supreme Court and the Gujarat high court that for conducting such tests, the consent of the accused is necessary. The six accused cops including inspector D B Gohil, sub-inspector D M Rabari and lok rakshak dal (LRD) personnel Pankaj Rathod, Yogendrasinh Chauhan, Hitesh Bambhaniya and Rajesh Gadchar, are currently in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/accused-cops-deny-lie-detection-narco/articleshow/80191089.cms||Jay Pachchigar
January 10, 2021||India||MARCOS team joins search for missing Capt||JODHPUR/JAIPUR: A special team of Navy’s MARCOS (Marine Commandos) reached Jodhpur on Saturday to join the search for the Army captain who went missing three days ago during a training exercise at Kaylana Lake. Captain Ankit Gupta (28) of 10 Para jumped into the lake with other personnel during the exercise on Thursday, but while all others showed up, he didn’t surface. An extensive search operation — by Army, NDRF, SDRF — was launched soon after, but Gupta couldn’t be traced till late Saturday. The search will resume on Sunday, ACP Neeraj Sharma said. While the officer is yet to be found, chances of him being alive seem bleak, according to members of the search team. Officials claimed the lake has many fishnets and the Captain might have got stuck in one of those.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/marcos-team-joins-search-for-missing-capt/articleshow/80193971.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi's Ghazipur poultry market shut for 10 days, import of live birds banned||NEW DELHI: With birds dropping dead across the city and test results expected next week for confirming an outbreak of bird flu, the Delhi government on Saturday closed the Ghazipur wholesale poultry market for 10 days and banned import of live birds into the capital. Four parks, including the ones at Hauz Khas and Sanjay Lake, have been closed to the public as a precautionary measure. Till Saturday, there have been 64 officially confirmed bird deaths in the capital though the toll could be many times higher. On Saturday, 10 ducks were found dead at east Delhi’s popular Sanjay Lake while four crows were found dead at Rohini’s Sector 15. DDA sources added that carcasses of 24 crows had been discovered at a district park in south Delhi’s Jasola in the past two days. Samples are being collected and sent to the Regional Disease Diagnosis Laboratory in Jalandhar and the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, ICAR, Bhopal. The results will start trickling in from Monday. “No confirmed case of bird flu has been registered in Delhi till now,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said at a press briefing. Bird flu scare: DDA shuts a few parks as safety stepThe CM said that based on the test results, Delhi government will take decisions and necessary measures. “As a precautionary measure, Delhi is taking several steps to control the spread of bird flu. Import of live birds is being completely banned from today. Second, the Ghazipur poultry market will remain shut for the next 10 days,” he added. The Delhi Development Authority (DDA), which maintains the biggest green spaces and parks in the city, many of which have water bodies as well, has shut down parks in Hauz Khas, Dwarka Sector 9 and Hastsal besides the one at Sanjay Lake as a precautionary measure. “Twenty-four crows died in the past four days at the district park in Jasola. DDA is monitoring the situation closely and is in touch with other government agencies,” a DDA spokesperson said, adding that measures like spraying of disinfectants are being carried out in all DDA parks. Kejriwal said rapid response teams have been formed in every district under the district magistrates to contain the spread and conduct proper surveillance. “Our veterinary officers are conducting surveys at all bird markets, wildlife establishments and water bodies across Delhi,” he said, adding that the government is following all guidelines and directions issued by the Centre on bird flu. He said that the Delhi government has launched a 24×7 helpline – 011-23890318 too. Watch Bird flu scare: Ghazipur poultry market shut for 10 days, imports banned||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-ghazipur-poultry-market-shut-for-10-days-import-of-live-birds-banned/articleshow/80193972.cms||---
January 10, 2021||World||Pope Francis 'astonished' by mob attack on US Capitol||VATICAN CITY: Pope Francis has told an Italian broadcaster that he was "astonished" by the mob attack at the USCapitol due to the democratic traditions of the United States. The pope said in an interview with Mediaset that the private broadcaster is set to air on Sunday that even "in the most mature reality, there is always something that doesn't work, people who take a path against the community, against democracy and against the common good." In a brief excerpt posted on Mediaset's website on Saturday, Francis said , "Thank God this exploded" into the open "so it can be seen, so it can be remedied." "This must be condemned, this movement, regardless of the people" involved, he said of the rioting and violence on Capitol Hill on Wednesday. Supporters seething over President Donald Trump's election loss stormed the Capitol as Congress was finalizing President-elect Joe Biden's victory, believing Trump's false claims of a rigged election. Five people died, including a police officer. "Violence is always like this, isn't it?" the pontiff said. "No population can boast of not having one day a case of violence. It happens in history. But we must understand well, so as not to repeat it, learn from history, learn that groups...that are not well integrated into society, sooner or later will have these eruptions of violence."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/pope-francis-astonished-by-mob-attack-on-us-capitol/articleshow/80193986.cms||---
January 10, 2021||World||Pope Francis 'astonished' by mob attack on US Capitol||VATICAN CITY: Pope Francis has told an Italian broadcaster that he was "astonished" by the mob attack at the USCapitol due to the democratic traditions of the United States. The pope said in an interview with Mediaset that the private broadcaster is set to air on Sunday that even "in the most mature reality, there is always something that doesn't work, people who take a path against the community, against democracy and against the common good." In a brief excerpt posted on Mediaset's website on Saturday, Francis said , "Thank God this exploded" into the open "so it can be seen, so it can be remedied." "This must be condemned, this movement, regardless of the people" involved, he said of the rioting and violence on Capitol Hill on Wednesday. Supporters seething over President Donald Trump's election loss stormed the Capitol as Congress was finalizing President-elect Joe Biden's victory, believing Trump's false claims of a rigged election. Five people died, including a police officer. "Violence is always like this, isn't it?" the pontiff said. "No population can boast of not having one day a case of violence. It happens in history. But we must understand well, so as not to repeat it, learn from history, learn that groups...that are not well integrated into society, sooner or later will have these eruptions of violence."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/pope-francis-astonished-by-mob-attack-on-us-capitol/articleshow/80193987.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: No confirmed case of bird flu, but panic pushes meat demand down||NEW DELHI: Even though not a single case of bird flu has been confirmed in Delhi, the mystery death of birds in some places has impacted the poultry business in the capital. While retail meat sellers in central Delhi and online platforms are holding the prices around Rs 200 per kg, there’s been a drop in outer Delhi areas such as Mehrauli, Dwarka and Narela, with some retailers reporting a rate of Rs 165-170kg, down from Rs 200-220. Mohammed Nasim in southwest Delhi’s Madhu Vihar said that the chicken meat price in his area had declined to Rs180 per kg. “Every order is accompanied by queries,” Nasim said. “There are so many rumours floating in social media sites though not a single bird flu case has been confirmed in Delhi.” Sanjay Chauhan of Kaynat Halal Meat Shop near Mehrauli claimed he has had to reduce the price by Rs 30-50 to around Rs 170 per kg. Retail prices in meat shops in central locations and urban centres are still holding, though there is a slump in demand. A-One meat shop in Dwarka reported selling chicken at the enviable rate of Rs 220 per kg. Shankla Chicken Shop in Mayapuri and Best Meat shop Janakpuri were retailing the meat at Rs 200/kg rate, again with a similar drop in demand. Meat seller Vicky Kumar pleaded to people not to fall prey to rumours and to remember that well-cooked chicken was not harmful. Against the generally stable retail prices, Mohammed Imran, a wholesale dealer in Lajpat Nagar, claimed big falls in wholesale rates and feared a more significant effect of the bird flu fear in the coming days. “People are already apprehensive. While 10 days ago, we were selling live birds at the rate of Rs 90-110 per kg, the prices are now at around Rs 60-65 per kg,” he disclosed. An official of the municipal corporation’s veterinary department said that people needed to be aware about bird flu without panicking. “Wellcooked chicken and eggs don’t spread bird flu,” he advised. “The internal temperature of meat should have reached higher than 73.9 degrees Celsius while cooking and eggs should not be served runny.” Mohammed Arshad Qureshi, who heads Delhi Meat Merchant Association, said that the chicken demand has been seeing a steady drop as people began being more apprehensive about bird flu. “Even though not a single case has been confirmed, the businessmen are already facing losses,” Qureshi claimed. “The prices in wholesale markets like Ghazipur poultry market have dropped and over a longer period, the same is expected in the retail shops if this atmosphere of uncertainty prevails.” Watch Bird flu scare: No confirmed case in Delhi, but panic pushes meat demand down||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-no-confirmed-case-of-bird-flu-but-panic-pushes-meat-demand-down/articleshow/80193988.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Centre issues guidelines for out of school migrant children||Nagpur: In order to mitigate the impact of challenges thrown by the Covid-19 pandemic for out of schoolchildren, Union Ministry of Education (MoE) has issued guidelines for identification, admission and continued education of migrant children. The main features of the guidelines are: A. Continued Education for out of schoolchildren (OoSC) and Children with Special Needs (CWSN)- Continuation of non-residential training for identified out of schoolchildren through volunteers, local teachers and community participation. - Continuation of home based education for CWSN children through volunteers/special educators. B. Identifying out of schoolchildren- States and UTs to carry out proper identification of out of schoolchildren for 6 to 18 years age group through a comprehensive door-to-door survey and prepare action plan for their enrolment. C. Enrolment drives and awareness generation- Enrolment drives may be undertaken at the beginning of academic year such as Praveshotsav, School Chalo Abhiyan etc. - Undertake awareness generation among parents and community for enrolling and attendance of children. - Create awareness on practicing three Covid appropriate behaviour — wear mask, six-feet distance and washing hands with soap for which IEC material shared on November 6, 2020, with the states & UTs. D. Student support while schools are closed- Students to be provided support including counselling, large-scale awareness and targeted home visits. - Using Manodarpan web portal and tele-counseling number for counselling services and psycho-social support. - Distribution of educational material and resources, supplementary graded material, workshops, worksheets etc to support home-based education. - Exploring option of classroom on wheels and classes in small groups at village level. - Increasing the access of children to online/digital resources, TV, radio etc to reduce learning loss - Ensuring easy and timely access to the provisions of uniforms, textbooks and mid-day meal - Timely disbursement of stipend to enrolled CWSN girls through DBT - Strengthening of child protection mechanism at local level E. Student support on school reopening- Preparation and running of school readiness modules/bridge course for initial period when the schools re-open so that they can adjust to the school environment and do not feel stressed or left out. - Identification of students across different grades based on their learning levels. - Relaxing detention norms to prevent drop out this year. - Ensuring reading with comprehension and numeracy skills by encouraging children to read books beyond syllabus and creative writing and problem solving. - Large-scale remedial programmes/learning enhancement programmes to mitigate learning loss and inequality. F. Teacher capacity building- Effective utilization of the online NISHTHA training modules and online training module for corona responsive behaviour to be launched on DIKSHA portal soon. - Use of alternative academic calendar prepared by NCERT for joyful engagement of children in learning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-issues-guidelines-for-out-of-school-migrant-children/articleshow/80200296.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 10, 2021||Nagpur||Finally, GMCH begins discharging patients, not waiting for NIV results||Nagpur: Following directives of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) has finally started to discharge suspected patients of UK mutated variant of Covid-19 without waiting for the genome sequencing results from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune. “Two suspected patients who were admitted to the special ward of GMCH were discharged on Saturday. The report of one patient for the new strain was declared negative by the NIV and so, we discharged him. Another patient who got discharged tested negative in the RT-PCR tests done on 14th and 15th day. This was as per the guidelines of the state government. From now onwards, the same will be followed in case results are awaited from NIV,” municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI. On Saturday, a TOI report had stated that the GMCH did not discharge a 38-year-old suspected patient from Vitthalwadi, Hudkeshwar road, despite he testing negative for the new variant. “It is a big relief for me as I got discharged on Saturday afternoon. My family members welcomed me with flowers. It was an emotional moment. The GMCH staff was very cooperative but the policy was not clear and hence, I suffered,” he said. “I had return ticket for the UK on Sunday but I postponed my plan due to the mutated variant that has emerged there. I also have to begin the treatment of my father who has been diagnosed with cancer,” he said. The other patient who got discharged was a 16-year-old girl from Deendayal Nagar. She along with her parents had returned from the UK and got tested after the NMC asked them to do so. She and her mother tested positive on December 25 and were admitted to the GMCH’s special ward. Results of the duo is awaited from NIV despite swab samples reportedly sent by the GMCH on December 25. GMCH was confused over the discharge of suspected patients in case the results do not come from NIV. The directorate of medical education and research (DMER) had stated that suspected patients will not be discharged till reports are received from NIV. Radhakrishnan then organized a meeting of the Urban Task Force a couple of days ago and issued instructions regarding a discharge policy of UK mutated variant positive and suspected patients whose results are awaited from NIV. The girl’s mother could not be discharged as she tested positive in the RT-PCR test on Friday. As per GMCH officials, she will have to wait till she tests negative in samples of two consecutive days. Two more suspected patients are in GMCH’s special ward. They are a father-son duo from Mahal. The man had tested positive on December 27. His son tested positive on December 30 and was admitted. The sample of one of the two was not tested for genome sequencing by NIV as GMCH sent insufficient quantity. Results of another test are awaited from NIV. RT-PCR tests of the father-son duo will be done on the 14th and 15th day. They will be discharged if the tests are negative. Eight UK returnees had tested positive in RT-PCR tests. They had returned to the city between November 25 and December 23 and asked for tests after their names featured in the list sent by the Bureau of Immigration to the NMC. Three were discharged on Monday after their samples could not be taken for genome sequencing as they tested negative in RT-PCR tests. Forty residents of the city returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa after December 24 and were in quarantine centres. The number of flyers that tested negative in the RT-PCR tests increased to 36 on Saturday. Now, only four are remaining for the tests that will be conducted after the completion of 5-7 days in quarantine centres. IAN *Eight UK returnees tested positive in RT-PCR tests and admitted as suspected patients for new strain in special ward of GMCH * Their samples were sent to NIV * NIV did not conduct genome sequencing on samples of three patients citing tested negative in RT-PCR * They were discharged on Monday * NIV tested one patient negative for new strain on Thursday and discharged him on Saturday * Mother-daughter duo completed 14 days in GMCH on Friday and their results were awaited from NIV * Civic chief asked to discharge as per policy framed for positive patients of mutated variant * Daughter tested negative on two consecutive days in RT-PCR tests so discharged on Saturday * Mother tested positive on Friday so discharge delayed * Results of one of two remaining patients awaited from NIV * Quantity of sample of remaining one patient was found insufficient for genome sequencing by NIV * They will be discharged if tested negative in RT-PCR tests of 14th and 15th day||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-gmch-begins-discharging-patients-not-waiting-for-niv-results/articleshow/80191636.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 10, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru airport to screen first batch of flyers from UK today||BENGALURU: With flights from the UK resuming, more than 300 passengers are expected to land at the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) early on Sunday. This will be the first batch of flyers from Britain in Bengaluru after the recent travel curbs. The central and state governments have issued a new standard operating procedure (SOP) for such passengers following the discovery of the new coronavirus variant in the UK, where cases have soared. It is now mandatory for everyone flying in from the UK to undergo an RT-PCR test for Covid-19 at the airport. Even passengers with Covid negative certificates will have to take a fresh test on arrival. The returnees must stay at the airport till their test reports arrive. “There is a Covid testing lab inside the airport and results will be given in five to six hours,” said Dr Manjula Devi, district health officer, Bengaluru Rural, under whose jurisdiction the international airport falls. During the waiting period, they can move around the airport, but only within a restricted area. A private company known for its rapid RT-PCR kits had approached the state government, offering Covid-19 tests that could produce faster results. The government is yet to consider the proposal. “The rapid RT-PCR costs Rs 4,500 and gives a report within 15 minutes. There is a proposal before the government to buy these kits, but no decision has been taken so far,” said health minister K Sudhakar. On Saturday, Sudhakar visited the airport to inspect the arrangements made for passengers travelling from the UK. Even if a passenger tests negative, they will have to undergo 14 days of mandatory home quarantine. The state health department’s surveillance wing will monitor their condition. If a passenger tests positive on arrival, they will be placed in institutional isolation and then moved to a government-run Covid-19 hospital. The patient’s swab sample will be sent to Nimhans for genomic sequencing, which will help ascertain if the person is infected with the new coronavirus variant or other known versions. The new variant has caused global concerns because it is highly infectious. According to the SOP, the positive person’s co-passengers seated in the same row, three rows in the front and three rows behind will be shifted to institutional quarantine for seven days. The rule also applies to the cabin crew. High-risk primary contacts will undergo tests. An official said that multiple announcements on the SOP would be made during the flight to help passengers mentally prepare themselves. “If they are not prepared, they may get annoyed or refuse to get tested, as it happened in Delhi,” the official said. The new variant was recognised in the UK in September, but was confirmed through genomic sequencing only on December 12-14. India suspended all UK flights from December 23 till January 7. Many countries have since then reported cases of the variant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-airport-to-screen-first-batch-of-flyers-from-uk-today/articleshow/80194021.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra crosses 50,000 Covid deaths, 50% of victims had over 2 co-morbidities||MUMBAI: Exactly 307 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, Maharashtra reached a grim milestone on Saturday with its toll crossing 50,000. Seven out of every 10 dead Covid patients in Maharashtra had a chronic disease, and half the deaths were of those with more than two diseases or co-morbidities, an analysis done by the public health department revealed. Data showed that 29.6% of the victims were in the 60-69 age-group, while every fifth person dead was either in his/her fifties or seventies. Hypertension was the most common co-morbidity (46.7%), followed by diabetes (39.4%). Every fifth victim had both hypertension and diabetes. Only 11% of victims had a heart disease. With the 57 deaths on Saturday taking its toll to 50,027, Maharashtra, the worst hotspot for Covid in India, accounts for a third of India's 1.51 lakh deaths. This means that every third death in India is from Maharashtra. Men comprise almost 70% of state’s Covid-19 fatalities so farThe state has reported more deaths than countries like Germany (40,535), Colombia (45,431) and Argentina (44,273). The closest state in terms of deaths is Tamil Nadu with less than a fourth of Maharashtra’s toll at 12,208. Other worst affected states include Karnataka (12,134) and Delhi (10,654). In a reflection of a global trend noticed since the pandemic broke out in Wuhan in December 2019, more men than women have died in Maharashtra. “The majority of deaths occurred among males at 69.8% (34,499), while the percentage of deaths among women is 30.2,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology department of the state public health department. “Maharashtra has a higher share of co-morbid patients than other states and data collection here is among the best,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said Maharashtra possibly has a higher percentage of elderly people who are at higher risk for Covid-19. However, he added that in most studies across the world, higher death rate among Covid patients was associated with delayed implementation of lockdown or failure to adhere to lockdown rules. It took the state 116 days to report its first 10,000 deaths, while time taken for the second 10,000 was drastically reduced to 36 days, which was further reduced to 30 days for the third 10,000. The time taken to touch 40,000 deaths was just 25 days, but with cornoavirus cases and deaths dipping in the state and city, the time taken to add the fifth 10,000 cases increased to 90 days. With this, the case fatality rate of the state dropped to 2.5%, but it was still higher than the national CFR of 1.5%, officials noted. Dr Awate said that while deaths across Maharashtra were high in the initial months, the numbers have drastically declined in the last two months. “In December, the case fatality rate was around 2%,” he added. Senior officials said one of the reasons for the high fatality rate among people with co-morbidities was also delay in admission. “Most of the deaths also happened due to the delay in admission. The time between admission and death in most cases was merely a few days,” said one of the officials. The official said that this led to the state launching the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign where people with comorbidities were screened and if they were showing symptoms, they were also tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maharashtra-crosses-50000-covid-deaths-50-of-victims-had-over-2-co-morbidities/articleshow/80194046.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 10, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 50,000 Covid deaths, 50% of victims had over 2 co-morbidities||MUMBAI: Exactly 307 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, Maharashtra reached a grim milestone on Saturday with its toll crossing 50,000. Seven out of every 10 dead Covid patients in Maharashtra had a chronic disease, and half the deaths were of those with more than two diseases or co-morbidities, an analysis done by the public health department revealed. Data showed that 29.6% of the victims were in the 60-69 age-group, while every fifth person dead was either in his/her fifties or seventies. Hypertension was the most common co-morbidity (46.7%), followed by diabetes (39.4%). Every fifth victim had both hypertension and diabetes. Only 11% of victims had a heart disease. With the 57 deaths on Saturday taking its toll to 50,027, Maharashtra, the worst hotspot for Covid in India, accounts for a third of India's 1.51 lakh deaths. This means that every third death in India is from Maharashtra. Men comprise almost 70% of state’s Covid-19 fatalities so farThe state has reported more deaths than countries like Germany (40,535), Colombia (45,431) and Argentina (44,273). The closest state in terms of deaths is Tamil Nadu with less than a fourth of Maharashtra’s toll at 12,208. Other worst affected states include Karnataka (12,134) and Delhi (10,654). In a reflection of a global trend noticed since the pandemic broke out in Wuhan in December 2019, more men than women have died in Maharashtra. “The majority of deaths occurred among males at 69.8% (34,499), while the percentage of deaths among women is 30.2,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology department of the state public health department. “Maharashtra has a higher share of co-morbid patients than other states and data collection here is among the best,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said Maharashtra possibly has a higher percentage of elderly people who are at higher risk for Covid-19. However, he added that in most studies across the world, higher death rate among Covid patients was associated with delayed implementation of lockdown or failure to adhere to lockdown rules. It took the state 116 days to report its first 10,000 deaths, while time taken for the second 10,000 was drastically reduced to 36 days, which was further reduced to 30 days for the third 10,000. The time taken to touch 40,000 deaths was just 25 days, but with cornoavirus cases and deaths dipping in the state and city, the time taken to add the fifth 10,000 cases increased to 90 days. With this, the case fatality rate of the state dropped to 2.5%, but it was still higher than the national CFR of 1.5%, officials noted. Dr Awate said that while deaths across Maharashtra were high in the initial months, the numbers have drastically declined in the last two months. “In December, the case fatality rate was around 2%,” he added. Senior officials said one of the reasons for the high fatality rate among people with co-morbidities was also delay in admission. “Most of the deaths also happened due to the delay in admission. The time between admission and death in most cases was merely a few days,” said one of the officials. The official said that this led to the state launching the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign where people with comorbidities were screened and if they were showing symptoms, they were also tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maharashtra-crosses-50000-covid-deaths-50-of-victims-had-over-2-co-morbidities/articleshow/80194047.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 10, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra crosses 50,000 Covid deaths, 50% of victims had over 2 co-morbidities||MUMBAI: Exactly 307 days after the first Covid-19 case was reported in the state, Maharashtra reached a grim milestone on Saturday with its toll crossing 50,000. Seven out of every 10 dead Covid patients in Maharashtra had a chronic disease, and half the deaths were of those with more than two diseases or co-morbidities, an analysis done by the public health department revealed. Data showed that 29.6% of the victims were in the 60-69 age-group, while every fifth person dead was either in his/her fifties or seventies. Hypertension was the most common co-morbidity (46.7%), followed by diabetes (39.4%). Every fifth victim had both hypertension and diabetes. Only 11% of victims had a heart disease. With the 57 deaths on Saturday taking its toll to 50,027, Maharashtra, the worst hotspot for Covid in India, accounts for a third of India's 1.51 lakh deaths. This means that every third death in India is from Maharashtra. Men comprise almost 70% of state’s Covid-19 fatalities so farThe state has reported more deaths than countries like Germany (40,535), Colombia (45,431) and Argentina (44,273). The closest state in terms of deaths is Tamil Nadu with less than a fourth of Maharashtra’s toll at 12,208. Other worst affected states include Karnataka (12,134) and Delhi (10,654). In a reflection of a global trend noticed since the pandemic broke out in Wuhan in December 2019, more men than women have died in Maharashtra. “The majority of deaths occurred among males at 69.8% (34,499), while the percentage of deaths among women is 30.2,” said Dr Pradeep Awate, who heads the epidemiology department of the state public health department. “Maharashtra has a higher share of co-morbid patients than other states and data collection here is among the best,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state task force on Covid-19. Epidemiologist Dr Giridhar Babu said Maharashtra possibly has a higher percentage of elderly people who are at higher risk for Covid-19. However, he added that in most studies across the world, higher death rate among Covid patients was associated with delayed implementation of lockdown or failure to adhere to lockdown rules. It took the state 116 days to report its first 10,000 deaths, while time taken for the second 10,000 was drastically reduced to 36 days, which was further reduced to 30 days for the third 10,000. The time taken to touch 40,000 deaths was just 25 days, but with cornoavirus cases and deaths dipping in the state and city, the time taken to add the fifth 10,000 cases increased to 90 days. With this, the case fatality rate of the state dropped to 2.5%, but it was still higher than the national CFR of 1.5%, officials noted. Dr Awate said that while deaths across Maharashtra were high in the initial months, the numbers have drastically declined in the last two months. “In December, the case fatality rate was around 2%,” he added. Senior officials said one of the reasons for the high fatality rate among people with co-morbidities was also delay in admission. “Most of the deaths also happened due to the delay in admission. The time between admission and death in most cases was merely a few days,” said one of the officials. The official said that this led to the state launching the ‘My Family, My Responsibility’ campaign where people with comorbidities were screened and if they were showing symptoms, they were also tested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-crosses-50000-covid-deaths-50-of-victims-had-over-2-co-morbidities/articleshow/80194026.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal AIMIM leader joins Trinamool||Kolkata: AIMIM’s acting Bengal president S K Abdul Kalam joined Trinamool Congress along with his supporters on Saturday, putting a question mark on party president Asauddin Owaisi’s assembly poll plans. The development came days after Owaisi announced that the AIMIM would contest polls in Bengal. This was the second time AIMIM office-bearers in Bengal had joined Trinamool. A few days ago, Owaisi had reached out to Hooghly’s Furfura Sharif and met prominent Muslim leader Abbas Siddiqui. But Siddiqui didn’t commit anything to the AIMIM chief, fuelling speculation he might float his own outfit ahead of polls. The emergence of Muslim voice in Bengal assumes significance because such a development could take away a chunk of the Trinamool vote share among the minorities. As of now, Trinamool has a clear edge in the 60-odd assembly seats with heavy minority presence, the reason why AIMIM has been the target of Bengal’s ruling party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-aimim-leader-joins-trinamool/articleshow/80193027.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Political affiliations lapse when a guv takes office: Gopalkrishna||Kolkata: “As with judges, so with governors, old affiliations of a political kind lapse before the new constitutional responsibility. Most governors, one may note, from 1947 onwards, have risen to their role,” former West Bengal governor Gopalkrishna Gandhi told TOI on Saturday in an email interview. To emphasise his point, Gandhi cited two examples. “Governor T N Chaturvedi in Karnataka was an NDA-appointee. Yet no one saw in him any trace of political bias. His term of office was quintessentially constitutional. The late Ram Kapse was an ardent member of the Sangh Parivar but as lieutenant governor of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands during the time the 2006 tsunami hit, he was just one thing and nothing else – a turbine of energy – focussed, calm, strong. There was no politics in what he did. There was only duty, constitutional, conscientious duty,” the former governor said. Elaborating what he perceives to be a governor’s role, Gandhi said: “Governor is many things in one – a guardian of the Constitution and the laws in the state, a person the chief minister as well as those in the opposition can turn to for consultation and thought-sharing without hesitation, and one who the people of the state look up to, unconditionally, as someone who cares for them. The governor is also one whom the civil services and other constitutional authorities in the state look upon as a mentor.” He added: “In operational terms, she or he is also meant to be, in President R Venkataraman’s famous description of the role of the President, an emergency light, meant to come on when the ‘main’ power line has gone off, and to provide light till such time as that ‘main’ power line is restored.” Saying his Bengal tenure was “not very different from those of most of my predecessors in office”, Gandhi said: “But I want to remember my years amongst the extraordinary people of West Bengal not by the ‘turbulence’ I may have witnessed but by the high sense of responsibility and maturity that the then chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee and then opposition leader Mamata Banerjee showed when they agreed on a certain approach to solving the Singur impasse. That was responsible democracy at work – a tribute to the mature ethos of the state.” Responding to whether he felt gubernatorial positions had become irrelevant, Gandhi replied in the contrary. “On the contrary, I believe governors today are of greater relevance than ever before because the edge of political competition has become very sharp in our states and the net of alternatives has become extremely tight. This requires the Constitution’s provisions to be followed in the state with great vigilance, objectivity, and sensitivity to the ethos of the state. The person who heads the state, namely the governor, is uniquely – and constitutionally – positioned and mandated to ensure that,” he said. Sharing his thoughts on “freedom of expression” before India celebrates it 75th year of Independence and the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, Gandhi said: “Our independence struggle was fought on the basis that India belongs to its people who belong to no one religion but to many, to no one language but to many, to no one ideology but to the freedoms of belief and expression. We rejected the divisive theory underlying the demand for Pakistan. (Mahatma) Gandhi lived and died for such a united India. Netaji’s Azad Hind Fauj as indeed his political career in its totality clung to the idea of Hindu-Muslim unity. His slogans, his songs, and his statements, each one of them, held the truth that India cannot be free except with respect for its diversities. As we approach the 75th anniversary of our Independence, we must re-affirm that ideal.” On nationalism, Gandhi said: “No one loved India more than Rabindranath Tagore. But not as what it was but as what it was meant by its higher nature to be. Pride in one’s desh is like faith in one’s mother. It is not just about the physicality of one’s country. It is about the pulsations of one’s roots. The desh to which I belong and relate to is the India that Dara Shukoh wanted to see beyond the Mughal Empire, that Matangini Hazra, Bhagat Singh and Gandhi gave their lives for. “It is the India which Tagore portrayed in the words ghora timira ghana nibira nishithe, pirita, murchhita deshe, dusvapne, atanke… (frightening, dense, dark night, immobilized and terror-struck as in a nightmare) and from which condition he appealed to Mother India to redeem it. And it is the India in which, as he writes in the song’s concluding lines, …ratri prabhatila udila robi-chhobi purba udayagiri bhale… (as this night ends, there arises on India’s eastern mountain-face, the glow of a new dawn…)”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/political-affiliations-lapse-when-a-guv-takes-office-gopalkrishna/articleshow/80193136.cms||Saibal Sen
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||2 crore visitors at ‘Duare Sarkar’ camps||Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee announced that till Saturday afternoon, more than 2 core people in the state have received doorstep delivery of government services through the flagship programme ‘Duare Sarkar’ that has reached its third phase. In a tweet, she congratulated all officials for smooth doorstep delivery of the schemes. “Happy to share that as of 4pm today, the total number of visitors in #DuareSarkar camps has crossed 2 crore! I once again congratulate & thank every single GoWB official for ensuring smooth door-step delivery of Govt services & benefits. Thanking all participants too!” Banerjee tweeted. “Almost 90 lakh people across Bengal received different kinds of services. This includes 62 lakh beneficiaries under Swasthya Sathi, 7 lakh beneficiaries who received SC/ST/OBC certificates & 4 lakh beneficiaries who received assistance under Krishak Bandhu,” she wrote. “Further, benefits of other GoWB schemes like Kanyashree, Rupashree, Khadya Sathi, Aikyashree, Shikshashree, Jai Johar, Taposhili Bandhu, Manabik etc were extended to lakhs of people. Everyone who applied for various services at the camps were also provided helping hands,” she added. The four-phased programme was rolled out on December 1 and will continue till January 31. The camps in the first phase were scheduled from December 1-11, second phase from December 15-24, the third is from January 2-12 and the fourth from January 18-30. Altogether 665 camps are presently functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/2-crore-visitors-at-duare-sarkar-camps/articleshow/80193172.cms||Saibal Gupta
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Nagpur man’s body found in Damodar||Kulti: The body of a 25-year-old man was found floating in the Damodar in West Burdwan’s Kulti on Friday night. An Aadhaar card found on the body suggests that the deceased was a resident of Nagpur, Maharashtra. Police are investigating how he ended up dead in the river in Bengal. “We have fished out the body of a young man from Damodar at Imli Dhawra (under Kulti PS). We suspect the river current brought it here. The Aadhaar card we found in his possession identifies him as Jarnalsingh Babusingh Chitodiya of Kamaleshwar in Nagpur. We have informed Nagpur police. The body has been sent to Asansol district hospital for post-mortem,” an officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nagpur-mans-body-found-in-damodar/articleshow/80193147.cms||Mohammad Asif
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Nadda: Roadshow is a hint to BJP poll sweep||Burdwan: BJP national president J P Nadda got a warm welcome in West Bengal’s rice bowl and former Red citadel Burdwan a month into the attack on his convoy in South 24 Parganas on December 9. Buoyed by the turnout in Burdwan town, similar to Union home minister Amit Shah’s roadshow in Bolpur, Nadda announced that people in Bengal had made up their mind to bid farewell to the Mamata Banerjee government in the 2021 assembly polls. “The huge turnout at the roadshow and the enthusiasm among the crowd today bear out that BJP is going to sweep Bengal elections. I saw the wave today, it will turn into a tsunami soon. BJP will get more than 200 seats,” Nadda said. Before joining the Burdwan roadshow, the BJP president launched Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan at Musthuli village in Burdwan’s Katwa in defence of the Centre’s farm laws when farmers were agitating at the Singhu border near Delhi, with the Centre yet to break the stalemate after eight rounds of talks. The scene in Musthuli, in Katwa II block, threw up a contrast when Nadda visited four farmer families on foot, picking up a handful of paddy from each household and pasted stickers of Krishak Suraksha Abhiyan. At a rally in Jagadananda village earlier in the day, the BJP president said: “As many as 26 lakh farmers from Bengal had self-registered for Kisan Samman Nidhi. None of them got the benefits because Mamata Banerjee didn’t allow it.” “Now, when we have launched the programme of reaching out to 40,000 gram sabhas, the CM writes to the PM that she will allow the scheme in the state,” he added. The BJP president pegged his narrative on three points — tolabaji, tushtikaran and cut money — and held that these do not represent Bengal’s culture. “Bengal has a rich heritage and culture. Does it match with cut money that has become the buzzword now? Does the CM’s remark on the PM go well with Bengali culture? Did Bengal come across chal chors, tripal chors earlier? Is it Bengal’s culture to throw stones at the convoy of an opposition leader?” he said. The BJP president then cited figures to show how Bengal had fared during the Trinamool regime. “Bengal stands 24th in agricultural income. I saw the plight of farmers when I visited the villages today. And Mamata Banerjee has been claiming that income has grown by 200%,” he said. Nadda announced that BJP would implement Kisan Samman Nidhi and Ayushman Bharat in Bengal soon after it is voted to office. On the law and order situation in the state, the BJP chief said: “You will recall that I offered tarpan at Bagbazar ghat for 100 BJP workers killed up to that time. Now the list of BJP victims has jumped to 300.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/nadda-roadshow-is-a-hint-to-bjp-poll-sweep/articleshow/80193044.cms||Mohammad Asif
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Asansol gets new civic administrator||Burdwan: The state government has appointed Amarnath Chatterjee as the new civic administrator of Asansol Municipal Corporation, days after Jitendra Tiwari stepped down and gave up all party posts. Chatterjee is the outgoing councillor of ward 30 and a former municipality chairman. The Trinamool board in Asansol completed its five-year tenure on October 14, 2020, following which mayor Jitendra Tiwari took over as administrator. Chatterjee was also a member of the nominated board of administrators. The government move has put a question mark on the political future of Tiwari even after he made peace with Trinamool and withdrew his announcement of leaving the party. According to Trinamool insiders, the party is keeping tabs on Tiwari’s future course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asansol-gets-new-civic-administrator/articleshow/80193035.cms||Mohammad Asif
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Mamata, Buddhadeb & Sourav on Netaji panel||Kolkata: Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee has been named as a member of the panel set up by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to oversee the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose. The panel also includes former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee, Bengal governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and BCCI president and former Team India captain Sourav Ganguly. Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury and Trinamool Congress’ Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay have been included in the panel other than Union home minister Amit Shah and his Bengal BJP colleagues Dilip Ghosh and Suvendu Adhikari. The announcement came days after the Bengal CM set up a committee to organise Netaji birthday celebrations in the state though it didn’t include anyone from BJP. The Centre’s panel also includes prominent citizens from Bengal, namely General Shankar Roy Chowdhury, film director Kaushik Ganguly and actor Mithun Chakrabarty. Governments, both state and central, have set up such panels ahead of 2021 Bengal elections because Netaji’s legacy continues to hold sway in the state. Modi met many members of the Bose family in Delhi in 2015 though they have different political leanings. CM Banerjee, on the other hand, “declassified” the Netaji files with the state government and wanted the PM to do the same with all such files in Delhi. She has also demanded that the Centre announce a national holiday on Netaji’s birthday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mamata-buddhadeb-sourav-on-netaji-panel/articleshow/80193102.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Sunderbans ends Covid year with two dozen man-animal conflicts||KOLKATA: In a five-year high, 24 lives were lost in man-animal conflict in the Indian Sunderbans in Covid year, the last reported on the last day of 2020, as economic distress pushed people deeper into tiger territory. At least 18 of the 24 deaths — mostly after villagers ventured into the swamps to collect crabs, fish and firewood — were reported after Cycl-one Amphan last May. Tiger attacks claimed 13 lives in both 2019 and 2018. In 2017 and 2016, the count stood at 11 and 6, respectively. While foresters are still compiling data, local sources said the actual figures could surpass 24 as many cases go unreported due to the hostile terrain of the mangroves. Experts pointed out how lockdown-induced unemployment and Amphan resulted in higher dependence on natural resources — a phenomenon also noticed after Cyclone Aila struck in 2009. On December 31, 2020, a villager of Lahiripur Chargheri was killed by a tiger in Baghmara II forest — a part of the core area where fishing is banned. Sources revealed that the deceased fisherman, 42-year-old Prashanta Mondal, had gone on the trip along with three others. A senior researcher on the Sunderbans, who has been tracking the developments post-lockdown and Amphan, said apart from those who lost jobs and returned to their homes, villagers who had stopped venturing into the woods have now started re-entering the forests, raising chances of a “fatal outcome”. “I interviewed 19 people from villages under Sandeshkhali II and Patharpratima and 17 of them returned home after losing their jobs in lockdown in Gujarat, TN and Kerala. Two others, who were staying here and had stopped entering the forest, are now resorting to their old skills of catching crabs,” said Anurag Danda, senior visiting fellow with Observer Research Foundation. Danda said of the 17 who started depending on the forest afresh for a living, one lost his life soon after his arrival. “Negotiating the muddy terrain to catch crabs is also a skill. Years of detachment have dented their skills, making them more prone to tiger attacks,” he added. On December 27, Kaushalya Aulia (48) of Lahiripur Duttapara was killed after she ventured into the forests near Kalir Char — also a core area. Her body, though, could be recovered. A senior forest official said in many cases, particularly when bodies can’t be recovered, they don’t have information on the actual place of incidence — an indication of the mismatch between official and unofficial data. “Most of these accidents are taking place in areas where fishing is banned. There are hardly 4-5 cases where victims’ families are entitled to compensation. For the rest, we officially don’t register them as there is no question of claiming compensation,” he added. Sunderbans Tiger Reserve field director Tapas Das said the lure of crabs — a kg of which is sold for anything between Rs 500 and Rs 700 — was forcing villagers to enter prohibited areas. “To catch crabs one has to get down from the boat and scan mudflats, which makes him/her an easy prey,” Das said, adding that the department has conducted awareness campaigns, given leaflets and even distributed LPG cylinder kits so that fishermen don’t venture into the woods in search of firewood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sunderbans-ends-covid-year-with-two-dozen-man-animal-conflicts/articleshow/80193429.cms||Krishnendu Mukherjee
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||VB VC urges CM to review road decision||Santiniketan: Visva-Bharati vice-chancellor and a section of teachers and staff have appealed to chief minister Mamata Banerjee to reconsider the government decision to take back the stretch of Sriniketan-Santiniketan Road that runs through the campus. The CM, during her visit to the university town late last month, had asked the state PWD to reclaim the stretch it had given for maintenance to VB following complaints by residents that the varsity authorities were acting arbitrarily and creating hurdles in using of the road. On January 1, the Birbhum district administration took physical possession of the road. On Thursday, Trinamool Congress district president Anubrata Mondal launched the ‘renovation work’ of the road. In a letter to the CM on Saturday, VC Bidyut Chakraborty expressed apprehension that encroachments that had been removed over the past three years would return. He also expressed fear that use of the road by heavy vehicles would cause damage to heritage buildings on campus. The letter has been accompanied by an appeal from 350 “members of the VB family”. The VC refuted allegations and clarified the road was never closed for movement of common people with small vehicles, bikes and scooters. In the morning, the VC and other VB employees sat at Chhatimtala for around one and a half hours invoking the return of tranquillity in Tagore’s abode of peace. A group of students sat beyond the fence to protest against some decisions of university authorities, including suspension of a professor on disciplinary grounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vb-vc-urges-cm-to-review-road-decision/articleshow/80193092.cms||Someswar Boral
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||Guv meets home minister, BJP leader in Delhi||Kolkata: Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar met Union home minister Amit Shah at his Delhi home on Saturday and gave him updates on the role of the state administration ahead of the 2021 assembly polls in West Bengal. Prior to the meeting, the governor made a “courtesy call” on BJP organisation secretary B L Santosh, who had been in Bengal for the last few months. Dhankhar has always said he is not a stakeholder in politics. “I am not concerned with the political outcome in the state. I am concerned with the conduct of elections in accordance with law. As governor, I want to ensure that people come out to vote without fear,” he had said in Kalyani on Saturday. The governor didn’t divulge details of his meeting with Shah. But he made it loud and clear that his aim was to ensure free elections in Bengal without “violence and fear”. On Saturday, Dhankhar said that governors and citizens had a role to play in elections. “You may ask about the role of governor in the conduct of elections. The Election Commission of India is competent enough to hold elections. But the governor, and every citizen, has a role to play. The governor has a role to protect the interests of people under Article 159 of the Constitution,” he said. While justifying his role, Dhankhar referred to the “bloodshed” in the 2018 rural polls in Bengal and also the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. “Governance has no meaning in a democracy unless elections are held in accordance with law,” he said. Dhankhar felt a majority of public servants in the state administration were discharging their duties as stipulated in the Constitution. “There are a few who have political stakes. Public servants shouldn’t work as political activists,” he said. The governor has a ready dossier of key persons in police and administration. The Union home minister would consult the governor before firming up his steps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/guv-meets-home-minister-bjp-leader-in-delhi/articleshow/80193051.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||IPS officers move Calcutta HC over CBI summons||KOLKATA: IPS officers Angshuman Saha and Kollol Ghonai have moved Calcutta High Court challenging summons served on them by CBI in connection with a cattle smuggling case. The summons had been served under Section 160 IPC. While Ghonai is IG of the state IB, Saha is DC headquarters of Asansol, Durgapur Police. In their petitions, the duo contended that CBI had no authority to summon IPS officers of the state without sanction of or permission from the Bengal government. They also pleaded that the state had withdrawn general sanction — earlier granted to CBI — in 2018. They pleaded that these (summons) should be quashed by the HC. The petitions are likely to be listed before the court of Justice Sabyasachi Bhattacharyya next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ips-officers-move-hc-over-cbi-summons/articleshow/80193197.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
January 10, 2021||Kolkata||‘Tourists and outsiders’: TMC slams J P Nadda visit||KOLKATA: Trinamool Congress leaders on Saturday hit out at BJP “tourists” and “outsiders” coming to West Bengal, strumming the chords of Bengali ‘asmita’. Trinamool senior and MP Saugata Roy said BJP president J P Nadda should have striven to find a solution to the continuing farmer agitation at Singhu, near Delhi, instead of coming down to Bengal. “The BJP-led government has failed to break the stalemate at Singhu after eight rounds of talks. As many as 60 farmers died due to faulty policies of the BJP government. The BJP president should have addressed the problem instead of coming down to Bengal. The fact remains that the Centre has withdrawn minimum support price (MSP) for agricultural produce. The BJP president is behaving like a joker. Bengal farmers are firmly with Mamata Banerjee,” Roy said. Later, addressing a Trinamool gathering at Barrackpore railway station, Roy said: “People living in Bengal are Bengalis. Several communities — Hindu, Muslims, Christians and others — live here in harmony. But people like Nadda, chadda, hadda, Amit Shah and others, coming to Bengal ahead of assembly polls, are all outsiders.” At Bhatpara, Trinamool senior and Bengal urban development minister Firhad Hakim said BJP’s divisive politics was against Bengal’s culture and heritage. “A country doesn’t progress by dividing people. Look at Pakistan. It has slid down the GDP ladder. But Bangladesh could make major strides by declaring itself a secular country. People of Bengal are not used to division in terms of religion,” he said. Trinamool MP Kakoli Ghosh Dastidar described BJP leaders coming to the state as “tourists” visiting ahead of Bengal polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tourists-and-outsiders-tmc-slams-nadda-visit/articleshow/80193050.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 92-year-old’s organs save 56-year-old woman||NEW DELHI: A 92-year-old man, who was declared brain dead after suffering from a haemorrhagic stroke recently, became one of the oldest cadaver donors in the world. By donating his liver and kidneys post-death, Amrit Lal Budhraja saved the life of a 56-year-old woman, who had been suffering from endstage liver and kidney disease. The deceased donor was a retired officer of the Research & Analysis Wing. He was healthy and physically active till recently. On January 5, Budhraja was rushed to Max Super Specialty hospital in Saket with complaints of weakness in his limbs. Tests confirmed that he was suffering from aneurysmal bleed or bleeding from the dilated blood vessels of the brain. Despite sustained efforts by a multidisciplinary team of doctors and an emergency surgery to drain the blood, his condition continued to deteriorate, doctors at Max Saket said. Budhraja was declared brain dead on January 7. After that, the family was approached for organ donation and once they gave the go-ahead, the nonagenarian’s liver, kidneys, and corneal tissue were harvested. “Donating the organs was not an easy decision to make. But we are happy we did it,” Preeti Budhraja, the 92-year-old’s daughter-inlaw, told TOI. She added that her mother-in-law felt proud of her husband’s final act. “Jaate jaate kitna bada kaam kar gaye (he did such a great service while parting),” Nirmal Budhraja, the bereaved wife of the deceased donor, told family members, according to her daughter-in-law. The deceased’s liver and kidneys were used to give a new lease of life to a 56-year-old woman suffering from polycystic liver and kidney disease. She underwent a liver and kidney transplant, both using the organs donated by the RAW retired officer. The transplant surgery was challenging because the donor was an elderly person and though his liver and kidneys were functioning well, they had to be harvested and transplanted in record time. “The biological age of the liver and kidneys of the donor was much lower than his actual age. He did not have diabetes or any other serious chronic condition. The liver and kidneys were fully functional and therefore we decided to use the organs for transplant. However, in such cases it is important to harvest and implant in minimal time to prevent cold storage related damage,” Dr Subhash Gupta, chairman, Max Centre for Liver and Biliary Sciences, said. First, the doctor said, they conducted the liver transplant. Post that, another team of doctors led by Dr Anant Kumar, who is head of urology and renal transplant division at the hospital, carried out the kidney transplant. “The donor led a pretty active lifestyle, and his organs were quite healthy till his last breath. While we were a little unsure about the condition of the kidneys, they proved to be in a healthy condition and both the kidneys have now been transplanted in the recipient. The recipient is under observation and thankfully, is doing well for now,” Dr Kumar added. Brain death refers to the irreversible loss of brain functions, which must be certified by a team of experts as per the law. Once a patient is declared brain dead, multiple organs and tissues can be harvested — including the heart, kidney, lung, liver, and pancreas, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-92-year-olds-organs-save-56-year-old-woman/articleshow/80194028.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 10, 2021||India||Mamata on PM Modi panel on Netaji anniv celebrations||NEW DELHI: An 85-member panel headed by PM Narendra Modi has been formed to commemorate the 125th birth anniversary of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose, the government said on Saturday. The members include 10 Union ministers and seven CMs who will decide on the activities to be undertaken for the year-long commemoration planned by the government. Union ministers Amit Shah, Rajnath Singh and Nirmala Sitharaman are among those who are part of the panel. Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee and her predecessor Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee both have found place in the panel. With the Bengal polls around the corner, the panel has a host of BJP members and central ministers from the state as members. Suvendu Adhikari, who resigned from TMC to join BJP last month, has been included. Members also include historians, authors, citizens, and members of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose’s family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mamata-on-pm-modi-panel-on-netaji-anniv-celebrations/articleshow/80194053.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Chennai||Europe shut, Pongal vacationers eye Kashmir||CHENNAI: Itching to travel but with pandemic restrictions still looming large, travellers have started to make plans, but mostly closer home. With the new Covid-19 strain and associated restrictions ruling out travel to Europe and southeast Asia, people who prefer holidays in Jammu and Kashmir, Goa and Sikkim for Pongal and for the Republic Day extended weekend. However, people are yet to firm up travel plans for summer holidays. Travel and tour operators say that domestic travel for leisure has revived by around 50% as the fear is slowly reducing. Sriharan Balan of Madura Travels said, "People are travelling to Jammu and Kashmir, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala for the holidays and package tours to these places have resumed . It's mostly youngsters who travel to Goa and they prefer to travel alone or with friends." This Pongal, many are planning local getaway spots and want to travel out of the state during the R-Day extended weekend. "People are going to Pollachi, Courtallam and Coonoor that are offbeat local destinations. People do not want to sightsee much. Instead, they would prefer to visit a place and relax," said Sriharan. People are also encouraged to travel domestic because the cost is low. Tours can be booked for 7,500 per person as against the average cost of 14,000 to Jammu and Kashmir. Basheer Ahmed of Travel Agents Federation of India (TAFI) said that "Leisure and budget travellers are looking at domestic travel. Those who could not afford Maldives are preferring Goa. Many prefer to stay in resorts." For those eyeing international destinations, Dubai and Maldives are the only option available as the traditionally popular destinations from Chennai like Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand are not open. Dubai is offering discounts for hotels, have relaxed quarantine rules and is holding a shopping festival, making it a feasible destination. Since Maldives is expensive with a trip costing Rs1lakh per day per person, people who cannot afford it are travelling to Goa where a family of four can travel for 75,000 to 1.2lakh. Though holiday travel and weekend travel has resumed, people are yet to decide about summer vacations. "We have to find out what will interest people," said Basheer Ahmed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-europe-shut-pongal-vacationers-eye-kashmir/articleshow/80194054.cms||---
January 10, 2021||Gurgaon||Biker falls into pit at Gurugram underpass site, dies||GURUGRAM: A 31-year-old man riding his bike fell earlier this week into a 20-foot water-filled pit dug up for a U-turn underpass that is being built along the border on the Gurugram-Delhi expressway and succumbed to his injuries on Friday night. A police case has been filed against the private contractor who the NHAI has awarded the project to. The accident happened near Radisson Hotel on the Sirhaul border on January 4 when Sanjeev Sethi was returning home to Sonia Vihar in Delhi around 10pm. Police are scanning CCTV footage to ascertain how the accident took place. It appears Sethi had driven close to the edge of the pit and his bike skid into it. He was rescued by passersby and rushed to hospital. The underpass is being constructed in the middle of the two carriageways of the expressway. Although the contractor engaged by NHAI had placed cement barricades along the pit, there was enough gap for even an autorickshaw to pass through. Sources said as it had rained heavily on January 4, water from the Aravalis and adjoining areas had gushed down and collected inside the pit, which was almost filled to the surface. Biker death: Victim’s kin blame contractorThe soil near its edge had become loose too and the walls of the pit had caved in, bringing it dangerously close to the road. Sanjeev’s brother Manoj said the 31-year-old would take the expressway to the city every day and returned home late. “He may have veered too close to the pit, which was filled with rain water, and fell 20 feet into it. Passers-by took him to a nearby private hospital. A few hours later, he was identified from a photo ID that was in his pocket,” Manoj said. Sanjeev, who was shifted to Safdarjung Hospital after his condition deteriorated, was placed on ventilator support. He died during treatment on Friday night. Manoj has lodged a complaint at Udyog Vihar police station against the NHAI contractor. The private contractor, who is yet to be identified, has been booked under IPC Sections 283 (danger and obstruction in public way), 304A (culpable homicide) and 427 (causing damage). It was only after the accident was reported that police put up cloth and tapes between the cement barricades to prevent commuters from straying too close to the edge. Inspector Satbir Singh, the station house officer of Udyog Vihar police station, said they were scanning CCTV footage to find how Sanjeev fell into the pit. “Appropriate action will be taken against the officials concerned after a thorough investigation. We will also record the statement of the contractor,” said Singh. Sanjeev’s body was handed over to his family after an autopsy on Friday night. Manoj alleged negligence on the part of the NHAI contractor. "Only the contractor is responsible for the death of my brother. They had not made proper arrangements to ensure the safety of commuters. Had the area been properly barricaded, the accident would not have happened in the first place," he said. Vikas Mittal, the NHAI project manager, said he was unaware of the accident as the contractor had not informed any of them. “We’ll inspect the area and appropriate action will be taken against him if there is any negligence on his part," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/biker-falls-into-pit-at-gurugram-underpass-site-dies/articleshow/80194059.cms||Bagish Jha
January 10, 2021||India||Covid management under CAG scanner||NEW DELHI: The Comptroller and Auditor General has started an audit on Covid-19 pandemic management, with field studies in eight states to evaluate procurement and availability of drugs and equipment and paramedics in public health centres and efficacy of the first response system in hinterlands. Speaking exclusively to TOI, CAG GC Murmu said the audit will also look into vaccine distribution, appraisal of the Central government health system, the ESI (Employees’ State Insurance Corporation) hospitals and dispensaries and state health infrastructure. The report will be completed within 3-4 months and tabled before Parliament. “We have started to audit how effectively the pandemic has been handled in various states. The case study will be carried out with field visits in West Bengal, Karnataka, Maharashtra, MP, UP, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Telangana — and will look into the procurements and availability of drugs, equipment in the public health centres, availability of paramedics and the overall response system in the hinterlands,” Murmu said. “This audit will also highlight good practices and innovations applied by different states,” the CAG said. The audit will be carried out by CAG officials having expertise in auditing health systems in the past and also by engaging outside experts, if needed. The auditor had in 2019 audited the districts hospitals in UP where it had compared practices in these hospitals with the national health standards and WHO guidelines taking help from experts hired from the NIPFP (National Institute of Public Finance and Policy) and AIIMS. The CAG emphasised on bringing in more transparency in the system to make it more efficient and professional. Murmu said the pandemic did affect completion of several audit reports whose finalisation has been delayed. However, work on finishing them has been in progress and by 2022 all the sectoral and state reports will be regularised. The CAG is an enabler in the development process and compliments government’s various reforms initiatives through its performance and compliance audits, he said. The CAG has also recently started outcome audits which look at central sector schemes, especially the objectives achieved through the implementation of these schemes. External experts are hired related to fields as diverse as climate change, education, metro rail and science and technology departments. For instance, there have been audits to check if the learning abilities of students in government schools have improved and if expenditure on schooling had proved effective. These audits go beyond analysing expenditure and utilisation certificates by asking if it has improved life of the beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-management-under-cag-scanner/articleshow/80194072.cms||Pradeep Thakur
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Antimicrobial resistance hurting global war against Covid-19: Chandigarh doctors||CHANDIGARH: The overuse of antibiotics against a viral pandemic can weaken the global war, say public health experts who deliberated on the topic in Chandigarh. Fortis-Mohali pharmacology consultant Dr Shivani Juneja said: “The misuse of antibiotics during Covid-19 could accelerate the spread of antimicrobial resistance. A virus, not a bacteria, causes Covid-19, so anti-bacterial medicine shouldn't be used for treating or preventing it, unless bacterial infections are also present. Taking antimicrobials without prescription will not only promote antibiotic resistance but also lead to adverse drug effects, high cost, and complications.” Dr Juneja said: “Across the world, chemists sell antimicrobials, which include antibiotics, without prescription. The scale and effect of this practice are unknown. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) happens when the bacteria, fungi, and viruses develop the ability to defeat the medicines designed to kill them. It makes even common infections harder to treat. The risk of spread and the severity of the disease increase.” Antimicrobials are crucial curing agents for humans, animals, and plants. The misuse and overuse of antimicrobials allow drug-resistant infections to develop. Poor medical prescribing practices, over-the-counter use, and patient's adherence contribute to the AMR. Often, antimicrobials are prescribed incorrectly for those illnesses or are taken without proper medical supervision. The irrational use of antibiotics has allowed dangerous bacterial strains to emerge. Even the most powerful antibiotics are ineffective against these strains, which make even common infections life-threatening. In its battle against antimicrobial resistance, the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has also released its policy for the management of these cases in adults. Antimicrobial awareness week is on at the PGI. Institute director Dr Jagat Ram said: “Anti-microbial resistance is a big concern across the world. The overuse and abuse of antimicrobial medicine is the major factor. The PGI's antimicrobial stewardship committee (AMSC) has brought out a comprehensive document to promote appropriate use of antibiotics." The guidelines prescribe a culture of appropriate diagnostics and staff training on best practices for antimicrobial use. AMSC convener Dr Nusrat Shafique said: "The document will be shared across platforms and the hospitals will be free to modify it according to their conditions." The World Health Organisation had cautioned us in 2019 that if the overuse of antibiotics didn't stop, we could go back to the times when it was hard to treat infections such as tuberculosis, pneumonia, salmonellosis, and gonorrhoea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/antimicrobial-resistance-hurting-global-war-against-covid-19-chandigarh-doctors/articleshow/80192827.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Two-BHK row: G Kishan Reddy, KT Rama Rao take potshots||HYDERABAD: Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and municipal administration minister KT Rama Rao took potshots at each other during a programme held to inaugurate 2-BHK housing units in the city on Saturday. This was the first time that the two leaders shared the dais after the December GHMC elections even as workers of the TRS and BJP raised slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao respectively. Kishan Reddy said there are a large number of homeless poor in Secunderabad parliamentary constituency - which he represents - and urged the CM to speed up construction of 2-BHK units. "The construction works on 2-BHK housing have been going on for three to four years and the units are being inaugurated now," he said. KTR along with then MLA from Musheerabad, K Laxman of the BJP, had laid the foundation stone in the TRS government's first term. Centre ready to support pro-poor schemes: KishanRefusing to be browbeaten, KTR said it was only Telangana government in the entire country which had taken up the 2-BHK housing project at a cost of ₹9,714 crore. However, appealing to the BJP to work in coordination with TRS, he said: “Let’s not fight. Once polls are over, all the parties and elected representatives must work in coordination and respect each other.” Agreeing to this, Kishan Reddy said the central government is ready to support pro-poor schemes of the state government. He said: “There is also a need to protect the brand image of Hyderabad and take it to the international level.” At this, KTR said each 2-BHK unit’s market value is about ₹50 lakh. “But, we are giving it for free to the homeless poor.” Referring to the Union minister’s remark that there were several homeless poor, KTR said: “Yes, there are lots of poor living on defence land in Cantonment area and waiting for land pattas to be given to them. I request Kishan Reddy to take responsibility of getting the land from the defence ministry for allotment of house site pattas and for construction of traffic congestion-easing projects such as flyovers in the Cantonment area.” With MLC graduates constituency elections and Nagarjuna Sagar assembly bypolls soon, the turf war to gain supremacy is likely to intensify further, analysts said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/two-bhk-row-g-kishan-reddy-kt-rama-rao-take-potshots/articleshow/80194088.cms||Roushan Ali
January 10, 2021||Hyderabad||Spurious toddy claims 1; 100 fall ill in Telangana's Vikarabad||HYDERABAD: One person died and at least 100 people fell sick on Saturday after they consumed adulterated toddy in 11 villages of Vikarabad district. Two of them, who were critical, were shifted to Hyderabad for better treatment. People of Vikarabad and Nawabpet mandals were among those affected and rushed to hospitals. P Ramulu (65), who belonged to Chittigidda village in Nawabpet mandal, consumed the toddy on Friday and took ill. He succumbed a day later. By the end of Saturday, 57 people were admitted to hospitals, including 49 in the government area hospital, four in Mahaveer Hospital and two in Sai Dental Hospital in Vikarabad, officials said. Initially, it was speculated that people were feeling sick because of some mysterious illness. Several people went into convulsions and fell unconscious. Later, it became clear that all of them, including men, women and youth, had consumed the adulterated toddy. The spurious toddy was learnt to have been supplied from Chittigidda to Erravalli and other villages. Samples sent for analysisExcise officials collected the samples of the spurious toddy from the villages and sent them for analysis. District collector Pausumi Basu said arrangements have been made to shift seriously ill patients to hospitals in Vikarabad and Hyderabad. “We kept ambulances ready to shift patients to Hyderabad if necessary,” she said. She said some of the villagers have recovered and left for their homes. Basu, who visited Vikarabad primary healthcare centre, said around 35 patients were admitted to the hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spurious-toddy-claims-1-100-fall-ill-in-telanganas-vikarabad/articleshow/80194098.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 10, 2021||India||Intranasal vax shows superior protection in animals: Biotech||HYDERABAD: Even as Bharat Biotech has applied to the Indian drug regulator for permission to conduct Phase-I/II trials of its intranasal Covid-19 candidate code named BBV154, the company said the candidate has already shown superior protection against SARS-CoV-2 in animal studies. BBV154 is a single-dose vaccine made using novel chimpanzee adenovirus. “Mice and hamsters immunized with a single dose of ChAd-SARS-CoV-2-S conferred superior protection against SARS-CoV-2 challenge, more so than one or two intramuscular immunizations of the same vaccine and dose. Post-challenge with SARS-CoV-2, viral clearance was observed in both lower and upper airways,” the company said on its website. The pre-clinical testing for toxicology, immunogenicity and challenge studies were conducted in US and India. The results of the study have also been uploaded on biorxiv, a server that carries preprints of research work before it is peer reviewed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/intranasal-vax-shows-superior-protection-in-animals-biotech/articleshow/80194108.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 10, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana deputy speaker gets heckled at in-laws’ village||HISAR: The BJP leaders in Hisar district are at the receiving end due to the intensifying of the farmers’ protest, and the organisers are even asking them to skip scheduled events. Haryana deputy speaker Ranbir Gangwa got a black-flag welcome from farmers at Arya Nagar village on Saturday, and a brick hurled by someone in the crowd shattered the rear view mirror of his car and left his gunman injured. Police have registered a case against the farmers in this regard. Apprehending such a scenario, Jitendra Kumar, the sarpanch of Jakhod Khera village, had on Friday cancelled a function where the which deputy speaker was to inaugurate projects. Gangwa’s gunman hurt during protestThe sarpanch, who was in the JJP and is now backing the farmers, got the Rs 1.5 crore development works inaugurated by the village chowkidar. Gangwa was to open a park, stadium, Jat Dharamshala, dispensary, hall room and courtyard of the village panchayat. Gangwa, who was the chief guest at an event to distribute blankets under a social welfare program at Aryanagar – which happens to be his in-laws’ village – had to face the farmers’ ire. His injured gunman Sandeep has been admitted to hospital for treatment-.Gangwa has confirmed that his gunman had been injured and his vehicle damaged. Police spokesperson Vikas has confirmed that a case has been registered against the farmers. Similarly, farmers also held a demonstration at BJP’s mandal-level training camp at Barwala on Saturday, impacting attendance. The training camp is to conclude on Sunday and farmers have warned of a bigger protest. While BJP district secretary Sajeev Revari said that the protesters were not farmers, but communist party workers as they carried a red flag, farmer leader Balwan Sunda announced that a bigger protest would be held at any programme scheduled for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-deputy-speaker-gets-heckled-at-in-laws-village/articleshow/80194117.cms||KUMAR MUKESH
January 10, 2021||India||When it comes to China, France and its European partners have a very clear strategy, which was set out by the European Union in 2019 which defines China in three words — a partner, a competitor and a systemic rival||As India’s ties with France have deepened to becoming one of the most consequential bilateral relationships, both countries overcame the limitations of the Covid pandemic to hold the strategic dialogue between NSA Ajit Doval and Emmanuel Bonne, President Macron’s diplomatic adviser. Sitting down for a conversation with TOI, Bonne said, “we work together as sovereign partners, with a strong willingness to address international challenges in a post-Covid world which will make it necessary for like-minded countries to join forces.” 1. What were your discussions with NSA and the Indian leadership? My discussions are part of the Indo-French Strategic dialogue, where we talk in full confidence on a wide range of security and defenceissues. We have solid, reliable and consistent cooperation on strategic affairs with India. We are committed partners, we have very solid platforms that we work on and we have ambitions. We have a clear vision — in terms of regional security and Indo-Pacific. We’re addressing global issues of terrorism and new threats like cyber. We approach this with one conviction — that we work together as sovereign partners, with a strong willingness to address international challenges in a post-Covid world which will make it necessary for like-minded countries to join forces, based on clear rules and a common understanding of what needs to be done. 2. How would you describe our present cooperation in the Indo-Pacific?The basis for our cooperation are the speeches by President Macron in Australia and prime minister Modi at the Shangri La Dialogue. They provide a comprehensive framework of cooperation between France and India in the Indo-Pacific. It is based on realities, on shared security needs and shared values. India is a major player in this region but France is also a country of the Indo-Pacific, through French territories, military presence and maritime economic zone in the region. This gives us the leverage for very operational cooperation with India. Primarily in the area of maritime security, but also through increasingly ambitious cooperation on issues such as preserving the environment, the blue economy, and investments that are consistent with international standards and sustainable development. 3. How is the India-France-Australia trilateral working?The basis of our cooperation is bilateral. But this can be enlarged, with partners like Australia. This trilateral dialogue has begun in September 2020 and has already proven very fruitful. We believe like-minded countries with shared democratic values, can shape the global agenda. 4. As India steps into the UNSC, do France and India have areas of common interest?France campaigns very actively for India to become a permanent member of the UN Security Council. We believe India has the legitimacy to hold a permanent seat and would make a decisive contribution to international peace and security. In 2021-2022, we want to work together in the UNSC on an ambitious agenda — in- including priorities for France like the Middle East and Africa — and to help bridge gaps in the international community on the most pressing issues. Like the Iran nuclear is- sue. We need India to work with us on finding the right method and the right way to ensure Iran get back into full compliance with the JCPOA and on engaging with other partners for Middle East peace and security and global stability. 5. Terrorism is a priority for both France and India and you have worked closely in FATF. What are the next steps?Terrorism is a long term threat. When our country was the victim of terrorist attacks last October, India’s public and clear support was invaluable. Now, we should continue to develop our operational cooperation and mobilise the international community to be more consistent and efficient against all terror threats. Terrorism financing is a key issue in this respect, and we are glad India will host this year the third edition of the “No Money For Terror” initiative, that France launched in 2018. Countering hate speech and terrorism inciting on the internet is another field in which we can cooperate. Finally, in the UNSC, India will chair important committees related to the fight against terrorism: we will work together on issues like adopting sanctions against terrorist groups and individuals and their implementation. 6. India’s greatest security challenge is China. How do you see that?When it comes to the regional environment of India, we trust the Indian authorities to find the right solution with neighbours through peaceful dialogue and negotiation, in order to settle long-standing issues. France, as a permanent member of the UNSC, has a particular role to play in international peace and security. We’re committed to international law, and the peaceful resolution of disputes. 8. India sees China as an aggressor, not only against India but in the region. Do you agree?When it comes to China, France and its European partners have a very clear strategy, which was set out by the European Union in 2019 which defines China in three words — a partner, a competitor and a systemic rival. What we’re doing with China is to work on conditions which take into account the importance of the role China has to play in international life, but within a very clear framework of international rules. We want to be able to operate with Chinese authorities on the basis of international law, international standards, respect of security of all our partners. It’s both a demanding and engaging approach, aiming to both promote our interests and obtain positive commitments from China— this is true in everything we’re doing. 8. What’s the next step in Rafale acquisitions. Is it co-development?Defence cooperation is part of our strategic partnership. We are a reliable defence partner of India in the long run. We are proud that all the Rafale jets have been de- livered on time despite the pandemic. As for new opportunities: we are ready to meet Indian needs and requests, to help India enhance its strategic autonomy. 9. Where are we on the Jaitapur nuclear power project? Do you think we can conclude negotiations any time soon?We are confident we can find a way forward to conclude the negotiations. In a context where our countries are engaged in a green transition, we need an energy mix which includes renewable energies. – We have many Indo-French initiatives in this sector, such as the International Solar Alliance. - but nuclear energy is also a key component of the energy mix.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/frances-commitment-to-indias-security-is-very-clear-our-strategic-partnership-exemplifies-this/articleshow/80194124.cms||Indrani Bagchi
