January 11, 2021||Goa||Zuniga scores hat-trick on debut as Churchill Bros roll past Indian Arrows||Churchill Alemao has seen and signed a lot of great forwards for his team and he was understandably excited after watching Clayvin Zuniga score a hat-trick for Churchill Brothers FC in their 5-2 win over Indian Arrows at the Kalyani Municipal Stadium on Sunday. “Isn’t he good in front of goal,” the club owner asked his friends as Churchill opened their I-League campaign with a convincing victory. The win was all thanks to Zuniga who ensured there was no repeat of the embarrassment from last season’s clash at Fatorda. The player from Honduras struck three times, while Slovenian striker Luka Majcen scored the other two. Majcen could, or rather should, have had a hat-trick too, missing his third goal from handshaking distance. For Arrows, who briefly threatened and even took the lead, Vanlalruatfela Thlacheu and Gurkirat Singh scored in the first 20 minutes. With a 2-1 advantage, it seemed like Arrows were on their way to another shock victory over Churchill, until the Goans turned the tables on the young guns. The teams were tied 2-2 at the breather. Churchill got the perfect start, surging ahead in the second minute itself. It was Majcen who was at the right place at the right time to head home the ball, which had ricocheted off the crossbar from captain Bazie Armand’s effort. Arrows, all still in their teens, didn’t seem rattled. They controlled the ball well, moved it around and had a goal of their own in the ninth minute. It was Vanlalruatfela who capitalised on some static defending as he met a delicious cross from the right. The impressive Gurkirat won a penalty and converted in the 20th minute to give Arrows an unexpected lead. But while Churchill were momentarily dazed, they picked themselves up. Soon, Churchill were calling the shots. Majcen and Zuniga had got the goals, but there were others who were starting to make heads turn. Young Bryce Miranda was one of them. He set the left flank on fire, and it was his cross – after a brilliant run – that Zuniga directed inside the goal for the equaliser. At the hour mark, Majcen and Zuniga combined to strike the team’s third and restore the advantage. It was Majcen who worked the ball on a counter and then played it forward for Zuniga. The Honduras forward had everything going against him; an acute angle, goalkeeper positioned well and a defender covering him. Yet, he somehow managed to find the back of the net with a powerful attempt. The fourth came from Clencio Pinto’s corner-kick, headed by Zuniga for his hat-trick in the 69th minute, while Majcen made it five in the 75th with another header as Arrows lost almost every aerial battle. Churchill will next face early favourites Mohammedan Sporting at the same venue on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/zuniga-scores-hat-trick-on-debut-as-churchill-bros-roll-past-indian-arrows/articleshow/80202488.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 11, 2021||Goa||India should go for win against Australia on final day, says Azharuddin||Margao: Former India captain Mohammad Azharuddin has a piece of advice for the Indian team on the last day of the Sydney Test. “Don’t play for draw.” The Hyderabad Cricket Association president believes a lot depends on India’s attitude on the final day as they chase an unlikely win and a series lead. “You can’t play slow and hope it will draw. You must go for a win, even though it is a tough task. Once a fielding side knows that you can’t win, they will close in fielders and you will end up making mistakes. India must go for a win,” said Azhar after the prize distribution ceremony of a local tournament here on Sunday. The 57-year-old said a lot depends on India’s stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane and Cheteshwar Pujara, possibly the best batsmen in the side at the moment. “Rahane and Pujara have a role to play. As I see, we are not playing shots. Too defensive. When you curb your instinct, and don’t play shots, the results will never go our way,” he said. Azharuddin, who captained India in three ODI World Cups in 1992, 96 and 99, was known for his fielding and India’s performance in the field didn’t impress him much. “Fielding is all about focus. You can’t win matches if you drop catches. Another thing is that you shouldn’t let anything affect your mind when you are out there. Our fielding coach has to address these issues. He has been there for three years now,” said Azharuddin. The 57-year-old, however, was all praise for India openers Shubman Gill and Rohit Sharma. “Shubman is an attacking player. When Virender Sehwag opened, nobody knew how it would be, but he proved himself. Look, finding a place in the India team is always difficult, so Shubman has got the opportunity. “He must consolidate his position and make the most of it. As far as Rohit is concerned, he is an established player in both short formats. He can very well adapt to demands of the Test,” he said. Azharuddin came down heavily on spectators who racially abused India players on the third day. “Players go to entertain people, not to face such racial taunts. There are strict laws and spectators who are found guilty, should be banned from entering the stadium. You go to any country, it is not accepted. Luckily, in my time, I never faced such things,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/india-should-go-for-win-against-australia-on-final-day-says-azharuddin/articleshow/80203150.cms||Paresh Mokani
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||To stay or leave? Questions, memes on WhatsApp flood social media||BENGALURU: From opinion polls to pick the best alternative for WhatsApp to memes depicting mass migration of people to messaging platform Signal, social media hubs have been abuzz since WhatsApp introduced a new privacy policy last week. Terms of the policy give more details on WhatsApp’s integration with its parent company Facebook, and how data is managed when a user interacts with a business on the platform. Users have time till February 8 to accept the new policy or they will have to leave the platform. The development has sent Twitterati into overdrive. Some widely shared memes show a train full of people migrating to Signal, while others depict people rejoicing after being assured of privacy in other apps. With a reported increase in the number of Signal users, netizens are also debating leaving WhatsApp. “To be on WhatsApp or not? Last few days we have seen a lot of activity in all the WhatsApp groups from family, school, college, office, local community...A lot of discussion on an alternative to WhatsApp. What’s ur views (sic)?” Namma Bangaluroo tweeted. Several users asked the question and many said they will leave WhatsApp on February 1. “Quick question, but how many of you all are actually going to make the push to migrate off WhatsApp to Signal or Telegram etc? My entire life, conversations with friends and family and colleagues are all on it. It would be difficult for me to walk away from that (sic),” tweeted Chandra. TOI also spoke to Bengalureans, who have ironically been sharing messages on WhatsApp about alternative platforms and how they should migrate. Mughdha Ramesh, a homemaker, said she had deleted her Facebook account a few months ago and plans to delete her WhatsApp account by February 1. However, she said going off Instagram will be slightly difficult. “I have taken several breaks from the platform, but always return for the latest food, fashion trends and parenting tips. I guess I will have to make a choice,” she says. Some users don’t think the policy is anything new. Rafida Asmia, an interior designer, says the concept of privacy on social media is an illusion. “Data has always been shared. I can’t migrate to a new platform unless all my contacts do so. Till then, WhatsApp will remain a major communication channel,” she says. Messages are still encrypted: Experts Experts, however, say that there is nothing much new in the terms and privacy policy, but it is more explicit on how WhatsApp will share the metadata with Facebook. Metadata is user and phone demography like location, IP address etc. They say if one is concerned about privacy, they should exit not just WhatsApp but even Facebook and Instagram. Raju PP, city-based senior tech blogger told TOI that the data will help Facebook understand who the user is and what they are interested in a little more than they already knew about. The policy will help them in the future in case they need to add ads in WhatsApp, but it does not threaten the users’ private messages, he said. “It is not completely new. All messages are still are end-to-end encrypted but third-party support services can have access to your chats with business accounts if those businesses choose to share. In India, we anyway share everything with Google and Facebook. We do not have something like the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) like in EU to stop this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/to-stay-or-leave-questions-memes-on-whatsapp-flood-social-media/articleshow/80203226.cms||Farheen Hussain
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Three held for drug peddling in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Basavanagudi police arrested three foreign nationals on Saturday evening and seized ecstasy pills and cocaine worth Rs 4.5 lakh from them. The accused are Igbanugo Chibuike alias Mmawulu Udukak Don, 29, of Seegehalli and Uchenna Emmanuel Eze, 25, of Kalyananagar, both from Nigeria, and Manuel Balde, 27, of Murarappa Layout and from Guinea. Police said the accused trio along with two others came to Basavanagudi area to sell drugs. Cops received credible information about five foreign nationals trying to sell narcotics. A police team rushed near Bull Temple Road. While two suspects managed to escape from the spot, three were arrested. Police seized 42 grams of ecstasy pills and five grams of cocaine from the trio. Further probe is under way.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/three-held-for-drug-peddling/articleshow/80203233.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Two cars fall into median duct, one injured||BENGALURU: A 44-year-old man sustained serious injuries and seven others had a miraculous escape after two cars they were travelling in towards Mysuru fell into the under-construction median duct near Sheshagirihalli, Bidadi, on the outskirts of Bengaluru, early Sunday morning. The incident took place at 6.30am. An Omni van driven by Jaleel hit an i20, leading to the accident. Jaleel was shifted to a nearby hospital and the i20 driver, who is yet to be identified, escaped with minor injuries. Bengaluru-Mysuru highway widening works are under way. Locals say negligent driving and ignorance about deviations are leading to accidents in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/two-cars-fall-into-median-duct-one-injured/articleshow/80203239.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka governor collects 2 stones from Koppal for Gujarat temple||Karnataka governor Vaju Vala on Sunday visited Koppal district in north Karnataka and collected two stone slabs to be consecrated at the time of rebuilding of a Hanuman temple in his village in Gujarat’s Anand district. The governor arrived in Anegundi by helicopter and travelled by road to Anjanadri hills, 4km away, and participated in puja and homa. The district administration had banned the entry of public from 11am to 2pm to facilitate the governor’s visit. Vala said the 500-year-old temple at Lambhvela is being renovated at Rs 25 crore and the slabs would be part of the foundation stone. “These stones are divine. While Lord Ram motivates us to work, Lord Hanuman is a model for us to perform ‘karma’,” he said, adding Anjanadri, said to be the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, is on par with Ayodhya . Santosh Keloji, an RSS leader, gifted a statue of Hanuman to the governor. Koppal deputy commissioner Suralkar Vikas Kishor said it was the governor’s personal visit to the temple and he was given Z+ security category as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-guv-collects-2-stones-from-koppal-for-guj-temple/articleshow/80203241.cms||Sangamesh Menasinakai
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Escoms seek tariff increase for third time in 5 months||BENGALURU: Citing loss, Escoms across the state, including Bangalore Electricity Supply Company, have sought an increase in power tariff from the next financial year. This is the third time in the past five months that Escoms have proposed a tariff hike. They have been granted approval twice. While Bescom has asked for a hike of about Rs 1.40 per unit, Mangalore Electricity Supply Company (Mescom) has sought Rs 1.67 increase for all types of consumers. In November, Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission had approved tariff revision with average hike of 40 paisa per unit and in December, it had okayed an increase of 8 paise in Fuel Adjustment Cost (FAC) in Bescom limits. Bescom said in its proposal that its unmet revenue gap is Rs 3,556 crore and in order to bridge it, they want a revision in the tariff. Sources in Bescom said the revision done in November was for financial year 2020-21 and they have made a fresh proposal for 2021-22. If power tariff goes up, water charges levied by BWSSB are also likely to rise. Hubli Electricity Supply Company (Hescom), Gulbarga Electricity Supply Company (Gescom) and Chamundeshwari Electricity Supply Corporation (Chescom) too have also sought tariff revision. Escoms have proposed an Annual Revenue Requirement of Rs 54,779 crore for 2020-21 and Rs 48,468 crore has been approved. The November tariff hike had caused massive protests. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) had organised a campaign called Shock Beda in Bengaluru, demanding a rollback. Bescom managing director MB Rajesh Gowda said a decision will be taken by February-end or March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/escoms-seek-tariff-increase-for-third-time-in-5-months/articleshow/80203247.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Youth robs techie of bike at knifepoint, arrested in Chennai||CHENNAI: The city police have arrested a man who attacked a techie using a knife and robbed his bike at Kotturpuram on Saturday morning. The accused was identified as Prabhudasan, 25, of Indira Nagar. Police said Adityan, 26, of Pozhichalur, was a techie employed at Tidel Park. He was having tea at a shop near Madhya Kailash early on Saturday when the accused approached him and asked for some money. Adityan refused and Prabhudasan pulled out a knife he was carrying and cut the techie, snatched his bike key and sped away. Adityan sought the help of passersby and alerted the police control room soon after. A team from the Kotturpuram police station reached the spot and nabbed the accused with the help of CCTV camera footage. Interrogations with the accused revealed that he planned to sell the bike to a friend for 20,000 as he wanted money for booze and ganja. Police said Prabhudasan was a construction worker and lost his job recently. He had taken to crime hoping to make some quick bucks, police said. While this is the first case registered against him, police, during inquiry, learned that he had robbed 2,000 at knifepoint from another man on January 4. Police recovered the bike from him. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/youth-robs-techie-of-bike-at-knifepoint-arrested/articleshow/80203356.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Five Smart City roads to open by January 21||BENGALURU: Redevelopment of five roads under the Smart City project is over and they will be thrown open for public use by January 21. The five major stretches in the heart of Bengaluru — Hayes Road, Magrath Road, Wood Street, Tate Lane and a part of Race Course Road — are awaiting a formal launch. BBMP administrator Gaurav Gupta had inspected the Smart City work during the last week of December. Post the inspection, he had ordered the work be completed by the end of December, but it took a little longer. “Work on the five roads is now over and they will be ready to use. We apologise for the inconvenience caused to people,” said Rajendra Cholan, managing director, Smart City. “We initially planned to finish the project by the end of 2020 but couldn’t as labourers returned to their hometowns and villages due to the pandemic,” added Cholan. He also blamed the lack of coordination between civic agencies— BWSSB, BBMP, Bescom and KPTCL among others— for the delay. There is no clarity on when roads will be dug up and when they will be restored, which affects developmental work, he added. Another senior BBMP official blamed the BWSSB for indiscriminate digging of roads. “The administrator had instructed the water board to finish laying sewage pipes and drinking water pipes by the first week of January so that these five roads can be inaugurated,” added the official. The remaining roads being redeveloped under Smart City will be ready between January 16 and 31. They are Raj Bhavan Road, Millers Road extension, Rhenius Street and Race Course Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/5-smart-city-roads-to-open-by-jan-21/articleshow/80203386.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 11, 2021||World||Hindu bodies in UK pen letter to Boris Johnson requesting he raise persecution of minorities in Pakistan with Imran Khan||LONDON: Five major Hindu organisations in Britain have written a joint letter to UK PM Boris Johnson requesting he demands prime minister of Pakistan Imran Khan “does everything possible” to stop the rampant persecution of Hindus in Pakistan. The letter was triggered by the destruction of a Hindu temple in the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa region of Pakistan on December 30. “Unlike India’s Muslims who number more than 200 million and make up some 15% of the population, Pakistan’s Hindu minority in comparison has been decimated since 1947,” the letter states. “A once thriving Hindu community pre-1947 has been systematically reduced by state-sponsored actors. At the rate this decimation is taking place, it won’t take long before there are no Hindus in Pakistan,” the letter says. “The Christian community stands testament to the same persecution. The mass murder, genocide and persecution of minorities in Pakistan must be stopped.” The Hindu Council UK, Hindu Forum of Britain, National Council of Hindu Temples UK, Vishwa Hindu Parishad and Hindu Swayamsevak Sangh, the umbrella bodies for Hindus in the UK, requested Johnson to set up a governmental inquiry in the issue and to ask democracies around the world, via the UN, to replicate a similar type of inquiry. “In the recent past the situation for minorities like Hindus in Pakistan is getting dangerously perilous," the letter states, citing several examples of the atrocities committed in Pakistan, “often at the behest of the Pakistani government”. In addition to citing the example of the Hindu temple burned down by a “mob of fanatics led by Muslim clerics”, the letter cites the recent orchestrated mass public opposition to the building of a Hindu temple in Islamabad — galvanised by the late Islamic hardline politico-religious leader Khadim Rizvi — as well as recent high-profile cases of abduction and forced conversion of Hindu girls. “This is just the tip of what we believe to be the systematic mass scale anti-Hindu agenda, fed by anti-Hindu sentiments openly promoted by Islamic clerics,” the letter says. “Such views in Pakistan have existed since 1947 and well before the current Kashmir dispute and well before tensions arose over the Babri mosque affair,” it states. Anil Bhanot, interfaith director at the Hindu Council UK, told TOI: “Britain pays a large amount of aid to Pakistan and yet in Pakistani schools they are teaching who is ‘kafir’ and who is not. There should be conditions on this aid.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/hindu-bodies-in-uk-pen-letter-to-boris-johnson-requesting-he-raise-persecution-of-minorities-in-pakistan-with-imran-khan/articleshow/80203438.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80207318.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Erode||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80207315.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Salem||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80207319.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80207316.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80203458.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Fresh Covid cases drop to 724 in Tamil Nadu, no UK returnees test positive for 11th day||CHENNAI: Fresh Covid-19 cases in the state continued to decline with 724 recorded on Sunday. And for the 11th day in a row, none of the UK returnees tested positive for the virus. Of the 2,300-odd people who returned from the UK to Tamil Nadu between November 25 and December 23, the government had so far traced and tested 2,146. The remaining 150-odd remained untraced for over two weeks now. A total of 24 passengers and 20 others, who were in contact with them, tested positive and all of them, treated at separate isolation wards, are in a stable condition. Overall, the state now has 7,164 active cases -- an 83% drop compared to October 10. Though TN stands third in the country for total Covid tally (8,26,261), it is ninth when it comes to number of active cases. The state's recovery rate is inching towards 98% with another 857 people recovering after treatment. So far, 8,06,875 patients have recovered from the disease in TN. On the flipside, the case fatality ratio remained unchanged at 1.5% for over ten weeks now. Even on Sunday, seven people succumbed to the disease taking the Covid toll to 12,222. All of them had comorbidities such as diabetes or hypertension and were aged above 45. No deaths were reported in 33 out of 37 deaths in the state. Hotspot Chennai recorded one death and 208 new cases. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore witnessed 76 new cases and one death.  Positivity rate was almost the same in other bigger TN cities such as Madurai (13 new cases), Trichy (20) and Salem (48). Except for Vellore (19), all other northern districts reported fresh infection in single digits. Perambalur once again reported no new cases.  As far as the vaccine was concerned, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan said that all preparatory works were complete and syringes were dispatched to districts on Saturday. The state is awaiting vaccine doses from the Centre so that the first phase for six lakh healthcare workers can begin from January 16 as scheduled. In the first stage, vaccination may take place at 500 health points across the state, he said. TN has planned to vaccinate 20% of its population -- 1.6 crore -- in four stages till December. In a related development, polio vaccination drive, which was supposed to be held for three days from January 17 to 20, has been postponed indefinitely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fresh-covid-cases-drop-to-724-no-uk-returnees-test-ve-for-11th-day/articleshow/80207313.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Puducherry||Two die of Covid-19 in Puducherry||Puducherry: Two more patients died of Covid-19, taking the death toll to 638 on Sunday in the Union territory. A 76-year-old man from Reddiyarpalayam and an 82-year-old man from Karaikal, both with co-morbidities, died of the infection in the last 24 hours. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum fatalities with 521 followed by Karaikal (64), Yanam (45) and Mahe (8). The fatality rate of infection is 1.7%. The Union territory reported 30 fresh cases even as 40 patients recovered bringing down the number of active cases to 316 on Sunday. Puducherry headquarters has the maximum active cases with 187 followed by Mahe (93), Karaikal (33) and Yanam (3). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/two-die-of-covid-19-in-puducherry/articleshow/80203459.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Puducherry||Victim to blame: 20% cut in payout for death of man who fell off bus in Chennai||CHENNAI: A city motor accident claims tribunal has slapped 20% contributory negligence on a man who died after he slipped and fell off a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus on ECR. An amount of Rs 3.5 lakh was deducted from the compensation awarded to his family. In a petition, S Periyammal said her husband Sakthivel was travelling by the TNSTC bus from Puducherry towards Chennai on January 3, 2016. When it halted at Kadappakkam, he attempted to alight, but due to the driver’s negligence, he slipped and fell. He died of the injuries suffered in the fall, she stated and sought compensation. In its counter-affidavit, the transport corporation said that the victim was drunk and that he attempted to alight from the bus before it could halt at the stop. In doing so, his trod on his dhoti, lost balance and fell, it said. After perusing both the submissions, the tribunal noted that the TNSTC had not submitted any documentary evidence to substantiate its claims and cited the FIR (First Information Report) which mentioned the bus driver as the accused. Observing that even if a passenger got off at a place other than at a scheduled stop, the driver and conductor were responsible for all passengers in the bus, the tribunal held that the TNSTC should compensate the victim’s family. It ruled that the bus driver was 80% responsible. The victim was 41-years-old at the time of the accident and was working as a loadman. Considering various factors including the loss of income, the tribunal arrived at an amount of 17.6 lakh as compensation. After deducting 20% of the sum as contributory negligence, the tribunal directed the TNSTC to pay 14.1 lakh to his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/victim-to-blame-20-cut-in-payout-for-death-of-man-who-fell-off-bus/articleshow/80206520.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Victim to blame: 20% cut in payout for death of man who fell off bus in Chennai||CHENNAI: A city motor accident claims tribunal has slapped 20% contributory negligence on a man who died after he slipped and fell off a Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) bus on ECR. An amount of Rs 3.5 lakh was deducted from the compensation awarded to his family. In a petition, S Periyammal said her husband Sakthivel was travelling by the TNSTC bus from Puducherry towards Chennai on January 3, 2016. When it halted at Kadappakkam, he attempted to alight, but due to the driver’s negligence, he slipped and fell. He died of the injuries suffered in the fall, she stated and sought compensation. In its counter-affidavit, the transport corporation said that the victim was drunk and that he attempted to alight from the bus before it could halt at the stop. In doing so, his trod on his dhoti, lost balance and fell, it said. After perusing both the submissions, the tribunal noted that the TNSTC had not submitted any documentary evidence to substantiate its claims and cited the FIR (First Information Report) which mentioned the bus driver as the accused. Observing that even if a passenger got off at a place other than at a scheduled stop, the driver and conductor were responsible for all passengers in the bus, the tribunal held that the TNSTC should compensate the victim’s family. It ruled that the bus driver was 80% responsible. The victim was 41-years-old at the time of the accident and was working as a loadman. Considering various factors including the loss of income, the tribunal arrived at an amount of 17.6 lakh as compensation. After deducting 20% of the sum as contributory negligence, the tribunal directed the TNSTC to pay 14.1 lakh to his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/victim-to-blame-20-cut-in-payout-for-death-of-man-who-fell-off-bus/articleshow/80203461.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Erode||Wholesale vegetable prices may rise in Tamil Nadu, flower rates to remain stable||CHENNAI: Wholesale prices of most vegetables are likely to increase during the coming week due to Pongal. The rates could see a spike by 5 a kg to 6 a kg, though the volume of arrivals will also rise by 20% due to the demand on the eve of the harvest festival. However, the cost of flowers may not be dearer for consumers due to excess arrivals due to rain across the state. Market sources say the price hike this week is due to the demand for vegetables during the early days of this week, particularly on Tuesday and Wednesday. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said the increase will be the steepest in beans that may rise by 15 a kg to 20 a kg compared to last week. Similarly, potatoes and onions, whose prices rose by 2 a kg to 3 a kg during the past week will go up by 5 a kg. “The volume of vegetables arriving at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) during the next three days will increase by an additional 100 trucks,” he said. Every day, on an average, the market receives 400 trucks, each ferrying an average of 12 tonnes of vegetables. As far as flower sale is concerned, the wholesale market at Koyambedu alone is expected to receive about 1000 tonnes including 700 tonnes of chrysanthemum. S Mookaiah, president of Chennai Koyambedu Flower Traders Association, said bountiful rain that has been extending to January has helped increase flower production and there is no possibility of prices rising this Pongal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/wholesale-vegetable-prices-may-rise-flower-rates-to-remain-stable/articleshow/80207324.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Salem||Wholesale vegetable prices may rise in Tamil Nadu, flower rates to remain stable||CHENNAI: Wholesale prices of most vegetables are likely to increase during the coming week due to Pongal. The rates could see a spike by 5 a kg to 6 a kg, though the volume of arrivals will also rise by 20% due to the demand on the eve of the harvest festival. However, the cost of flowers may not be dearer for consumers due to excess arrivals due to rain across the state. Market sources say the price hike this week is due to the demand for vegetables during the early days of this week, particularly on Tuesday and Wednesday. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said the increase will be the steepest in beans that may rise by 15 a kg to 20 a kg compared to last week. Similarly, potatoes and onions, whose prices rose by 2 a kg to 3 a kg during the past week will go up by 5 a kg. “The volume of vegetables arriving at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) during the next three days will increase by an additional 100 trucks,” he said. Every day, on an average, the market receives 400 trucks, each ferrying an average of 12 tonnes of vegetables. As far as flower sale is concerned, the wholesale market at Koyambedu alone is expected to receive about 1000 tonnes including 700 tonnes of chrysanthemum. S Mookaiah, president of Chennai Koyambedu Flower Traders Association, said bountiful rain that has been extending to January has helped increase flower production and there is no possibility of prices rising this Pongal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/wholesale-vegetable-prices-may-rise-flower-rates-to-remain-stable/articleshow/80207325.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Wholesale vegetable prices may rise in Tamil Nadu, flower rates to remain stable||CHENNAI: Wholesale prices of most vegetables are likely to increase during the coming week due to Pongal. The rates could see a spike by 5 a kg to 6 a kg, though the volume of arrivals will also rise by 20% due to the demand on the eve of the harvest festival. However, the cost of flowers may not be dearer for consumers due to excess arrivals due to rain across the state. Market sources say the price hike this week is due to the demand for vegetables during the early days of this week, particularly on Tuesday and Wednesday. S Chandran, secretary of Federation of Wholesale Vegetable Market Associations, said the increase will be the steepest in beans that may rise by 15 a kg to 20 a kg compared to last week. Similarly, potatoes and onions, whose prices rose by 2 a kg to 3 a kg during the past week will go up by 5 a kg. “The volume of vegetables arriving at the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex (KWMC) during the next three days will increase by an additional 100 trucks,” he said. Every day, on an average, the market receives 400 trucks, each ferrying an average of 12 tonnes of vegetables. As far as flower sale is concerned, the wholesale market at Koyambedu alone is expected to receive about 1000 tonnes including 700 tonnes of chrysanthemum. S Mookaiah, president of Chennai Koyambedu Flower Traders Association, said bountiful rain that has been extending to January has helped increase flower production and there is no possibility of prices rising this Pongal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/wholesale-vegetable-prices-may-rise-flower-rates-to-remain-stable/articleshow/80203523.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||IED found in J&K’s Mendhar||JAMMU: Security forces averted a tragedy by timely detecting and defusing an improvised explosive device (IED) along the Mendhar-Gohlad link road in Jammu late Saturday. Panic gripped residents when they found an abandoned motorbike at Pankha village along the link road, about 3km away from the main town of Mendhar, and informed cops. A joint team of Army’s 44RR and J&K Police was heading to the spot when on the way, they came across a box containing the IED along with a bottle of an unknown fluid attached to it, some distance away from where the abandoned bike was found. A bomb disposal squad was summoned and the area cordoned off. Traffic remained suspended to clear the road in the wake of the security situation. The explosive was successfully defused, Poonch DIG Vivek Gupta confirmed, adding that police were ascertaining whether the IED was linked to the abandoned two-wheeler.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ied-found-in-jks-mendhar/articleshow/80203545.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 11, 2021||India||Army captain ‘stage-managed’ J&K encounter for Rs 20 lakh||SRINAGAR: Preliminary investigations conducted by the army’s Court of Inquiry, as well as the J&K police, have found that Captain Bhoopendra Singh of 62 RR regiment, aided by two civilian informers, had “staged” the July 8 encounter in Kashmir’s Amshipora and “killed” three daily wage labourers working in apple orchards, allegedly to claim a cash bounty of Rs 20 lakh granted by the army as reward for killing terrorists. The informers Tabish Nazir, a resident of Shopian, and Bilal Ahmad, who lives in Pulwama, were paid a “few thousand” rupees, states the 300 page chargesheet filrd by the J&K police’s special investigation team (SIT). While the army is currently conducting court-martial proceedings against Bhoopendra Singh, as well as an unnamed non-commissioned officer, the SIT filed its chargesheet before the Shopian principal district and sessions judge Sikander Azam against two civilian informers on December 28. The chargesheet mentions that Singh, along with the two civilian informers, had “planned” and “organized” the encounter of the three youths, concealed their identities, planted weapons on them, and then alleged they were terrorists. The chargesheet also states that four personnel in Singh’s team — subedar Garu Ram, lance nayek Ravi Kumar and sepoys Ashwini Kumar and Yougesh — had deposed before the SIT that they left their camp along with two informers to carry out the encounter but as they were laying a cordon, they heard firing of gunshots. Later, Singh had justified that he was forced to open fire when the “terrorists” were trying to escape, it adds. The chargesheet even notes that Singh used a different name, ‘Major Basheer Khan’, while planning and committing the crime. The SIT filed its chargesheet after talking to 75 persons and corroborating call records of the accused persons. While the army initially said the three were “terrorists”, it later admitted that its men exceeded the powers vested under the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA) and contravened the dos and don’ts of the chief of army staff (COAS) as approved by the Supreme Court. The army had ordered a court of inquiry into the encounter. On July 18 last year, three labourers were killed in an “encounter” at Amshipora, in Shopian ditrict; their pictures went viral on social media. The families of the three, living in Jammu’s Rajouri district, claimed their wards were innocent and had gone to Shopian to work in apple orchards. The three youths are: Abrar Ahmed, 25; Imtiyaz Ahmed, 20, and Mohammed Ibrar, 16. Prodded by netizens and civil society activists, the families demanded DNA mapping of slain trio. The police conducted the mapping process in which the DNA samples of the three matched with that of their families. On October 3, after around 70 days, the bodies of three labourers were exhumed. The bodies were later handed over to the families who had to go to Kashmir to collect them. They were buried at their native places.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/army-captain-stage-managed-jk-encounter-for-rs-20-lakh/articleshow/80203557.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 11, 2021||India||Pak ceasefire violations continue in J&K||SRINAGAR: Pakistan continued ceasefire violations for the second consecutive day at several sectors in J&K — along the International Border (IB) in Kathua and the Line of Control (LoC) in Rajouri and Poonch districts — on Sunday. The spate of violations began in Kathua around 11.10pm on Saturday, to which BSF personnel retaliated effectively, a defence spokesperson said. The initial firefight went on till 1.20am on Sunday, he added. The next breach of truce was made around 3pm with Pakistan resorting to heavy mortar shelling and firing with small arms, targeting Indian forward posts and civilian areas along the LoC in Rajouri’s Nowshera and Poonch’s Balakote sectors, the spokesperson said. Around 3.30pm, Pakistani troops took to mortar shelling along the LoC in Balakote, and later also targeted Degwar and Kirni sectors around 4pm. Pakistan also opened unprovoked fire in Gurnam Border Outpost area along the IB in Kathua’s Hiranagar sector, allegedly in a bid to aid infiltrators sneak into Indian territory. The Indian Army retaliated effectively, the spokesperson said. The Indian side didn’t suffer any injury or damage, officials said. The cross-border exchange of fire and shelling continued intermittently till the time this report went to press. (with agency inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pak-ceasefire-violations-continue-in-jk/articleshow/80203581.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 11, 2021||India||16 pilgrims from Delhi injured in J&K accident||JAMMU: At least 16 pilgrims from Delhi visiting Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in J&K were injured when their vehicle overturned near Chenani in Udhampur district late Saturday. Ten others escaped unhurt in the accident. The minibus carrying the pilgrims was heading to Katra base camp from Patnitop after visiting the shrine when the driver lost control and the vehicle turned turtle near the Chenani-Nashri tunnel. “Police and residents immediately rushed to the rescue and evacuated the injured, all from Delhi’s Rohini area, to Chenani sub-district hospital. Their condition is stable,” said a police source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/16-pilgrims-from-delhi-injured-in-jk-accident/articleshow/80203620.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Caste in poll focus, Edappadi K Palaniswami now woos nadars||CHENNAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami heaped lavish praise on members of the nadar community in Tamil Nadu, in what appeared to be a continuation of his caste appeasement efforts. Participating in a function to felicitate achievers from the community, held in Chennai on Sunday, EPS said nadars have contributed immensely to the growth of Tamil Nadu in every field from protecting Tamil culture to entrepreneurship and politics. Recollecting late chief minister J Jayalalithaa's words that nadars were once `rulers of south India', EPS said the community has risen exponentially now and sought its support in the upcoming assembly election. “Nadars played a crucial role in the struggle for freedom. Nadars have abundant devotion to race and language, they are known for their hard work and they grew in the fields of education, social service, commerce, media and politics by their sheer hard work. I am happy to see the rise of the community,” EPS said. He recalled the service of Nadar icons like Thanulinga Nadar, Marshall Nesamani, C P Adithanar, late chief minister Kamaraj and Shiv Nadar, noting that with their contributions, they had lifted the state in various fields. “When I called him over phone seeking contributions to battle Covid, Shiv Nadar agreed to give 35 crore,” EPS said. EPS said that members of the community have placed various demands. “Some of them are under active consideration,” he said. The speech appears to be a continuation of EPS’s attempts to woo every major community in the run up to the election. Nadars are known to back Congress traditionally. About a month ago, EPS had announced that he would recommend to the centre that pallars and six other sub-sects be clubbed together and be designated as Devendra Kula Vellalars. It was a long pending demand of the community leaders. Around the same time, he had announced that a methodology for a caste based survey would be worked out in the state. Though a demand for caste census to identify the population of each caste was placed by multiple communities, the announcement coming immediately after the 20 % quota protests by vanniyars, was seen as a move to assuage the community.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/caste-in-poll-focus-eps-now-woos-nadars/articleshow/80203672.cms||Mayilvaganan
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Congress asks CBI to speed up probe against Tamil Nadu CM||CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu unit of the Congress on Sunday asked the CBI to initiate steps to speed up its investigations over the corruption charges against chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. “Even though the Madras high court had permitted CBI investigation against the chief minister, he obtained a stay from the Supreme Court. Even after two years, CBI has not taken steps to vacate the stay. If it fails to speed up the process by end of this month, the Congress will organize a protest in front of the CBI office in Chennai,” a resolution passed by the TNCC executive council on Sunday said. TNCC president K S Alagiri and Tamil Nadu incharge Dinesh Gundu Rao participated in the meeting that passed four resolutions. The party urged the Centre to withdraw the new farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/cong-asks-cbi-to-speed-up-probe-against-cm/articleshow/80203673.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Puducherry||Puducherry CM temporarily halts protest against Kiran Bedi in view of fests||Puducherry: The protest launched by the ruling Congress party and its allies in Puducherry from January 8 against lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi for “blocking the welfare and development schemes of the elected government” and demanding that the Centre immediately recall her “temporarily” ended on Sunday. Chief minister V Narayanasamy, who led the protest, spent the second consecutive night on Saturday on a temporary pandal erected on the road at the protest venue near Anna Statue in the town. His cabinet colleagues, elected members and senior leaders of the Congress party and its allies barring DMK were present. The party made elaborate arrangements, engaging a caterer to supply food to the protesting leaders and cadres, for the third consecutive day. Addressing the protestors on Sunday evening, Narayanasamy said Congress and its allies decided to postpone the protest in view of the ensuing festive season but have proposed to hold a signature campaign on January 23, constituency-wise protests on January 29 and a fast on February 5, demanding Bedi’s recall. He said Congress and its allies have also proposed to call for a bandh any time between February 15 and 20 in support of their 'popular' demand. The three MLAs of the DMK, a major ally of the Congress, did not participate in the protest. This is the second time the cabinet-led by Narayanasamy and leaders of the ruling party and its allies took to the streets to protest against Bedi. In February 2019, Narayanasamy led a protest camping in front of Raj Nivas, Bedi’s office-cum-residence, dining and sleeping on the road for almost a week. Bedi and the elected government have been at loggerheads over several issues, including appointment of state election commissioner, free rice scheme and direct benefit transfer scheme. In the 30-member assembly, the ruling Congress has 14 seats. Its ally DMK has three and an independent candidate from Mahe extended support to Congress. One Congress MLA was disqualified for anti-party activities in June last year. On the opposition side All India NR Congress has seven and AIADMK has four.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/puducherry/puducherry-cm-temporarily-halts-protest-against-bedi-in-view-of-fests/articleshow/80203681.cms||Bosco Dominique
January 11, 2021||Chennai||M K Stalin asks DMK legal wing to be ready for hurdles||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin asked the legal wing of the party to be ready for legal battles across the state, as Tamil Nadu gears up for the assembly poll. The ruling governments in the state and at the Centre “will use all their powers to prevent DMK’s victory,” Stalin said. “Assembly elections are just four months away. There is no doubt that DMK will emerge victorious. But there are forces in the state and at the Centre that will try and prevent that. They will create hurdles. It is an open secret. While the party headquarters will handle that, the legal wing members across the state should be ready to undertake legal battles,” Stalin said, while addressing a one-day legal and political symposium organised by the DMK legal wing. “I do not know why you named it as ‘legal and political’ symposium. The two are interlinked. We cannot run a political party today without the support of the legal wing,” Stalin said. “When Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) passed away, I had the twin responsibility of taking forward the party and fulfilling the wish of a father, who wanted to be laid to rest close to DMK founder C N Annadurai on the Marina. It was the legal wing that made it happen,” Stalin said, while listing the legal battles that DMK undertook for the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu and against the AIADMK ministers against corruption charges. Earlier in the day, participating in a ‘People’s grama sabha’ meeting at Royapuram in Chennai, Stalin attacked the AIADMK government for preventing DMK MP and women’s wing leader Kanimozhi from proceeding to Pollachi to hold a protest, demanding action against perpetrators of crime against women. “DMK has always stood for the welfare of the women, fishermen and local traders,” Stalin said, while hitting out local MLA and Fisheries minister D Jayakumar for his failure to fulfill any of his promises to the people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-asks-dmk-legal-wing-to-be-ready-for-hurdles/articleshow/80203685.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||SC to hear 74-yr-old road safety expert's plea to check road deaths on NHs||NEW DELHI: A 74-year-old road safety expert has urged the Supreme Court for an urgent hearing of his petition against the Central government for failing to curb road fatalities on National Highways (NHs) by not enforcing the traffic management on such stretches despite having the power to do so under law. The apex court is scheduled to hear the case on Tuesday. The Jabalpur-based Founder of Forum For Traffic Safety and Environmental Sanitation, Gyan Prakash had filed the petition in 2017 pleading the court to direct the road transport ministry for exercising traffic control on NHs as provided in the Control of National Highways (Land & Traffic) Act 2000 and provide central police, manpower, safety infrastructure and budgetary support for the highway administration. The number of persons killed on NHs has been on the rise since 2015 except in 2019 when the reduction was marginal. While 51,204 persons were killed in road crashes in 2015 on the entire NH network, it had increased to 54,046 in 2018. Last year, the total number of persons killed on the NHs was 53,872. Prakash, who had successfully fought the legal battle for safety features for pillion riders on two-wheelers, has submitted that the NHs are the property of the Central government as per law and hence state governments don’t have any jurisdiction on these stretches. “On National Highways, at present only after fatal accidents state police come for law and order problems and register crime under IPC. The state governments have never raised this issue because for state transport departments/ police, compounding the offence of overloading trucks is the biggest source of corruption and revenue,” he has alleged in his submission. The petitioner, a retired governments servant who has served in different capacities and was also a visiting faculty at Indian Police Academy (Hyderabad), has submitted to the court that other modes for traffic movement such as railways, civil aviation and waterways have dedicated entities for traffic control and safety, but there is no such entity for NHs. “There should be a safety organisation for NHs and roads as it is in countries such as the United States,” Prakash told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-to-hear-74-yr-old-road-safety-experts-plea-to-check-road-deaths-on-nhs/articleshow/80203746.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 11, 2021||India||Back from leave, Navy sailor found dead onboard warship||MUMBAI: Two days after returning from leave, a 22-year-old Navy sailor was found dead with a bullet wound on head onboard the Brahmaputra-class frigate, INS Betwa, that was anchored at Naval Dock early on Sunday. His service rifle was found near his body. Colaba police have filed an accidental death report. They suspect it to be a case of suicide, though no note has been found. After returning from his leave, Ramesh Choudhary was posted as an electrical artificer (Power) 5 on the warship that was anchored at the Lion’s Gate for the last six days. Sources said that his colleagues did not notice anything amiss in his behaviour. On Sunday morning, when Choudhary did not turn up for attendance, his colleagues looked for him and found him in a cabin with a bullet injury, said a police officer. His rifle was lying next to him, he added. The colleagues informed Colaba police and Choudhary was taken to J J Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “Choudhary was found dead due to a bullet injury in the morning hours of Sunday. His service issue rifle was found next to him,” a defence spokesperson told TOI. “The matter is under investigation by the police with the assistance of naval authorities. A board of inquiry has been initiated to know the reason that triggered him to end his life.” The unmarried sailor, who had just returned to the ship post leave, hailed from Jodhpur, the spokesperson said. Choudhary’s parents and sister have been informed about the incident. This is the second case of a Navy sailor ending his life in the last 14 months. On November 14, 2019, a 25-year-old Navy sailor, Akhilesh Yadav, was found dead with a bullet injury at INS Angre naval base. He has shot himself with his INSAS rifle while on duty. The reason behind the suspected suicide was unclear. INS Betwa is the same warship that had ‘slipped from her dock blocks’, tilted and then crashed flat on her left (port) side while being undocked during a maintenance refit on December 5, 2016. Two sailors were crushed to death, while 14 others escaped with minor injuries in the incident. Action was taken against three senior officers in 2019 for dereliction of duty based on the findings of a board of inquiry which carried out an investigation into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/back-from-leave-navy-sailor-found-dead-onboard-warship/articleshow/80205015.cms||V Narayan
January 11, 2021||India||SC does not and cannot have role in resolving deadlock over agri laws: Farm bodies||NEW DELHI: A day before the Supreme Court takes up farm laws-related issues, AIKSCC, the umbrella body of farm organisations opposed to the central agri laws, said the apex court “does not and cannot have any role in resolving a political deadlock over anti-farmers laws”. The unions, however, decided to put forward their views in the court. The SC had last month asked eight unions, including six representing different factions of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU), to present their points in response to petitions seeking removal of the protests and blockages at the Delhi borders and other related issues. Importantly, there is a petition challenging inclusion of certain aspects of agriculture in the concurrent list. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had suggested in the previous interaction with the unions that the issue of constitutionality of the laws — challenged by the farm organisations — could be settled by the SC expeditiously through day-to-day hearings. “As far as constitutionality of the farm laws are concerned, the SC can look at the issue. But it should best stay away from the policy aspect of it which the unions think would be disastrous for farmers,” said Avik Saha, working group member of the AIKSCC. The SC had last month looked at the blocks on Delhi’s borders and said it was a democratic right of farmers to protest peacefully. There are, however, other petitions before it, including whether the government has a constitutional right to enact such legislations. Saha, leader of Jai Kisan Andolan, said, “The government has claimed to have enacted the laws for farmers. So, it should be left to farmers to decide whether they want it or not. It is really strange that while the Centre has been talking with 40 unions, the Supreme Court has sought the views of only eight.” The government is expected to submit before the apex court what all it has done to resolve the issues while remaining engaged with farmers through eight rounds of talks. Sources said the Centre would also tell the court that the farm laws would be beneficial for the majority of farmers across the country as they were meant to provide them freedom to sell their produce outside regulated markets at remunerative prices and encourage contract farming. On the Centre’s point to resolve the issue through the SC, the AIKSCC on Sunday said it reflected “all round failure of the government in solving the problems of farmers”. “It is a political choice made by BJP against the interests of farmers. Farmers are opposing these laws all over India. Farmers continue to surround Delhi from all sides and will soon close down all borders. They are here to tell the government and Parliament that it has passed wrong laws,” the AIKSCC said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-does-not-and-cannot-have-role-in-resolving-deadlock-over-agri-laws-farm-bodies/articleshow/80205034.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 11, 2021||India||Big steel, cement firms operating as a cartel; need to place regulator: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Big players in the steel and cement industry are indulging in cartelisation to jack-up prices, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari has said raising concerns of its impact on infrastructure projects. Responding to a suggestion from the Builders Association of India of Western Region that the government should set up a regulator for these cement and iron on Saturday, Gadkari said, “We are in the process of finding out the solution for that. Your one of the recommendations is for a regulator for steel and cement, which is also a good suggestion. I will look into it... I will take it to the finance minister and Prime Minister.” Earlier, Gadkari had written to the PM citing how companies were artificially jacking up prices and had sought his intervention. Read AlsoCredai writes to Prime Minister on steel, cement pricesBuilders’ body Credai has urged the Union government to immediately step in and control the prices of cement and steel, the two commodities that are key to undergirding physical infrastructure.Speaking at the BAI event, the minister said it will be difficult to achieve PM Narendra Modi’s dream of making India a $5 trillion economy if the steel and cement prices keep going up, Gadkari said, pointing out the target of investing Rs 111 lakh crore on infrastructure projects in the next five years to aid the economy. The minister said he has discussed the issue with the PM and had a lengthy discussion on it with the principal secretary in the PMO as well. Read AlsoBan export of iron ore to bring down prices of steel: Builders Association of India to governmentWith the prices of steel skyrocketing, the Tamil Nadu chapter of Builders Association of India sought a blanket ban on iron ore exports to bring down the rates of steel.Stating that all the players in the steel industry have their own iron ore mines, and do not have to face any hikes in labour or power rates, he wondered how the steel industry has been hiking prices. He said the cement industry is exploiting the situation by hiking up the prices, and underlined that the stance of both the industries is not in the national interest, given the infrastructure spends lined up. “…It is also one of the important issues where I am also very much worried about,” he reiterated. Read AlsoFor these families, why now is the best time to buy a houseThe housing sector is looking up after a long gap, thanks to low interest rates, sops and deals. Can it be the engine of India’s economic revival?As per an official statement, BAI also requested for a mechanism for the early release of bills against the government contracts, streamlining in GST implementation, and royalty payment to be taken care by the state governments during the meeting with the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/big-steel-cement-firms-operating-as-a-cartel-need-to-place-regulator-gadkari/articleshow/80205112.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Business||Big steel, cement firms operating as a cartel; need to place regulator: Nitin Gadkari||NEW DELHI: Big players in the steel and cement industry are indulging in cartelisation to jack-up prices, Union road transport minister Nitin Gadkari has said raising concerns of its impact on infrastructure projects. Responding to a suggestion from the Builders Association of India of Western Region that the government should set up a regulator for these cement and iron on Saturday, Gadkari said, “We are in the process of finding out the solution for that. Your one of the recommendations is for a regulator for steel and cement, which is also a good suggestion. I will look into it... I will take it to the finance minister and Prime Minister.” Earlier, Gadkari had written to the PM citing how companies were artificially jacking up prices and had sought his intervention. Read AlsoCredai writes to Prime Minister on steel, cement pricesBuilders’ body Credai has urged the Union government to immediately step in and control the prices of cement and steel, the two commodities that are key to undergirding physical infrastructure.Speaking at the BAI event, the minister said it will be difficult to achieve PM Narendra Modi’s dream of making India a $5 trillion economy if the steel and cement prices keep going up, Gadkari said, pointing out the target of investing Rs 111 lakh crore on infrastructure projects in the next five years to aid the economy. The minister said he has discussed the issue with the PM and had a lengthy discussion on it with the principal secretary in the PMO as well. Read AlsoBan export of iron ore to bring down prices of steel: Builders Association of India to governmentWith the prices of steel skyrocketing, the Tamil Nadu chapter of Builders Association of India sought a blanket ban on iron ore exports to bring down the rates of steel.Stating that all the players in the steel industry have their own iron ore mines, and do not have to face any hikes in labour or power rates, he wondered how the steel industry has been hiking prices. He said the cement industry is exploiting the situation by hiking up the prices, and underlined that the stance of both the industries is not in the national interest, given the infrastructure spends lined up. “…It is also one of the important issues where I am also very much worried about,” he reiterated. Read AlsoFor these families, why now is the best time to buy a houseThe housing sector is looking up after a long gap, thanks to low interest rates, sops and deals. Can it be the engine of India’s economic revival?As per an official statement, BAI also requested for a mechanism for the early release of bills against the government contracts, streamlining in GST implementation, and royalty payment to be taken care by the state governments during the meeting with the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/big-steel-cement-firms-operating-as-a-cartel-need-to-place-regulator-gadkari/articleshow/80207977.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||Farmers vandalise venue of Manohar Lal Khattar’s ‘kisan panchayat’||KARNAL/CHANDIGARH: Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s ‘kisan panchayat’ at Kaimla village in Karnal district on Sunday afternoon had to be cancelled after farmers protesting the Centre’s controversial agri-reform laws ransacked the venue of the meeting. They had also occupied the helipad where Khattar was to land. This is a major setback for Haryana’s BJP-led government which is trying hard to convince farmers about the benefits of the new laws. The incident is also embarrassing for the BJP as Karnal district is Khattar’s home constituency and the saffron party won it with one of the highest margins in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. The farmers had already announced on January 6 that they will not allow Khattar to hold the kisan panchayat at Kaimla and had even taken out a protest march in the village to oppose the programme. On Sunday morning, around 1,000 farmers gathered at Bastara toll plaza and started marching towards Kaimla in tractors and SUVs. The police, in anticipation, had already erected barricades and parked trucks laden with construction material in the middle of the road almost 4 km ahead of the village. Braving tear gas shells lobbed by the cops, protesting farmers crossed two barricades and then entered the wheat fields and marched around 4km on foot to reach close to the venue around 1pm. When the protesters reached the venue, some villagers tried to stop them with lathis, which led to a fracas. Police then used tear gas and water cannons to stop the farmers, but the protesters managed to reach the venue around 1.40 pm and vandalized the stage, broke chairs and other items. For the past three days, senior Karnal administration officials, including deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav and superintendent of police Ganga Ram Punia, have been trying hard to convince the farmers to refrain from raiding the venue. This is the second time the CM had to cancel a programme in his home district since the farmers’ agitation started at Delhi borders. Khattar had to cancel his visit to Padha village after some miscreants damaged the helipad and vandalized the venue before his visit. Later, at a press conference in Chandigarh, Khattar blamed the protesters and opposition parties for the chaos at the kisan panchayat venue. “Keeping in view the law and order situation, I decided to go to the Karnal venue in a helicopter. The chaos was an outcome of breach of trust by the agitators, who had agreed on a symbolic protest but they obstructed the rally,” he said. The CM also blamed Haryana farm union leader Gurnam Singh Charuni for the standoff. “If I have to identify a particular person, you have to assess how Gurnnam Singh Charuni provoked them. This too had been there for the past two days. He is getting exposed. I feel people from Congress and Communist parties are behind all this,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-vandalise-venue-of-manohar-lal-khattars-kisan-panchayat/articleshow/80205130.cms||Amit Kumar
January 11, 2021||India||US curbs loom, but India works to induct Russia S-400 systems||NEW DELHI: Undeterred by the threat of US sanctions, India is going full steam ahead with its induction plan for the advanced S-400 Triumf surface-to-air missile systems from Russia. Ahead of the deliveries beginning in September-October, a large IAF team will be leaving for Russia later this month. All five mobile squadrons of the S-400 air defence systems, under the $5.43 billion (Rs 40,000 crore) contract inked with Russia in October 2018, will be progressively delivered by April 2023. The highly-automated S-400s, which can detect, track and destroy hostile strategic bombers, jets, spy planes, missiles and drones at a range of 380-km, will be “suitably positioned in the western, northern and eastern sectors” to cater for threats from both China and Pakistan, say defence ministry sources. An initial team of almost 100 officers and airmen will leave for Russia in the last week of January for training in operations and maintenance of the “massive” S-400 systems. “A second IAF team will follow suit after a few months. With the deliveries beginning this September-October, the first S-400 squadron should become operational in India by end-2021 or early-2022,” said a source on Sunday. Read AlsoIndia's S-400 deal with Russia may trigger US sanctions: Congressional reportIndia's multi-billion dollar deal to purchase the Russian-made S-400 air defence system may trigger US sanctions on New Delhi, a US Congressional report has warned. ​​The Congressional Research Service (CRS) - an independent and bipartisan research wing of US Congress - in its latest report toThe S-400, which will “revolutionize India’s air defence capabilities”, will have missiles with interception ranges of 120, 200, 250 and 380-km as well as battle-management systems of command posts and launchers, long-range acquisition and engagement radars, and all-terrain transporter-erector vehicles. With 128 missiles in each battery, the S-400 system automatically picks up the “most suited” one to launch at an incoming aerial threat. Its radars, with the primary acquisition one with a 600-km range, can track hundreds of targets simultaneously. Russia claims the S-400 can even intercept ballistic missiles with velocity of 4,800 meters per second as well as “radar lock and shoot down” 5th-generation stealth fighters like the American F-35 Lightning-II jets. India has already paid “a substantial advance” in the $5.43 billion contract to Russia, with the rest of the instalments being linked to deliveries, after working out a payment mechanism to get around the US sanctions regime, as was earlier reported by TOI. India remains “very hopeful” it will get a “national security waiver” by the incoming Biden administration from the US law CAATSA (Countering America’s Adversaries through Sanctions Act), which was enacted in 2017 to prevent countries from buying Russian weapons or Iranian oil, from the incoming Biden administration. The US has imposed financial sanctions on China and Turkey for inducting the S-400 systems from Russia. India had earlier mounted a major diplomatic-military campaign to convince the Trump administration, stressing the S-400 acquisition was a “urgent national security requirement” for it. As reported by TOI earlier, India has assured it will “never compromise the operational secrecy” of the weapon systems it has bought or will buy from the US, while pointing to its unblemished record of not passing sensitive military information of a country to a third party. One of the main reasons for the US to remove Turkey from its F-35 fighter programme was the fact that the S-400 systems are capable of “mapping or recording” data of other platforms like aircraft or radars. The stealth characteristics, electronic warfare and other capabilities of the F-35 fighters, for instance, can be recorded and analyzed by the powerful acquisition and engagement radars of the S-400 systems if they are operated together. This would conceivably make F-35s more vulnerable to interception by the long-range missiles of the S-400s. Having already bagged lucrative Indian defence deals worth $21 billion just since 2007, the US is aggressing hawking its fighters -- like F/A-18, F-15EX or F-21 (upgraded version of F-16) – for mega “Make in India” projects to meet the requirements of the IAF and Navy. Watch Cautious of US curbs, India to induct Russia S-400 systems||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/us-curbs-loom-but-india-works-to-induct-russia-s-400-systems/articleshow/80205183.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Yuvaraj cheated me of Rs 30 lakh, says Bengaluru builder||BENGALURU: A 40-year-old builder alleged that conman Yuvaraj alias Sevalal Swamy cheated him of Rs 30 lakh by promising to get him appointed as chairman of the Silk Board. Yuvaraj allegedly claimed that he was the nephew of a top central BJP functionary from Karnataka. Enith Kumar MC from Girinagar filed a complaint against Yuvaraj on Saturday with High Grounds police. He alleged that Yuvaraj forced him to enter politics. “I met Yuvaraj at a star hotel in August through my friend Suresh. Yuvaraj claimed that he’s nephew of a BJP functionary. Yuvaraj invited me to join politics and I declined it. But he contacted me again with an offer — the chairman’s position in Silk Board and asked Rs 3 crore for it. When I declined, he asked me to pay Rs 50 lakh. I gave him Rs 30 lakh and waited for 15 days for the appointment order as he had promised. I neither got the order nor my money,” he alleged. Kumar said he filed the complaint when he learnt about Yuvaraj’s arrest through the media. One Bengaluru woman recently complained that Yuvaraj had cheated her of over Rs 8 crore by promising to get a top government assignment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yuvaraj-cheated-me-of-30-lakh-says-city-builder/articleshow/80205232.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Parents protest again over school fees, seek government intervention||BENGALURU: Parents under the aegis of two associations — Voice of Parents-Karnataka and RTE Students Parents Association — took to the streets for the third time in two months, seeking reduction in school fees for the current academic year. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar had said the government will not intervene in the issue and had urged school managements and respective school bodies to work it out between themselves. “Which school in the city has an active parents-teachers association (PTA)?” asked Mohammed Shakeel, president of Voice of Parents, during the demonstration at Maurya Circle in Bengaluru on Sunday. Voice of Parents claims a membership of 3,000 parents in its social media groups. “The ones that exist are just rubber stamps, with no voice of its own. We do not expect the issue to be sorted out through talks with the management.” BN Yogananda of RTE Students-Parents Association said in the past, parents suffered bitterly for participating in such discussions. “There have been instances when parents were taken to the management’s room where rowdies were waiting for them,” he said. “There have been instances of police complaints being registered against parents. The government must intervene.” Protesting parents said schools are now asking for third term fees and are excluding defaulters from online classes. The associations say many schools had terminated several teachers and are paying only 50% salary for existing staff. Yet, they are demanding full fees from students for online classes. “If a parent asks for a fee waiver, schools ask for bank statements and what not… Our children are not using facilities in schools. Extra-curricular activities and transportation are also off. We are ready to pay neccessary charges. But, schools show fudged figures, claiming they need the entire sum,” said a parent. Nidhi, a parent of a class 3 student, said, “Many other state governments have regulated private school fees. The Karnataka government is washing its hands of the issue.” Parents also point out that no school displays the fee structure on their website or notice board as mandated by the government. Karnataka Private School Parents Organisation Coordinating Committee plans to meet the education minister on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/fee-row-parents-protest-in-bluru/articleshow/80205235.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||Farmers protest: Some don't want a resolution to talks, says Naresh Tikait||GHAZIABAD: Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Naresh Tikait on Sunday expressed apprehension about the role of one or two members of the core committee formed for talks with the government, saying that the protesting farmers should not be seen as taking multiple stands. Tikait hinted at the possibility of a few farmers in the 40-member committee working on a parallel line to the protesters’ consistent stand that the three agriculture laws must be withdrawn. “We do not want multiple stands from the farmers’ side. When 38 people are moving in one direction, two others should not be taking a different path. We will try to identify them in a meeting and talk to them,” Tikait told TOI. The farmer leader said he had come to know from his sources in the outfit that a few members of the core committee might be toeing a different line. “We have our own intelligence wing and it informed us that some people in the core committee did not want any resolution to the talks. We have initiated an inquiry to find out who they are. It’s not that we do not have faith in the 40 members of the core committee. But action should be taken against such people,” he added. Tikait did not divulge details about the proposed meeting. “As it is an internal procedure of the organisation, we will hold it at some confidential location. There will be people from Singhu and Tikri as well. We have to ensure that the farmers’ respect remains intact,” Tikait said. The BKU leader, who had earlier said the farmers would take two steps back if the government did so, asserted on Sunday there was no question of budging an inch. “We are not shying away from the resolution of this protest, but it is the government which is rigid on its stand. The Centre is thinking that with time, we will get up and leave the protest sites. But, we are not going anywhere. I will thank the government for uniting the farmers,” he added. Tikait also pointed out that the Prime Minister had expressed condolences on the deaths in the US Capitol violence, but hadn’t spoken a word on the scores of farmers who have lost their lives during the agitation. “After eight rounds of talks, farmers are no longer interested in negotiations,” he added. Asked about the proposed tractor rally on January 26, Tikait said, “We do not want to create any trouble or cause any damage to public property. We will want the government to give us permission to participate in the parade with just four tractors. It will be a matter of pride to take part in a national event.” Meanwhile, a wrestling tournament was organised at the UP Gate protest site on Sunday with participants from Punjab, Delhi, Haryana and UP. Of 100-odd matches, 40 were between women contestants. Surender Kaliraman, president of the Akhil Bharatiya Kushti Mahasangh and one of the organisers, said, “Altogether, 100 wrestling matches were held at UP Gate. Sunny Joon (23) won the title of Kisan Kesari from Haryana’s Bahadurgarh. Joon is a national level player and also holds the title of Bharat Kesari. Wrestlers, too, are against the three agriculture laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-dont-want-a-resolution-to-talks-says-naresh-tikait/articleshow/80205270.cms||Aditya Dev
January 11, 2021||India||2 IAF surgeons to leave for Russia on Jan 17 to get training for Gaganyaan space crew care||NEW DELHI: Two flight surgeons with the Indian Air Force will soon leave for Russia for an advanced training in space medicine in order to take care of the four gagannauts who are being trained for the Gaganyaan programme, the country’s maiden manned mission to space. Fight surgeons are responsible for astronauts’ health before, during and after the space mission. Talking to TOI on Sunday, Indian Space Research Organisation (Isro) chairman K Sivan said, “The two flight surgeons will leave for Russia on January 17 for an advanced training. They will get to train along with four IAF pilots who are already getting astronaut training in Russia” at the Yuri Gagarin Cosmonaut Training Center near Moscow. The two flight surgeons will get hands-on training from their Russian counterparts. The four gagannauts, chosen for India’s most challenging space mission, have been undergoing training in Russia since February last year. The Russian training of gagannauts, which was halted for some weeks last year due to the pandemic, is set to be completed by March this year after which they will get further training in India. “The two flight surgeons, who have already been trained by French space medicine experts in India earlier, will also travel to France for more training after their Russian visit,” Sivan told TOI. France has a well-established system for space medicine. It has the MEDES space clinic, a subsidiary of French space agency CNES, where space surgeons undergo training. Since its creation in 1989, MEDES has been helping develop French competence in space medicine and physiology and to promote the application of space research in health. Isro is expected to launch the Gaganyaan mission by August 2022, the deadline fixed by PM Narendra Modi in his I-Day speech some years ago. But due to Covid-triggered lockdown last year and restrictions later, the programme has hit a speed bump. The launch of two unmanned Gaganyaan missions, meant to carry humanoids, before the final mission have been delayed, which is bound to impact the deadline of the final manned mission. The two unmanned missions, which were earlier scheduled to be launched by early this year, will now get delayed and may be deferred till early next year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-iaf-surgeons-to-leave-for-russia-on-jan-17-to-get-training-for-gaganyaan-space-crew-care/articleshow/80205310.cms||Surendra Singh
January 11, 2021||Patna||Patna Weather||Max Temp 26.8 deg C Min 15.9 deg C Sunset: Monday 5.18pm Sunrise: Tuesday 6.37am Mainly clear sky. Maximum and minimum temperature likely to be around 26 deg C and 12 deg C respectively. Max humidity 82% and min 69%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-weather/articleshow/80202208.cms||Madan Kumar
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Cherry blossoms and maple street walks planned in Pauri||Pauri: The picturesque hill station of Pauri, overlooking the longest range of the snow-clad Himalayas, is set to turn pink. Taking a leaf out of the famed cherry blossoms that bloom in Japan and closer home in Shillong, the district administration of Pauri is lining up a six-km stretch exclusively reserved for the pink flowers that are loved across the globe. And it’s not just cherry blossoms that are being groomed for adorning the small hilly town which is situated at a height of over 6,000 feet. Also planned is a street adorned by maple trees, 500 of which have already been planted while more are on their way. Dhiraj Singh Garbyal, the district magistrate of Pauri, said that tourism in the town, that also gets its occasional share of snowfall during the winters, needs a booster, especially as tourist arrivals had been impacted because of the corona crisis. “Rather than sitting idle, we have used the silence during the corona period to ramp up our infrastructure. We have initiated a number of steps to beautify the town while working on fresh infrastructure such as home-stays and premium resorts,” Garbyal told TOI. Speaking about the plans for cherry blossoms, Garbyal said that it was an effort to add colour to the city that is over 100 years old and provides a majestic panoramic view of snow-covered Himalayan peaks such as Nanda Devi and Trishul, Gangotri Group, Chaukhamba, Bhartekhunta, Nilkantha, Bandar Poonch, Swargarohini, Kedarnath, Ghoriparvat, and Haathi Parvat. “We took a leaf out of the breathtaking views that cherry blossoms provide in Japan and Shillong, and thought of replicating the same in Pauri. We sourced around 300 trees from Srinagar in Kashmir and these are already 3-4 feet in height that are planted over a 2-km stretch. For full bloom, it will take around two years. Over the course of the next few years, we will extend the stretch to around six kilometres.” Further, the town, which also boasts of the Ransi stadium which old-timers claim is the second-highest stadium in Asia, is completing a new attraction that will create a mini amphitheater to stage plays, musicals and other such events. “We are also creating a cobbled-stone heritage street within the town to bring alive the rich cultural history of the place,” Garbyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cherry-blossoms-and-maple-street-walks-planned-in-pauri/articleshow/80202300.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 11, 2021||Allahabad||House of Atiq’s aide demolished in Dhoomanganj||Prayagraj: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Sunday demolished a house owned and constructed by a close aide of former MP Atiq Ahmad at Umri area in the city. The three-story house was illegally built by one Ejaj Akhtar, without sanctioning of the map by the agency concerned. The joint team reached the site in Umri village in Dhoomanganj area on Sunday morning and started the demolition work. Heavy deployment of the police force was made to tackle any untoward incident. PDA (Zonal Officer) Sat Shukla told TOI that the three-storey house was constructed on 700 square yards of land without getting the map sanctioned from the concerned agency. The estimated cost of the house is Rs 5 crore. The joint team started demolishing the house of the key and trusted henchman of the former MP amidst tight security. Police, meanwhile, said that over a dozen criminal cases were also registered against Akhtar with Dhoomanganj and other police stations of Prayagraj and Kaushambi district. About two years back, he had made an abortive bid to escape from the police custody in the Sangam city and was currently lodged at a jail in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/house-of-atiqs-aide-demolished-in-dhoomanganj/articleshow/80202433.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Patna||AAI official reviews Patna airport expansion work||PATNA: Around 25% of work on the new terminal building and other auxiliary buildings at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here has been completed and the project is likely to be completed by March 2023. The ongoing expansion work at the airport was reviewed by Shree Kumar S, executive director (engineering) of Airports Authority of India (AAI), on Sunday. He held discussions with the officials concerned to know the progress of the project and also inspected the construction site. K S Vijayan, general manager (engineering), projects, AAI-Patna said the meeting was a routine exercise to review the ongoing work at the airport. “The project has been delayed due to the Covid-induced lockdown. Later on, we faced problem in transportation of construction materials. Work will now be expedited for timely completion of the project,” he said. Vijayan said the technical block, fire station, cargo complex, air traffic control (ATC) tower, residential quarters and the multi-level car parking would be ready by May. Work on redevelopment of Patna airport was taken up in 2019 to cater to the rising traffic growth. The project entails an expenditure of Rs 1,216 crore. The two-storey terminal building will have the departure lounge on the first floor and arrival area on the ground floor. It will handle up to 80 lakh passengers per year. The upcoming terminal building at the airport will be equipped with 52 check-in counters, in-line baggage handling system, five conveyers for arriving passengers and five aerobridges. The interiors will highlight the rich culture, art and heritage of Bihar. The MLCP will be connected with the departure level of the new terminal building through a link bridge for pedestrian movement. It will be a four-star Green Rating for Integrated Habitat Assessment (GRIHA) rated and an energy-efficient building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/aai-official-reviews-patna-airport-expansion-work/articleshow/80202117.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 11, 2021||Patna||‘Accelerate work for Ganga water supply’||BIHARSHARIF: The state government has instructed the Megha Engineering and Infrastructures Ltd (MEIL) to deploy more machines and manpower to speed up pipe-laying and other associated works under Ganga Water Lift Project. MEIL is the implementing agency of the project. Water resources department principal secretary Chaitanya Prasad, energy secretary Sanjiv Hans and Patna divisional commissioner Sanjay Kumar Agarwal on Saturday inspected the pipe-laying work from Rahui to Ghora Katora in Nalanda district. An artificial reservoir for storing water brought from river Ganga through pipe is being constructed at Ghora Katora. Prasad directed the district officials for inner and outer fencing around the reservoir and enhance its security by employing more guards from private agencies. The district administration has already deployed police personnel for its safety. The officials later visited Motanaze under Nardiganj block in neighbouring Nawada district to inspect the pipe-laying work there. Nalanda district magistrate Yogendra Prasad Singh, Nawada district magistrate Yashpal Meena, water resources department chief engineer Ashok Chaudhary were among other officials present on the occasion. Work on the 105-km-long pipeline to supply Ganga water to Gaya through Nalanda is on progress. Till date, 28km of the 66-km-long pipeline to be laid in Nalanda has been completed. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, who recently inspected the progress of the project at Ghora Katora, had said borewells would be banned once the project was completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/accelerate-work-for-ganga-water-supply/articleshow/80202320.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 11, 2021||Patna||Technical education in Hindi need of hour: Deputy CM||PATNA: Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad Sunday said the Centre was committed to imparting technical education in Hindi and all efforts were being made in this regard. Inaugurating the 62nd state convention of the Akhil Bhartiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP) at Premchand Rangshala here, Prasad said the government is also striving hard to implement all the provisions of New Education Policy (NEP), 2020 for ensuring all-round development of education right from the primary to higher level and put the country on the top of the higher education map of the world. He called upon the ABVP workers to work whole-heartedly towards the implementation of the NEP. Prasad eulogised the valuable contributions of ABVP towards promoting the feeling of nationalism in young minds and raising various issues of national interest from time to time. He said the government would like to talk to ABVP representatives on their programmes of action. “ABVP has already played an important role in ushering in revolutionary changes in socio-political set up of the county,” he said. ABVP national secretary Nidhi Tripathi, state president Shaileswar Prasad, state secretary Laxmi Rani and others addressed the convention. More than 200 ABVP volunteers participated in the discussion on vital issues of national interest during the last two days. Former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi and health minister Mangal Pandey also attended the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/technical-education-in-hindi-need-of-hour-deputy-cm/articleshow/80202369.cms||B K Mishra
January 11, 2021||Patna||Drive to tag livestock in Bhagalpur, other districts||BHAGALPUR: The animal and fisheries resources department (AFRD) has launched an intensive drive in several districts for tagging animals and livestock as well as preparing their health cards. The move is to prepare the basic information network of animals for their productivity, health as well as developing methodology to reap optimum benefits from the animal products through healthy animals/livestock. Animal husbandry (Bhagalpur region) regional director Dr Ashwini Kumar Singh said the target is to tag and prepare health cards and immunization of 8,89,000 animals/livestock in Bhagalpur district. Similarly 8,31,000 animals in Banka district, 2,45,000 in Munger, 3,91,000 in Khagaria, 1,96,000 in Lakhisarai, 1,39,000 in Sheikhpura besides other districts will be tagged, immunized and issued health cards, he said, adding that the tagging is being done at doorsteps as well as the government run veterinary hospitals. The plan envisages good health of animals, eradication of foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and eventually reaping the benefits through high productivity. FMD is a highly contagious virus disease of animals and is one of the most serious livestock diseases that has significant economic impact on farmers and the nation, he said, adding that it affects the cloven-hoofed animals, including cows, buffaloes, camels, sheep, goats, deer, pigs etc. The statistics would be uploaded to the website of Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH) of the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB), which is endeavouring to develop information data of animals in the country. The tagging and making of animal health cards would be similar to Aadhaar number of countrymen, said Singh. It would have information about the animals’ date of birth, gender, breed, lactation cycle, calving details, amount of milk or produce they give etc. “We are likely to complete the entire process soon,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/drive-to-tag-livestock-in-bhagalpur-other-districts/articleshow/80202348.cms||Kumar Rajesh
January 11, 2021||Patna||Katihar gears up for Covid-19 vaccination||KATIHAR: Altogether 2,763 rural sites have been earmarked in Katihar for the Covid-19 vaccination programme, district immunisation officer Dr D N Jha said. The figure of the urban sites for the mammoth exercise, however, is yet to be released. Asked about deferment of polio immunisation programme, Dr Jha said, “Polio immunisation on January 17 was planned in the run up to the National Immunisation Day (NID). Its postponement will not hit the routine immunisation of children. Various stakeholders and agencies at the national level will take a final call on polio immunisation under NID later on.” Dr Jha said At least 14,944 government and 1,600 private health workers have been shortlisted for Covid vaccination in the district. “Nearly, 420 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) have been provided training to administer vaccine to healthcare workers in the district,” he added. “We will deploy five personnel at each site in the district to carry out the vaccine drive,” Dr Jha said. Katihar civil surgeon Dr D N Pandey too said postponement of anti-polio drive under the NID would not affect routine immunisation of children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-gears-up-for-covid-19-vaccination/articleshow/80202292.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||Gujarat: Infatuated Class IX girl, boy flee to live as ‘couple’||VADODARA: They had hardly reached an age to understand living independently, yet these two Class IX students decided to elope and live like a couple, miles away from home and family. The girl and boy took the drastic step as they were infatuated with and missed each other. The boy and girl, both residents of Chhani, were found from Vapi on Sunday, 13 days after they had fled taking Rs 30,000 cash from their homes. When asked, they told police that as the schools were closed since March last year, they were not able to meet freely and fled from their homes on the morning of December 28. The boy had taken Rs 25,000 cash from the temple of his house while the girl carried Rs 5,000. “They went to Ranoli railway station, but when they could not find a train, they reached Sayajigunj and hired a private taxi to go to Vapi. It was learnt that since the boy’s family used to often go to Daman, he was familiar with the region,” said a senior police official. On reaching Vapi, they took a room on rent for Rs 500 per month. Meanwhile, the duo’s parents searched for them and when they could not be found, an offence of kidnapping was registered against the boy at Chhani police station. Realizing that they will exhaust the cash within a few days, the boy took up a casual labour job in a garment shop. He was paid Rs 366 daily. A couple of days back, when the boy contacted his friend, police got a whiff of it. “Using human intelligence and technical surveillance we tracked them down to Vapi,” said inspector R S Dodiya of Chhani police station. When they were brought to Vadodara, the girl revealed that they had physical relations. “We have now booked the boy for rape and under sections of POCSO (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act,” Dodiya added. On Sunday, the girl’s medical test was done while the boy was quarantined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/infatuated-class-ix-girl-boy-flee-to-live-as-couple/articleshow/80201991.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Watchman falls to death from five-storey building in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A watchman died after he accidentally fell from the fifth floor of an under-construction building at Hydernagar in KPHB Colony on Saturday night. The deceased, V Trimurthulu, 41, was a native of Vemulavada village in East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. About three years ago, Trimurthulu along with his family members migrated to Hyderabad in search of livelihood. The family was staying at an under-construction building in Phase - II, Hydernagar, KPHB Colony. At 11.30 pm on Saturday, a truck carrying sand arrived at the under-construction building to dump the sand at the site. “Trimurthulu and his son Anil Kumar went to the terrace of the five-storey building to bring a tarpaulin and spread it on the ground where the sand was supposed to be dumped. While pulling the tarpaulin along with his son, Trimurthulu accidentally slipped and fell in the empty elevator shaft,” Nagamani stated in her police complaint. Family members rushed Trimurthulu to a nearby hospital where he was declared brought dead. A case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/watchman-falls-to-death-from-five-storey-building-in-kpbh/articleshow/80204152.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Varanasi||UP: Ex-MLA thrashed for harassing Class IX girl||VARANASI: A former MLA was thrashed by the family members of a girl student of his college in the premises for allegedly sexually assaulting her. A video of the thrashing went viral on social media on Sunday. Former MLA Mayashankar Pathak, who is chairman of a college run by the MP Group in Bhagatua area under Chaubeypur police station, was sitting in his office on Saturday when around 10 family members of a girl student of Class IX stormed into his office. One of them started making a video while two middleaged persons started seeking explanation from Pathak and scolding him for sexual harassment of the girl. In the meantime, some youths started thrashing Pathak. Pathak, who could be seen apologizing, was later dragged out of the office into the open where he was again thrashed in front of the female staff of the college and girl students. The video of the incident was posted on social media and went viral on Sunday morning. Pathak had won Chiraigaon assembly seat in 1991 and 1993 on Bharatiya Janata Party ticket. None of the groups lodged any complaint with police, but taking note of the viral video, DIG Amit Pathak ordered CO Pindra Abhishek Kumar Pandey to probe the incident and initiate appropriate action. Pathak, who is seen tendering apology in the video, later said that false allegations are being levelled against him by his political rivals to dent his image. “When police contacted the former MLA, he refused to lodge any complaint in this connection. The family of girl also had not decided to lodge a complaint so far,” said DIG Amit Pathak. No complaint was lodged at Chaubeypur police station in this connection till Sunday evening. Later, Pathak released a video statement claiming that he was being targeted by some people due to political rivalry and caste enmity. Pathak claimed, “A week ago a class-IX girl student had come to his office after preparing her speech for Republic Day. As she could not speak properly, I said she would not give speech and asked her to go from my office. After this incident, about 10-15 people raided my office. I said if pointing mistake of the student is wring then I am expressing my apology.” He said he was not aware that a video of the incident was being made. Watch Watch: Former BJP MLA from UP thrashed for allegedly harassing class 9 girl||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ex-mla-thrashed-for-harassing-class-ix-girl/articleshow/80202483.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||New Town locals get a happy hangout zone||KOLKATA: A happy zone, with food stalls, community space, air quality checks and colourful fencing, has been set up by the New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) at the New Town bus stand at the first intersection of the main arterial road. Officials said the aim is to develop the township as a happy, green, smart city with such initiatives. New Town had earlier received a happiness quotient rating of 6.4 out of 10 from IIT-Kharagpur in its first assessment of the joint collaboration between the Housing Infrastructure Development Corporation (Hidco) and IIT-Kharagpur to develop New Town as a ‘Happy City’. Officials said the initiative is aimed at developing the happiness quotient of New Town and more such zones will be coming up soon. Additionally, a smart street and smart garden are already coming up nearby. “The happy zone off the New Town bus stand is a place where people can hang out with friends and family, with a few food joints, a community space for ‘adda’ and a small open-air area. The space is surrounded by colourful fences and sign boards. It also has an air-quality checking device which shows the ambient air quality at any given time. The pavement of the bus stand has been decked up to give it a fresh and clean look to go with the happy zone,” said an official. Residents are elated over such adda zones coming up in the township. “The New Town bus stand in Action Area I ahead of Biswa Bangla Gate is a happening spot. With the colourful fences, sign boards and a community adda space, it has really become a cool place to hang out with friends,” said Samaresh Das, a local resident and chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-town-locals-get-a-happy-hangout-zone/articleshow/80203696.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Youth drowns after bike falls into canal||HYDERABAD: A 22-year-old student died when a bike he was riding fell into an irrigation canal at Rayanipalem village near Miryalguda. According to Miryalguda Rural police, the victim was identified as Y Rakesh, 22, a degree student from Rayanipalem. “Rakesh was working at a garments store. On Sunday morning, he took a friend’s new bike for a fun ride on the village road. As he was speeding on the narrow road, Rakesh lost control over the bike and it skidded and fell into the canal on the side of the road. Though the water was only five feet deep, Rakesh drowned as the bike fell on him,” Miryalguda Rural police said. Police fished out the body on Sunday and a case was registered under Section 304- a of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/youth-drowns-after-bike-falls-into-canal/articleshow/80204137.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Bird flu scare: Forty parrots found dead in Kondhali||NAGPUR: Amid bird flu scare in the state, 40 parrots and five wild pigeons were found dead at Kondhali in Nagpur district on Saturday. This is the highest number of non-poultry bird species found dead at a single place during the current bird flu scare. This came on the back of 15 egrets and 11 crows found dead in Thane and Beed districts respectively in last two days. At Kondhali, the dead birds were found on Saturday. Joint monitoring of the forest and animal husbandry departments continues and after that no carcass was found, said sources. Remains of seven birds, including five parrots and two pigeons, found at Kondhali have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD) at Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh. An official said the reason of death could be confirmed only after NIHSAD releases the reports, which can take up to 72 hours. No cases of mortality in poultry have been officially reported yet in Vidarbha, said officials. Poultry deaths have been limited to Parbhani and Latur districts of Marathwada region. Though the animal husbandry department has also come across information of 28 poultry dying in Amravati district. These deaths were not reported, because of which samples could not be collected for further tests. The numbers have not been included in the official tally too. However, swab samples of six birds have been collected in the district, and reports are awaited. Quick response teams have been formed and inspections will be carried out at poultry farms. The forest department teams are also keeping tabs on wild birds. So far, over 1,000 poultry have been found dead in Maharashtra. These include 200 in Latur on Friday and 800 deaths in Parbhani on Saturday. The number further increased by 60 odd on Sunday, said an official in the animal husbandry department. Cases of deaths of non-poultry bird species like crows, egrets, pigeons and parrots have been reported in last week. Animal husbandry department, which is the monitoring agency, began releasing the figures from Friday. Even as other species have also been found dead, the numbers were rather low. For example on Saturday carcass of three crows, 15 egrets, 2 parrots were found in Mumbai and Thane respectively, apart from 11 crows in Beed. In Vidarbha, one crow and two each were found in Akola, Gondia and Chandrapur districts. Officials in the animal husbandry department said there is no reason to panic at present. In the organized poultry farms, if at least 100 to 150 birds die at one go, then it can be said to be signs of bird flu, said an officer monitoring the situation. In Amravati, the birds that were reported dead were from a backyard poultry farm. The birds have died over a period of time, while in bird flu sudden deaths happen. Backyard poultry farm birds are susceptible to many diseases due to unhealthy conditions, an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-flu-scare-forty-parrots-found-dead-in-kondhali/articleshow/80205240.cms||Shishir Arya
January 11, 2021||Business||Covid survivors, if unfit after 3 months, may not get life cover||CHENNAI: Covid survivors may face rejection or hurdles for their life insurance proposals if proved unfit after an insurer-imposed, three-month post-infection waiting period. These restrictions are stringent for Covid survivors above the age of 60. In low-risk cases, an additional 20-30% premium will be charged to those reporting permanent organ damage. “Applicants with medical history will be treated differently, like those with co-morbidity. Such people are already treated as sub-standard life categories. In some cases, unfit Covid survivors are treated on a par with those with co-morbidities and charge extra mortality,” said Avdhesh Gupta, appointed actuary of Bajaj Allianz Life. Survivors will also be subject to a Covid questionnaire. Those who travel abroad will see their proposals being accepted a month after landing. Lakhs of people, who survived Covid-19, are expected to deal with long-term medical issues like heart, kidney and lung damage, especially those who were hospitalised for four weeks or above, after contracting the coronavirus. Aditya Birla Sun Life Insurance’s chief actuarial officer Anil Kumar Singh said: “Such restrictions are placed under the guidance of reinsurers. We do not have the data to assess the risk factor, and hence charge the additional premium.” “Cost of life insurance cover will be decided after the three-month waiting period and depends on the effect the virus has had on the individual’s health. Additional premium charges are decided based on how many organs are impacted,” said Singh. “In case of no complications or long-term effect reported by a Covid survivor, no extra charge will be placed. And if the person has declared with no history of Covid or in contact with those infected, they are assumed to not be infected and treated with no restrictions,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/covid-survivors-if-unfit-after-3-months-may-not-get-life-cover/articleshow/80203569.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 11, 2021||Varanasi||CM to unfurl 246-foottricolour at Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will unfurl the highest national flag in the state at Ramgarh lake area on January 13. The 246-foot-high tricolor at Ramgarhtal lake area will be another addition to the attraction of Gorakhpur. The flag would be visible from a distance of 15 km. The chief minister will also inaugurate jetty entrance gate and Buddha gate at Ramgarh Lake and will be the chief guest of the closing ceremony of the two-day Gorakhpur Mahotsav. He will also distribute motorized tricycles among differently-abled people. Industrialist Amar Tulsiyan had started working on his highest flag project in December 2017 after taking permission from Gorakhpur administration. Till date the highest tricolour in the state is in Ghaziabad which is 211 foot high. The flag in Gorakhpur would be 246 feet high and 540 square feet in area. Meanwhile, sharing details of the Mahotsav, Gorakhpur division commissioner Jayant Narlikar said Bollywood artists have not been invited this year due to the Covid pandemic, and local artists would be promoted. Tourism minister Neelkanth Tiwari would be the chief guest at Mahotsav inauguration and a Khadi fashion show would be staged in the evening. On the second day, a bird watching and wildlife photo exhibition in the wetland of Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan zoo would be held. The program is organized under the joint aegis of the forest department, Gorakhpur zoo and Heritage foundation. MP Ravi Kishan would be the chief guest of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-to-unfurl-246-foottricolour-at-gorakhpur/articleshow/80220020.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Om Prakash Sharma who was MLC for 48 years no more||LUCKNOW: Om Prakash Sharma, who represented teachers' group in UP Vidhan Parishad for nearly half a century, passed away in Meerut on Saturday. He was 88 and is survived by his wife and two sons. A stalwart of the politics involving teachers, Sharma held the record of representing the Meerut-Saharanpur constituency for eight consecutive terms since 1972 before his defeat late last year. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath expressed deep anguish at his death. “He was a senior and experienced leader. He always worked for the welfare of teachers and the field of education. His death has been a huge loss for the education sector,” the CM said. Praying for the departed soul, the CM also expressed his sympathy with the family of the deceased. A true fighter, Sharma took part in a sit-in till his last day. He went home from a dharna in Meerut on Saturday as he wasn't feeling well. His condition deteriorated in the evening and he breathed his last amid his dear ones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sharma-who-was-mlc-for-48-years-no-more/articleshow/80308521.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Akhada Parishad meets CM in Doon, asks for order to be issued to Kumbh mela administration to speed up preparations||Haridwar: Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) on Sunday met chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat in Dehradun and requested him to issue an order to the mela administration to speed up pending works for Kumbh. At the meeting, ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri alleged “the mela administration is not taking Kumbh works seriously”. ABAP general secretary Mahant Hari Giri as well as other members of the apex body of seers were present. This was a day after the ABAP accused the Uttarakhand government of “being in confusion mode” about Kumbh and suggested it “learn from neighbouring UP, where in Allahabad, large-scale preparations for Magh Mela are afoot”. Speaking to TOI, Narendra Giri said, “We have categorically expressed our concern over the slow speed of Kumbh works. The mela cannot be organised in a closed room. The preparations must show on ground. Arrangements need to be made for setting up of camps for akhada saints as well as naga sanyasis. The Mela administration has informed us that they do not have a clear order from the government. We requested the CM to give them one, so as to hold the mela at a large scale. We have also asked the mela administration to speed up works on ground and review the ongoing works.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/akhada-parishad-meets-cm-in-doon-asks-for-order-to-be-issued-to-kumbh-mela-administration-to-speed-up-preparations/articleshow/80202288.cms||MS Nawaz
January 11, 2021||Allahabad||Final dry run for Covid-19 jabat 46 sites in Prayagraj today||Prayagraj: The third dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be held on Monday for which 46 sites, including 20 community health centres (CHCs), 11 government hospitals and 15 private hospitals have been selected in Prayagraj district. The final dry run will be conducted by district health authorities for seamless implementation of Covid-19 vaccination programme set to rollout from January 16. Deputy chief medical officer and nodal officer, Dr Rahul Singh told TOI, “As many as 46 sites, including 11 government hospitals and 15 private hospitals in city and all 20 community health centres (CHCs) in the district have been selected for the final dry run on Monday, to prepare rollout of Covid-19 vaccine in Prayagraj district.” “A team of six members comprising medical and paramedical staff has been assigned at every site for the final dry run. The members have been assigned specific duties. Every site has three rooms, including sitting area or waiting lounge, vaccination room and observation room,” he added. A senior rank health official (deputy/additional chief medical officer) has been appointed as nodal officer for all 46 sites. “This time, 91 sessions will be organized at 46 sites on Monday. There will be 15 beneficiaries at each session,” said Dr Singh. Moreover, the final dry run will be like a full dress rehearsal before the actual campaign. It will look into execution of programme at all levels with special attention on possible problem areas, if any. On Sunday, health officials and staff were apprised about their roles and responsibilities by the nodal officials for the final dry run. Besides, users ids have been created for the final dry run by district administrators. The medical officer-in-charges have already identified 15 test beneficiaries at each session for the final dry run. The data of these test beneficiaries will be uploaded on the Co-WIN test link by the district administrator. The objective of the final dry run is to conduct an error-free campaign as well as to assess operational feasibility of using Co-WIN application in the field environment. Co-WIN (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) has been developed as an extension of the existing electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) module for it to be a comprehensive cloud-based IT solution for planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of Covid-19 vaccination in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/final-dry-run-for-covid-19-jabat-46-sites-in-prayagraj-today/articleshow/80202454.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kanpur||Farmer electrocuted in Chaubepur||Kanpur: A 40-year-old farmer was electrocuted after he came in contact with an electric fence around a farm in Chaubepur police area of the district on Saturday night. The deceased, identified as Arvind of Mighni Purwa village, had gone to the farm to irrigate his crops at the time of incident. According to police, Arvind was cultivating wheat in his agricultural fields. “On Saturday night, he went to the farm to irrigate his supply water to the crop, bufarms when he accidentally came in contact with a live wire allegedly raised by his neighbouring farmer. When he didn’t return home till late night hours, his family launched search and spotted him lying unconscious in the fields,” said SHO Chaubeypur Krishna Mohan Rai. The farmers in the nearby fields informed the police about the death of Arvind. “We have sent the body for postmortem. Preliminary investigations revealed that the accused farmer had illegally passed electric current through the fence of his farm to keep wild animals at bay and protect his crops. The accused along with his family was found to be absconding. Further investigations are underway,” SHO further said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/farmer-electrocuted-in-chaubepur/articleshow/80202812.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Surat||Amid Covid pandemic, Surat Hira Bourse exports surge 650% YoY||Surat: For the first time, export of gems and jewellery from Surat Hira Bourse (SHB) has increased to 650% compared to the previous year. According to the figures provided by the SHB, export of polished diamonds was US$994 million between April and December 2020 compared to US$154 million during the same period in the previous year. Talking with TOI, CEO of SHB, KK Sharma said, “This is first time in the last many years that the export has increased to over 650%, that too during the coronavirus pandemic.” Sharma that the pandemic and travel restrictions spurred the demand in some quarters like diamond engagement ring category in the US, China and Europe. “China and the US, which accounts for about 70% of the diamond jewellery demand, have shown double-digit growth,” he added. Industry experts said that in the countries like the US, the Europe and China, people have cash to spend due to the restrictions on travel. The customers have cash in hand and the first option is to purchase diamond-studded and gold jewellery as part of the safe investment for celebrating anniversaries, weddings, engagements or any other occasion during the Christmas season. Rakesh Gandhi, a diamond exporter said, “We exported about Rs 100 crore worth of diamonds from the SHB since April 2020. Customers have dispensable cash to spend as they could not travel during the pandemic and so, now they are expected to spend more on jewellery as an investment option too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/amid-covid-pandemic-surat-hira-bourse-exports-surge-650-yoy/articleshow/80201548.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Patna||Patna: Covid-19 claims lives of gynaecologist, 3 others||PATNA: Noted gynaecologist Dr Shanti H K Singh died at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) on Sunday due to coronavirus. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said the 73-year-old doctor, former head of department of obstetrics and gynaecology at Patna Medical College and Hospital, was admitted to the hospital on January 2. “Dr Singh was a spine cancer patient. She had tested positive for Covid on January 2 after returning from Mumbai where she had gone for routine check-up,” Dr Kumar said. Meanwhile, the state’s Covid tally increased to 2,56,778 on Sunday with 359 more people testing positive for the virus in the last 24 hours. Four fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s Covid toll to 1,434. With the death of three more people in Patna, the district’s Covid toll has mounted to 397. The day’s fourth death was recorded in West Champaran. With 408 people recuperating from the virus in the last 24 hours, actives cases in the state stood at 4,078 on Sunday. So far, 2,51,266 people have been discharged from different hospitals in the state. The state’s recovery rate, meanwhile, touched 97.85% on Sunday. Altogether 1,00,487 samples were tested at different health facilities in the state in the last 24 hours. So far, 1,92,81,224 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. Apart from Dr Singh, four more Covid patients have died at AIIMS-P – a 51-year-old man from Rajendra Nagar (road number 6) in Patna, a 49-year-old man from Bhojpur, a 55-year-old man from Karmali Hata in Siwan and a 65-year-old man from Vishambarpur in Saran. Dr Kumar said 12 patients from Bhoothnath Road, Khagaul and Agamkuan in Patna and others from Siwan, Nalanda and Vaishali were admitted to the hospital and 11 discharged on Sunday. No new Covid casualty was reported at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Sunday. Of the 359 fresh cases recorded in the state in the last 24 hours, Patna alone accounted for 168. The district’s Covid tally has now touched 50,646. Active cases in the district, however, stood at 1,656 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-19-claims-lives-of-gynaecologist-3-others/articleshow/80202283.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 11, 2021||Business||Bank hard-sell & cheaper loans drive auto financing||CHENNAI: Cheaper loans, aggressive options from public sector banks and a general reluctance to use cash for cars has led to an increase in auto financing penetration in passenger vehicles from 75% at the beginning of 2020 to around 80% now. Auto financiers and dealers say the current buzz is led by the aggression of PSU lenders, which are offering rates lower than private financiers. However the uptick is restricted only to passenger vehicles and not two-wheelers and commercial vehicles. ICICI Bank head (secured assets) Ravi Narayanan said: “In addition to various favourable macroeconomic factors, the all-time low interest rate is the key element for increased penetration of car finance as it boosts the sale of passenger cars. Additionally, there is a significant rise in demand for used cars for personal mobility. This too is leading to more customers opting for vehicle finance.” Credit rating agency Icra’s sector head for financial sector ratings, A M Karthik, said there has been an average drop by 100-120bps (100bps = 1 percentage point) in car loan lending rates between January and December 2020. And customers are not only getting cheaper loans but better service as well. Icra VP Ashish Modani said: “Car financing penetration has improved in the last two quarters across OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and turnaround time has improved plus rejection rates have come down.” PSU banks, which are offering car loans at sub-8% right now, have seen a sharp rise in their loan books. Indian Bank saw a 90% increase in vehicle loans sanctioned in the third quarter compared to the first half of this fiscal. The jump happened in October with 40% of vehicles financed in mid-segment with average loan amount being more than Rs 5 lakh. Mahindra & Mahindra dealer JS 4Wheel Motor’s Nikunj Sanghi said: “In passenger vehicles, PSU banks now have around 17% share of the market, up from 4-5% before because they are cheaper than NBFCs and offer longer tenure loans.” NBFCs for their part say they are working on reducing the interest gap with banks. Sundaram Finance national head (auto) N Ramachandran said: “Though there is a 2-3% differential between banks and NBFCs on rates we have worked hard to offer options, which are around half percentage points higher than banks.” As for the cash component, that’s high among first-time buyers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-hard-sell-cheaper-loans-drive-auto-financing/articleshow/80203554.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 11, 2021||Patna||JD(U) plays youth card, makes Umesh Kushwaha its Bihar chief||PATNA: Former MLA Umesh Kushwaha (46) was on Sunday unanimously elected Bihar unit president of the Janata Dal (United) in a clear indication that Nitish Kumar’s party is trying to restrengthen its traditional support base of “Luv-Kush (Kurmi and Kushwaha castes)”. The election of Kushwaha, a former JD(U) MLA from Mahnar assembly constituency in Vaishali district, was ratified at the party’s state council meeting which concluded here on Sunday. Kushwaha had contested the 2020 assembly elections on a JD(U) ticket from Mahnar constituency, but lost to RJD’s Veena Singh, wife of former Vaishali MP and don-turned-politician Rama Singh who had twice defeated former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh in the Lok Sabha elections. Kushwaha had won the 2015 assembly polls as the Mahagathbandhan candidate from the same Mahnar seat, defeating his BJP rival. “JD(U)’s outgoing Bihar unit chief and Rajya Sabha member Bashishtha Narayan Singh proposed the name of Kushwaha for the post of the party’s state president, which was unanimously supported by the members present at the state council meeting,” Munger MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lalan Singh told reporters after the meeting. Earlier at the meeting, Bashishtha expressed his desire to quit the party post citing his poor health. Supporting Kushwaha’s name, CM Nitish Kumar said the former would take over the charge under the guidance of Bashishtha. “It is necessary for the expansion and strengthening of the party to link the new generation with the organisation,” the CM said. Nitish called upon the party leaders to connect with the younger generation and ensure a regular dialogue with them. “In the recent assembly polls in the state, the young people were misguided against us,” he said. The CM also asked the party leaders to form a cell in the JD(U) office through which the complaints related to corruption and of crime are solved properly. Insiders in the JD(U) said Kushwaha was picked up for the party post by none other than Nitish. “The election of Kushwaha is also aimed at taking on young leaders like Tejashwi Prasad Yadav and Chirag Paswan,” a senior NDA leader said. “Nitish’s preference for a Kushwaha leader clearly indicates that the party has decided to go back to its original traditional support base of ‘Luv-Kush’. Nitish and JD(U) national president R C P Singh hail from Kurmi caste,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/jdu-plays-youth-card-makes-umesh-kushwaha-its-state-chief/articleshow/80202237.cms||Madan Kumar
January 11, 2021||Patna||Opposition to boycott ‘short’ Budget session: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: Opposition parties on Sunday threatened to boycott the forthcoming state Budget session, if it is shortened to just three or four days in the name of Covid-19 pandemic. “We will also gherao the residences of chief minister and both deputy CMs in that case,” the leader of Opposition in the state assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, said after a joint meeting of senior leaders of the Mahagathbandhan. Besides Tejashwi, RJD’s state president Jagdanand Singh, Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha, CPI-ML leaders Mehboob Alam, Dhirendra Jha and Kunal, CPI’s Rambabu Kumar and CPM’s Arun Mishra attended the meeting at the residence of former CM Rabri Devi. Talking to reporters, Tejashwi said assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha had invited him on Saturday to take his opinion on the state government’s move to shorten the forthcoming Budget session to just three or four days in the name of Covid-19 pandemic. “Now, when the schools, colleges and offices have been reopened and almost everything is back on track, steps are being taken to shorten the Budget session in order to prohibit the MLAs from raising questions against the shortcomings of the state government,” Tejashwi said. “When the biggest problem (Covid-19) is before us, you don’t want the Vidhan Sabha to function for a longer period,” Tejashwi said, without taking any name. Tejashwi also said the alibi is being given that the vaccine for Covid-19 would reach the state by March. “What an MLA will do during the vaccination exercise. It will be better if the assembly remains in session during the vaccination exercise so that the MLAs can raise questions in the House in case of any shortcomings on the part of the administration,” the younger son of RJD chief Lalu Prasad said. Tejashwi also said that supporters and workers of all opposition parties in Bihar would form a human chain on Martyrs’ Day on January 30 in support of the ongoing farmers’ agitation on Delhi border. “The joint meeting of the Mahagathbandhan also decided to ask CM Nitish Kumar to pass a unanimous resolution from the Bihar assembly in support of the farmers’ agitation and their demands,” CPI-ML leader in the assembly and Balrampur MLA Mehboob Alam told TOI over phone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/opposition-to-boycott-short-budget-session-tejashwi/articleshow/80202261.cms||Madan Kumar
January 11, 2021||Patna||Patna: Raids on to trace bank account holder in fraud case||PATNA: Police were trying to trace one Nipendra Kumar Pandey, in whose name is the ICICI Bank account in which Rs11.73 crore of government money from the Kotak Mahindra Bank was to be fraudulently transferred. The Exhibition Road branch in Patna of Kotak Mahindra Bank had funds of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) parked in the bank account operated by the district land acquisition officer for acquiring land for different government road projects. A failed attempt was made to transfer Rs11.73 crore to the Boring Road branch of ICICI Bank via RTGS on January 2. It has lifted the lid on successful fraudulent transfer of more than Rs15 crore to different private bank accounts outside Bihar in the last two months. Town DSP Suresh Kumar told TOI on Sunday that two more persons were identified. “They are behind making all the fraudulent transactions surfaced till date,” he said. Raids were being conducted to arrest them. “We expect Kotak Mahindra Bank authorities to submit a detailed report on Monday regarding transactions made from the government account,” Kumar said. He said at least four persons were being interrogated in this connection. Sources said a manager-rank employee of Kotak Mahindra Bank, who was earlier posted at its Exhibition Road branch, and a sales team employee of ICICI Bank, who had opened Nipendra’s account, were being interrogated. Sources said Nipendra (27) had opened a current account on December 4, 2020. “This is just a month before an attempt was made to transfer Rs11.73 crore to his account. The bank account might have been opened solely for fraudulent transactions. A cheque of another bank was submitted by Nipendra as initial deposit for opening the current account. But that cheque had bounced and the account was made inactive by the bank,” the sources said. He said Nipendra was probably used just to open the current account for fraudulent transaction of government funds as professional con men were working behind the curtain. Another police source privy to the investigation said a senior officer of Kotak Mahindra Bank at Exhibition Road is also under scanner as his banking credentials were used in making most of the fraudulent transactions from the government account to other bank accounts. However, he said the officer was yet to be quizzed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raids-on-to-trace-bank-a/c-holder-in-fraud-case/articleshow/80202313.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 11, 2021||Patna||15 centres in Patna to administer Covid-19 vaccines on January 16||PATNA: The district health authorities have identified 15 health facilities in Patna to administer Covid-19 vaccines on January 16. The department has also identified the beneficiaries in the first phase. PMCH, NMCH, AIIMS-Patna, Sadar Hospital, IGIMS, Paras HMRI, Ruban Hospital and Apollo Hospital are among the 15 health facilities where vaccination centres will be set up for immunization. Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh told this newspaper on Sunday that around 35 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR) have been provided by the state government for the storage of vaccines and distribution to different vaccine centres. One refrigerator van would also be provided for the transportation. “Presently, the district office at Gardanibagh has one refrigerator van for this purpose. One ILR can store 15,000 vaccine vials. It maintains a temperature between 2 degrees and 8 degrees Celsius,” she said. “As per the requirement, the vaccines will be provided to the health facilities. All the selected healthcare facilities have been asked to ensure separate entry and exit vaccination centres with a ‘three-room set-up’ -- one waiting room, one vaccination room and an observation room. They have to complete their preparation before January 16,” Dr Vibha said. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said an immunization committee of ten medical practitioners has been formed under the head of medicine department, Dr Uma Shankar Prasad. “One vaccination centre has been prepared at preventive and social medicine department while two more will come up at the de-addiction centre block and one on college premises. Each vaccine centre will be headed by a medical officer,” he said. Dr Binod said 100 persons will be vaccinated at each centre and 400 people will get the first dose on January 16. “We will vaccinate our staff on priority basis. NMCH has 2,400 healthcare and frontline workers. So, it will take around six days to vaccinate all our staff. After that we will immunize other health workers. Covid protocols will be followed at each centre,” he said. At IGIMS, four teams have been constituted, including HR team to make data entry on digital platform CoWIN. IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said the vaccination centre has been prepared at the new admin building and all the required arrangements have been made as per the protocol. “The list of beneficiaries will be provided by the Centre for the vaccination,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/15-city-centres-to-administer-covid-19-vaccines-on-jan-16/articleshow/80202275.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Bengali film on Rohingya refugees screened at KIFF||Kolkata: Director Kumar Chowdhury claims it is the first Bengali feature film on a Rohingya refugee as a protagonist, but even if it isn’t so, the actor-turned-director’s debut feature film titled ‘Priyo Chinar Pata, Iti Segun... (Fire of Teak Flame of Chinar)’ that was screened on Sunday at the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival will remain an important film made during the pandemic. Kumar ChowdhuryThis film starring Piyali Samanta, Aarman Shaw and Iqbal Sultan is in competition at KIFF’s Asian Select category. Chowdhury, who has acted in 60 serials, including ‘Mahaprabhu’, ‘Kiranmala’ and ‘Sati’, and over 35 feature films, including ‘Pendulum’, ‘Houseful’ and ‘Megh Roddur’, and who has directed a dozen telefilms, had been moved by the photo of Aylan Kurdi — the Syrian boy of Kurdish background whose image made global headlines. A chance reading of a Bangladeshi author’s book on Rohingyas sparked his interest. “From 2012, I started my research on the conflicts in Myanmar between Buddhists and Muslims. I met a woman from Tekna in Bangladesh who had come to Kolkata. She helped me with the research on the language used by Rohingyas,” he said. ‘Priyo Chinar Pata, Iti Segun...’ is loosely based on a girl whose story had been reported in a magazine. “I had accompanied the person who wrote the piece and even met her in a home in South 24 Parganas. Later, I went to homes across the state to hear more real-life stories,” Chowdhury said. A still from ‘Priyo Chinar Pata, Iti Segun...’Funding was difficult and Chowdhury had to take out personal loans, sell off family jewellery and then go for crowd-funding to raise the Rs 20 lakh required to make it. “During Amphan, the post-production got stalled because of funds crunch. As a last resort, I sold my personal belongings to raise money,” he said. Chowdhury’s film is about a Rohingya girl who has no idea of where her parents and grandmother are. She meets a Kashmiri shawl-seller and his son at a home and a bond develops between her and the youth, who then tries, in his personal capacity, to trace her family. “It is difficult for anyone to randomly meet a Rohingya girl lodged in a home. But I have seen shawl sellers enter homes and interact with the staff. The love story in the film is a creative liberty I took,” he said. In the process, he has also brought up crucial discussions regarding the difference between refugees and immigrants and how locals want them to return to their homeland. “While the Rohingya girl had to escape from her homeland, the Kashmiri youth is treated as an outsider in his own country. However, during shooting, I never shared my story with anyone because of its sensitivity. Not everyone is empathetic and I wanted to avoid any attempt to stall a film connecting Rohingyas and Kashmiris,” he said. But his film is not just about focusing on the trials of the Rohingya refugees. Throughout the film, Chowdhury uses a radio as a prop to share happenings concerning refugees in the world to connect the dots and tell the tales of global loss.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengali-film-on-rohingya-refugees-screened-at-kiff/articleshow/80203659.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 11, 2021||Varanasi||Dry run at 30 centres to checkreadiness for vaccine rollout||Varanasi: As a part of the countrywide dry run for Covid-19 vaccination as many as 60 sessions for 900 beneficiaries will be conducted at 30 centres including 22 in urban and eight in rural areas on Monday. The district immunization officer Dr VK Rai said that the dry run of sending dummy vaccines to the cold chain points (CCP) including six in city and eight in rural areas from the district vaccine store created at community health centre Choukaghat had already been conducted on Saturday. Now, he said, before the commencement of vaccination sessions at the selected centres the dummy vaccines will be shifted from CCP to the vaccination rooms in police security. He said that each of the 30 sites in the district will host two sessions. In each session, 15 beneficiaries (persons registered for vaccination) will be administered Covid-19 vaccine at a site, he said adding that as each site has to conduct two sessions between 10am and 5pm or till the beneficiaries continue to turn up, the Monday’s dry run will cover 900 beneficiaries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dry-run-at-30-centres-to-checkreadiness-for-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/80202501.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Shimla||73% cast votes in Himachal Pradesh municipal polls||SHIMLA: Amid the Covid-19 pandemic and Bird Flu scare, Himachal Pradesh recorded good voter turnout for elections to 50 urban local bodies (ULBs), excluding municipal corporations, on Sunday. By the time voting came to an end, 73% polling had been registered. Highest voter turnout of 73.40% was witnessed in Una district while the lowest turnout of 62.40% was recorded in Shimla. Women voters came out in greater numbers than their male counterparts in Hamirpur, Shimla and Solan. Although polling started at 8am, due to intense cold, most of the voters remained indoors during the initial hours, due to which only 13.50% polling was recorded in the first 2 hours till 10am. Later, polling picked up pace and by 12pm, the state had recorded 30.50% polling, which increased to 50.90% by 2 pm. Elections were held in 401 ULB wards, in which 2,04,549 people cast their votes. Of these, 1,04,886 were men while 9,9,591 were women. There were 12 tendered votes and 68 Covid-19 votes for 1,196 candidates. In Bilaspur district, 70.20% polling was recorded in 32 wards; in Chamba, 69.60% polling was recorded in 27 wards; in Hamirpur, 69.80% polling was recorded in 34 wards; in Kangra, 71.30% voting was recorded in 65 wards; in Kullu, 64.40% polling was registered in 32 wards and in Mandi, 48 wards registered 63.50% polling. In Shimla, 49 wards recorded 62.40% polling; in Sirmaur, 67.40% polling was recorded; in Solan it was 71.90%, while in Una district it was 73.40%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/73-cast-votes-in-hp-municipal-polls/articleshow/80204144.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Patna||Patna: Man’s death in police custody sparks protests||PATNA: An angry mob on Sunday protested outside the Gaurichak police station here a day after the alleged custodial death of one Dharmendra Manjhi (30). Manjhi, who was arrested on charges liquor smuggling on Saturday, had died while being taken to police station from court. Police had cited Manjhi’s ill health for his death. A crowd of more than 250 people, especially from Chipura and neighbouring villages, gathered outside the police station and burned tyres to register their protest. The protests started at 7am and continued till 11am. The protesters also pelted stones targeting the police station, forcing cops to remain inside till reinforcement reached there from different police stations. Police said locals also blocked the Patna-Gaya main road, disrupting traffic for more than three hours. SDO Nitin Kumar Singh, assistant SP Sandeep Singh, Masaurhi SDPO Sonu Kumar Rai, block development officer and circle officer of Sampatchak reached the spot with police forces to bring the situation under control. City SP (east) Jitendra Kumar said there was no visible external injury mark on body of Manjhi to suggest that he was tortured by police. “Manjhi was probably ill. His family has also not alleged any foul play on part of the police,” he said, adding the autopsy of Manjhi’s body was conducted at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital. “All processes were video-recorded as per National Human Rights Commission guidelines,” he said, adding Manjhi was a resident of Chipura village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mans-death-in-police-custody-sparks-protests/articleshow/80202138.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 11, 2021||Patna||14 special trains to stop at Patna Sahib||PATNA: Altogether 14 pairs of special passenger trains have been given temporary stoppage at Patna Sahib station for two minutes on the occasion of the 354th birth anniversary of the 10th Sikh Guru Gobind Singh Ji Maharaj from January 12 to 26 this month. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has taken this decision to facilitate pilgrims to visit the Harmandir Sahib Gurdwara in Patna City, the birth place of Guru Gobind Singh Ji, conveniently during this period. . The trains to stop at Patna Sahib are Madhupur-Anand Vihar special (02465/02466), Howrah-Prayagraj Rambagh special (02333/02334), Kolkata-Gazipur special (03121/03132), Rajgir-New Delhi special (03391/03392), New Delhi-Howrah superfast special (02303/02304), Bhagalpur-Surat special (09147/09148), Banka-Rajendra Nagar Terminal special (03241/03242), Raxaul-Lokmanya Tilak special (02545/02546), Puri-Badrinathdham special (08449/08450), Jayanagar- Udhana special (05563/ 05564), Darbhanga-Mysore special (02577/02578), Saharsa-Patna special (02567/02568), Saharsa-Bandra Terminal special (02913/02914) and Shalimar-Patna Junction special (02213/02214), the CPRO said. According to sources, railways has stepped up security measures at Patna Sahib station. Additional RPF men and women have been deployed there to maintain law and order during the pilgrims’ visit to Patna Sahib. Railways has made elaborate arrangements for special announcements about arrival and departure of passenger trains passing through Patna Sahib, sources said, adding that railways will carry out round-the-clock cleanliness drive and set up ‘May I Help You’ booth at the station to guide and escort pilgrims visiting here during this period. Meanwhile, Bihar Daily Passengers’ Association secretary Shoaib Quraishi has urged ECR GM L C Trivedi and Danapur DRM Sunil Kumar to increase the number of MEMUs/DEMUs on each section of the Danapur and other divisions following the opening of schools and colleges in the state from January 4. Besides, railways should also direct ticket booking counters to issue monthly season ticket (MST) to daily passengers and allow them to travel in the special trains for short distance journey, he said, adding railways had stopped this facility after the Covid-19 induced lockdown was implemented across the country in March 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/14-special-trains-to-stop-at-patna-sahib/articleshow/80202067.cms||Kumod Verma
January 11, 2021||Patna||Centre sanctions Rs 8 crore for networking of Patna University campus||PATNA: The Union information technology ministry has approved the proposal of Patna University (PU) for networking of the entire campus. A communication to this effect has been received by PU recently. PU computer centre chief K P Singh told this newspaper that initially a sum of Rs 8 crore has been sanctioned by the central government for the networking of Patna Science College, PU office and library, Patna College and Darbhanga House complex. Optical fibres would be laid in the entire area for having a fast communication facility on the campus. This networking, along with Wi-Fi connectivity, would increase the speed of internet, benefiting the researchers and faculties besides students of different colleges and postgraduate departments in PU, he said. PU vice-chancellor G K Chaudhary has also initiated necessary steps for setting up an IT cell on the campus for automation of all office works and computerization of admission and examinations. PU would have its own UMIS (university management information system) facilitating complete automation of all its activities, he added. Meanwhile, with the recent initiatives taken by the chancellor as well as the state government, the universities and colleges in Bihar are gradually adopting digital technology for facilitating online classes and other academic activities. Educational institutions have started taking advantage of the various schemes floated by the Union ministry of higher education. The chancellor’s secretariat has already approved all various schemes, including Swayam (Study Webs of Active learning for Young Aspiring Minds), Swayam Prabha, Arpit (Annual Refresher Programme in Teaching), Virtual Labs, e-Yantra and National Digital Library, to be undertaken by the universities and colleges. Raj Bhavan sources said the universities have been directed to link ‘Annual Refresher Programme in Teaching’ with the career advancement of teachers and organize workshops so that teachers might be made aware of this innovative scheme. The UGC has already granted equivalence to ARPIT courses on par with Refresher Courses for the purpose of Career Advancement Scheme. Furthermore, universities have also been asked to develop necessary infrastructure for setting up virtual labs with a view to providing students remote access to laboratories in various subjects of science and engineering. The state education department would provide necessary funds to the institutions for the purpose, sources said. Patna University has already adopted some of these programmes and started imparting online education through Swayam Prabha. Efforts are also being made to link PU with the National Digital Library, said PU’s deputy librarian Ashok Kumar Jha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/centre-sanctions-rs-8cr-for-networking-of-pu-campus/articleshow/80202101.cms||B K Mishra
January 11, 2021||Patna||Patna civic body plans 34 smart parking slots, mobile app||PATNA: In an attempt to resolve parking issue in the city, the Patna Municipal Corporation (PMC) has planned smart parking facilities at 34 parking space of the civic body as a pilot project. The PMC has decided to operate it by appointing a private operator on public-private partnership (PPP) mode. Under the smart parking system, a mobile application will be developed to ease the service as the residents will be able to see the availability of slots and also make an advance booking for the parking of their vehicles at designated point. One could pay the parking charge through digital platform after booking the slot by selecting the duration of vehicle parking. The proposal has been approved by the empowered committee members of PMC during the standing committee meeting on Saturday. It will be tabled at the PMC's board meeting on January 18 for the final approval. Municipal commissioner Himanshu Sharma told this newspaper on Sunday that the PMC would float an expression of interest to appoint a private operator by the month-end for the operation and maintenance of smart parking in the city. “The selected firm would modernize parking lots using a smart management system, creation of entry and exit points and installation of closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras for automated ticketing and monitoring of vehicles among others,” he said. He added: “Parking charge collection is one of the major sources of revenue for the civic body. It had not been collected last year due to several reasons. This year, we are going to regularize it and the charges will be fixed by the company.” The PMC officials were earlier sent to Bhopal and Pune to study the process of smart parking management system, where it has been followed. Sharma said the new parking system will provide information like parking guidance, real-time information of parking slot availability through a mobile application, online booking of parking slot and facilities to pay online. Patna mayor Sita Sahu said it has become important to regularize the parking system because many people are collecting the parking charges from people in the name of the PMC. “Because of this, the civic body incurs huge loss. We will also be able to stop the illegal parking in the city,” she said. Some of the selected parking slots of PMC, which will be modernized, include Boring Canal Road from Hartali Mor to Rajapur Pul, in front of Patna Market, near Mithapur bus stand, Transport Nagar, in front of Eco Park, Exhibition Road and several other places under the flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/civic-body-plans-34-smart-parking-slots-mobile-app/articleshow/80202081.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 11, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi Prasad Yadav future of Bihar, says Jitan Ram Manjhi||PATNA: Former CM and HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi on Sunday advised the leader of opposition, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, to keep patience and not to make frivolous statements as he is the future of Bihar. Interestingly, HAM(S) is a part of the ruling NDA in the state. Amid reports of simmering discontent in the JD(U) against ally BJP in the wake of recent political developments in Arunachal Pradesh, Manjhi on Sunday tweeted: “Why are you making a fuss over delay in expansion of the cabinet? You are the future of the state. You should refrain from making frivolous statements at a time when you are yourself to kick-start your political 'yatra' after 'Makar Sankranti’. Things will settle down at the opportune time.” Tejashwi on Saturday had questioned the delay in state cabinet expansion. In another tweet, Manjhi praised CM Nitish Kumar and said one should learn from him how to follow coalition ‘dharma’. “Despite facing drubbings in the recently held state assembly polls, Nitish kept quiet and is maintaining the coalition ‘dharma’. I salute him for his endeavour,” he said. Manjhi's remarks came a day after Nitish told JD(U) leaders at the party’s state council meeting that he failed to know who were friends and who were not. “After the election campaign, we got to understand that things were not conducive for us but by then it was too late,” Nitish had said. Nitish, however, claimed that the NDA government in the state will complete its five-year term. Earlier, he had attributed the reason for the poor JD(U) show in the elections to delay in seat distribution among the NDA constituents. Political observers, however, described Manjhi's statement as a part of the political strategy to build pressure on the NDA to concede to his recent demand of another ministerial berth and an MLC seat in the state. Manjhi’s son Santosh Kumar Suman is a cabinet minister. Deputy CM and senior BJP leader Tarkishore Prasad on Sunday said the cabinet expansion will take place after Makar Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-future-of-state-says-manjhi/articleshow/80202242.cms||Ramashankar
January 11, 2021||Patna||Coaching institute owner held in Patna for raping minor girl||PATNA: Police arrested Santu Kumar (24), owner of a coaching institute, from a village under the Dhanarua police station area in eastern Patna on Saturday night on charges of raping one of his former students. SHO of Dhanarua police station Raju Kumar said the 14-year-old rape survivor studies in Class VII. “The girl used to study at Santu’s coaching institute earlier,” he said, adding the girl’s father and other family members lodged an FIR against Santu on Saturday night. The SHO said the incident occurred on December 5 but the girl’s family members came to know about it on December 8. “Santu had called the girl on the pretext of meeting her. He later took the girl to a secluded place and raped her,” Kumar said. “Santu has been forwarded to judicial custody. The girl’s medical examination has also been conducted. Her statement before judicial magistrate will be recorded on Monday,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/coaching-institute-owner-held-for-raping-minor-girl/articleshow/80202250.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 11, 2021||Patna||RJD faces challenge to avert split: BJP||PATNA: BJP national general secretary and state incharge Bhupendra Yadav on Sunday claimed that the opposition RJD would receive a major political setback after Makar Sankranti on January 14. Talking to the media on the concluding day of the two-day training camp of BJP state functionaries and workers of 13 zones at Rajgir in Nalanda district, Yadav said, “It will be a big challenge for RJD to avert its split.” He said several RJD leaders and MLAs wanted to get rid of dynastic politics in the party. However, Yadav didn’t reveal which party or the political combination the ‘disgruntled’ leaders and legislators of RJD would join. “We (read BJP) have been maintaining a silence for it is an inauspicious period according to the Hindu belief,” Yadav said. BJP’s national organizing general secretary B L Santosh, deputy CMs Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi, state party president Dr Sanjay Jaiswal and former minister Prem Kumar attended the concluding session of the camp. Bhupender’s remarks came a day after RJD attacked JD(U) over the delay in the cabinet expansion. The RJD leaders ridiculed CM Nitish Kumar's statement that the NDA government in the state would complete its five years’ term. Reacting to Bhupendra’s statement, RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said: “RJD geedar bhabhki se darne wali nahi hai (RJD is not scared of verbal threats).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-faces-challenge-to-avert-split-bjp/articleshow/80202269.cms||Ramashankar
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Elderly couple found hanging at home in West Bengal||KOLKATA: A couple in their early 70s was found hanging from the ceiling fans in separate rooms of their two-storey house in Konnagar on Sunday morning. Dipak Sarkar and his wife were both retired state government officials and lived on SC Chatterjee Street with their only son Dibyendu. It was Dibyendu who found the bodies around 7am. Police said Dipak, a retired upper division clerk at state employment exchange, was found in his ground-floor bedroom while his wife Bhabani, a former upper division clerk at state rent control board, was in the prayer room. “Prima facie, it looks like a double suicide, but we have sent the bodies for post-mortem to find the exact time and cause of death. It doesn’t look like the family had any financial trouble. But we are checking if they were depressed because of some family dispute. We are questioning the son, neighbours and relatives,” said an officer. Police said Dibyendu got married two years ago but lived apart from his wife, which used to bother the elderly couple. Dibyendu also had to close his transport business during the lockdown and had recently started a business of food delivery in the neighbourhood. “They were a happy and gentle couple. They never seemed to have any problem in the family. I have no clue what could have led them to end their lives,” said Bappaditya Chatterjee, chairman of Konnagar Municipality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/elderly-couple-found-hanging-at-home/articleshow/80203651.cms||Falguni Banerjee
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Stray issue divides residents of Bypass high-rise complex||KOLKATA: Hiland Park, the high-rise residential complex off EM Bypass at Chak Garia, has been rocked by a raging controversy, at the centre of which are about 20 mongrels who stay and are fed inside the complex. While a group of residents wants these dogs to be removed from the complex, another group wants to prevent their ouster. For the first time, the controversy within the gated community over removal of strays has taken such a shape that the facility manager of Hiland Park Residents’ Association Limited (HPRAL) has sought help from Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health department to resolve the crisis. According to Ashok Sunda, the Hiland Park facility manager, he was compelled to seek attention of the KMC health department a couple of weeks ago after several residents expressed apprehension that their children, who regularly play inside the complex, were at risk of getting bitten by the dogs. Some residents complained that the number of these dogs has grown over the past few months since some had entered the complex when they were unfed during the lockdown and continued staying inside. Sources in the KMC confirmed that the civic body’s dog cell was prompted to carry out an inspection of the complex after the matter was communicated to municipal commissioner Binod Kumar from a senior official at Nabanna. However, the civic body could not take the decision of ousting the mongrels after Jadavpur MP Mimi Chakraborty came forward to protect the strays. Soon, dog lovers from outside the complex, too, lent a helping hand to the residents who vehemently protested against removal of the dogs. According to Chakraborty, the few dogs that stay in the sprawling complex were known to be harmless and any attempts to forcefully drive them out would be prevented at all costs. “As soon as my help was sought by a section of the protectors of the dogs, I decided to lend my support. Most of these dogs have been staying at the complex for years without disturbing any resident. So how can some people all of a sudden raise an irrational demand for their ouster? I have joined the movement as a citizen and an animal lover,” she told TOI. Director Tathagata Mukherjee is another animal lover who has visited the spot and found that the demand for the dogs’ ouster was baseless. “Ouster of the strays from Hiland Park residential complex will be deemed as cruelty to animals as defined by Supreme Court and this should be discouraged,” Mukherjee said. A KMC health department official who inspected the site told TOI that all the dogs were brought under a vaccination and sterilization programme conducted by an NGO on request from a section of residents. “A report will be submitted on the findings. It will be then left to the civic brass to take a decision on the ouster of the stray dogs,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/stray-issue-divides-residents-of-bypass-high-rise-complex/articleshow/80203645.cms||Saikat Ray
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Two bikers die in highway mishaps in Palghar district||MUMBAI: In separate incidents, two men were killed on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Kasa in Palghar district on Sunday. In the first case, Siddesh Parab (23) was riding pillion on a bike driven by Sanat Yadav(24). At the Charoti flyover, Yadav lost control and hit a divider. Parab was thrown off, fell 20 feet from the flyover and died on the spot. In the other, Mohnish Raut(37) was knocked down by a tanker at Talasari. Raut died on the spot. A case of death by negligence has been filed against injured Yadav and the tanker driver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-bike-deaths-on-highway-at-kasa/articleshow/80205032.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccine roll-out from January 16: Anil Vij||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health minister Anil Vij, on Sunday, said roll-out of the Covid-19 vaccine in the state would start from January 16. In all, 67 lakh people belonging to three categories — healthcare and frontline workers, people aged above 50 and those below 50 years but with co-morbidities — will be vaccinated. Adhering to guidelines issued by the Centre, the state government will first immunise people belonging to these three categories, Vij said. According to him, there were two lakh healthcare workers in the state and 4.5 lakh frontline workers, including employees of urban local bodies, sanitation workers, police and civil defence personnel, jail staff and revenue department employees. On January 16, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will start the vaccination drive and 107 sites have been identified in Haryana. Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar also ruled out the possibility of public representatives, including ministers, MLAs and MPs getting priority in the vaccination programme. “There was a proposal in view of the fact that they are exposed to the public the most but now, we shall stick to ICMR guidelines,” said CM Khattar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccine-roll-out-from-jan-16-vij/articleshow/80204138.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana’s elders have supple joints, but weak lungs: Study||CHANDIGARH: Going by the Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI) Wave-1 (2017-18), Haryana has to make more efforts to improve its health indices. Despite having reasonably good infrastructure at the government level, which has restricted the expenses of an average Haryanvi to Rs 307 per month, only 45.03% of the population is in good good health while 37.03% is in moderate health. Among the elderly aged 60 and above, 36.08% of the population is in good health, 40.03% is in moderate health and 23.0% are in bad health. The report also underlines the fact that despite having good health facilities, rate of treatment of hypertension and other diseases in Haryana is less than the neighbouring states of Delhi, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Union Territory of Chandigarh. According to the report, on an average, 53.9% of the affected get treatment for hypertension. However, average treatment of heart disease in Haryana is better than the national average. According to the report, on an average, 77.6% of heart patients only get treatment. This is attributed to the presence of cardiac care centres in district-level hospitals across the state. As for treatment of lung diseases, Haryana is close to the national average of treatment. The state has an overall average of 68.4% against the national average of 70. Almost 37.09% of the population reported prevalence of cardiovascular diseases, which is more than the national average, but less than neighbouring states of Punjab and New Delhi. Also, 33% of Haryanvis within the age group of 45 and 59 years have been found to be hypertensive. Among the elderly, 39.8% of the population was found to be hypertensive. The elderly are also prone to stroke and other problems. As far as diabetes and related issues are concerned, Haryanvis both below and above the age of 60 fare better than their counterparts in neighbouring states and Chandigarh. Thanks to their active lifestyle, the average prevalence of bone and joint problems among residents of Haryana both above and below 60 years of age is quite less than the national average. According to reports, 5.5% of people in the age group of 45 and 59 years and 9.6 % of people above the age of 60 years suffer from such problems as against the national average of 11.7% and 18.8% respectively. Hookahs and tobacco have had an impact on lungs of people in the state. According to the study, 9.1% of the population in Haryana suffers from chronic lung disease as against the national average of 8.3%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hrys-elders-have-supple-joints-but-weak-lungs-lasi/articleshow/80204130.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Co-op credit society director murdered in her office in Palghar||MUMBAI: The director of a co-operative credit society was found murdered with head injuries in her office in Palghar on Saturday night. The murder came to light after the family of Sadhana Chowdhary (57) got worried when she did not answer her phone after office timings, and asked someone to check on her at the office. Chowdhary, who was unmarried, was the director of Shri Ashtavinayak co-operative credit society at Shanti Deva Apartment, Palghar. A resident of Satpati coastal village, Chowdhary was expected to reach home by 7pm as usual. When she did not come home and her phone went unanswered, a family member called the man who runs a tutorial in the same building as her office. The man found her lying in a pool of blood and called the police. Office staff at the co-operative credit society who had left for home, came back. They told the police that Rs 50,000 kept in the drawer was left untouched. They also said that Chowdhary had been calling defaulters to clear their dues. They said that some of the defaulters had come to the office and heated arguments had followed. The list of defaulters was handed over to the police, who suspect that the murder could be the work of a loan defaulter. The police said they obtained footage from a few CCTV cameras on Saturday and previous days, and have called in some of the defaulters for questioning. The victim was assaulted on the back of the head with a sharp object. No murder weapon was found at the spot, said the police. The victim’s cellphone was lying around. The police said that the office staff is ascertaining if any important documents are missing or if any data has been stolen from the office computers. The body was sent for an autopsy. A case of murder was registered against an unidentified person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/co-op-credit-soc-director-murdered-in-her-office/articleshow/80204186.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 11, 2021||India||Govt to generate unique health IDs for people giving Aadhaar for vaccination||BENGALURU: If a Covid-19 vaccine seeker provides his/her Aadhaar as identity proof to be inoculated, the government will immediately generate a unique health identity (UHID) for the individual. Eyeing this as an opportunity, authorities now are planning to use the vaccination programme to get digital health IDs for citizens. Once a UHID is generated, a person’s health records are digitally maintained in hospitals and become a part of government records. The plan, however, flies in the face of rules drawn up to vaccinate healthcare workers. The government has expressly stated that using Aadhaar as ID proof could have “legal implications”. Under the ‘frequently asked questions’ on registration of healthcare workers for Covid vaccination programme on covid19.karnataka.gov.in, a government-run portal, it clearly states Aadhaar card is not to be used as photo ID proof. It reads: ‘Never take Aadhaar details into the excel sheet. It has legal implications. Hence it is not listed in the Photo ID drop down menu’. Notably, providing Aadhaar is not mandatory to receive the vaccine — any government-issued ID will be accepted. “The objective is to have digital health documentation of all citizens. However, this is optional,” said health department officials. Using the unique identification number could have another impact too as, during the dry run, a significant delay was noticed when authorities attempted to generate health IDs of beneficiaries based on Aadhaar. “This has been brought to the notice of the central government,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, health commissioner. Asked why UHID was being linked to the Covid vaccination drive, officials said it was a central government decision, but insisted it is optional. “The vaccination drive is the perfect opportunity to generate IDs since most individuals will come to hospitals for vaccination,” Pandey said. “UHID is required for seamless movement of people seeking treatment from one state to another. It is digital proof of one’s health, but it’s optional.” However, the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Associations says the government has not listed Aadhaar as a photo ID proof when healthcare workers were asked to provide their data for the vaccine. “Healthcare work-ers in the private sector have not provided their Aadhaar when drawing up the data base as the government clearly said the document was not to be used for the purpose,” said PHANA president HM Prasanna. “We had no clue that the government was planning to generate UHIDs during the vaccination drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-to-generate-unique-health-ids-for-people-giving-aadhaar-for-vaccination/articleshow/80205336.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Hope, excitement among 1st batch of vaccine candidates||KOLKATA: There is much excitement among the initial batch of Covid vaccine beneficiaries — frontline Covid warriors like doctors, health workers, cops and civic workers — as the first phase of the vaccination drive is set to begin from this weekend. While doctors and health workers are slated to be vaccinated in the first phase, cops and civic workers are likely to receive the shot in the next phases. A section of doctors and health workers have already participated in the two dry runs conducted in the state and almost all city police personnel — from senior cops to constables and home guards — by now have received text messages from chief minister Mamata Banerjee announcing the arrival of the vaccine and that they would get it free. “I am really excited to be among the first batch of candidates of the vaccine. I had participated in the dry run at SSKM Hospital last week and it gave me first-hand experience of what the real vaccination is likely to be,” said Shrila Mondal, sister-in-charge at general surgery ward of SSKM Hospital and a resident of Gangulybagan in south Kolkata. Senior traffic sergeant Biplab Mondal, who has seen at least 25 colleagues from his guard down with the infection and even lost a number of colleagues in the department after they had contracted the infection over the last 9 months, said the text message from the CM was encouraging and relieving. After health workers and cops, civic and other frontline workers will be vaccinated. “During lockdown and multiple phases of unlock, we kept the city clean. I am looking forward to the vaccination,” said Mahesh Hela, a KMC sweeper and a resident of Garcha Lane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hope-excitement-among-1st-batch-of-vaccine-candidates/articleshow/80203068.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||Boy, 19, searching for 'missing' sister, found hanging from tree in UP's Shahjahanpur||BAREILLY: A 19-year-old youth, who had set out to find his missing 16-year-old sister, was found hanging from a tree in Shahjahanpur on Sunday. The youth had left home the previous evening. While the police claimed that the youth had ended life as he was upset with his sister's disappearance, the family alleged murder by those who had “abducted” their daughter. Police have recovered a pouch of illicit liquor from his pocket and suspect that he was inebriated when he took this extreme step. The incident was reported from Kanhau Chak village under Sindhauli police station, where local residents found the victim's body hanging in a mango orchard. The police were immediately informed. A police team along with forensic experts recovered evidence from the spot. Station house officer (SHO) Jag Narayan Pandey told TOI, “The youth worked in a brick kiln and was upset after his sister went missing four days ago. We have registered an FIR under sections of abduction and found that she had eloped with a relative from Pratapgarh district. We have sent teams to recover the girl. The victim’s other sister had died in a road accident a few years ago. The boy was more upset when he came to know that his sister eloped and possibly took this step of ending his life. We have recovered snacks, liquor pouch from the spot and another pouch from his pocket. The body has been sent for autopsy and the report will give direction to this case.” Meanwhile, Shahjahanpur SSP S Anand said, “We will register an FIR after receiving a complaint from the victim’s family. They are also waiting for the autopsy report to know the reason for his death.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/boy-19-searching-for-missing-sister-found-hanging-from-tree/articleshow/80202304.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||New rule to renew driving licence upsets many||Hyderabad: Motorists who failed to renew their driving licence one year after its validity ended are now caught in a difficult situation as the transport department has decided not to renew such licences at all. As per the new rule, in case the one-year validity period ends, one has to again apply for a learner’s licence by following all the norms laid down by the department for a new permanent licence. Earlier, there was an option to renew the driver’s license any time within the grace period of five years by paying a fine of Rs 1,000 per year. While the transport department officials have said that the new rule will ensure that motorists don’t violate the rules by driving with an expired driver’s licence, motorists, on the other hand, have raised objections stating that this will have a major impact on drivers, especially those in the transport sector. In one such case, Irudaya Rajk, an auto driver whose driving licence validity expired on June 30, 2018 was shocked to learn that he will have to once again apply for a learner’s license when he went to the regional transport office recently. Irudaya said, “I was asked to apply for a fresh learner’s licence and again go for the driving test when I went to get license renewed last week. Now, I have to wait for one more month to get a permanent licence after I apply for learner’s licence. The transport department should have at least issued a public notice before implementing this rule.” Motorists said that the new rule which has been adopted by Telangana transport department from the Centre is just another move to earn more revenue. “The department should have considered thousands of drivers in the transport sector who cannot afford to pay for the learner’s licence and permanent license test again along with the fine amount of Rs 100 per year. The fee for adding every class of vehicle would be around Rs 300. The applicant would have to pay at least Rs 2,000 in such a scenario,” said M Ramanjaneyulu, a cab driver. Meanwhile,0k P Ravinder, RTO Uppal said, “This new rule was introduced by the Union government to ensure that there is not much gap or delay by the motorists whose license validity has expired. They have to pay the fine and apply for the learner’s licence again.” He added that those applying for the learner’s licence for the first time have to wait for 30 days to go for the test and get a permanent driver’s license but in this case, they can go for the test immediately the next day after they get the learner’s licence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/new-rule-to-renew-driving-licence-upsets-many/articleshow/80204169.cms||Moulika.KV
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Minor boy killed in road accident in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A minor boy died after the bike he was travelling on hit an electric pole in Shamirpet on Sunday. The boy was travelling with his sister, who was injured. Shamirpet police said that Chandu,16, and his sister Mounika,17, were travelling from Bommaraspet to Jaganguda on their father’s bike. Chandu lost control of the bike and hit an electric pole. He sustained a head injury.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-boy-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80204180.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||CCF seeks nod to tranquilize Pilibhit’s stray tiger||Pilibhit: Chief conservator of forest (CCF) of Bareilly zone, Lalit Verma, has sought permission of the chief wildlife warden of UP to tranquilize a three-year-old tiger that strayed out of Pilibhit tiger reserve’s Barahi range 40 days ago and is showing no signs of retreating into the forest. The tiger is presently lurking amid the agricultural fields of villages under Kalinagar and Puranpur tehsil circles. It strayed out of Barahi forest range to stay amid the cropped fields near Madhotanda village in Kalinagar tehsil on November 29. Since then, it has moved from one village to another eluding capture and preying on animals like deer and wild boar living in the agricultural fields besides small livestock. Its presence has disrupted harvesting and other agricultural work in the area The big cat’s long stay outside the forest has emboldened it to stray close to human habitats. On Saturday, it barged inside a farmhouse at Manharia Khurd village under Puranpur tehsil. “Contrary to the innate characteristics of the big cats, the tiger in question is not returning to its natural wild habitat despite all efforts by the forest department. It has developed a tendency of having close access to human habitation. This situation can result in a fatal man-tiger conflict,” said CCF Verma. The forest department is ready with all necessary arrangements, including that of an expert dart shooter, to tranquilize the tiger. The operation would begin as soon as the chief wildlife warden grants permission, he added. On Saturday evening. it was spotted amid shrubs along river Gomti near Gomti Gurdwara, said Sanjeev Kumar, divisional forest officer. The field forest teams of PTR as well as the forest and wildlife division have been constantly monitoring the big cat’s movement for the sake of protecting its as well as the lives of villagers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ccf-seeks-nod-to-tranquilize-pilibhits-stray-tiger/articleshow/80202317.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Coffers dry, executing projects won’t be smooth ride for corporation||CHENNAI: Chennai residents may not get big-ticket projects announced last year anytime soon as Greater Chennai Corporation is short of funds having spent on Covid-19 and flood mitigation. The projects may not be implemented until financial aid comes from the state in the form of state disaster relief fund (SDRF). The debt-ridden civic body has not fulfilled budget announcements made last year — laying new bus route routes (a `384 crore project), construction of new bridges (`512 cr), installing new LED street lights (`120cr) and renovating parks (`70 cr). The corporation has just begun laying bus route roads and its budget managers said the possibility of the other projects being taken up this year is remote. Lack of funds would mean that any new proposal will have to be sanctioned by the government as the corporation will not have capital of its own to spend. Road repair and other maintenance work will be hit if contractors are not paid on time. An official said there will be a lack of autonomy to execute projects as money managers will have to approach others for funds. “We need to make a proposal, get it sanctioned, attend several meetings and explain why this project is important and then finally get the funds. This takes anywhere between six months to one year,” said an official. Also, since this is an election year, it will be difficult for the civic body to push for tax collection as well or come up with any fund augmentation plans, he said. Besides pandemic-related expenses, the civic body’s property tax collection — one of its major sources of income — has been less than 45% this fiscal. It has sought about `700cr from SDRF as aid for the expenses and this means the corporation is all set to propose a `700cr deficit budget this year. The deficit is the difference between the income generated in terms of taxes and the expenditure made. “The corporation had to spend more than `300cr on salaries for Covid volunteers. Another `300cr was spent for other Covid-related activities. Funds were used for supplying food to citizens after the flood. We are hopeful that SDRF will reimburse the promised money. Only if this fund comes, can we take up other new projects,” said an official. In 2019-19, the civic body had pending contractor bills of more than `700cr and though it has reduced, it still owes about `250cr to contractors. The corporation has a bank overdraft of `450cr further depleting its finances. “The rollback of property tax hit the finances as projects were proposed keeping the extra `350cr of income in mind. After tax revision, the corporation had collected more than `1,000cr in revenue which was all compensated this year,” said an official. From April to December, the collection has been only `325cr against the actual demand of `720cr. Apart from taxes, the civic body doesn’t have any major source of income and depends on loans from banks and funding agencies to carry out work. But loans need to be repaid and most projects taken up under such funds do not generate any revenue. Revenue generating models such as parking management system and shopping complexes that were disrupted by Covid may take another two years to take off and provide income. “Despite fund crunch, we have repaid our loan till September and cleared the dues. The loan that was about `2,500cr is now about `2,100cr. Apart from that, we have never delayed the salaries till date and we hope the state’s fund will help us get through this phase,” said an official. Though the civic body will continue to get loans, it needs to create more revenue models, said experts. “They won’t be able to pay back loans that will hit future loan propositions. Projects such as mega streets, pedestrianized streets, integrated storm water drain network and other projects will be delayed. Also, several times, delayed contractor bill payment has resulted in bad maintenance of roads and poor quality of work,” said V S Jayaraman, a civic activist. Ma Subramanian, former mayor, said the corporation “spent huge sums of money to build roads at the zonal level and there were a lot of allegations of corruption in the project”. “They continue to take up projects that are unnecessary,” he said. Consultants from the city development plan in 2009 had suggested more special purpose vehicles with professional managers who would create, design and implement projects that will have a revenue model. But none was implemented. M G Devasahayam, retired IAS official, said despite a huge population, the corporation has not created any new sources of income. “The governance is not up to the mark as local bodies have no autonomy. Political interference has prevented them from creating any other fund augmentation measures,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/coffers-dry-executing-projects-wont-be-smooth-ride-for-corpn/articleshow/80203106.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata’s Kalighat temple to get a golden crown||KOLKATA: Kolkata’s Kalighat temple may soon get a golden crown and join the league of other famous temples located across India known to have spectacular gold crowns. Installation of a golden crown will be part of a special facelift project designed for Kalighat temple by a corporate giant. According to sources in Kalighat temple committee, the preliminary rounds of talks between the committee and the corporate entity have already been held trying to give a concrete shape to the facelift project. Sources in the temple committee on Saturday confirmed that the committee was approached by the corporate brass to accept a proposal from them to do a facelift of the famous temple — one of the key features of which will be offering a golden crown. This apart, the corporate firm also wants to engage itself in renovating some parts of the sanctum sanctorum. “We have held preliminary talks with the corporate firm which has approached us with their facelift plan which includes installation of a golden crown and renovation of the sanctum sanctorum. We have asked them to submit a detailed plan to the committee so that the members can take up the matter and give their approval in writing,” Subhasish Chakraborty, the president of Kalighat temple committee and a Trinamool MP, told TOI. According to a source, the temple committee in 2019 had taken up a renovation of the sanctum sanctorum. “We brought special marble tiles from Rajasthan to replace the old tiles as part of the renovation of the sanctum sanctorum floor,” the source said. According to a source in the corporate giant, the facelift project for Kalighat temple would be the firm’s maiden effort for the city which is known as Kalishetra (Abode of goddess Kali) to the rest of the country. The renovation may include facilities for the pilgrims also, the source said. Kalighat is regarded as one of the 51 Sati Peeths in India where the various parts of Sati’s body are said to have fallen, in course of Shiva’s “Rudra tandava”. Kalighat represents the site where four fingers of Sati’s right foot fell. Kalighat temple in its present form is about 200 years old, although the place (Kalighat) has been referred to in different religious texts in the 15th century. The present structure of the temple was completed under Sabarna Roychowdhury family’s (Barisha) patronage in 1809. It is a classic example of Bengal architecture which is a structural emulation of the mud and thatch-roofed huts of villages. Kalighat’s main temple is a four-sided building with a truncated dome. A smaller identically-shaped projection caps this domed structure. Each sloping side of the roof is referred to as a chala. Therefore, the Kalighat Mandir is designated as chala temple. The two roofs bear a total of eight separate faces. This stacked, hut-like design is common for Bengali temples. The tradition of offering golden crowns to different famous temples is not new in India. Some of the renowned temples which have golden crowns include Tirupati temple, Padmanava temple (Kerala), Shirdi Sai, Sri Durga Malleswara Swamy Varla Devasthanam (Vijaywada) among others. Telengana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao in 2016 had presented a golden crown worth Rs 3.7 crore to goddess Bhadrakali in Warangal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kalighat-temple-to-get-a-golden-crown/articleshow/80203119.cms||Saikat Ray
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||16-year-old boy feared drowned in lake at Diva||THANE: A 16-year-old boy, who had gone swimming with his friends, is feared to have drowned in a Diva lake on Sunday evening, said civic officials. Rescue officials, who were alerted in the evening by residents have undertaken a search operation to trace and fish out the boy from the water body. The boy had entered the waters and suddenly started getting breathless. Before his friends could react, he is feared to have drowned in the waters, said Santosh Kadam, Thane regional disaster management cell.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/16-year-old-boy-feared-drowned-in-lake-at-diva/articleshow/80205037.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Back from leave, Navy sailor found dead onboard warship||MUMBAI: Two days after returning from leave, a 22-year-old Navy sailor was found dead with a bullet wound on head onboard the Brahmaputra-class frigate, INS Betwa, that was anchored at the Naval Dock early on Sunday. His service rifle was found near his body. Colaba police have filed an accidental death report. They suspect it to be a case of suicide, though no note has been found. After returning from his leave, Ramesh Choudhary was posted as an electrical artificer (Power) 5 on the warship that was anchored at the Lion’s Gate for the last six days. Sources said that his colleagues did not notice anything amiss in his behaviour. On Sunday morning, when Choudhary did not turn up for attendance, his colleagues looked for him and found him in a cabin with a bullet injury, said a police officer. His rifle was lying next to him, he added. The colleagues informed Colaba police and Choudhary was taken to J J Hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “Choudhary was found dead due to a bullet injury in the morning hours of Sunday. His service issue rifle was found next to him,” a defence spokesperson told TOI. “The matter is under investigation by the police with the assistance of naval authorities. A board of inquiry has been initiated to know the reason that triggered him to end his life.” The unmarried sailor, who had just returned to the ship post leave, hailed from Jodhpur, the spokesperson said. Choudhary’s parents and sister have been informed about the incident. This is the second case of a Navy sailor ending his life in the last 14 months. On November 14, 2019, a 25-year-old Navy sailor, Akhilesh Yadav, was found dead with a bullet injury at INS Angre naval base. He has shot himself with his INSAS rifle while on duty. The reason behind the suspected suicide was unclear. INS Betwa is the warship that had ‘slipped from her dock blocks’, tilted and then crashed flat on her left (port) side while being undocked during a maintenance refit on December 5, 2016. Two sailors were crushed to death, while 14 others escaped with minor injuries in the incident. Action was taken against three senior officers in 2019 for dereliction of duty based on the findings of a board of inquiry which carried out a probe into the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/back-from-leave-navy-sailor-found-dead-onboard-warship/articleshow/80204219.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Presidency to have virtual Founder’s Day on January 20||KOLKATA: One of the oldest colleges in the country — and now a university — will virtually celebrate its 204th Founder’s Day on January 20, owing to the pandemic. Present students, faculty, university officers and the staff, along with former students of Presidency from across the globe, will log in at 7pm on January 20 to reminisce and celebrate the legacy of one of the most iconic institutions and an eminent centre of learning in the country. The Atul Chandra Gupta Distinguished Alumnus award for 2021 will be conferred on Professor Partha Chatterjee, who will deliver the Founder’s Day lecture. Last year, Nobel laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee received the award. Chatterjee will be introduced by another alumnus and former VC of CU Sugata Marjit. “Professor Chatterjee is from the 1964-1967 batch. He is a renowned political scientist and anthropologist,” said Bivas Chaudhuri, vice-president of the alumni association. “In the morning, we shall have a small ceremony in the Arts library on the College Street campus where the foundation stone of the institute lies,” he said. The annual Autumn Journal edited by alumnus Prasad Ranjan Roy will also be released during the online ceremony. The Hindoo College was established in 1817 and was transformed into Presidency College of Bengal in 1855. In 1857, it was placed under the Calcutta University. In 2010, it received the status of a university.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/presidency-to-have-virtual-founders-day-on-jan-20/articleshow/80203121.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Class XII girl shoots herself after mom scolds her for not studying||BAREILLY: A 17-year-old girl allegedly shot herself in the abdomen with an unlicensed revolver after she was scolded by her mother for not studying. The girl was rushed to a private hospital where she succumbed during the treatment, police said. The incident took place at Bajpur Maan village under Mundha Pandey police station limits in Moradabad late on Saturday. The deceased girl, a Class XII student, was on the terrace when her mother reportedly scolded her. The family informed police that their daughter rushed to her room and shot herself with the revolver. The deceased girl’s father, Prem Pal, informed police that the incident happened on Saturday when he was out for work and was informed over the phone. Moradabad police said that the body has been sent for a postmortem and the illegal revolver that was used by the girl has been recovered. Inspector (crimes) SV Singh told TOI, “The girl shot herself as she was upset with her mother who scolded her. The family said that she was not under any mental stress and had no existing medical conditions. A probe has been ordered.” The deceased is survived by her parents and two siblings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/class-xii-girl-shoots-herself-after-mom-scolds-her-for-not-studying/articleshow/80202321.cms||Maria Khan
January 11, 2021||Kanpur||Avian flu scare: Eight zoo birds among 49 culled in Kanpur||KANPUR: After the confirmation of bird flu outbreak in Kanpur zoo late Saturday night, 49 birds, including eight at the zoo hospital and 41 common fowls at a meat shop, were culled on Sunday. These birds were found to be in a poor state of health and they were culled to rule out any possibility of spread of avian influenza. Kanpur zoo is home to 500 birds of 30 different species, besides 1,400 animals. Chief veterinary officer Dr AP Mishra confirmed the culling of 49 birds, including eight at Kanpur zoo. “As of now, the situation is totally under control. Poultry farm owners have been issued the list of do’s and don’ts to check the spread of the disease,” he added. “Area falling within 1km radius around Kanpur zoo has been declared a containment zone while that falling within 10 km is surveillance zone. Meat shops selling chicken within these two zones have been closed down as a precautionary measure,” Dr Mishra said. “Neither the stock of poultry birds will be allowed at meat shops nor birds from here will be allowed to be transported elsewhere. Our teams are keeping a strict vigil on the situation,” he added. At least 20 birds, including 8 culled on Sunday, have been disposed of till now. A total of 12 birds had died last week. To check the spread of bird flu, zoo authorities have adopted strict biosecurity measures and are ensuring disinfection of the entire zoo premises thrice a day and have made it out of bounds for visitors. The movement of zoo keepers has also been restricted. Soil and water samples collected from various spots at the zoo, including the area around zoo lake, have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal for confirmation of avian influenza (in soil and water). Talking to TOI, an official at Kanpur zoo said around a dozen samples of soil and water had been sent to Bhopal lab for avian influenza confirmation. “All protocols are being followed to ensure that influenza does not spread in other birds. As of now, all the birds currently at the zoo are healthy. However, a strict vigil is being maintained on their health. CCTV cameras have already been installed in the aviary to monitor the health of the birds round-the-clock,” he said. Kanpur zoo has 100 staff members all of whom have been provided with PPE kits. The staff served food to wild animals and also ensured cleaning of enclosures while wearing PPE kits. Animals are not being given chicken and are being provided buffalo meat as a precautionary measure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/avian-flu-scare-eight-zoo-birdsamong-49-culled-in-kanpur/articleshow/80202804.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||3 held for stealing milk packets from shops in Vikasnagar||Lucknow: Thieves mostly try to steal gold, silver, cash and valuables, but in a unique case in the city, vendors had been reporting theft of milk packets from outside their shops in Vikasnagar area. Police busted the gang involved in theft and managed to work out the case by scanning CCTV footage. The three gang members Suraj Singh, Mohammed Arif and Sahil, stole packets and sold them to shops outside hospitals, bus stops and railway stations, said police. Additional deputy commissioner of police, North, Rajesh Srivastava, said, “There were complaints for the past few days. Shopkeepers selling milk were complaining that milk packets were missing from trays.” “Actually, milk companies supply milk packets from 3am to 4am when shops are closed. As a norm, the staff leaves the trays with milk packets near the shop. Taking advantage of this, the thieves stole milk from the trays,” said Srivastava. Rajkumar, a shopkeeper of Vikas Nagar, lodged a report in Vikasnagar last week and installed a CCTV to keep a watch, said police. “On Saturday, he spotted two scooter riders stealing milk packets and a whole tray from a neighbouring shop. When Kumar aised alarm, the youths started running away. We had deployed a polygon picket at the intersection which nabbed the trio,” said SHO, Vikasnagar, Manoj Singh. The accused used to pose as milk vendors and sold the stolen milk at tea shops outside Balrampur, KGMU and other government hospitals. They made Rs 3,000 to Rs 4,000 every day and distributed it equally, said the SHO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/3-held-for-stealing-milk-packets-from-shops-in-vikasnagar/articleshow/80204497.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Drain along ECR flouts green laws, says NGT report||CHENNAI: The storm water drain project being executed by Greater Chennai Corporation from Kottivakkam to Uthandi on East Coast Road will require environmental clearance, a five-member committee formed by National Green Tribunal (NGT), southern bench, has said in an interim report dated January 6. The majority report, signed by four of the five members, said the corporation did not obtain environmental clearance before starting the project. This was a violation under provisions of the Coastal Regulation Zone notifications, the committee said. The majority report noted that the corporation cannot get an ex-post facto clearance. “NGT and TN state coastal management zone will have to take an appropriate view in this regard,” the report said signed by M T Karuppiah, scientist in ministry of environment, forest and climate change, Dr S Subramanian, hydrogeologist with Central Ground Water Board, Vijaya Raghavan, scientist with National Institute of Ocean Technology, and A Muthaiya, engineer with water resources department, Chennai. On December 23, the state coastal zone management authority had directed the corporation to stop work. One member of the committee, Ashok Kumar, the superintending engineer of Metrowater, has given a dissenting report stating that environmental clearance was not needed. “International consultant M/S Kocks Consultant appointed by the funding agency Kfw (German development bank) has submitted in the detailed project report that no environmental clearance is needed,” Ashok Kumar said in the report. Metrowater had obtained a CRZ clearance for executing the Uthandi water supply scheme in the same area. In his report, Ashok Kumar said that was because the funding agency for that project, Asian Development Bank, insisted on it. “But for the Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, Injambakkam, Sholinganallur and Karapakkam water supply schemes, Metrowater did not get environmental clearance since the funding agency Chennai Mega City Development Mission did not insist,” he said. As per CRZ notification 2011, any development along the coast requires prior clearance from concerned authorities. On Thursday, the committee members had inspected the spot along with local residents, who had filed the case, and other government officials. The committee will now submit another report on whether the project will impact the aquifer and coastal zone due to construction of concrete drains in the region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/drain-along-ecr-flouts-green-laws-says-ngt-report/articleshow/80203126.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||IT, software parks in all UP divisions soon||LUCKNOW: In tune with its objective to set up IT and software technology parks in all divisions under the state’s IT and startup policy of 2017, the state government on Sunday announced setting up of an IT park in the Pilkhani industrial area of Saharanpur. The parks, proposed to be developed on 200 acres, will come up with the support of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI). Additional chief secretary, IT and electronics, Alok Kumar said the parks would come up with plug-and-play facilities as per parameters of STPI. He said that the work of setting up IT parks in Meerut and Agra was almost complete and Gorakhpur and Varanasi IT parks were expected to be established by September in the current year. Kumar said UP government has provided land free of cost for all the above mentioned IT parks and the process of selecting local information technology and startup companies for these IT parks is also being done simultaneously. He said that the transfer deed of Jawaharlal Nehru commercial complex of Varanasi Development Authority in favour of IT and electronics department is under process for the establishment of IT park in Varanasi. At the same time, STPI would commence construction on available land in Panki and process was on for obtaining land of Indian Turpentine and Rosin Co. for the IT park project in Bareilly. It is estimated that the under construction IT parks would attract an investment of about Rs 200 crores and create 15,000 employment opportunities. Kumar said that the plug and play facility in Lucknow and Prayagraj were already functional and STPI centre of Lucknow had recorded exports of Rs 230 crore in the year 2019-20. It may be noted that 20 IT/start-up companies are operating from Lucknow STPI centre. Likewise, the IT Park in Gorakhpur has been developed on 3.58 acres of Gorakhpur Industrial Development Authority (GIDA) land, out of which 3,432 sq.ft. has been earmarked for plug-and-play facility and 5,568 sq.ft. is raw furnished work space. The facility is expected to provide employment to 4,000 people over a period of five years and export revenue is estimated at Rs 5-10 crore per year. Almost complete, the IT park in Meerut has been set up in an area of 2.5 acres with 25,074 sq.ft. built-up area. This is expected to generate an annual export of Rs 6-10 crore and creation of 5,000 employment opportunities. Similarly, the IT park in Agra, which is being set up over an area of 2 acres, is expected to generate 5,000 job opportunities in the next five years and Rs 6-10 crore worth of exports annually. The ACS said efforts are being made to arrange sites in government buildings, in vacant buildings of engineering or polytechnic institutions, as well as the land of the irrigation department to set up IT parks in the Aligarh, Azamgarh and Jhansi divisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/it-software-parks-in-all-up-divisions-soon/articleshow/80204617.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||No one can harm farmers in Modi regime: Power minister||LUCKNOW: Addressing farmers in Ganeshra and Bakalpur in Vrindavan, state power minister Shrikant Sharma said that agricultural reforms act is the law to make farmers economically independent. Parties, which are losing political existence, are engaged in misleading farmers, but they should understand that no one can harm farmers in the regime of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Parties aren’t able to accept Modi’s efforts of doubling farmers’ income. They are the same people who claimed to generate gold from potato machines and favouring middlemen. Opposition is spreading confusion among other farmers,” he said, and added, “The MSP and APMC mandi system will always be there. The PM has already clarified that new laws will lead to more investment in agriculture. The farming agreement will only be of crop yields and not of farming land. The land remains with farmers, the agreement and the land have nothing to do. The farmers have been provided adequate protection under the new laws. Sale, lease or mortgage of farmers’ land is completely prohibited. Effective dispute resolution mechanism has also been provided with a clear time-frame for resolution of dispute. In case of a natural disaster, farmers will get full money.” He added, “The production of foodgrains has increased rapidly and MSP too has been increased. There was a record jump of 4,962 percent in pulses. In all, 76.85 lakh metric tonnes of pulses were purchased in the Modi government in 2014-19 which was 1.52 lakh metric tonnes in 2009-14.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-one-can-harm-farmers-in-modi-regime-power-min/articleshow/80204737.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Allahabad||Saints restrict no. of followers to implement Covid protocol||Prayagraj: Apart from the officials of the mela health administration taking up a series of hectic exercise to check the spread of coronavirus infection on mela campus, saints and seers setting up their camps in five sectors of Magh mela are too adopting their sincere measures to implement Covid-19 protocol. This time, prominent seers and saints have restricted the numbers of their followers to stay inside camps for the strict implementation of social distancing. Devotees and pilgrims visiting camps of seers and saints would not be allowed to enter without masks and thermal screening. Besides, sensitization of camps would be carried out on regular intervals. Jagatguru Binayakbaba said, “I have allowed only 200 followers to stay at the camp for the strict implementation of social distancing. Earlier, there were around 2000 followers who used to stay inside camp”. He further added, “We have also set up a special counter for sanitizers and masks.” A team of followers armed with thermal scanner would be screening devotees \ pilgrims entering camp premises and asking for wearing of mask and use of sanitizers”. To maintain a strict surveillance for implementation of Covid-19 protocol, the ashram management has also installed a network of CCTV sets. Swami Premanand said, “Installation of sanitizers at entry gates of ashrams, compulsion of wearing mask, and social distancing while attending spiritual or yoga sessions would be mandatory for devotees and pilgrims while attending camps of seers and saints. He added, “We know our responsibilities and appealing devotees and pilgirms arriving mela campus to follow covid 19 protocol for the safety of each and every individual”. Seers and saints said that they would be cooperating and interacting with health officials on frequent intervals to examine the health status of saints, followers and others during the month long Magh Mela. Meanwhile, officials of mela health department are working overtime to give special Covid Care Cards (CCC) to seers, saints, and kalpwasis camping in mela area and the CCC will help authorities track the status of their health. Magh Mela will be organised in Prayagraj between January 14 and March 11. As health teams armed with thermal scanner have already started screening at all 16 entry points of mela, 32 more teams have been assigned to visit camps in all five sectors of mela to track the health records of people started staying in mela campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/saints-restrict-no-of-followers-to-implement-covid-protocol/articleshow/80202441.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||WA policy: Users weigh Signal, Telegram options||KOLKATA: The city has taken a wait-and-watch approach over accepting the updated privacy policy of popular messaging app WhatsApp after it has started sending pop up messages to its users mentioning mandatory sharing of data with parent company Facebook. Unhappy with the recent privacy policy changes that makes it mandatory for a user to share information like one’s phone number, contacts and WhatsApp status with Facebook for business purpose, a majority of users have already downloaded alternative platforms like Signal and Telegram. Some, however, are in the process of migration, but most of them are still keeping their existing account active clicking on the “Not Now” option when WhatsApp is asking them to agree to the updated policies. Social media has been abuzz over the last few days with people openly declaring and urging users to move to other messaging platforms that do not share user’s data. Such discussions also dominated WhatsApp groups, where friends and professionals have been actively discussing on pros and cons of the new privacy policy and has been sharing joining links of other platforms, asking users to migrate there. “I am part of multiple WhatsApp groups where we discuss a lot of things — from fashion to travel and politics to sports. I often change my WhatsApp status accordingly. I am apprehensive if the conversations will be scooped from now on and thus I am thinking of moving to other platforms. Over the last two-three days, we have been discussing over this issue only on our WhatsApp groups. But as of now, I am just waiting till February to see if they are making any changes,” said Priyansu Maji, a fashion designer. Since its launch in 2009, WhatsApp had attracted billions of users worldwide with its free services and easy-to-use platform. It had also stated the data wouldn’t be shared with anyone. The new terms and privacy policy will come into effect from February 8. Users earlier had an opt-out option, which won’t be available now. Those who wouldn’t agree to the policy, will have their accounts deleted automatically. Arnab Guha Thakurta, a 33-year-old tech consultant in Kolkata, said he has already started migrating to Telegram, that has an existing wider base in India than Signal. He, however, still uses the WhatsApp account.  “I can’t trust WhatsApp anymore. Previously, there was an option to share data but that option is gone now. I am especially worried about the business account, where my data can be used by third parties,” said Guha Thakurta. However, there are also some young users, who said they don’t have an issue with the current update and have already agreed to the same. “As per my understanding, through this new data policy WhatsApp is creating a unique profile of its customers. They are encrypting all the conversations but they are getting idea of an individual interest, status, apps used etc. Facebook is earning majority of their income through advertisements. Hence, with this new data policy, they will be able to target a larger audience. We are already facing this in other applications such as Google, which is why I don’t mind sharing the data,” said Swetanjali Mehrotra, a Ballygunge based entrepreneur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/wa-policy-users-weigh-signal-telegram-options/articleshow/80204245.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Mumbai models to showcase khadi at Gorakhpur Mahotsav||LUCKNOW: Models from Mumbai will sashay down the ramp donning khadi attires designed by famous designers like Asma Hussain, Runa Banerjee and Rupika Rastogi during a glitzy fashion show during the two-day Gorakhpur Mahotsav on January 12-13. The fashion show, to be organised at Champa Devi Park on Tuesday evening, will host as many as 16 Femina models. The show will have three rounds of top designers and international artists with entertainment filler ‘Tanura Nritya’. Additional chief secretary, Khadi and Gramodyog, Navneet Sehgal said khadi was not only indigenous but also eco-friendly. “Handmade and eco-friendly khadi is not just a garment but an idea. It is also a symbol of independence and has made the country proud and people who wear it also feel proud,” Sehgal said. “The fabric has popularised India. Khadi was up for display during Gorakhpur Mahotsav last year also and it would appeal the youth this time too,” he said. Sehgal added that the rise in demand for khadi would generate employment for youths and weavers at local level. “Women are associated with khadi industry in large numbers and their employment would give a boost to government’s Mission Shakti and Mission Rozgar,” he said. A government spokesman said the range and popularity of khadi has been on the rise, especially among the youth, in the last few years. Designer Asma Hussain said long and short kurtas and dhotis for boys and salwar-kurtas, saree and suit material for girls were easily available at khadi ashram outlets. “Khadi is also being mixed with silk, wool and cotton to prepare dress material. The fabric is expensive but it gives a royal look,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/mumbai-models-to-showcase-khadi-at-gorakhpur-mahotsav/articleshow/80204579.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Varanasi||Vaccination dry run held at 51 hospitals||Gorakhpur: The second dry run of Covid-19 vaccination was conducted successfully at 84 booths in 51 hospitals in Gorakhpur on Monday as 15 health workers were vaccinated at each booth under the supervision of 10 nodal officers. The first dry run was held on January 5 in the district. The health workers lined up for vaccination at booths and the process was telecast on big monitors installed in the district. Staff nurse Archana Maurya was vaccinated first at the booth in district hospital in the presence of CMO Dr Sudhakar Pandey and SIC Dr Abhainandan Srivastav. Archana was kept under observation for half an hour to check any side effect but she had no difficulty after vaccination and said she was feeling very good. CMO Dr Pandey said, “It is the second phase of dry run and Gorakhpur is ready for vaccination.” The dry run was also held in Deoria district where 330 beneficiaries were vaccinated at 22 booths. CMO Alok Pandey said after vaccination the beneficiaries were kept under observation for 30 minutes and were told to call toll-free number 145 and 1075 in case they experience uneasiness. The mock drill at Chakiyawan city health centre was held under the supervision of Dr B P Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/vaccination-dry-run-held-at-51-hospitals/articleshow/80220057.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||New rule drives Pilibhit farmers to sell cane to Nepal||Pilibhit: Two days after farmers of two villages bordering Nepal – Tatarganj and Tilla Number 4 –clashed with a Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) patrol team over illegal supply of sugarcane to Nepal, Pilibhit, district magistrate Pulkit Khare decided to call a meeting with departments concerned to resolve the matter. The root of the problem is that farmers cannot supply their produce to the sugar mill in their area. Explaining, DK Rai, chief cane officer of Sampurna Nagar Sugar Cooperative Mill, said the problem arose three years ago, when government amended cane ticket rules. Now, it is mandatory for farmers to furnish revenue titles of their agricultural land in order to execute cane supply bond. They do not have the necessary documents. The farmer families were displaced from what is now Uttarakhand due to the acquisition of their land for the construction of Nanak Sagar dam in 1960. They were rehabilitated in the border villages of Pilibhit but are yet to receive the land deeds in their names. Prior to the new supply ticket norms, the farmers of these two villages supplied over three lakh quintals of sugarcane to the mill, said Rai. “These farmers supply their cane across the international border to two sugar mills in Nepal’s Kanchanpur district against cash payment of Rs 240 per quintal. The cash payment suits farmers due to pending arrears by mills in UP,” said Indrajeet Singh, vice-president of Sampurna Nagar Sugar Mill. The DM said till such time the state government takes a decision on awarding land titles to these farmers, it is necessary to provide them some relief as the lack of requisite revenue documents is not their fault.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/new-rule-drives-pilibhit-farmers-to-sell-cane-to-nepal/articleshow/80202344.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Aarogya Vatika will help relieve stress buildup in cops: CP||Lucknow: Aarogya Vatikas should be set up in all police stations of the city as plants can help reduce stress levels of cops, said Lucknow police commissioner DK Thakur during Navbharat Times’ ‘Aarogya Vatika’ event on Sunday wherein a garden of medicinal plants was set up at Reserve Police Lines. “Aarogya Vatikas will provide health benefits, save environment and help in bringing down stress levels of cops who have high-pressure jobs,” he said. Almost all police stations in the city will have an Aarogya Vatika on their premises. At police stations where there is no ground, medicinal plants will be planted in pots. Appreciating NBT’s initiative, residents said the campaign should reach every household as it makes people aware of the health benefits of medicinal plants, and motivates them to stay fit and believe in the power of nature. Surendra Kumar of Police Lines said, “Aarogya Vatika stands true to its name as it’s a garden that yields various health benefits.” NBT will be setting up Aarogya Vatikas in different parts of the city. If you are interested in getting one set up in your locality, then drop a mail at nbtlucknow@timesgroup.com||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-vatika-will-help-relieve-stress-buildup-in-cops-cp/articleshow/80204520.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Old age pension to 51L people in state||Lucknow: The UP government managed to provide old age pension to 51 lakh beneficiaries, which is nearly seven lakhs more than the target of 43.45 lakhset by the Centre, according to the data released by the social welfare department. Under the scheme, the beneficiary gets a monthly pension of Rs 500 which is directly transferred in the bank accounts. A state government spokesperson said as many as 15 lakh new old age pensioners were added by the BJP since 2017. The state government also increased the old age pension from Rs 400 to Rs 500. According to the spokesperson, soon after coming to power in 2017, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath got a survey done by the rural development department to assess the number of actual beneficiaries of old age pension scheme. It was found that around nine lakh eligible people were deprived of the benefits. “After this, the state government got camps organised in each district and processing of pending applications was expedited,” he said. Because of this, the budgetary allocation on the head increased from Rs 1,500 crores to Rs 3,000 crores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/old-age-pension-to-51l-people-in-state/articleshow/80204600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Kanpur||Aarogya Mela organised; 5,524 beneficiaries registered||Kanpur: As many as 5,524 beneficiaries were registered and their medical examination was conducted in VIIIth Aarogya Mela held at 50 urban and 42 rural primary health centres on Sunday. Around 181 patients were referred to the district hospital. Around 856 golden cards were also made under Prime Minister Jan Aarogya Scheme in Aarogya Mela. According to a release issued by the chief medical officer around 975 patients were tested negative under Covid tests and two out of them were found positive. Besides, medical services were provided for liver disease to 120 patients, for breathing problem to 341 patients, for gastro disease to 350, for diabetes to 218, for skin disease to 809, for Anaemia to 137, for TB to 14, for hypertension to 146 and a cancer patient. Medical examination of 382 pregnant women was also conducted . State minister higher education Neelima Katiyar , MLA from Govind Nagar Surendra Maithani, Arun Pathak MLC inaugurated the Aarogya Mela at Urban primary health Centre Rawatpur village, Urban primary health centre Gujaini and Primary health centre Panki, respectively. Besides, chief medical officer Anil Kumar Mishra, Dr A K Singh, S K Singh, A K Kanaujia, Mahesh Kumar, and other officers were present during inauguration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/aarogya-mela-organised-5524-beneficiaries-registered/articleshow/80202869.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Yogi govt to table budget in mid-Feb||Lucknow: The Yogi government is likely to table the state budget for the financial year 2021-2022 around February 15. In a rare departure from the past, the BJP government did not convene the winter session due to the novel coronavirus pandemic. The budget session is also likely to be shorter as by that time the state would also be heading towards the panchayat elections. The Yogi government is considering to convene the Assembly session around February 10. The next four-five days could be devoted to the discussion and vote of thanks on the governor’s address and then after the vote of thanks, the state government is likely to table the budget for the financial year 2021-22. Despite pandemic challenge, the government’s performance remained impressive in current financial year as compared to 2019-20. But still several programmes of the financial year 2021-22 would have to be re-calibrated as the economy is yet to pick up pace. Sources said since the Centre has already announced to table its Budget on February 1, UP government would get ample time to adjust its programmes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/yogi-govt-to-table-budget-in-mid-feb/articleshow/80204714.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 11, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: More trouble for Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, ED takes over 112 plots||KALYAN: In a major setback to Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Saturday took possession of 112 plots spread over several acres owned by his company in Titwala. Sarnaik’s company, Vihang Group, is alleged to have aided a company, Aastha Group, in money laundering. The latter had defaulted on a Rs 250- crore payment in the National Spot Exchange (NSEL) Ltd scam. On Saturday, ED put up its board on the land of Vihang Astha Housing Cooperative at Gurwali area in Titwala. The project is a joint venture of Aastha Group and Vihang Group. An ED official said the properties were attached in 2014, but it has now formally taken over possession and informed the revenue department. BJP leader Kirit Somaiya who visited the site on Sunday claimed Sarnaik and Mohit Aggarwal diverted Rs100 crore of NSEL scam money to buy these properties. A Kalyan revenue department official confirmed to TOI they had on Saturday received a copy from the ED informing them it was taking over possession of the land. The ED, which investigated the Rs 5,600-crore money laundering case in NSEL scam, had in 2014 accused Aastha Group of aiding the money laundering. After attaching the land then, ED officials had informed the local revenue authority to ensure no further transactions related to the land take place, but revenue officials had failed to take the attachment order notice on their record. The ED has recently registered a fresh money laundering case against Tops Grup, a private security firm and Sarnaik. It has alleged Tops Grup cheated state government agency, MMRDA, with the help of Sarnaik. The ED has questioned Sarnaik and his son Vihang. Sarnaik had appeared before the ED only after the SC granted protection to him, Vihang as well as his brother-in-law against coercive action by the ED.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/more-trouble-for-shiv-sena-mla-ed-takes-over-112-plots/articleshow/80205056.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 11, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur man reunites with family after over a decade||KANPUR: Mental illness triggered by head injury and trauma of the death of his loved ones, including his mother, in a house collapse, separated a Kanpur man from his family 11 years ago as he reached Mumbai travelling in trains somehow and lived on the streets of the country’s financial capital, till he was rescued by an NGO. There was happiness and joy on the face of 45-year-old Naeem as he was reunited with his family on Saturday. Naeem, a resident of Chotey Miyan Ka Hata in the Colonelganj area, had gone missing in 2009 and could not be traced by his family. Members of Shraddha Rehabilitation, a non-governmental organisation, rescued Naeem in 2020 from Mumbai streets. “We had rescued Naeem in March 2020. After six to seven months of rigorous treatment by our psychiatric experts, he recovered and gradually opened up and started talking. Naeem then told us about the house collapse of 2009, wherein his family members including his mother died, while he suffered critical head injury. One day, Naeem left from his home and somehow reached Mumbai by travelling in several trains,” said Dr Bharat Vatwani, trustee of Shraddha Rehabilitation. “When I learnt that he was from Kanpur, I assured him of reuniting him with his family. Finally, a group of volunteers took Naeem to his family on Saturday,” he added. Naeem’s brother Mohd Naseem expressed gratitude to the NGO for taking care of his brother and reuniting them. “We searched for him everywhere but could not find him,” he said. “He must have boarded a train and finally reached Mumbai. We are very happy that he is back with us now, and is also fully cured of his mental illness,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-man-reunites-with-family-after-over-a-decade/articleshow/80202851.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||Two dead, four injured in accident on Agra-Moradabad national highway||Bareilly: Two people were killed while four others were severely injured after a speeding truck had a head-on collision with a DCM van on Agra-Moradabad national highway under Bahjoi police station in Sambhal on Sunday. Police said that the truck driver and its cleaner died on the spot while the injured passengers of the DCM vehicle were admitted to the district hospital. Bahjoi SHO RP Singh told TOI, “The incident occurred on Sunday afternoon when the truck coming towards Moradabad on NH-509 collided head-on with a DCM van. We rushed to the spot after getting the information. The driver of the truck and the cleaner succumbed to the injuries while four passengers were seriously injured. It seems that the vehicles were moving at a high speed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/two-dead-four-injured-in-accident-on-agra-moradabad-national-highway/articleshow/80202364.cms||Maria Khan
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||BJP forms organisational body to prepare ground for panchayat poll||Lucknow: Stepping up its political outreach, the UP BJP has deployed its top organisational functionaries and grassroots cadre to get more people enrolled in voter list for the forthcoming panchayat elections, being seen as the semi-final for next year’s UP assembly elections. According to BJP sources, the party has constituted a full-fledged organisational structure – from six organisational regions in the state down to the booth level – to make inroads into semi-urban and rural areas which would come under the ambit of panchayat elections. Sources said the BJP has deputed a senior party leader and a UP minister in all six organisational regions. BJP’s regional general secretary has been appointed as convener to coordinate between state-level functionaries and those in districts, where the party has also appointed a convener and a deputy convener. Similarly, a convener and a deputy convener have been appointed at block, zila panchayat and gram panchayat levels. UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak told TOI that the party would reach out to people and ask them to check the existing voter list to ensure that their name is enrolled. “We have asked party workers to ensure that everyone participates in panchayat elections. When people are driven to get themselves enrolled in the voter list they would get actively involved and choose the best candidate,” he said. Pathak added that the panchayat elections would be the most important for any political party. “BJP participates aggressively in any poll exercise to keep its cadre on their toes. It does not engage in part-time politics,” he said. Sources added that the party cadre has been asked to remain abreast of the existing political situation and get engaged with it. Sources further said that the party will keep a close watch on reservation of seats which will be decided by panchayati raj department after concluding the delimitation exercise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-forms-organisational-body-to-prepare-ground-for-panchayat-poll/articleshow/80204551.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||CISH to study reasons for poor guava yield in UP||Lucknow: Abysmal production of local guava varieties in UP has made the state government’s horticulture directorate seek help from scientists to know the reason behind the poor yield. Once the exporter, UP is now importing guavas from other states. After receiving a letter from the horticulture directorate, Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) — a Lucknow-based ICAR lab — has formed a team of scientists to visit Prayagraj, Kaushambi and other areas, which produce sizeable guava quantities every year, to know what led to the failure of the winter crop of guava. Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Kanpur and Lucknow are known for guava production and sizeable quantities are exported to other states. Contrarily, this time, the state is importing guava from MP, Chhattisgarh and other states. “Change in weather is an obvious reason, but to know more and suggest ways to improve the production, we need to go into details,” said director, CISH, Shailendra Rajan. Guava has two cycles of production — in monsoon and winter. Good production during monsoon adversely affects yield during winter. “Which seems to be the case this time,” Rajan said. The monsoon crop in UP is usually low on quality being less sweet, smaller in size and infested with larvae. Winter crop is better on all counts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/cish-to-study-reasons-for-poor-guava-yield-in-up/articleshow/80204776.cms||Neha Shukla
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP Board to honour its illustrious alumni||Lucknow: Beginning with its centennial celebrations, the UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad or UP Board has launched a portal titled ‘Mission Gaurav’ to connect with its distinguished alumni from across the world. Board secretary Divyakant Shukla has asked divisional directors and district inspector of schools (DIOS) to look for big names (pass outs from UPMSP) and create a database. The officials have been asked to contact such persons of repute and request them to register on the Mission Gaurav portal. The letter says that alumni who have made a name in the fields of medicine, education, judiciary, politics, administrative services, sports or culture have made the board proud by providing their services to the nation or another country with full integrity and setting an example. As part of centennial celebrations, the board is bringing such alumni together under one roof. “UP Board students are spread across the country and the world and, they can register themselves online. Board officials and programme organisers will then contact them if their achievements meet the criterion fixed by the board,” said UP Board secretary Divyakant Shukla. Along with basic details, the board has sought details of the post on which an alumnus/alumna is employed or has retired from. The applicants have also been asked to summarise details of their achievements and share their views about UP Board. Today, UP board exams are the world's biggest examinations. In 2020, 29.5 lakh and 24.7 lakh candidates appeared for class X and XII exams respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-to-honour-its-illustrious-alumni/articleshow/80204766.cms||Isha Jain
January 11, 2021||Varanasi||Contractual employee of power dept shot dead||Varanasi: A contractual employee of electricity department, Rajesh Kumar Vishwakarma (30), was shot dead by two motorcycle-borne miscreants Khojwa area under the limits of Bhelupur police station on Saturday late night. The police, despite engaging many teams for early workout of the case, were clueless about killers as well as motive behind the killing. SP city Vikas Chandra Tripathi said that as Vishwakarma’s family claimed that he had no enmity with anyone, an FIR against unidentified miscreants has been lodged in this connection. The initial investigation of the police revealed that Vishwakarma dwelt in Sundarpur area under the limits of Lanka police station with his wife, father, brother and other family members. After having dinner at home Vishwakarma was going to his duty point at Sankuldhara power sub-station on his motorcycle. When he was passing through Khojwa area two masked motorcycle -borne miscreants intercepted him and opened fire targeting his temple. Vishwakarma was rushed to Trauma Centre of BHU where doctors declared him brought dead. The incident brought the officials on their toes. DIG Amit Pathak, along with other officials, also reached the spot. After initial inspection of the spot and collection of information from locals, police also started checking the visuals of CCTV cameras installed in nearby building. Pathak said that police have got some clues about killers. He also formed teams for early workout of the case. The SP said that Vishwakarma’s family has denied to have any enmity with anyone following which an FIR was lodged against unidentified persons. Hectic exercises are on by the police teams for the earliest arrest of the killers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/contractual-employee-of-power-dept-shot-dead/articleshow/80202520.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP safer for women than many big states: NCRB report||LUCKNOW: Uttar Pradesh is more secure for women than many other big states, according to the report of National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB)-2019. According to the report, the all-India rate of crime against women in 2019 was 62.4 cases per one lakh population while Uttar Pradesh recorded 55.4 cases per lakh. Despite being the most populous state in the country, UP stood on 22nd rank in terms of crime against women. As compared to UP, crime rate was 63.1 (per lakh population) in Maharashtra, 64 in West Bengal, 69 in Madhya Pradesh and 110 in Rajasthan. Even in a small state like Kerala, the rate of crime against women stood at 62.7. Senior police officers said schemes introduced by the state government for women’s security helped in controlling crime. In 2016, at least 3,289 rape cases were reported in UP but the figure dropped to 2,232 in 2020, showing a depreciation by 32%. Similarly, at least 11,121 cases of abduction of girls and women were recorded in 2016 which went down to 11,057 in 2020, a drop of 27%. Not just the police, the government also strengthened technology which is helping in investigation and quick disposal of cases, officials said. ADG, prosecution, Ashutosh Pandey said, “We improved and strengthened our system under the guidance of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. This helped in ensuring speedy justice to victims of crime against girl child and women.” “Efforts made by the department of prosecution have successfully got us convictions in cases of rape (89), kidnapping for marriage (15), dowry death (97) and sexual harassment (13) between January 1 and December 15, 2020,” he said. The ADG said five rape convicts have been hanged while others in 193 similar cases are serving life sentences. The government has also given a strong defence on the basis of which punishment was handed to culprits in 721 cases. Recently, the Union home ministry had also appreciated Lucknow for implementation of schemes under Nirbhaya Fund. “Along with deployment of anti-Romeo squad across the state, women cops in civvies, 100 lady constables on pink patrol two-wheelers and presence of pink booths at major intersections in Lucknow bolstered women’s security. Inauguration of women helpdesk at all 1,535 police stations in the state has made women feel safer,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-safer-for-women-than-many-big-states/articleshow/80204684.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Traffic trial at Abhishikta crossing to start today||KOLKATA: The four-day trial run of the new traffic diversion plan at the Abhishikta crossing in order to allow construction work of the ongoing New Garia-Airport Metro project will begin at 9am from Monday, the Kolkata traffic police sources said on Tuesday. The Purba Jadavpur traffic guard will be carrying out the trials only for the south-bound carriageway (moving towards Garia) for now. The vehicles will be asked to use the new culvert, which has been created by KMDA for this purpose. The initial blockade will take place closer to the Kalikapur bridge and away from the main crossing. “Vehicles will be using the newly constructed culvert road while moving from Ruby to Garia on the EM Bypass. Those using the Anwar Shah Connector, will use the same culvert after taking a right turn from the connector,” said an officer. For this purpose, extra men will be deployed at the crossing, Lalbazar sources said. Cops said the real test were for vehicles from Prince Anwar Shah Bypass Connector that would merge with traffic coming from Ruby. “The evening traffic movement reports will be crucial as that time of the day witnesses maximum traffic. This crossing is known for witnessing jams in the evening. Based on our findings, we will begin planning ahead for the actual concentration. The timing of the traffic signals will be crucial since we have the busy Ruby Crossing ahead,” explained a source. Sources said KMDA had proposed to begin the trial run as early as last Thursday. “But we wanted to study the traffic volume on all four working days and thus took a traffic blockade,” said cops. The plan had been in place since the third week of December last year. After trials, officials will send their report to the office of DC (traffic). Senior officer led by joint CP (traffic) Santosh Pandey and DC (traffic) Rupesh Kumar, is likely to visit the spot before giving the final go ahead to Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) to begin constructions once the report is finalized. “With the KMDA asking for a blockade at Ambedkar Bridge on the Bypass near Science City, where they will carry out load tests, we will have to look into various pros and cons before we go ahead with the final go ahead. Bypass is one of the nerve centres of the city and thus has to keep moving 24 hours of the day,” said an officer. “As it will be a block worth several months, the planning will also include movement of vehicles on the bylanes adjoining the Bypass. Meanwhile, a plan for adequate U-turns at both Ruby and Ajoynagar is being readied to prepare for the full block of Ajoy Nagar crossing that will eventually take place with RVNL asking for a full blockade of the crossing in due course of time,” explained an officer. Rs.45.91 lakhs were earlier handed over by RVNL to KMDA to widen the road by creating two culverts close to Abhishika crossing for traffic diversion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/traffic-trial-at-abhishikta-crossing-to-start-today/articleshow/80204263.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||UP: Techie peddled child porn on Instagram to make money||LUCKNOW: A techie who lost his job during the pandemic-induced lockdown teamed up with his Delhi-based friend to make a fast buck by peddling child pornography on Instagram before CBI caught them in the act and formally arrested the duo on Sunday. The accused, Neeraj Yadav, native of Sonbhadra district, and his Delhi friend Kuljeet Singh Makan, were remanded in judicial custody till January 22. This is the second big child porn racket bust in the state in a span of few months after a junior engineer in Banda was nabbed in November last year for sexually exploiting children and selling videos and photographs on the Dark Web for nearly a decade. A special unit of CBI — Online Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation Prevention and Investigation (OCSAE) — tasked to track online child sexual abuse had booked the duo under POCSO and IT Act in September last year. Top sources in CBI said, the accused advertised sale of sexually explicit material, including child pornography on their Instagram account after buying videos and pictures from third-party cloud-hosting providers,. Payments were made through e-commerce sites. The accused would then put up an advertisement for sale of child pornography material on Instagram, WhatsApp and Telegram. “Those who shared payment receipts via e-commerce sites were sold content,” said CBI. Yadav’s mobile phone was scanned by forensic experts last year when the modus-operandi was busted. Neeraj worked for a top IT company before he lost his job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/techie-peddled-child-porn-for-quick-buck/articleshow/80204643.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Five-member CBRI team to help SIT investigate crematorium roof collapse||Lucknow; A five-member team of Central Building Research Institute (CBRI), a specialised institute under Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), will assist the Special Investigation Team of UP police probe crematorium roof collapse in Ghaziabad. Director general, SIT, RP Singh told TOI that the CBRI team had inspected the site on Sunday and collected samples of debris and other materials used in construction of the crematorium. “Now, they will give us the report which will help us in probing the case further,” said Singh. The DG further said that soon after the incident a unit of the state forensic science had also inspected the site and collected samples. “But as we wanted to know the root cause of the caving in of the roof, we roped in CBRI,” he added. As many as 25 people were killed after the roof of the crematorium caved in on January 3 in Muradnagar, Ghaziabad. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered a probe into the incident by the Special Investigation Team. The SIT had registered a case under charges of culpable homicide not amounting to murder and causing injuries to a person by rash or negligent act and endangering life or personal safety of others against Niharika Singh, JE, Chandra Pal, supervisor Ashish, Ajay Tyagi and some unidentified persons on January 7. The roof of the crematorium had collapsed around 11:30am on January 3 at Ukhlarsi cremation ground. The last rites of Jai Ram were being conducted and 60 people were present when the tragedy struck, killing 25 and injuring 16 others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/five-member-cbri-team-to-help-sit-investigate-crematorium-roof-collapse/articleshow/80204655.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||No discrimination in health outreach: Yogi Adityanath at Aarogya Mela||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday reiterated his government’s commitment to provide benefits of public welfare schemes, including better health facilities without discrimination, while relaunching the ‘Aarogya Mela’, which was halted by the pandemic for 11 months. The chief minister said, getting better health was a basic right of every individual. “We consider the 24 crore population of the state as one big family,” he said. “Where’s the room for discrimination,” he asked, while flagging off the scheme from Farrukhabad. The CM stressed the state government would not give space to people who create rift and trigger anarchy. Making a veiled swipe at the Opposition, Yogi said, “few people” were getting restless after the state government cracked down on gangsters and land sharks. “In apradhion ke rehnumaon mein ek chhatpatahat hai…,” he said. Aarogya Mela envisages medical care at primary health centres and community health centres with distribution of Ayushman cards, which promises free treatment. Aarogya melas are proposed to be organised at more than 3,400 places every Sunday. The scheme, which was launched on February 2 last year was stopped after the outbreak of the pandemic. The CM said, it would be the duty of doctors to arrange medical facilities for people at speciality hospitals, if required. The scheme may also be used as a platform to fight malnutrition. Often public welfare schemes do not reach beneficiaries because of lack of awareness, Yogi said, while emphasising that public representatives, including MPs and MLAs would take them to the Aarogya Melas. Yogi said, before BJP came to power at the Centre in 2014, money released would often be swindled by middlemen. “That is not the case anymore,” he said, underlining how 2.6 crore private and public toilets were constructed in UP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-discrimination-in-health-outreach-cm-at-aarogya-mela/articleshow/80204797.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||EASE giving a tough time to Lucknow University students||LUCKNOW: Electronic Access to Service of Examination (EASE), a portal launched by the Lucknow University to ensure easy availability of documents like degree and migration certificates, is giving a tough time to students. Students who used the portal said the online system is no better than offline one in which they have to wait for over a month to get urgent documents like degree, migration and provisional certificates required for admission, jobs, internship. “I had to submit my PG degree for PhD admission at Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia National Law University. I applied for it on EASE on December 3. It’s almost over a month and I have still not received it. They couldn’t even provide a provisional degree which takes less time,” said Aditi Shukla, a student. “When the online system failed to help me, I applied offline and was told that I will get the degree after two months,” she said. Another student, Jaya Singh, said: “At the time of pandemic, when online facility should have been improved, the EASE portal keeps the request pending for weeks. The system was introduced to relieve students from the stress of making rounds but we still have to visit the examination controller for provisional degree.” Students also tweeted that they applied for migration certificate or other documents via online portal. A fee of Rs 1,000 was debited from their account but the receipt was not generated. “There are four steps in which the university gives status report of the document applied. The first step of ‘under verification’ took more than a week, second and third status report of ‘preparation of certificate and forwarded to OS (office superintendent)’ took two more weeks. The last step of ‘forwarded to deputy registrar’ is still incomplete,” said PG student Aditya Pal. LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastava said, “We will look into the matter and will take necessary action at the earliest so that students don’t face any problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ease-giving-a-tough-time-to-lu-students/articleshow/80204486.cms||Mohita Tewari
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Activist urges Bombay HC for orders to get info on efficacy of Covid vaccine||MUMBAI: RTI and social activist, Saket Gokhale, on Saturday filed a petition before Bombay high court (HC) for orders to get information he had sought on the vaccine trials and efficacy, on an urgent basis. He has sought directions to Drug Controller General of India to bring details of the Covid-19 Covaxin’s safety and effectiveness, in public domain. The vaccine is by Bharat Biotech. Gokhale said he had requested information in an RTI application in what he said is also the general public’s “Right to Know” and also data that would pertain to “life and liberty”. Gokhale, in a petition filed for a hearing via videoconference, said that while the vaccination drive in India begins on January 16 and that Covaxin is safe and provides a “robust immune response”, data from the company given to the DCGI ought to be made public too. He said he is compelled to invoke the extraordinary jurisdiction of the HC under Article 226 “to remedy the damage caused to the general public of India through the violation of the fundamental right to life and liberty...by failure to provide information under Sec 7(1) of the Right to Information Act, 2005 within 48 hours in a matter pertaining to life and liberty”. On January 3, the authorities issued a press release “that Covid vaccines of Serum Institute of India (named Covishield) and Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) were approved for restricted use in emergency situation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/activist-urges-hc-for-orders-to-get-info-on-efficacy-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80306209.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||With party’s nod, Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa set to expand cabinet on January 13||BENGALURU: Sankranti is set to arrive one day early for ministerial aspirants in the state. Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Sunday night said that he has secured the nod of the central leadership and will carry out the long-delayed expansion of the cabinet in the afternoon of January 13. After a 40-minute meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, Yediyurappa told reporters that he had “sweet” news about the reshuffle. “We had a very fruitful meeting, and I’m happy with the outcome. He has given the seal of approval for the cabinet expansion,” he added. After the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) government in the state, BJP took the power baton in July 2019. It currently has seven cabinet vacancies, and the previous rejig took place nearly a year ago in February 2020. The CM said that he will fill all the seven vacancies and the list is expected to be ready by Monday. But he did not elaborate on the likely changes. “Well, I can’t answer it for now. The leadership approves the names and gives us a list. You will know it then,” said the CM. Sources said the central leadership will reportedly approve the names and send the list to the chief minister by Monday evening. Sources claimed that the central leadership reportedly backed Yediyurappa and spiked doubts over leadership change. When asked whether he would complete the term as CM, the Lingayat strongman said, “It is a question which only you can answer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/with-partys-nod-bsy-set-to-expand-cabinet-on-jan-13/articleshow/80205412.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Bird flu in Maharashtra: 8,000 hens to be culled in Parbhani; CM Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting to review the bird flu situation in the state on Monday. Maharashtra on Sunday had joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that the samples of dead poultry birds from Muramba village in Parbhani and dead crows and pond egrets in Mumbai, Ghodbunder (Thane district) and Dapoli have returned positive for H5N1. “Dead crow samples from a place in Beed have been found positive for H5N8. Both H5N1 and H5N8 are types of avian influenza. Culling of all birds will now be undertaken up to a 1km radius of the infected zone in Parbhani where the poultry samples were found positive. However, only surveillance will be continued in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. As per the prescribed preventive measures, all poultry birds within 1km radius of the infected poultry farm at Murumba will be culled. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said culling of over 8,000 hens has been ordered in the village concerned. But in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed only surveillance will be continued. The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has so far recorded 1,205 deaths of various birds since January 8. “Around 2.30pm, 11 dead crows were found near Tata Colony in Chembur’s RCF area at 2.30pm,” RCF senior police inspector Sipon Noghote said. “Two birds were sent by the animal husbandry doctors to Pune for testing, the rest were disposed of.” BMC officials no such incident was reported to them. “We will find out the details on Monday,” said Ajit Narode, assistant municipal commissioner, M-East ward. The Thane unit of the animal husbandry department said that they are yet to receive information on the positive reports, but claimed to be prepared to tackle the situation. The department has sought assistance from the municipal staff too, said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane. As many as 20 birds, including pond herons, parakeets, have been found dead over the last four days in various parts of Thane. As per the Union ministry’s action plan for avian influenza, a series of immediate actions for rapid control and containment has to be taken by the state animal husbandry and public health departments in case of confirmed positive reports. These actions include setting up of a control room in the state, constitution of rapid response teams, identifying an “infected zone” within a 1km radius from the epicentre and a surveillance zone within 1-10km radius from the epicentre, providing details of poultry birds for culling in both these zones, and arranging for medicines/ disinfectants, providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, health check-ups and supply of oseltamivir/other antiviral drugs. Unusual death, diarrhoea, purple discolouration of the wattles, combs and legs of the birds, soft-shelled or misshapen eggs, lack of energy and appetite, and nasal discharge are some of the signs of bird flu. Meanwhile, no suspected bird flu cases have been reported at Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo in Byculla so far. “Byculla zoo has been shut since March-end when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced. So we didn’t have to impose any new restrictions on visitors. We are taking increased measures for sanitation and hygiene. So far there are no suspected cases at Byculla zoo. All birds are under observation,” Dr Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director, said. State orders ‘humane’ culling of poultry birds in Parbhani The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has called for “humane” culling of poultry birds—a quick twist of the neck (cervical dislocation). It has directed that a mixture of 80mg of sodium phenobarbital and 55ml water be used before manual or mechanical cervical dislocation for birds weighing above 3kg, in keeping with the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2019. (With inputs from Prasad Joshi in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bird-flu-confirmed-in-state-8k-hens-to-be-culled-in-parbhani/articleshow/80205960.cms||Neha Madaan
January 11, 2021||Pune||Bird flu in Maharashtra: 8,000 hens to be culled in Parbhani; CM Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting to review the bird flu situation in the state on Monday. Maharashtra on Sunday had joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that the samples of dead poultry birds from Muramba village in Parbhani and dead crows and pond egrets in Mumbai, Ghodbunder (Thane district) and Dapoli have returned positive for H5N1. “Dead crow samples from a place in Beed have been found positive for H5N8. Both H5N1 and H5N8 are types of avian influenza. Culling of all birds will now be undertaken up to a 1km radius of the infected zone in Parbhani where the poultry samples were found positive. However, only surveillance will be continued in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. As per the prescribed preventive measures, all poultry birds within 1km radius of the infected poultry farm at Murumba will be culled. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said culling of over 8,000 hens has been ordered in the village concerned. But in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed only surveillance will be continued. The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has so far recorded 1,205 deaths of various birds since January 8. “Around 2.30pm, 11 dead crows were found near Tata Colony in Chembur’s RCF area at 2.30pm,” RCF senior police inspector Sipon Noghote said. “Two birds were sent by the animal husbandry doctors to Pune for testing, the rest were disposed of.” BMC officials no such incident was reported to them. “We will find out the details on Monday,” said Ajit Narode, assistant municipal commissioner, M-East ward. The Thane unit of the animal husbandry department said that they are yet to receive information on the positive reports, but claimed to be prepared to tackle the situation. The department has sought assistance from the municipal staff too, said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane. As many as 20 birds, including pond herons, parakeets, have been found dead over the last four days in various parts of Thane. As per the Union ministry’s action plan for avian influenza, a series of immediate actions for rapid control and containment has to be taken by the state animal husbandry and public health departments in case of confirmed positive reports. These actions include setting up of a control room in the state, constitution of rapid response teams, identifying an “infected zone” within a 1km radius from the epicentre and a surveillance zone within 1-10km radius from the epicentre, providing details of poultry birds for culling in both these zones, and arranging for medicines/ disinfectants, providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, health check-ups and supply of oseltamivir/other antiviral drugs. Unusual death, diarrhoea, purple discolouration of the wattles, combs and legs of the birds, soft-shelled or misshapen eggs, lack of energy and appetite, and nasal discharge are some of the signs of bird flu. Meanwhile, no suspected bird flu cases have been reported at Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo in Byculla so far. “Byculla zoo has been shut since March-end when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced. So we didn’t have to impose any new restrictions on visitors. We are taking increased measures for sanitation and hygiene. So far there are no suspected cases at Byculla zoo. All birds are under observation,” Dr Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director, said. State orders ‘humane’ culling of poultry birds in Parbhani The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has called for “humane” culling of poultry birds—a quick twist of the neck (cervical dislocation). It has directed that a mixture of 80mg of sodium phenobarbital and 55ml water be used before manual or mechanical cervical dislocation for birds weighing above 3kg, in keeping with the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2019. (With inputs from Prasad Joshi in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bird-flu-confirmed-in-state-8k-hens-to-be-culled-in-parbhani/articleshow/80204272.cms||Neha Madaan
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Education minister shown black flags by farmers 2nd time in a week in his own constituency||RUDRAPUR: For the second time in a week, state education minister Arvind Pandey was shown black flags by protesting farmers in his constituency Gadarpur. Pandey was in Dineshpur to felicitate its nagar nigam, which had won the first prize in implementation of Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana. Members of the Congress and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) joined the protesters, who tore into police barricades. Over the past few weeks, US Nagar has seen sporadic protests by farmers, some of which even turned into violent clashes with police. Last month, Pandey and some farmers had travelled to Delhi to meet union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and express their support for the three contentious farm laws. Farmers of the Terai belt, where Gadarpur constituency falls, saw this as a betrayal and an attempt to weaken the farmers’ movement by their elected representative. Following this, the minister was targeted on January 5 when he visited his constituency for foundation laying ceremonies of various developmental works and was shown black flags in Baanskheda village of Gadarpur. On Sunday, the protestors raised slogans and demanded an apology from Pandey. After police forcefully dispersed the crowd, the agitators sat on a dharna at Babu Chowk. Pandey, along with BJP state in-charge and MP Dushyant Gautam, then proceeded to the felicitation event at the local government inter college.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/edu-min-shown-black-flags-by-farmers-2nd-time-in-a-week-in-his-own-constituency/articleshow/80202376.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: 4.5 lakh Rajasthan health workers to get vaccinated in first phase||JAIPUR: Health minister Dr Raghu Sharma on Sunday said about 4.5 lakh healthcare workers have been included in the first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive which begins on January 16. With the drive set to start, the Centre has highlighted the need to prevent 'proxies’ and uniquely identify all beneficiaries. On using the Aadhaar platform, the Centre advised the states to urge beneficiaries to seed their mobile numbers with Aadhaar for registration to ensure proper communication and prevent proxies. The Centre underlined the importance of identifying the person selected for vaccinating and to keep a digital record of the process. At a press briefing held at the health directorate, Sharma said the vaccine would be stored in three districts having air connectivity, namely Jaipur, Udaipur and Jodhpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/4-5-lakh-raj-health-workers-to-get-vaccinated-in-first-phase/articleshow/80204297.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Bird flu in Maharashtra: 8,000 hens to be culled in Parbhani; CM Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting to review the bird flu situation in the state on Monday. Maharashtra on Sunday had joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that the samples of dead poultry birds from Muramba village in Parbhani and dead crows and pond egrets in Mumbai, Ghodbunder (Thane district) and Dapoli have returned positive for H5N1. “Dead crow samples from a place in Beed have been found positive for H5N8. Both H5N1 and H5N8 are types of avian influenza. Culling of all birds will now be undertaken up to a 1km radius of the infected zone in Parbhani where the poultry samples were found positive. However, only surveillance will be continued in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. As per the prescribed preventive measures, all poultry birds within 1km radius of the infected poultry farm at Murumba will be culled. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said culling of over 8,000 hens has been ordered in the village concerned. But in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed only surveillance will be continued. The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has so far recorded 1,205 deaths of various birds since January 8. “Around 2.30pm, 11 dead crows were found near Tata Colony in Chembur’s RCF area at 2.30pm,” RCF senior police inspector Sipon Noghote said. “Two birds were sent by the animal husbandry doctors to Pune for testing, the rest were disposed of.” BMC officials no such incident was reported to them. “We will find out the details on Monday,” said Ajit Narode, assistant municipal commissioner, M-East ward. The Thane unit of the animal husbandry department said that they are yet to receive information on the positive reports, but claimed to be prepared to tackle the situation. The department has sought assistance from the municipal staff too, said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane. As many as 20 birds, including pond herons, parakeets, have been found dead over the last four days in various parts of Thane. As per the Union ministry’s action plan for avian influenza, a series of immediate actions for rapid control and containment has to be taken by the state animal husbandry and public health departments in case of confirmed positive reports. These actions include setting up of a control room in the state, constitution of rapid response teams, identifying an “infected zone” within a 1km radius from the epicentre and a surveillance zone within 1-10km radius from the epicentre, providing details of poultry birds for culling in both these zones, and arranging for medicines/ disinfectants, providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, health check-ups and supply of oseltamivir/other antiviral drugs. Unusual death, diarrhoea, purple discolouration of the wattles, combs and legs of the birds, soft-shelled or misshapen eggs, lack of energy and appetite, and nasal discharge are some of the signs of bird flu. Meanwhile, no suspected bird flu cases have been reported at Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo in Byculla so far. “Byculla zoo has been shut since March-end when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced. So we didn’t have to impose any new restrictions on visitors. We are taking increased measures for sanitation and hygiene. So far there are no suspected cases at Byculla zoo. All birds are under observation,” Dr Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director, said. State orders ‘humane’ culling of poultry birds in Parbhani The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has called for “humane” culling of poultry birds—a quick twist of the neck (cervical dislocation). It has directed that a mixture of 80mg of sodium phenobarbital and 55ml water be used before manual or mechanical cervical dislocation for birds weighing above 3kg, in keeping with the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2019. (With inputs from Prasad Joshi in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bird-flu-confirmed-in-state-8k-hens-to-be-culled-in-parbhani/articleshow/80205959.cms||Neha Madaan
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Bird flu in Maharashtra: 8,000 hens to be culled in Parbhani; CM Uddhav Thackeray to chair a meeting||PUNE/MUMBAI: Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will chair a meeting to review the bird flu situation in the state on Monday. Maharashtra on Sunday had joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. Maharashtra animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI that the samples of dead poultry birds from Muramba village in Parbhani and dead crows and pond egrets in Mumbai, Ghodbunder (Thane district) and Dapoli have returned positive for H5N1. “Dead crow samples from a place in Beed have been found positive for H5N8. Both H5N1 and H5N8 are types of avian influenza. Culling of all birds will now be undertaken up to a 1km radius of the infected zone in Parbhani where the poultry samples were found positive. However, only surveillance will be continued in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. As per the prescribed preventive measures, all poultry birds within 1km radius of the infected poultry farm at Murumba will be culled. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said culling of over 8,000 hens has been ordered in the village concerned. But in Mumbai, Ghodbunder, Dapoli and Beed only surveillance will be continued. The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has so far recorded 1,205 deaths of various birds since January 8. “Around 2.30pm, 11 dead crows were found near Tata Colony in Chembur’s RCF area at 2.30pm,” RCF senior police inspector Sipon Noghote said. “Two birds were sent by the animal husbandry doctors to Pune for testing, the rest were disposed of.” BMC officials no such incident was reported to them. “We will find out the details on Monday,” said Ajit Narode, assistant municipal commissioner, M-East ward. The Thane unit of the animal husbandry department said that they are yet to receive information on the positive reports, but claimed to be prepared to tackle the situation. The department has sought assistance from the municipal staff too, said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane. As many as 20 birds, including pond herons, parakeets, have been found dead over the last four days in various parts of Thane. As per the Union ministry’s action plan for avian influenza, a series of immediate actions for rapid control and containment has to be taken by the state animal husbandry and public health departments in case of confirmed positive reports. These actions include setting up of a control room in the state, constitution of rapid response teams, identifying an “infected zone” within a 1km radius from the epicentre and a surveillance zone within 1-10km radius from the epicentre, providing details of poultry birds for culling in both these zones, and arranging for medicines/ disinfectants, providing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits, health check-ups and supply of oseltamivir/other antiviral drugs. Unusual death, diarrhoea, purple discolouration of the wattles, combs and legs of the birds, soft-shelled or misshapen eggs, lack of energy and appetite, and nasal discharge are some of the signs of bird flu. Meanwhile, no suspected bird flu cases have been reported at Veer Mata Jijabai Bhosale Udyan And Zoo in Byculla so far. “Byculla zoo has been shut since March-end when the coronavirus-induced lockdown was announced. So we didn’t have to impose any new restrictions on visitors. We are taking increased measures for sanitation and hygiene. So far there are no suspected cases at Byculla zoo. All birds are under observation,” Dr Sanjay Tripathi, zoo director, said. State orders ‘humane’ culling of poultry birds in Parbhani The Maharashtra animal husbandry department has called for “humane” culling of poultry birds—a quick twist of the neck (cervical dislocation). It has directed that a mixture of 80mg of sodium phenobarbital and 55ml water be used before manual or mechanical cervical dislocation for birds weighing above 3kg, in keeping with the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2019. (With inputs from Prasad Joshi in Aurangabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bird-flu-confirmed-in-state-8k-hens-to-be-culled-in-parbhani/articleshow/80205961.cms||Neha Madaan
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena’s Gujarati cell marshals flock with eye on BMC polls||MUMBAI: The Gujarati cell of the Shiv Sena on Sunday launched its BMC poll campaign with a community gathering organised in Andheri. The Gujarati cell appealed to the next generation to connect with the Shiv Sena by spreading the message that the party had saved the community in the 1992-93 riots. Nine businessmen from the western suburbs joined the Shiv Sena on the occasion. The cell decided to organise such gatherings every month in localities dominated by Gujaratis. In response, the BJP Gujarati cell decided to hold a similar gathering on Sunday next week. The Shiv Sena Gujrati cell has come up with a slogan for the BMC polls: “Mumbai ma jalebi na fafda, Uddhav Thackeray aapda (In Mumbai there is jalebi and fafda, Uddhav Thackeray is ours).”  Gujarati wing convenor Hemraj Shah organised the gathering of party workers from the community at the Gujarati Samaj Bhavan. “The Shiv Sena is the only party that saved the community in the 1992-93 riots,” he said in his address. He said that when BJP leader Atal Bihari Vajpayee had expressed displeasure over the Gujarat riots, it was Shiv Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray who had extended support to the then Gujarat CM Narendra Modi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senas-gujarati-cell-marshals-flock-with-eye-on-bmc-polls/articleshow/80204322.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Bird flu reported in 13 districts of Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Bird flu has now affected 13 districts in the state after samples of dead birds sent from Sirohi and Pratapgarh tested positive on Sunday. An official said the samples from 11 districts — Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Pali and Jaisalmer — have already been confirmed for avian influenza. The state has sent a total of 226 samples from 24 districts. An official said that the H5N8 subtype of Influenza A virus has been reported in samples of dead birds collected from 12 districts, except Jhalawar. On December 31, dead crows tested positive for the H5 avian influenza virus in Jhalawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-flu-reported-in13-districts-of-state/articleshow/80204328.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||UP ramps up efforts to check outbreak of avian flu, migratory birds a cause of concern||Bareilly/Pilibhit/Meerut/Bijnor: Crows and domesticated birds continued to succumb to the suspected avian influenza in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and the officials of the forest department were put on high alert. Presence of lakhs of seasonal migratory birds in the scores of wetlands of the state has also led to “increased concerns”, officials said. In Himachal Pradesh, over 3,000 migratory birds have died so far. UP became the seventh state of the country to confirm the presence of avian flu in dead birds on Saturday, after two fowls which died in Kanpur zoo, were tested positive for it in a Bhopal lab. Dudhwa National Park, the house to over 400 species of birds, was also put under observation. The forest department workers have been told to immediately report the death of birds. Apart from the permanent residents, there are thousands of migratory birds which are now camping in the reserve’s wetlands. Officials at Pilibhit Tiger Reserve were also told to keep a close eye on the death of birds. “Forest staff has been issued directions to report the death of any bird without delay,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR. In UP’s Bijnor district, several crows were found dead on roads and rooftops. Authorities said that a total of 14 crows have died in the last two days. Chief veterinary officer of Bijnor, Bhupendra Singh, said, “All veterinary officers and other staff have been put on alert. A task force has been formed which is monitoring all poultry farms. Samples of dead crows have also been sent to IVRI Bareilly for testing.” The officials are also concerned because several rivers, including Ganga and its tributaries, pass through Bijnor and their banks are home to thousands of migratory birds these days. In Pilibhit district, as many as 20 hens and a duck died in the last four days. Chief veterinary officer (CVO) Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg, along with his team, rushed to the spot and collected the samples for test. In Meerut, rapid response teams have been formed to keep an eye on poultry farms. A control room has also been set up and a helpline number was issued to ensure that any untoward incident or questions related to bird flu can be reported. It all comes against the backdrop of two confirmed cases of avian flu of Kanpur zoo. Kanpur’s chief veterinary officer Dr RP Mishra said, “We found two red jungle fowls and sent their samples to ICAR National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD) Bhopal on January 6. The institute confirmed avian influenza on January 9.” Joint secretary of the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Upamanyu Basu, has instructed the officials to strengthen surveillance in zoological parks and in water bodies. “There is an urgent need for taking all possible measures,” he has said. (With inputs from Harveer Dabas, Kehsav Agarwal, Ishita Bhatia, Kanwardeep Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-ramps-up-efforts-to-check-outbreak-of-avian-flu-migratory-birds-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/80202408.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||12 families duped, given illegal power connections in Kakori||Lucknow: At least 12 households in New Faridipur colony in Kakori were duped on the pretext of providing electricity connections under the government’s flagship scheme Saubhagya Yojana. Interestingly, the victims of fraud had been receiving genuine electricity bills which they had been paying. The fraud came to light on Friday after the Lucknow Electricity Supply Administration (Lesa), led by junior engineer of Dubagga power house, snapped the supply following discom’s probe. The affected residents are likely to lodge an FIR at Kakori police station on Monday against unidentified Lesa staff who were allegedly involved in issuing electricity connections and bills. They are also expected to meet Lesa officials before filing the FIR. New Faridipur is an underdeveloped area with no road, sewer or water supply. Talking to TOI, Imran, a victim of the fraud, said: “Each household had paid Rs 35,000 for power connection to one Rishabh Singh, who claimed to be associated with Lesa. For last several months, we had been receiving electricity bills from MVVNL and paying it on time. However, a Lesa team snapped our power supply claiming that our connections are illegal.” All the defaulting household were receiving power from just one transformer with power cables hanging on bamboos. Electricity meters were also installed for billing. Executive engineer PK Singh of EDD-II CESS said, “The connections provided to New Faridipur residents were given under Saubhagya Yojana, which is meant only for rural areas at no cost. New Faridipur comes under urban area. It was found during the audit that residents got connection from a transformer which was 300-500 metres from their home against the laid norms of 40 metres.” “Since the residents have been duped by an outsider, we have asked them to lodge FIR and apply for new power connections. New transformer, concrete pillars and power cables will be installed for which an estimate will be given to those applying for connection,” he said. Asked why Lesa was recovering bills from illegal connections, he said an internal inquiry was on to ascertain how IDs were generated for generation of power bills. “Action will be taken against the staff involved in the fraud,” he said. A similar fraud was reported from Dubagga area four months ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/12-families-duped-given-illegal-power-connections-in-kakori/articleshow/80204836.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Special covers for 40th Antarctic expedition released||Panaji: The Goa postal division has released two special covers, two presentation packs and a set of 10 postcards to commemorate the 40th Indian scientific expedition to Antarctica that commenced recently from the Mormugao Port Trust. One of the two covers has been handed over to the expedition team, who will take it to the Maitri post office in Antarctica and return with it bearing the station’s cancellation. TOI had reported that a team of 43 members from various research and scientific institutions all over India are undertaking this journey on the Russian ice-class vessel MV Vasiliy Golovnin. “The Antarctica philately is an important theme which was explored through the release of the presentation packs and philatelic collectibles for philatelists all over the world,” said senior superintendent of post offices Sudhir G Jakhere. M R Ramesh Kumar, who was a part of the sixth Indian scientific expedition to Antarctica in 1986-87, said that this is the first time in India that the Goa postal division released a special cover with Antarctica as its theme. The second cover is on the South Pole expedition A special silver cancellation was impressed upon the special covers, which were handed over to a special team by the Goa postmaster general, N Vinodkumar. Another cover was released on the decadal commemoration of the first Indian South Pole expedition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/special-covers-for-40th-antarctic-expedition-released/articleshow/80204382.cms||Nida Sayed
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||Council polls get knotty as parties weigh their options||Lucknow: Assured of winning 10 out of 12 seats in the forthcoming Vidhan Parishad elections, the BJP is likely to play it safe and not field the 11th candidate. Party sources reveal that with assembly elections just a year away, it doesn't want to get involved in any kind of political slugfest required to get the additional candidate elected. “Even a couple of crossing votings by its MLAs, which can't be ruled out if voting takes place, will send out a negative signal in the year before elections,” they say. The elections to 12 seats are to be concluded by January 28. Given the strength of the MLAs in different parties, the BJP will easily sail through 10 seats and Samajwadi Party will get one while the 12th seat will remain open. To win one council seat, a contestant requires a minimum of 32 MLAs’ votes. With its Apna Dal ally having nine MLAs, the BJP having 312 of its own, is guaranteed the victory of its 10 candidates. The principal Opposition, SP with 49 will have 17 votes spare after the victory of its first candidate. The BSP, with its record low strength of 18, will not be able to ensure the win of any candidate on its own and if it dares field one, it will have to lean on BJP and that could be more detrimental to it politically as the next assembly elections are to be held in about a year. Now, the question ‘who will field the 12th candidate’ is being debated in political circles. Within the BJP, there is a general consensus on staying away from taking any risk and exposing itself as a 'divided house' in the run up to the elections. Some party MLAs, including Shyam Prakash from Gopa Mau in Hardoi, Rakesh Rathod from Sitapur Sadar and Devmani Dwivedi from Lambua, Sultanpur, Nand Kishore Gujjar, Ghaziabad have publicly voiced their opinion against their own government. And, there are others who are sulking for various reasons including the denial of ‘vidhayak nidhi’ (MLA local area development fund), facing neglect of the local police and other officials and not getting weightage in their constituency in their own government. A good number of Kurmi MLAs are also sulking in the BJP, the way Kanti Singh, a Kurmi, and an Independent candidate narrowly lost the council seat in the Lucknow teachers’ constituency. Her supporters had alleged that the district authorities conspired to defeat her. With 17 votes to spare, the SP leadership appears in mood to field its second candidate. Simply, because it has nothing to lose and it would be a psychological victory if it manages to engineer cross-voting in the ruling party. SP chief Akhilesh Yadav feels that as he has politically gained by fielding the second candidate in the Rajya Sabha elections by exposing an undeclared alliance between the BJP and the BSP. This time his strategy is to show fissures in the BJP legislature party, the way he did with the BSP in the Rajya Sabha elections when four of Behenji’s MLAs had walked into the SP headquarters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/council-polls-get-knotty-as-parties-weigh-their-options/articleshow/80204743.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra cuts security for Devendra Fadnavis, Raj Thackeray; no cover for state BJP chief||MUMBAI: In what is seen as an escalation in the fight between BJP and Shiv Sena since they parted ways in 2019, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday downgraded the security cover provided to his predecessor Devendra Fadnavis and his family, MNS president Raj Thackeray, former BJP city unit president Ashish Shelar and Union minister Ramdas Athavale of the RPI-A. Fadnavis went from Z+ to Y+ with escort and lost his bulletproof vehicle. Those in BJP whose cover has been withdrawn altogether were state unit chief Chandrakant Patil, ex-CM Narayan Rane, and legislators Ram Kadam and Prasad Lad. Home minister Anil Deshmukh denied vendetta politics, saying all decisions were taken on merit following recommendations from a threat perception committee.  The heat kept rising with BJP favouring a CBI inquiry after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, BMC and police action on actor Kangana Ranaut over property alterations and her tweets, the shifting of the metro shed from Aarey to Kanjurmarg and, in recent days, Fadnavis’s allegation that the premium cut announced for developers was designed to benefit a few prominent builders . Deshmukh said the threat perception committee had studied all reports from different agencies and then decided on the security cover. “There is absolutely no politics in it,’’ he said. While security cover was enhanced for leading criminal lawyer Ujwal Nikam, it was restored for cricketer Sachin Tendulkar. Categorised security will be given to Thackeray’s younger son, Tejas, and his cousin, Varun Sardesai. The government said the decision on security cover was taken on the basis of a recommendation made by a high-level threat perception committee led by chief secretary Sanjay Kumar. The other members of the committee were DGP Hemant Nagrale, police commissioner Parambir Singh, ACS (home) Sitaram Kunte and state intelligence commissioner Ashutosh Dumbre. Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, the CM, NCP chief Sharad Pawar and Lt Gen K S Brar (retired) will continue to get the highest, Z+ security cover. Fadnavis’s wife, Amruta, and daughter, Divija, had Y category security, which was reduced to X. Raj Thackeray went from Z to Y+ with escort. Rane’s security was withdrawn as the NDA government at the Centre had provided him with special security. Shiv Sena politician and the CM’s trusted aide Milind Narvekwar will continue with Y+ security. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar, Aaditya Thackeray, activist Anna Hazare and home minister Deshmukh will continue with Z category, while former Lok Ayukta M L Tahaliyani’s security was reduced to Y category. Ministers Balasaheb Thorat, Ashok Chavan, Nitin Raut, Jayant Patil, Chhagan Bhujbal, Bunty Patil, Ashok Chavan, Uday Samant, Anil Parab, Prithviraj Chavan, Jeetendra Awhad and Dhananjay Munde, Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut, assembly speaker Nana Patole, and council chairman Ramraje Nimbalkar were given Y+ security with escort. Uddhav Thackeray’s wife, Rashmi, was also given the same cover. Former minister Eknath Khadse, former Punjab DGP J F Rebeiro and NCP Rajya Sabha member Praful Patel will continue to be in Y+ category, while film star Shatrughan Sinha’s security cover was upgraded from Y to Y+ with escort. Cricketer Tendulkar was given X category cover, while film star Amitabh Bachchan continued with X category. Sharad Pawar’s wife, Pratibha, playback singer Lata Mangeshkar, and former chief justice J N Patel were also given the same cover. Former ministers Kripashankar Singh and Sudhir Mungantiwar, state minister Sanjay Bansode, Union minister Raosaheb Danve, BJP legislators Ram Kadam and Prasad Lad, former minister Shobhatai Fadnavis, BJP politician Madhav Bhandari and former speaker Haribhau Bagde were de-categorised, receiving no cover from the state. Former Uttar Pradesh governor Ram Naik’s security cover was reduced to Y from Y+ with escort. No change was made in the security provided to high-ranking officials of the BARC and nuclear energy programme. Fadnavis said he had no complaint against the move. “When I was a legislator and later state BJP president, I had no security. When I took over as CM, initially I had refused security, but out of compulsion I accepted the highest security cover. I have no complaints. I will continue to move around, meet people and visit all corners of the state. After examining the threat perception, the state government will take a decision, or even the Centre can provide me security if there is threat to my life,” he said. Home minister Deshmukh said that for the first time, uniform security cover had been provided to cabinet members and ministers of state. He said it was shocking that during BJP rule Sharad Pawar’s security cover was drastically cut, while there was no security for Ajit Pawar. “I found that there was only one personal security cover for Pawar and no security cover for Ajit Pawar. We took note and on the basis of the report submitted by the threat perception committee, Z+ security cover has been provided to Sharad Pawar and Z category for Ajit Pawar,’’ he said. A senior bureaucrat said that the reduction in security cover would free up manpower for the safety and security of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-cuts-security-for-fadnavis-raj-no-cover-for-state-bjp-chief/articleshow/80205117.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen threaten stir over power rates||Ludhiana: A state-level meeting of the Punjab Pradesh Beopar Mandal (PPBM) was organised here on Sunday. The main agenda of the meeting was to discuss the problems being faced by the businessmen in the state. Almost all office-bearers of the association attended the meeting. A few leaders of the BJP and SAD too participated. The meeting concluded with the joint declaration that if the rate of power in Punjab is increased, then the business fraternity would protest. Sunil Mehra, state general secretary of PPBM, said “In 2019, CM Amarinder Singh and cabinet minister OP Soni had promised us that the rate of power for industry in Punjab will be fixed at flat rate of Rs 5 per unit, but till date the promise remains unfulfilled. This move will totally destroy the industry. We are giving ultimatum till Tuesday to the state government to announce the reduction in the rates of power.” According to SAD leader Gurdeep Singh Gosha, “It is very disheartening to see how industry in Punjab is being targeted by the government to fill its coffers and Congress leaders are turning a blind eye to the pleas of the businessmen.” Arvinder Singh Makkar, district president of PPBM, said, “The state government has failed us on all fronts. We were promised that one time settlement (OTS) policy will be introduced to settle VAT cases for 2012-16, but despite OTS, 70,000 notices for assessment of VAT cases were slapped on businessmen.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-threaten-stir-over-power-rates/articleshow/80203136.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||BJP taking credit of works launched by Samajwadi Party: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav has exhorted workers to expose the Yogi government for taking credit of developmental projects which were either initiated or completed during his regime. Akhilesh, who recently undertook a tour of several districts, including Chitrakoot where he sought blessings of saints, asked members of the party’s youth wing to form human chains at colleges and state universities on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand on January 12 to propagate his teachings. “It was shocking that the BJP government is claiming credit for the beautification of Jawahar Park in Mathura. The fact is that it was his government which involved the forest and horticulture departments in the renovation of the historic park on the pattern of Janeshwar Mishra Park in Lucknow,” Akhilesh told TOI on Sunday. Citing a copy of an order issued by his government in 2016, the SP chief said that funds for the beautification of Jawahar Park were sanctioned during his regime. Akhilesh also questioned CM Yogi Aditynath’s move to take credits for metros and expressways which were launched by the SP government. “The BJP wants to take credit for every developmental activity, but the fact is that it has done nothing for the state,” he said adding that “in a recent interview Yogi had stated that there was no metro in Lucknow before 2017, while the metro project was launched much before he had become the CM.” “The BJP government is only engaged in event management and misguiding people. The SP will expose fake claims made by BJP leaders,” he said and added that he would personally visit several districts to expose the BJP before the 2022 Assembly elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-taking-credit-of-works-launched-by-sp-akhilesh/articleshow/80204710.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid effect: Cultural fests, folk progs went missing in 2020||Ludhiana: Year 2020 has left a big cultural vacuum among Ludhianvis as folk programmes had been hit hard by the pandemic and Covid lockdowns. The city is known as the cultural hub of Punjab with major festivals and even international festivals taking place in Ludhiana. But this year, Covid has eclipsed the cultural activities in the city, in schools and colleges and even in villages. Even the Prof Mohan Singh Mela and cultural concerts by folk singers did not take place in the whole year. In the start of the year, Mexicano flavour was seen during 9th Punjab Multi-cultural Festival organised at Government College for Girls in collaboration with leading international folk ensemble Punjab Cultural Promotion Council (PCPC). In February 2020, the mesmerising Mexican show of dances and music and songs captivated the audience of thousands for hours. The Punjabi folklore were well depicted by college and Punjabi artists. Mexican folk ensemble “Espiritu Folklorica Danza ’ director Arturo Javier Salazar Alvarez was all praise for Punjabi hospitality. World heritage exponent Davinder Singh Chhina told TOI about the impact of Covid on cultural festivats. He said, “Such international exchange programmes are the need of the hour and education about international cooperation and multiculturalism should be imparted to our students. The PCPC had celebrated 20 glorious years of the inception of the PCPC and Mexican delegation in Punjab since 2002.” “Our mission is culture of peace and to bring world cultures on one common platform for spreading the message of love, peace and harmony,” he elaborated. The PCPC had even invited foreign folk delegations to perform in Punjab international folk festivals edition in November. However, due to the Covid situation worldwide the hosts had to cancel their international programmes. Dr Chhina’s ensemble had been representing Punjabi folklore in worldwide folk fests since 2001, but this pandemic year had restricted this ensemble and others also to stay back home in Ludhiana throughout the year. Not only world folklores, but Punjab cultural fiestas had also been hit hard this year due to Covid. Almost all world folk festivals taking place in many parts of Europe had to cancel their fests this year. Some festival organisers of Serbia and Poland and some other nations held their virtual online festivals only to give message of peace, friendship and good health to the whole world. This was stated by Chhina, who has propagated Punjabi folk traditions in major parts of Europe, Australia, Taiwan, Doha, South Korea and many parts of the world since 2001. While sharing positive expectations for 2021, he said, “We are expecting great world cultural revival after Covid challenges in the New Year and do hope to join world folk fests in Europe in summer to promote Punjab traditions, bhangra and gatka. We do expect to host folk delegations from Europe and South America in November next in our Punjab international folk festivals. World folk fest organisers also expecting a positive 2021 as far as organising world folk festivals.” Dampener for youth festivals Not only international festivals, but also university and various zonal youth festivals couldn’t take place this year due to Covid. Thousands of artists, folk singers, bhangra and gidha artists and musicians could not get a chance to perform anywhere due to lockdowns. DJ parties were the worst hit the whole season. Dholis couldn’t perform till October and could hardly find some marriage and any other programmes to perform once the state govt had eased some restrictions in November. Bansi Lal, an international fame dholi, said, “I could not perform in any festival and also I missed by musical band’s performance at the festivals and parties due to Covid. we witnessed such challenges for the first time in life.” He said, “Let the Covid sadness disappear soon and new hopes rise in 2021. Let the era of joy, folksongs, excitement and cultural activities revive in a big way .We do pray for the happy times to return and wish to see smiles on every face. We wish smiles to return among the world communities through international academic and cultural exchanges.” The Punjab International Folk Music and Dance Festival was organised by Ishmeet Singh Music Institute. Charan Kanwal Singh, director of the institute, department of cultural affairs, government of Punjab, said “We expect great revival of cultural fiestas in the New Year, though we have suffered a lot due to Covid challenges this year.” Celebrations checkmated by Covid Alumni Association of SCD Government College, Ludhiana, had planned a number of cultural activities in their alma mater in its centenary celebration year (1920-2020) like continuation of illustrious alumni lecture series, exhibition matches of alumni with current students in basketball and hockey and a mushaira on alumnus Sahir Ludhianvi’s death anniversary. Brij Bhushan Goyal, coordinator, Alumni Association, SCD Government College, Ludhiana, said, “Plans of the college as well as the alumni went haywire, first due to Covid-19 concerns and then due to prolonged farmers’ agitation. We are also eagerly awaiting a call from principal Dharam Singh Sandhu, who is perhaps waiting for a nod from the CM office for participation of the CM in the celebrations, who may participate either virtually or come personally. Once there is some respite, we will definitely celebrate the occasion in 2021.” Cultural activities on farmers In December, last year, the Punjabi folk singers had come to hog limelight by supporting the cause of Punjab farmers at Singhu border, eulogising the ‘kisan andolan’. Prominent folk singers Diljit Dosanjh, Ranjit Bawa and Kanwar Grewal have become icons by singing in favour of farmers and echoing the voice of farmers. This was the turning point for Punjabi folk singers and for the Punjabi folks as well. With the onset of the New Year most of the folk singers are focusing on farmer issues to win the hearts of the farmers in general and Punjabi audiences worldwide. Satinder Sartaj and many punjabi folk personalities had supported the cause of the farmers. Former chairman of Punjab Arts Council Surjit Patar had also announced to return his Padmashri award against the farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-effect-cultural-fests-folk-progs-went-missing-in-2020/articleshow/80203145.cms||Mehak Jain
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||MNS web series: Penguin Games||MUMBAI: MNS has launched a web series, ‘Penguin Games’, to highlight “real problems” in Worli. “In the first episode on Facebook, we exposed poor water supply and sanitation in Prem Nagar. It looks like the local MLA and ruling party are focusing on cosmetic issues,” Santosh Dhuri of the MNS said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mns-web-series-penguin-games/articleshow/80204376.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||ACB detains Metrology inspector in graft case||Rajkot: A junior inspector of the legal metrology department was detained by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) for accepting a bribe of Rs 4,000 in Amreli on Saturday. ACB sleuths said that a petrol pump owner in Amreli had approached the agency after the accused Gaurang Jambukiya demanded the bribe amount for annual inspection and awarding certificate for accuracy in fuel measurement. When the petrol pump owner had applied for the renewal of certificate, Jambukiya made the demand. He told the complainant that for every nozzle pump he will take Rs 1,000 besides the legal fees which are government charges. The petrol pump has four nozzle pumps. To nab Jambukiya in a trap, ACB asked the complainant to inform him that he is ready to pay the amount. When Jambukiya arrived at the petrol pump on Amreli-Liliya road and accepted the money, ACB sleuths nabbed him along with the bribe amount. ACB officials said that Jambukiya will be arrested once his Covid-19 test report turns out to be negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/acb-detains-metrology-inspector-in-graft-case/articleshow/80202428.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad’s dusty air gets deadlier||AHMEDABAD: The toxic killers in our air are too small to see. For years particulate matter, PM10 and PM 2.5, have often grabbed the headlines and been associated with causing adverse health effects after they cut through our lungs to reach our bloodstream. But in reality, a complex chemical process ensues before we breathe these particles in. Studies, have found oxidative potential — which turns these particles into reactive species after they interact with gases in air and then enter our bloodstream to cause of adverse health impacts. In a first, a study by Neeraj Rastogi and Anil Patel of Physical Research Laboratory (PRL) and Utsav Gandhi and Nitasha Khatri of Gujarat Environment Management Institute (GEMI) has tried to decipher the constituents of Ahmedabad dust and their oxidative potential (OP) for four areas — Bapunagar (middle-income residential area), Narol (industrial), Paldi (bus transport hub), Income Tax (huge running traffic) and Science City (posh residential area), respectively. The dust OP of specific anthropogenic sources like road traffic, biomass burning, and industrial emissions were investigated. Both acid soluble metals water soluble metals like nickel, zinc, cobalt, cadmium, lead, iron, copper, chromium, manganese, selenium, barium and aluminium were found in different concentration across the four areas. “Moreover, the average oxidative potential of PM10 over Narol was approximately four times higher compared to Science City, suggesting a higher risk to Narol’s inhabitants from potentially redox-active PM,” claimed the study. Narol also recorded about two to three times higher PM10 concentration compared to other areas owing to re-suspension of road dust caused by unpaved GIDC inter connecting road and nearby waste dumping site at Pirana. Similarly, the study claimed that the non-exhaust traffic-related sources because of re-uspension, abrasion, brake wear are the major sources of nickel and manganese particles over Paldi area. “PM10 has a potential link with damaging the mitochondrial cells in DNA,” claimed the study. Organic constituents were observed to be higher over Paldi and Income Tax, mainly owing to traffic. “Overall, the current study will prove useful in further exploration of related components and help policy planners to design area-specific suitable strategies to tackle various health-related challenges in deteriorating global environmental equations,” the study stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/citys-dusty-air-gets-deadlier/articleshow/80203166.cms||Paul John
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||City bizmen slam hike in rates of yarn, demand import duty waiver||Ludhiana: City’s textile industry is already feeling the heat due to the huge increase in the rates of yarn. Claiming that the hike in the rates has been more than 30% in several segments, the businessmen have now demanded intervention of the ministry of textiles to take corrective measures to control the rates. They are clueless on why the shortage of some qualities of yarn is being witnessed in the markets despite the fact that the production and sales of garment has fallen this year in the wake of coronavirus and lockdown. Giving more insights into their problems, Vipan Mittal, leading garment manufacturer and vice-chairman of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), said, “The cotton crop output of our country this year is higher than last year. Moreover, garments exports to Europe and the USA is almost half as compared to last year. But in spite of these factors, there is a huge shortage of yarns in the market and the price hike has been in the range of 30% in in the last three-four months. Slowly, the situation is going out of hands of the micro, small and medium industry as our cost of production is going haywire and we are not in a position to hike rates of our end products due to sluggish market conditions. One of the main reasons responsible for the incessant hike in the rate of yarns is that the basic cotton yarns are being exported to Bangladesh and China in large quantities by Indian spinners.” Mittal added that, “A cartel is also working in the country, which increases the rates of yarn without any basis and also creates an artificial shortage in the market, thereby hitting the MSME industry badly. It is our urgent appeal to the government to immediately ban the export of yarn from India and the spinners may also be advised to keep rates of their products stable for one month at least, so as garment and textile manufacturers can plan their orders accordingly.” According to Ajit Lakra, head of textile division, FICO, “One of the corporate companies is the largest manufacturer of polyester yarns in India and due to its monopoly, the company has raised the rates of yarns and other products by 30-40% in the last two-three months alone and has also created an artificial shortage of yarn in the domestic market. MSME sector textile units are already under a heavy stress and the abnormal rise in the yarn prices have further made the survival of MSME units very difficult. Closure of MSME garment units will render lakhs of workers unemployed and will cause a big setback to India becoming ‘atam nirbhar’ in textiles. I’ts high time that the government should immediately remove anti-dumping duty on import of polyester yarn, so thatthe yarn becomes available to the Indian textile manufacturers at the international price through import. Moreover, such a step will not only benefit the industry, but will also generate more employment in India and the government will also earn more revenue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/city-bizmen-slam-hike-in-rates-of-yarn-demand-import-duty-waiver/articleshow/80203152.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||25-year-old kills self after being hounded over repaying loan in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The family of a 25-year-old youth, whose body was found hanging at his rented accommodation in southwest Delhi in November, has alleged that he killed himself due to humiliation by some people running a syndicate of providing loans through an app. After the family of the deceased, Harish, approached police with this allegation on December 12, cops started analysing his mobile phone and some screenshots provided by them. According to DCP (Dwarka) Santosh Meena, an initial probe suggests that Harish took a loan of Rs 2,500 at a high rate of interest through a Chinese app. The call details records yielded two numbers of recovery agents, who are being traced. It is also being checked if he had taken more loans or whether he was being blackmailed. Police are trying to trace the loan company staffers with the help of details like IP address, etc from the service providers. Harish lived with his family in Shahbad Mohammadpur near Dwarka Sector 8 Metro Station and was preparing for government service examination. He worked at a car workshop. “On November 25, Harish was taken to a hospital, where he was declared brought dead. His medico-legal certificate mentioned hanging as the cause of death,” said Meena. An inquest under Section 174 CrPC has been started to ascertain the cause of suicide. In their statement, the family members said that he was alone at home at the time of incident. He hanged himself from the ceiling fan after locking his room. His grandmother was the first to notice the locked room and raised an alarm after which family members residing nearby came and forcibly opened the door. They rushed him to Venkateshwar Hospital, but he had died by then. The autopsy was carried out at DDU Hospital and the doctors mentioned the cause of death as asphyxia caused by ligature hanging, confirming the suicide. According to the family, Harish had taken a small loan, but was made to pay multiple times the sum borrowed as the interest kept mounting. After a point, when he couldn’t pay he was threatened with dire consequences. In mid-November, the app-based company allegedly made a WhatsApp group using his contact list and sent them humiliating messages about Harish. They also sent screenshots of messages sent to Harish asking him to pay the loan immediately. On November 25, Harish came home early from work after being called by family members who had been contacted by the recovery agents. When his sister asked about the loan, he said that he was a victim of fraud. The relatives who attended his last rites also confirmed having received abusive calls from recovery agents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/25-yr-old-kills-self-after-being-hounded-over-repaying-loan/articleshow/80203174.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||Police make fourth arrest in Junagadh garment shop owner kidnapping case||Rajkot: A 26-year-old man from Gandhigram area of Junagadh was arrested on Saturday for kidnapping a young garment shop owner on December 23. Earlier cops had nabbed three persons including a minor boy.Police said that they had information about the involvement of Shubham alias Doctor Tavde, based on which they searched him in Gandhigram area and nabbed him. During interrogation, Tavde admitted that he too was involved in the abduction of 21-year-old Nimesh Khanwani and demanding a ransom of Rs 10 lakh. He said that since the key accused Naja Rabari is his friend, he tagged along when Rabari told him that he had to go to the farm. Later, he helped Rabari in kidnapping Khanwani and drove the car to his house and around Junagadh district. On Sunday, Tavde was produced before a local court and sent to judicial custody. Police said that only Rabari is absconding and he too will be nabbed soon. Earlier a minor boy, Bhayo alias Bhavesh Rabari and Jasku alias Jitu Kathi were arrested. The gang had reached Khanwani’s house in Bhavnath area and had identified themselves as cops from the crime branch. They took him saying that they want to question Khanwani in a prohibition case. They, later, called Khanwani’s elder brother Roshan to inform him about the abduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/police-make-fourth-arrest-in-junagadh-garment-shop-owner-kidnapping-case/articleshow/80202437.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Police will have to revive community policing to check thefts||Ludhiana: Community policing has seen a downslide in the city for the past some time. The cases of thefts and related crimes one after another by domestic help proves that it is high time for the city police to give emphasis to community policing for crime prevention. Over the time, several crimes have been executed by domestic helps in posh areas of the city. In all cases domestic helps are hired by employers without police verification. In the next few days these helps escape with cash, gold and diamond jewellery from the house. In the majority of the cases, it is found that the employers don’t even have any ID proof of the help so that the police could get some clue. In one such incident in December 2020, a driver with criminal background was hired by a city-based hotelier, who kidnapped the hotelier’s son and then sought ransom of Rs 4 crore. Even after this case, the city residents continue trusting domestic helps blindly. Importantly, Ludhiana police have issued orders under Section 144, CrPC, making police verification of tenants and domestic help mandatory. However, it failed to ensure its compliance. Arun Sharma, a hosiery manufacturer from Gaushala Road, said, “Miscreants become active in the market during the hosiery season. In the past some time, thefts, snatchings and even robberies have been executed here as they know buyers and shopkeepers will be having cash with them. We want the police to take preventive measures and are also willing to help them.” Another resident of Guru Nanak Colony Mohinder Kumar said, “There are several grocery stores in our area. In the past some miscreants came to these shops posing as customers and escaped with the goods. Though nobody has lodged a complaint against it, it has become a regular affair these days.” ADCP, special branch and community affairs, Pragya Jain said, “Community policing certainly helps in crime prevention as police build friendly relations with the residents so that the latter can share the problems and even can help in resolving these. Any crime, be it thefts in the houses or markets, snatchings, drug peddling and other illegal activities, participating by the public can play a huge role in curbing it. We will come up with different projects for the same.” Box- Crimes by domestic help January 3, 2021- Hired five days ago without police verification, a domestic help, Rahul, escaped with Rs 6 lakh cash, gold and diamond jewellery worth lakhs from a house in BRS Nagar. The family members were not at home when he, along with his unidentified accomplices, executed the theft. December 1, 2020- Son of hotelier Pankaj Gupta of SBS Nagar was kidnapped by their driver Harjinder. The accused demanded Rs 4 crore in ransom. Harjiner had been working for Gupta for the past two years, however, the family was unaware that he had a criminal background. He was rescued within 15 hours from Moga. October 8, 2020- A major loot was reported in the city in which a domestic help Khem Bahadur, hired two months ago, with the help of two accomplices, executed a theft at his employer’s house in Gurdev Nagar. The accused held the elder parents of the employer captive and gave sedatives to the security guard to execute the loot. At the time of the incident, the rest of the family members had gone for an outing. The accused escaped with a large quantity of gold jewellery and cash. August 24, 2020- Harish Jindal, a hosiery businessman, was robbed of Rs 2 lakh and gold jewellery when their domestic help gave them food laced with sedatives. In that case, the domestic help, Sunita, had joined just two days back. The family kept on asking for her ID proof but the accused kept delaying it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/police-will-have-to-revive-community-policing-to-check-thefts/articleshow/80203154.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 11, 2021||Bareilly||UP man’s quest for lucrative job in Iran ends in nightmare||Bareilly: Promised of a lucrative merchant navy job in Iran by a 'friend', 24-year-old Rinkoo Singh left Shahjahanpur for Shiraz with high hopes for a better life. However, instead of the greener pastures he was promised, the young man, whose farmer father sold his land for his son's career, was dumped into a small boat with all his money and documents taken away. After realising that he was tricked and duped by his batchmate, Saurabh Som, from his merchant navy course days, Rinkoo fled the boat and initially lived on pavement and later on farms, surviving on fruits for a fortnight. When stranded, his only lifeline was his phone with a UP SIM card and a scanned copy of his passport in it. “I left Uttar Pradesh and went to Mumbai on December 15 and reached Iran's Shiraz airport via Dubai. The agent led me to Bandar Bushehr in a cab. He took away all my documents on the pretext of some clearance work and put me on a tiny ship,” Rinkoo said. Earlier, Rinkoo after completing his course in merchant navy was contacted by his batchmate. “He said that I can be placed on a large cargo ship. But, I need to spend Rs 3.5 lakh for the job offer,” the young man said. The reality was quite different though. “It was not the job on a cargo ship I was promised. Later that night, the agent even tried to kill me. I somehow managed to flee and left with almost no money and documents.” With local help, Rinkoo found a tiny hotel room for a few hours to charge his phone and contact his family in Shahjahanpur. In complete shock after hearing from their son, his family promptly contacted the local lawmaker who brought it to the notice of the Ministry of External Affairs. The Indian Embassy and Iranianofficials traced him through his phone and facilitated his return. “I travelled around 1,000 km to Tehran and took a return flight on December 31. The embassy and local officials made all the arrangements. My travel tickets were sent by Arun Sagar Ji [Shahjahanpur MP],” the man said. When contacted, local MP Arun Sagar said, “I acknowledged the complaint and spoke to foreign minister S Jaishankar. The young man was then brought back. We will ensure the culprits are booked.” On Sunday, Rinkoo’s father Devendra Singh said, “I had sold my farm land to send my son abroad for a lucrative job. He was upset after remaining jobless, despite completing the merchant navy course a year ago. I am thankful that he is still alive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/up-mans-quest-for-lucrative-job-in-iran-ends-in-nightmare/articleshow/80202453.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||Robbery bid at Jain temple in Morbi foiled||Rajkot: A robbery bid in a Jain temple at Virpar village in Morbi in the wee hours of Sunday, was foiled.Police said that around 1 am, five men tried to enter the temple but one of the two watchmen, identified as Sujendra Singh Sardarji, woke up and challenged the two thieves. Hearing the commotion, the other watchman, Jeevan Bahadur, also woke up. Seeing their friends being overpowered, three other thieves jumped in and thrashed the two gatekeepers. According to the police, the two watchmen received severe injuries due to the thrashing. Fearing that they might be caught, the thieves fled from the spot without stealing anything. Sardarji and Bahadur were taken to a private hospital for treatment and a complaint of robbery attempt was registered at the Tankara police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/robbery-bid-at-jain-temple-in-morbi-foiled/articleshow/80202445.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Schools, colleges reopen in Gujarat after over 9 months||AHMEDABAD: Schools and colleges all across the state reopened on Monday, after being shut down for more than nine months due to Covid-19 pandemic. The government has decided to reopen educational institutions in the state in a staggered manner. Gujarat: Schools for students of classes 10 & 12 reopen in the state after a gap of nearly 10 months; visuals from… https://t.co/CsMoNBHcVU— TOIRajkot (@TOIRajkot) 1610334417000In the case of schools, only Class X and Class XII students will resume in the initial phase, for colleges only final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students will be allowed on the campus. Schools reopen for classes 10 & 12 in #Ahmedabad post #COVID19 lockdown"Children will come back to school after 1… https://t.co/BxS0f4Oa6g— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1610335231000Colleges are likely to see greater participation of students in comparison to schools. #Schools e-open in #Ahmedabad and other parts of Gujarat for classes X and XII.@timesofindia https://t.co/Nw9kMoCV2N— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1610336862000All necessary precautions including social distancing norms, thermal screening and other safety measures are being put in place by colleges and schools since the announcement of their re-opening earlier this month. #Education in schools begins with stringent protocols to ensure safety of students@timesofindia https://t.co/TQGp9Sw9wY— TOI Ahmedabad (@TOIAhmedabad) 1610337032000The state government has decided to welcome students when schools reopen from January 11 across the state. The government has assigned the responsibility of organizing the programmes in as many as 21 districts to various ministers. The government could not hold Praveshotsav due to the Covid crisis in 2020-21 academic year, and thus decided to do so on Monday. Students are welcomed under the programme to encourage them to study. Education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and energy minister Saurabh Patel will welcome students in Gandhinagar district. State home minister Pradipsinh Jadeja and revenue minister Kaushik Patel will participate in a welcome programme in Ahmedabad. More than 17 lakh students are enrolled in Class X and Class XII courses and a large number of them will be going back to schools from Monday. While attendance is not compulsory, the state government said recently that online studies will continue according to Centre’s guidelines. The state government had earlier announced resuming classroom studies from November 23, but later rolled back its decision following a spike in Covid-19 cases. As a result, many schools and colleges had already begun the work of reopening including sanitization of premises and social distancing measures in classrooms. In all, there are about 20,000 schools in the state that are expected to reopen from Monday. Parents who agreed to send their wards for physical classes need to send the signed consent form along with their ward. These are to be shown at school gate and subsequently to be submitted to class teacher on the first day of the school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-schools-colleges-reopen-today/articleshow/80203184.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Business||Prince Charles urges India CEOs to pledge to meet 100 sustainable goals as he launches Terra Carta||LONDON: Prince Charles is making an urgent appeal to Indian CEOs to give their support to the Terra Carta (Earth Charter) he is launching on Monday. The charter puts sustainability at the heart of the private sector. Devising its name from the historic Magna Carta, which inspired a belief in the fundamental rights and liberties of people over 800 years ago, the Terra Carta — which provides a roadmap to 2030 for business — aims to give fundamental rights and value to nature. Designed by former chief design officer at Apple, Sir Jony Ive, the 17-page Terra Carta sets out nearly 100 specific actions for businesses to sign up to, which have been developed in consultation with global business leaders through the Sustainable Markets Initiative launched in Davos in 2020. The commitments include recognising the importance of local traditions, culture and jobs, acknowledging the need for net zero commitments to be achieved by 2050 or sooner, and recognising that to scale sustainable solutions and investment, cross-border and “mega” projects need to be explored. Charles, who has been campaigning for the environment for 50 years, will unveil the Terra Carta at the One Planet Summit in Paris when he will say that it is only those in industry and finance who can mobilise the innovation and resources required to transform the global economy. Charles, the Prince of Wales, who has formed a Sustainable Markets Initiative India Council and held a roundtable with leaders from the India private sector on December 16, told TOI: “As one of the world’s largest economies, India and its organisations have a crucial role to play as we address our climate and biodiversity crisis. I hope that businesses across India sign up to the Terra Carta to play their part in putting nature, people and planet at the heart of global value creation.” Indian renewable energy company ReNew Power is among approximately 30 global companies that are early supporters. In the foreward, Prince Charles writes: “Universal principles rooted in the harmony of nature’s patterns, cycles and geometry, which ancient civilisations and indigenous peoples have known all too well, need to be harnessed to inform science, technology, design and engineering and can, in fact, drive a sustainable future. But time is fast running out and we are rapidly wiping out, through mass extinctions, many of nature’s unique treasure trove of species from which we can develop innovative and sustainable products.” Watch Prince Charles unveils 'Terra Carta' for roadmap to a sustainable future||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/prince-charles-urges-india-ceos-to-pledge-to-meet-100-sustainable-goals-as-he-launches-terra-carta/articleshow/80203318.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC polls: Of 14 Gujaratis with Shiv Sena ticket in 2017, only 2 got elected||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena has once again attempted to woo the Gujarati community with its newly-coined “Uddhav aapda” line ahead of the 2022 BMC election. A similar attempt made before the 2017 BMC election had turned out to be a failure. In 2017, the Shiv Sena had given tickets to 14 Gujarati candidates, but of them only two, Rajul Patel and Sandhya Doshi, won. This was despite the fact that a string of Gujarati leaders had joined the Shiv Sena before the polls and that the party had roped in Patidar agitation leader Hardik Patel to campaign for it. Political analysts said the attempt to woo the Gujarati community failed in the past because the Shiv Sena only reached out to the community before elections. Before the 2017 BMC election, several Gujarati leaders had joined the Shiv Sena, but many complained that once the polls were over the party gave them the cold shoulder. “None of the Gujarati leaders were given any posts in the party, nor were they given a berth in the legislative council or the BMC by way of making them nominated corporators,” Birju Mundra, a political analyst, said. He said it was still important to note that the MVA government had taken some pro-business decisions. “However, there will be no landslide support to the Sena from the Gujarati community,” Mundra said. The BJP had fielded 29 Gujarati-Marwari candidates while the Congress had 17 Gujarati faces in the polls. Observers say Gujarati voters have an influence in over 70 wards and can be the decisive factor in at least 40 of the 227 wards. They are especially important in the suburbs. Roughly 17% of the city’s population is Gujarati-speaking. Ghatkopar, Mulund, Vile Parle, Malad, Borivli, Dahisar and parts of south Mumbai have a sizeable Gujarati population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/of-14-gujaratis-with-sena-ticket-in-2017-only-2-got-elected/articleshow/80204383.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 11, 2021||World||Prince Charles urges India CEOs to pledge to meet 100 sustainable goals as he launches Terra Carta||LONDON: Prince Charles is making an urgent appeal to Indian CEOs to give their support to the Terra Carta (Earth Charter) he is launching on Monday. The charter puts sustainability at the heart of the private sector. Devising its name from the historic Magna Carta, which inspired a belief in the fundamental rights and liberties of people over 800 years ago, the Terra Carta — which provides a roadmap to 2030 for business — aims to give fundamental rights and value to nature. Designed by former chief design officer at Apple, Sir Jony Ive, the 17-page Terra Carta sets out nearly 100 specific actions for businesses to sign up to, which have been developed in consultation with global business leaders through the Sustainable Markets Initiative launched in Davos in 2020. The commitments include recognising the importance of local traditions, culture and jobs, acknowledging the need for net zero commitments to be achieved by 2050 or sooner, and recognising that to scale sustainable solutions and investment, cross-border and “mega” projects need to be explored. Charles, who has been campaigning for the environment for 50 years, will unveil the Terra Carta at the One Planet Summit in Paris when he will say that it is only those in industry and finance who can mobilise the innovation and resources required to transform the global economy. Charles, the Prince of Wales, who has formed a Sustainable Markets Initiative India Council and held a roundtable with leaders from the India private sector on December 16, told TOI: “As one of the world’s largest economies, India and its organisations have a crucial role to play as we address our climate and biodiversity crisis. I hope that businesses across India sign up to the Terra Carta to play their part in putting nature, people and planet at the heart of global value creation.” Indian renewable energy company ReNew Power is among approximately 30 global companies that are early supporters. In the foreward, Prince Charles writes: “Universal principles rooted in the harmony of nature’s patterns, cycles and geometry, which ancient civilisations and indigenous peoples have known all too well, need to be harnessed to inform science, technology, design and engineering and can, in fact, drive a sustainable future. But time is fast running out and we are rapidly wiping out, through mass extinctions, many of nature’s unique treasure trove of species from which we can develop innovative and sustainable products.” Watch Prince Charles unveils 'Terra Carta' for roadmap to a sustainable future||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/prince-charles-urges-india-ceos-to-pledge-to-meet-100-sustainable-goals-as-he-launches-terra-carta/articleshow/80203316.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||GU classes may begin from Jan 18||Ahmedabad: The state government has permitted classroom education for final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students from Monday, but the Gujarat University is not likely to commence education activity at least till January 18. Following the Covid-19 protocols, the colleges and PG centres affiliated with GU are not available at present because they are being used as examination centres for the ongoing semester examinations. Therefore, though the classroom teaching is to start after nearly 10 months since the Covid induced lockdown shut the campuses on March 22, 2020, GU students may not attend classes from Monday and they may have to wait for another week, sources said. Meanwhile, the Gujarat Technological University (GTU) has issued a guideline for its colleges and instructed the colleges to strictly follow them to contain Covid-19 spread. The College Management Association and the University Teachers’ Association have welcomed the government’s decision to open classrooms for teaching for the final year students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-classes-may-begin-from-jan-18/articleshow/80203205.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||Bird flu in Gujarat: Avians continue to drop dead in Saurashtra, Kutch||RAJKOT: Various avian species continued to drop dead in bird-flu hit Gujarat. In the 48 hours ending Sunday evening, deaths of birds were reported from Kutch, Gondal taluka of Rajkot district and Gir-Somnath district. According to forest department officials, around 38 birds, mostly cormorants, were found dead in the lake of Bhimasar village near Anjar town of Kutch on Saturday afternoon. Anxious villagers informed the animal husbandry and forest departments about the mysterious deaths. Officials took samples from the spot and these were sent to the specialized laboratory in Bhopal for confirmation of bird flu. In Shivragadh village of Gondal taluka, eight red-wattled lapwings were found dead on Sunday. Forest department officials collected samples of some carcases and sent them for testing. Kanji Dabhi, a farm labourer in the village, spotted the dead birds near Bhadar River and alerted local social worker Chandresh Pandya. "We have taken the samples from the spot and are awaiting the exact cause of deaths,'' said Pratipalsinh Chudasama, forester, Rajkot forest division. It must be noted that bird flu was confirmed in a lapwing that was found dead in Manavadar taluka of Junagadh last week. Similarly, four demoiselle cranes were found dead in Dolasa village of the coastal Gir-Somnath district where migratory birds flock in large numbers during winter. Savji Vaghashiya, deputy director, animal husbandry department, Junagadh, said, "In the last 10 days, 18 birds have been found dead in the village. We visited Dolasa and the primary probe suggested that the birds were killed by wild animals and nothing suspicious was found from the spot. However, we are not taking chances, so the samples have been sent to Bhopal laboratory.” Sources said that the cranes fell while flying and were found dead in a farm in Dolasa. The state government has announced closure of four bird sanctuaries and bird sections of zoos across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/more-birds-die-in-saurashtra-kutch/articleshow/80202492.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Users mull switch to protect business, personal data||BHOPAL: Despite a clarification issued by messaging service WhatsApp, more and more people continue to be apprehensive about their privacy and are looking to move on to other platforms. From entrepreneurs, professionals, students, homemakers to the aam aadmi, everybody is discussing the issue of privacy. “Once I accept the new terms and conditions of the social media giant, what will happen to my data, bank details, personal or family information,” they said. Many government offices have started using WhatsApp for official works, including cops. Government personnel too are “scared” about the privacy issues. Association of All Industries of Mandideep is holding serious talks to consider switching to Telegram or Signal, the most popular options discussed so far on the chats. “Our WhatsApp group shares business information, exchanges ideas and pools our resources on a day to day basis,” said Rajeev Agrawal, president of the association, “We have started exploring the possibilities of other platforms and comparing policies, terms and conditions for safety and privacy.” To address the concern, WhatsApp has said: “Nothing you share on WhatsApp, including messages, photos, and account information, will be shared on to Facebook or any of our other family of apps for others to see, and nothing you post on those apps will be shared on WhatsApp for others to see.” However, many people have already migrated to other platforms. A Bhopal-based entrepreneur, Manish Mathur, said, “All my personal talks with my wife and family will be compromised. I will not want to have any of my personal information made available on public domains — ironically with my consent. I have therefore moved to Signal and Telegram.” Dr Anurag Benawri, an immunologist, said, “In digital era, when communications, both personal and business, media exchange and even financial transactions are done online, privacy has become a major concern. People are concerned that social platforms are increasingly collecting data from users to target advertisements. Our location, contacts, messages and even financial dealings are being monitored.” Sanjeev Agrawal, a New Market-based trader, expressed the same concern. Reena Pal, a homemaker, said, “Like others, we too are concerned about our privacy. In fact, we are more worried. What if our WhatsApp chats leak out?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/users-mull-switch-to-protect-business-personal-data/articleshow/80203207.cms||Deshdeep Saxena
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Brown dog, go home: Indians racially abused at SCG again||The issue of racism, simmering since the first day of the third Australia-India Test at Sydney Cricket Ground, boiled over on Sunday when Indian pacer Mohammad Siraj, abused constantly by a section of the crowd while fielding on the boundary line, went up and complained to his skipper Ajinkya Rahane and on-field umpires. Play was halted for 10 minutes before tea break, police called in and six people were ejected from the stadium. The six told Siraj and fellow pacer Jasprit Bumrah, “You brown dog, go home. We don’t like you”. The two had been called “monkeys, wanker and motherf*****” on Saturday following which Team India had lodged an official complaint with ICC, which is looking into the matter. On Sunday, Cricket Australia (CA) “unreservedly” apologised to the Indian team and launched a parallel probe with NSW police, promising to take the “strongest measures” against anyone found guilty of vilification. “These crowds have been free to come to the stadium and move around freely in Sydney, mouthing off. The Indian players have been subjected to all kinds of abuse at the same ground. The players are going through hell,” said a member of the Indian contingent. Cricket Australia (CA) “unreservedly” apologised to the Indian team. “As series hosts… we assure them (Indian players) we will prosecute the matter to its fullest extent,” CA head of security and integrity, Sean Carroll, said. India captain Virat Kohli, himself the victim of racial abuse on the boundary line in the past in Australia, tweeted: “Racial abuse is absolutely unacceptable. Having gone through many incidents of really pathetic things said on the boundary lines, this is the absolute peak of rowdy behaviour. It is sad to see this happen on the field. The incident needs to be looked at with absolute urgency and seriousness and strict action against offenders should set things straight for once.” An Indian team official said, “We will move on from this incident — like possibly many such incidents that former Indian teams or other sides from the subcontinent have been subjected to on tours over the years. Whatever this culture change that they (Aussies) harping about, fact it this (sort of abuse) comes naturally to them. “It just doesn’t end. At airports, while leaving the hotel, inside the stadium, on the streets — somewhere you’re going to get it. It’s nobody’s fault that some nameless, insensitive and vile human is going to let his or her tongue loose. But it’ll happen and there’s no running away from it. That’s a fact,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/brown-dog-go-home-indians-racially-abused-at-scg-again/articleshow/80205127.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Purnagiri Mela to be cut short by two months due to Covid-19||Pithoragarh: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Purnagiri Mela, held in Champawat, will be cut short by two months this year. The mela, which usually goes on for three months, will culminate in a month this time, said district officials. The decision came after a meeting between the district administration and the Purnagiri temple committee on Saturday. The mela, which usually attracts around three million pilgrims during its run, will commence from March 29, 2021, said officials. In 2020, the mela was cancelled after just seven days due to the outbreak of novel coronavirus. “For now, we have decided that mela will only be held for a month. However, if the pandemic situation gets better, we might extend the mela period later on. It has also been decided that only 8,000 pilgrims will be allowed from Kakrali Gate to Purnagiri temple. Besides, crowd management barriers will be put at several points to maintain distancing,” said Himanshu Kafaltiya, mela magistrate. The official added that all Covid-19 regulations, including wearing of masks and social distancing, will be strictly followed during the mela. “Every year, Indian pilgrims also go to the Nepal side of the Sharda river and devotees from Nepal come to the Purnagiri temple during the mela. However, due to the pandemic, it cannot be ascertained as yet whether border movements would be allowed or not. The Indian and Nepalese governments will take a call on this,” added Kafaltiya. Purnagiri is situated at a height of 5,000 feet from sea level. The famous mela attracts pilgrims from several other states, including Madhya Pradesh, Haryana, Rajasthan, and Himachal Pradesh, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/purnagiri-mela-to-be-cut-short-by-two-months-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/80202476.cms||Prem Punetha
January 11, 2021||Bhopal||Colleges across Madhya Pradesh to resume final year classes from today||BHOPAL: After opening practical classes for students, regular classes for undergraduate and post-graduate students will resume from Monday. As per the announcement made by the state higher education department, colleges in the state are being opened in a phase-wise manner. Colleges are expecting a good number of students. From January 1, this year, colleges were permitted to allow students from science streams to visit the campus at 50% of the total strength. Following this, from January 11, UG and PG final year classes will be resumed in colleges across the state. After reviewing the situation after the partial reopening of colleges, the state government will take a final decision to reopen colleges from January 20 for other classes. As part of the reopening process, the state government has instructed colleges to follow all COVID precautions and guidelines to ensure health, safety and well-being of the students and staff members. Higher education department officials said that the full compliance of the government guidelines issued to avoid corona will be ensured while operating the college. Officers in charge of teaching principal along with teaching work in government colleges will be freed from teaching work. In order to conduct examinations in universities and colleges, a fresh process will be set. A committee will be formed for this. This committee will decide the new procedure. Colleges said that students will attend the classes. “For lab studies, there might have been limited presence of the students. However, for academic studies, students will definitely attend the classes,” said the owner of a college, on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/colleges-across-state-to-resume-final-year-classes-from-today/articleshow/80203212.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad range IG dies after illness||Ahmedabad: K G Bhati, 57, a 1999-batch Gujarat cadre IPS officer posted as IG (inspector general) of Ahmedabad range, passed away on Sunday afternoon at a private hospital in the Sola area of city after a brief illness. “Bhati was admitted to the hospital after he complained of stomach ache and it was diagnosed that he had severe infection and swelling in pancreas and intestines. On Saturday night, his condition deteriorated and he suffered multiple organ failure during treatment of which he died of cardiac arrest on Sunday afternoon,” said Ahmedabad district superintendent of police, Virendra Yadav. He remembered Bhati as an officer with a jolly nature. “He was full of life and jolly in nature. An officer who never showed arrogance before his subordinates,” said Yadav. Yadav said that Bhati is survived by his wife and two sons — who are in the USA. “His last rites will be performed when his son arrives from the USA,” said Yadav. Bhati’s brother S G Bhati was also an IPS officer, who had retired in March 2018. Minister of state for home, Pradipsinh Jadeja and education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama went to the hospital to pay respect to the late IPS officer. DGP Ashish Bhatia, tweeted,“Sad to learn about the untimely demise of IGP Ahmedabad range K G Bhati, IPS. He was a competent, sincere and hard-working officer. May almighty God give strength to the family to bear this loss. Gujarat police stands by the family in this moment of sorrow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ahmedabad-range-ig-dies-after-illness/articleshow/80203210.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Calangute to resume stray cattle drive||Calangute: The village panchayats from Calangute constituency will soon restart the drive of rounding up stray cattle. The drive had to be stalled within four months of its launch in November 2019. The drive was launched in November 2019, but was stopped in February 2020, after the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services, which was to fund the exercise, did not release the payments due to a “technical issue”. Calangute panchayat member Shawn Martins told TOI the issue has now been resolved and the file has been approved. As the stray cattle cause traffic jams and other problems in the North Goa’s tourism hub, the village panchayats of Calangute, Candolim and Arpora-Nagoa had signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Mayem NGO Gomantak Goshala Mahasangh to house the stray cattle in their animal shelter after they were impounded by the panchayats. Since the signing of the MoU, around 300 cattle had been impounded and taken to the Mayem shelter. The NGO was to be paid by the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services to feed and care for the cattle. But the payments were not cleared because of a “technical issue” and the NGO had stopped taking more cattle in February. The coronavirus pandemic also later held up the matter. The cattle taken to the shelter were initially unable to eat the fodder provided as they had developed digestive problems because they would eat left-over mixed food waste from garbage bins in the coastal belt. This also lead to minister for ports and Calangute MLA Michael Lobo famously labelling them “non-vegetarian” cattle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-to-resume-stray-cattle-drive/articleshow/80204397.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Extortion racket run from Haridwar jail busted by STF, 2 jail officials suspended||Dehradun: A special task force (STF) team of Uttarakhand police on Sunday claimed to have busted an extortion racket being run from inside Roshnabad prison in Haridwar district. The STF arrested two accused and also found the involvement of two jail inmates in the racket. Activities of the gang came into notice when the wife of a prisoner filed a complaint with police that she has been receiving messages from a few inmates who have been demanding extortion from her to ensure safety of her husband inside the prison. “Acting on the complaint, a secret investigation was carried out by the STF. The probe revealed that two jail inmates were using mobile phones inside the prison,” said Ashok Kumar, DGP Uttarakhand. On January 10, Sahil Ali and Parvej Aalm, the two henchmen of the accused jail inmates were arrested by Haridwar police and the STF while they were pressuring the complainant to give them a gold chain worth Rs 1.50 lakh. Following their arrest, a team of STF raided Roshanabad jail and recovered two mobile phones, two SIM cards, and one phone charger from inside the prison. Taking cognisance of the case, inspector general (prison) suspended jail wardens Devraj Singh and Sunil Tomar. SSP Sethil Avodai Krishna Raj S said that a separate case has been also registered against Pehalwaan and his accomplices in SIDCUL police station and further investigation is underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/extortion-racket-run-from-haridwar-jail-busted-by-stf-2-jail-officials-suspended/articleshow/80202509.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Final Covid vaccine dry run to conducted across 310 centres in U’khand||Dehradun: The final dry run for Covid-19 vaccination will be directly monitored by a central government team via Covid-19 control room of the state headquarters in Dehradun, health officials said. They added that the health department has planned to conduct the final dry run at 310 centres across the state. Around 50 volunteers will be deployed at each centre. Talking about the preparations regarding the dry run, Dr Saroj Naithani, director of National Health Mission (NHM), said that the health department will shortlist 41 centres where the Covid-19 vaccine launch will take place. “The mock drill aims to prepare our staff, upgrade the state machinery, and improve the vaccine delivery infrastructure. We have set a target to vaccinate around 50-to-72 volunteers/healthcare workers at each centre for the final dry run,” added Dr Naithani. The volunteers will get an SMS regarding the vaccination, the location where they have to reach along with date and time. Their IDs will be checked at the entrance of the location and each of them will be vaccinated. Subsequently, they will be monitored for sometime. “The monitoring is necessary to ensure that they are not having any side effects of the vaccine. We will also try to create some emergency situations during the trial run which will be directly monitored by the Centre. This way, we will be able to gauge our preparedness to tackle adverse situations,” added Naithani. Meanwhile, 223 new Covid-19 infections were reported in Uttarakhand on Sunday, taking the case tally to 93,621. Also, five coronavirus-related deaths took place in the state on Sunday, taking the toll of the virus to 1,573. The total recoveries in the state reached 87,673 on Sunday with 303 more people recovering from Covid-19. With this, the recovery rate crossed the 93.6% mark. Among the fresh cases on Sunday, the maximum of 82 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 48 in Almora, 25 in Nainital, 23 in Haridwar, 20 in Udham Singh Nagar, nine in Pauri, five in Chamoli, four in Tehri, three in Pithoragarh, two in Bageshwar, and one each in Rudraprayag and Uttarkashi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/final-covid-vaccine-dry-run-to-conducted-across-310-centres-in-ukhand/articleshow/80202507.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||Fire triggers panic in Modasa hospital||Palanpur: At a time when fire in hospitals across Gujarat has come under scrutiny, a blast triggered by a short circuit spread panic among patients, their relatives and staffers at a private hospital in Modasa town of Aravalli district on Sunday afternoon.The blast at Krishna Healthcare Super Specialty Hospital, located on Modasa’s Meghraj road, was so strong that panic-stricken patients and even hospital staffers rushed out of the hospital building and gathered on the street mistaking it as some kind of terror attack.Sources said that the blast occurred following a short-circuit in a storage room in the basement of the hospital building.Fire brigade personnel rushed to the spot to douse the fire before it could spread and result in any severe damage. Although all the patients, their relatives and staffers escaped unhurt, smoke billowed out from the burning building.“Primarily, the blast has occurred in an electric meter situated in the basement. As patients and staffers noticed some fire and smoke emitted from the basement, they panicked and emptied the building,” said C P Vaghela, police inspector of Modasa town police station told TOI.A team from the Uttar Gujarat Vij Company Limited (UGVCL) also reached the spot. Currently, power supply of the hospital building has been disconnected. Sources said that UGVCL will re-start the power supply only after it gets necessary clearance from the fire department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/fire-triggers-panic-in-modasa-hospital/articleshow/80202511.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bhopal||Home dept issues guidelines to check avian flu spread in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Responding to the avian influenza outbreak in the state, Madhya Pradesh home department has issued guidelines to be followed — including culling of poultry animals — once infected areas are notified. The instructions that were issued on Sunday to all collectors and superintendents of police (SPs) of the state say. infection has been confirmed from birds recovered from several districts of the state, guidelines related to action plan for prevention, control and containment of avian influenza (revised 2021) of the Union government should be followed in the notified infected areas. A senior official of the home department however said, measures like culling will only be effective in the areas in which the infection has been notified. As per the guidelines, sale of poultry products will be banned in notified areas in addition to the transport of poultry in an out of the such areas. Steps should be taken for containment of the infection and cordoning off areas with the help of police officials, say the guidelines. Movement of stray birds around water resources should be prohibited, in addition to controlling the movement of vehicles near infected areas. Culling of birds should be done as per guidelines and the dead birds buried in 2x2x2 graves. It should be ensured that the place where the birds are buried is far away from the residential areas and water sources. Commercial poultry farms should be sanitised using flowing water, chemicals and suction machines. Appropriate sampling should be ensured in the districts for effective monitoring of the bird flu, say the guidelines. As per reports, avian influenza has been confirmed in 18 districts of the state, and as of now, 328 samples have been sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) for tests. The state government a few days back ordered closure of poultry shops in Neemuch and Indore for a week after the bird flu infection was found in some chickens there. The avian flu was first detected in samples of two out of 50 crows whose carcasses were found in Indore's Residency area on December 29, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/home-dept-issues-guidelines-to-check-avian-flu-spread-in-mp/articleshow/80203229.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu fear hits consumption of eggs, exports from Telangana||HYDERABAD: Avian influenza fear that has gripped several states in India has triggered a slump in exports of egg as well as its consumption in Hyderabad and elsewhere in the districts. Before bird flu started to spread the egg consumption in Telangana was around 1.8 crore eggs per day, but it is now down by 10 lakh eggs/day. In the city alone, there is a dent in egg consumption totalling about five lakh eggs per day. Overall production in state is about 3.5 crore eggs/day. “There is certainly a dip in the consumption, but our major worry is mainly the rumours hitting our exports. We ship nearly 1.5 to 1.7 crore eggs to other states, including eastern Uttar Pradesh and Maharashtra. Because of border restriction we are losing out on that,” Sanjay Chintavar, National Egg Coordination Committee (NECC) business manager, told TOI. “The state though is still doing better than others in terms of consumption and we are hopeful it will be back to normal soon,” he added. Eggs from Telangana is shipped to Mumbai, Vidarbha, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, and Rayalaseema districts in Andhra Pradesh. The Telangana government officials are also trying to allay fear among consumers as there are reports of 10% dip in daily consumption across the state. Strangely, the slump in demand has not led to price decrease in the open market and small retailers are reaping the benefits, said experts. Market trend shows that before bird flu hit the country, farmers used to get about Rs 5 per egg and consumers had to buy at Rs 6. Now farmers are getting Rs 3 to Rs 3.5 per egg, but the consumer is paying the same price. “The big traders don’t influence the rates, but small retailers from where the consumer gets the egg the prices have not changed. So, in a way, it’s not a good picture for both consumers and farmers. There is no need to panic, but the current scenario is being used by the small retailers to their advantage,” said Gurram Chandrasekhar Reddy, NECC regional coordinator and a poultry farm owner. Interestingly, there is not much decline in chicken consumption, but farmers again are getting a raw deal as they are paid only Rs 62 per live bird for a kg, unlike the usual rate of Rs 150. “This is the big worry in fact. The consumer may not have got price benefit of Rs 10 less per kg,” Sanjay added. “We have not come across any impact on the health of people who were eating eggs and chicken during the 26 times bird flu hit our country in last several years. You need to eat them after properly cooking and boiling,” an official from the animal husbandry department said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-fear-hits-consumption-of-eggs-exports-from-telangana/articleshow/80204389.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 11, 2021||Meerut||Power dept staff comes in contact with high-tension wire, rescued||MEERUT: In an incident captured on camera by bystanders, a contractual power department employee, who was painting an electric pole, was rescued after he came in contact with a high-tension wire. An order of power shutdown was given before he began to paint the pole, but due to the alleged negligence of the power department, he touched a live high-tension wire. He was rescued after he shouted for help. The video shows bystanders capturing the incident on camera as the victim, Vikram, hung from the pole upside down and unconscious. It was only after Vikram showed signs of life and shouted for help that the locals used a ladder and brought him down. Contractor Vikas Tomar said, “The negligence is on the part of the joint engineer. We had already told the joint engineer to switch off all power to the lines on the said day. While he switched off the 33KV line, power continued to run through the other 11KV line.” Electricity department executive engineer Gopal (who goes by his first name only) said, “We were only told to switch off the 33KV line, due to which the current continued in the 11KV line. There was a miscommunication which led to the incident.” The victim, Vikram, continues to be critical and under treatment as he suffered severe burns in his legs. No compensation has been announced by the administration so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/caught-on-cam-power-dept-staff-comes-in-contact-with-high-tension-wire-rescued/articleshow/80202526.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘All birds are to be culled if flu is detected in live market’||Ahmedabad: A day after bird flu was confirmed to have hit Gujarat, the government issued guidelines on how to curb the disease from spreading. The local administration has been tasked with forming teams that will carry out culling of birds as well as clean up and disinfect the infected areas. The state animal husbandry department said that avian influenza will be dealt with as per the Action Plan for Prevention Control and Containment of Avian Influenza. The implementation of contingency procedure will be coordinated by the District Collector or Deputy Commissioner, stated a letter issued by the department. The guidelines state that the local administration will be responsible for the establishment of Rapid Response Teams (RRT), which will handle operations like culling, disposal of birds, supervising and undertaking clean-up and disinfection of infected premises. Each RRT will have 4-5 members. The administration will have to get medical check-up of the staff done. The personnel coming in direct contact with the poultry will receive anti-viral drug under supervision. The department stated that in case of an outbreak in a live bird market, all the birds in the market will be culled and the market closed for 21 days from the date of issue of sanitization certificate. The department has stated that all persons exposed to infected chickens or to farms under suspicion should be closely monitored by local health authorities.The animal husbandry department has stated that the district administration will have to notify names of all villages and habitations within a 1-km radius from the infected site, and also those within 1-km to 10-km radius. The department has stated that the area within 1-km radius will be designated as ‘infected zone’ while the rest of the area within 1-10 km will be the ‘surveillance zone’. The local administration has been directed to put up signboards in local language in the infected zone. The surveillance zone should act as a buffer between the infected area and the disease-free area, stated the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/all-birds-are-to-be-culled-if-flu-is-detected-in-live-market/articleshow/80203215.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Woman vendor raped at railway yard, 2 held||CHENNAI: Two contract workers with the railways raped a 40-year-old woman vendor, who had fallen asleep on a suburban train, at the Tambaram yard in the wee hours of Saturday, police said. After a medical examination proved she was sexually assaulted, Suresh and Abdul Ajiz were arrested on Sunday before a court sent them to jail. The Government Railway Police (GRP) said the woman, a resident of a village near Chengalpet, sold fruits through the day on suburban trains and returned home late at night. On Friday night, after work, she boarded a train to Paranur at Pallavaram railway station. She fell asleep as the train neared Guduvanchery and missed alighting at Paranur. The train reached Chengalpet and returned to Tambaram railway station where it was taken to the yard for cleaning and other maintenance-related work, but no one noticed the woman sleeping in one of the coaches. Around 1am on Saturday, contract staffers Suresh, 31, of Madambakkam and Abdul Ajiz, 30, who came to clean the train, found her asleep and fell upon her. The woman woke up and tried to cry for help, but they managed to gag her and rape her, a GRP officer said. The two men allegedly warned the woman against informing anyone about the incident claiming that they could put her behind the bars on charges of stealing on railway property, he said. They also threatened they would ensure she would not be able to sell anything on trains. “The woman managed to come out of the place only after an hour,” he said. She had to walk to nearly 1km to reach the railway station where she lodged a complaint with the Tambaram railway police and also described the appearance of the accused. A team of officers immediately took her to the yard and conducted inquiries. They found that Suresh and Abdul Ajiz had been on duty at the time of the incident. The men who were brought for questioning initially denied the charge and passed the blame on the woman saying she had made the accusation after they caught her stealing in the railway yard. But, an examination by doctors at a government hospital proved that she was telling the truth, the officer said. The two men were booked under Section 376 (rape) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/woman-vendor-raped-at-rly-yard-2-held/articleshow/80203270.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Despite Covid impact, Raj expects tax mop-up to hit last year’s levels||Jaipur: Despite night curfews, lacklustre Diwali, fewer weddings and hobbled tourism and hospitality sector, Rajasthan has managed to achieve higher GST collections compared to national average.With one quarter left for the financial year to end, senior officials in the commercial tax department are optimistic of taking out the last year’s levels even though they have to continue to focus on higher compliance and plugging leakages. By the end of December, year to date collections from GST, VAT and cess are down by only 5% at Rs 26,721.58 crore, compared to Rs 28277.43 crore achieved in the same period of the previous financial year.Whereas, the national GST collections have fallen by over 14% during the April-December period. Against Rs 908,350 crore during April-December, 2019-20, this year collections have reached Rs 779,863 crore.Abhishek Bhagotia, commissioner, commercial tax, said, “The revenues were down by 35% in the first quarter and but the deficit has now shrunk to 5%. It required us to step up the compliance and plug the leakage. We need to continue on that path with same or more focus to eliminate the gap with last year’s collections.”However, the fourth quarter generally performs better so getting growth on a higher base will be a greater challenge and buoyancy in economy will also depend upon the successful implementation of the vaccination drive across the country in the coming months.Moreover, Rajasthan being a tourist destination was again hit by lower influx of tourists in the peak season further exacerbating sale of diesel and petrol which has come down after a revival in October.The tax department has been hot on heels of the GST defaulters and the fake bills issuers to check the tax evasion. That’s why, the compliance has risen to 84% in December compared to the national average of 78% in the same month.The official said a lot depends on the successful vaccination programme which could improve the sentiments and help in achieving break-even with last year’s collections which in itself could be a milestone given what the economy has gone through in 2020-21. After the economic recovery and the higher revenue collections in September and October, Rajasthan witnessed a spurt in coronavirus cases which led to night curfews. Not only petrol diesel sales were hit, but businesses and services sector also suffered. The restrictions hit Diwali sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/despite-covid-impact-raj-expects-tax-mop-up-to-hit-last-years-levels/articleshow/80203256.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 11, 2021||Meerut||Youth shot dead near police outpost, locals stage protest||Meerut: Deepak Prajapati (24), a youth hailing from Sardhana area in Meerut, was allegedly waylaid by bike-borne assailants and shot dead on Saturday night when he was returning home from a nearby gym. He was shot in the head from point blank range near a police outpost. The sensational murder in a busy area has sent shock waves across the region. An FIR under sections of murder was registered at Sardhana police station. However, police are yet to make any breakthrough in the case. Soon after the incident, a large number of people gathered at the spot. Some agitated residents got into a heated argument with senior police officers who also rushed to the spot. BJP MLA Sangeet Som also reached the spot in the night and tried to pacify the crowd, assuring people of strict and immediate action in the case. The agitation continued on Sunday morning as locals gathered again and staged a protest, refusing to cremate the body. It was only after hours persuasion and assurance by senior officials that the protest was called off and the body was finally cremated. Despite the mounting pressure to crack the case at the earliest, local police are groping in the dark. Senior officials claim the motive of the murder is yet to be ascertained and all angles are being probed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/youth-shot-dead-near-police-outpost-locals-stage-protest/articleshow/80202516.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||Two killed as bike hits electric pole||Vadodara: Two men died and another was severely injured as their bike rammed into an electric pole in Shehra taluka of Panchmahal on Saturday night. Police said that 23-year-old Pravin Bariya was returning to his home at Nada village along with his friends Suresh Bariya and Ashwin Bariya when they met with an accident at Gugaliya Patiya. The trio had gone for dinner at Pravin’s maternal uncle’s home. After completing the dinner, they left for home on Pravin’s bike. On the way, Pravin lost control over the bike and rammed into an electric pole. Pravin’s uncle Ratilal Pateliya told cops that Pravin had died on the spot, while Suresh and Ashwin were taken to health centre at Shehra. The doctor at the health centre declared Suresh dead before admission while Ashwin was referred to civil hospital in Godhra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-killed-as-bike-hits-electric-pole/articleshow/80202071.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Rajkot||16-year-old girl hangs self||Rajkot: A 16-year-old girl hanged herself at her residence in Ramnath Para area in the city on Saturday evening. According to the police, the deceased was identified as Arpita Taapn Bag, a native of West Bengal. Police said that Arpita hanged herself in the room at around 8 pm. She was studying in Class X. "Her parents quarreled over domestic issues at home on Saturday and Arpita ended her life. We are probing the case to know the exact reason behind her extreme step,'' police said. Arpita's father, Tapan Bag, works as a worker with a goldsmith in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/16-year-old-girl-hangs-self/articleshow/80202529.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Meerut||Deadline for Meerut smart tracks project pushed again||Meerut: The deadline of the automated driving tests plan in Meerut, on the lines of neighbouring Delhi, has been pushed from November 2020 now. Meerut was supposed to get “smart tracks”, also called automated tracks, by March 2020, on which licence-seekers’ driving skills will be put on test. However, the Covid-19 outbreak and a pause on all construction activities along with the closure of offices pushed the deadline from March to November. Despite the new November deadline, the automation work is yet to be completed and a firm for the purpose has to be hired. The new tracks to test driving skills will be in the shape of ‘8’ and cameras will record and feed every move to computers, which will then take a call if the driver is worthy of getting a licence to drive on road. The system is expected to weed out touts and curb corruption. “The driving track is ready and all the civil work is completed. However, the track has to be an automated one and for that technical help is required from an agency. The state government is set to hire an agency for the purpose and the process will be completed then,” said Meerut regional transport officer Vijay Kumar. According to the plan, the entire infrastructure to house the tracks and other systems was expected to be handed over to the authorities by March 2020. However, the construction work was stalled due to Covid-19 lockdown and the deadline was further pushed to November 2020. The project was launched in 2015 with a target budget of Rs 4.46 crore.Initially, plans were on to construct it in the RTO premises itself. However, later, a land in Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Meerut was finalized. “The work should be completed within three months latest, and then the driving tracks will be in place,” said Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/deadline-for-meerut-smart-tracks-project-pushed-again/articleshow/80202525.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 11, 2021||Meerut||2 women found dead under mysterious circumstances in separate incidents||Meerut: A 50-year-old woman was found dead at her residence in Meerut’s TP Nagar area on Sunday morning. Police were alerted after no activity in the house raised suspicion of the neighbour.The body of the deceased, Anita, was found inside the house with no visible injury marks except bruises on her face. Her husband, who claimed to be in Shamli district, was alerted about the incident.Later, the victim’s husband Sethpal was arrested on charges of murder following a complaint from the daughter of the deceased. According to police, the accused killed his wife following altercation over a property dispute."I wanted to sell the house but my wife was against it and raised objections to all decisions. I killed her following one such altercation on Saturday," Sethpal confessed.In another incident, a 27-year-old woman, Riya, was found hanging from the room of her rented accommodation in Shastri Nagar area.According to the family, Riya was married eight years ago to a man hailing from Modinagar. The couple separated later and since then Riya was living at a rented accommodation in Shastri Nagar.The landlady got suspicious after there was no activity at Riya's flat following which her family was alerted. She was found hanging from the ceiling after police broke into the house. The investigation is underway, the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-women-found-dead-under-mysterious-circumstances-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/80202496.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: With cases dipping, corona warriors get some family time||JAIPUR: With the number of Covid cases dipping, corona warriors in the state, especially doctors and paramedical staff, have got some time to get back to their families. Some of them had to postpone their weddings and honeymoon, while some could not attend the funeral of their kin while some others were unable to meet their newly born kids. However, in this month so far they are little relieved as the caseload on hospitals has eased. Dr Satish Mishra, a corona warrior posted at the chief medical and health officer, Jaipur, joined the duty leaving his pregnant wife Neha Mishra at home in March 2020. “My son was born on October 21, but I could only see him through video calls and pictures sent to me by my wife. I have, so far, visited my family once on November 19 at my native village near Chomu when there were some rituals to be performed. But now I have applied for leave and also to relieve me to my original posting at Chomu. Hopefully, by the end of this month, I would be able to get back to my home and meet him,” Mishra said. Mishra had been a frontline warrior while extensive contact tracing was on, especially at Ramganj and Aadarsh Nagar areas, in April. “Since then we have been living in a hotel. I now hope to take my son in my lap as things are improving,” he added. Hemant, personal assistant to Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal, SMS medical college, had to postpone his wedding twice before he finally got married on December 9 last year. “Even for marriage, I took just two days leave. Now, I have planned to go for honeymoon from January 27 to February 5. Hopefully, with dip in cases, I may get leave for honeymoon,” he added. Likewise, some of the doctors and paramedical staff could not give time to their families due to strict quarantine rules. “My wife has some orthopaedic problem, but I kept postponing a doctor’s appointment since April 2020. I took my wife to the hospital on Friday. It was actually tiresome and also since we are working at RUHS, we had to keep ourselves in isolation,” said Dr Shashi Kant, nursing superintendent, RUHS. Similarly, 25% staff from RUHS has been relieved and are allowed to go back to their original postings at satellite hospitals, primary health centres and community health centres. “We are relieving doctors and paramedical staff on first-come-first-serve basis. They have been working tirelessly with us for a long time. Many of them have applied for leaves from three days to seven days to spend some time with their families,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent, RUHS, a Covid-dedicated hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/with-cases-dipping-corona-warriors-get-some-family-time/articleshow/80203284.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Security for CM’s Bhandara visit stalls food delivery to patients||Bhandara: Having travelled 70km, Dharmendra Raut and his friend Nitesh Bharwe have been forced to wait further to deliver food to the former’s wife admitted to the District General Hospital. No time has been given to them as they endlessly wait outside the hospital gate around 12 noon. The duo had set off early morning from their village Dongri Mines to bring tiffin for Raut’s wife who underwent C-section on January 7. The chief minister’s visit later in the day has brought in heavy security and all entry points sealed at the hospital. Uddhav Thackeray would be meeting the parents of babies who died in Sick New Born Unit on Saturday. “We have been asked to wait till the CM leaves. This is first time we are facing this problem,” said Raut. Similar is the ordeal of Bhupesh Shinde, a resident of Mahalgoan in Sakoli, which is 60km from here. Shinde has been trying to get in from different gates but each time is not allowed to enter. Shinde’s wife delivered on December 31. Stressed due to the cops’ ruthless snub to his appeals, Shinde quietly stands near the roadside curiously watching the media persons capture VIPs. Deoram Meshram has been waiting since 10.30am. But, Ram Prasad Khandar, who lives in the city, has double trouble. My wife is with my daughter, who was operated for some illness. “I have brought the food for both but can’t hand it over to them. They are not allowing her to come outside also,” Khandar said. Even as TOI spotted several men and women waiting with tiffin in their hand outside, cops come charging to chase them further away from the gates. “They are using abusive language while VIPs and ministers are here. This doesn’t look good,” said a constable. Yet, the crowd further swells and more relatives gather with undelivered food in their hands while their patients and care takers remain hungry. “We hope the CM winds up his visit soon,,” said one of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/security-for-cms-bhandara-visit-stalls-food-delivery-to-patients/articleshow/80197214.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two held by SOG for robbing SUV at gunpoint in Ramol||Ahmedabad: Special Operations Group (SOG) of city police on Saturday held two persons, Suraj Gupta, 22, of Vastral and Prashant Chauhan, 22, also from Vastral for robbing an SUV from near Expressway Toll plaza in Ramol on January 7, 2021.Deputy commissioner of police, SOG, Mukesh Patel said both the accused have a long criminal record and are involved kidnapping, robbery, possession of illegal firearms, theft and other crimes. “They have also been detained under PASA in 2019 and even externed from the city before that,” added Patel. Assistant Commissioner of Police, SOG B C Solanki said that with the intention of robbing the car, the two had robbed the car at gun point from a senior citizen from near a hotel located near Express Way Toll Plaza in Ramol at gun point.“However, as the message of robbery was flashed across the city, barricades were laid at every nook and corner of the city. The duo realized they would get caught and abandoned the car at Amraiwadi and fled from there on a bike,” said Solanki.SOG sources said that they have recovered the bike, a country-made pistol and two live cartridges from the accused which were used to commit the robbery. Solanki added that they have handed over their custody to Ramol police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-by-sog-for-robbing-suv-at-gunpoint-in-ramol/articleshow/80203306.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Sonu Sood moves Bombay HC against lower court’s order||MUMBAI: Actor Sonu Sood filed an appeal in the Bombay high court against a city civil court order from last December which dismissed his challenge over a notice issued by the BMC. The BMC had, in October 2020, issued the actor a notice for the demolition of a residential building in Juhu after his alleged illegal structural changes. Sood’s appeal states that the city civil judge ought to have considered that the BMC had “issued the notice with malafide intention” and thus is a “nullity and malafide”. His appeal, which his counsel Amogh Singh is scheduled to argue on Monday for interim relief, states that he has not made any changes in the six-storey Shakti Sagar building that warrant permission from the BMC. — Swati Deshpande||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sood-moves-hc-against-lower-courts-order/articleshow/80204396.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||49% of aged got admitted to hospitals for treatment in govt hospitals in 2017-18: Survey||JAIPUR: Forty-nine per cent patients aged 60 years and above have received inpatient care in one year prior to survey in hospitals run by the government, while rest 51.1% got admitted to private hospitals for their treatment, shows the first part (2017-18) of the world’s largest study on the aged — the Longitudinal Aging Study in India (LASI) — released by the health ministry on Wednesday.The percentage of such patients who got treatment in government hospitals in northern India was highest in Jammu & Kashmir (86.3%), followed by Himachal Pradesh (69.3%) and Rajasthan (48.9%).Health department claimed that they were running free medicine and free diagnostic test schemes in government hospitals, which helped patients get treatment without spending much in government hospitals.More than 56% of the those who got admitted in government hospitals for treatment said the quality of care was good, 20.2% said it was average and 23.3% said the quality of the healthcare facilities was poor. The questions included waiting time, privacy, cleanliness, interpersonal communication and getting a healthcare of choice. Mean out-of-pocket expenditure (in Rs) of older adults (60 and above) on inpatient care (last hospitalisation) in one year prior to survey in the state was Rs 22,034 in private hospitals and Rs 9,053 in government hospitals. Treatment in Delhi’s government hospital was lowest at Rs 3,039 followed by Uttarakhand (Rs 4,845), Haryana (Rs 5,501), Rajasthan (Rs 9,053), Punjab (Rs 14,501), Chandigarh (Rs 29,683), J& K (Rs 32,666) and Himachal Pradesh (Rs 35,766). The report said per capita health expenditure had been increasing over time, which is associated with rising medical costs, medical technology, increase in non-communicable diseases, medical inflation, rising income and a change in the country’s population age structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/49-of-aged-got-admitted-to-hospitals-for-treatment-in-govt-hospitals-in-2017-18-survey/articleshow/80203275.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: 30 govt wings owe Hyderabad water board Rs 1,135 crore in dues||HYDERABAD: Days after the Telangana government announced free potable water supply for city consumers, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) said many of the possible beneficiaries are state and central government offices who owe them Rs 1,135 crore dues. Over nine lakh domestic consumers who use up to 20,000 kilo litres will get free potable water under the ‘free water supply scheme’ (FWSS). But nearly 30 government departments are giving water board sleepless nights for the past six years. “More than six years are over and if the dues were paid by the government departments, the Hyderabad Water Board could have easily built another new 100 storage reservoirs in and around the city or paid power dues of Rs 600 crore,” HMWS&SB chief general manager (revenue) M Amarender Reddy said. Now, water board officials say many among the defaulters are likely to apply for the free water supply scheme as they fall in the 20,000 KL bracket. According to official records on water dues, key departments including panchayat raj, Mission Bhagiratha, medical & health, higher education, school education, home department, transport and roads & buildings (T, R&B) are top defaulters. Worse, the AP State Legislative Assembly (staff and allied wings) shifted from Hyderabad to Amaravati in 2016, but an amount of Rs 62.84 lakh is showing in water board’s records as ‘due.’ “It has become an uphill task for the board to collect Rs 1,135 crore dues despite serving ‘red notices’ almost 10 times, urging them to clear dues,” said an official. HMWS&SB records say that Mission Bhagiratha has to pay Rs 393 crore still as dues. “As on today, there are no dues from our side. We have cleared all dues, but the water board might not have updated their records,” engineer-in-chief, Mission Bhagiratha, Krupakar Reddy told TOI. When TOI clarified with the water board, Amarender Reddy said, “The dues from Mission Bhagiratha are pending and we have proof.” The Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB), one of the major bulk consumers after South Central Railway (SCR) and Military Engineering Service (MAS) and Garrison and other central government agencies owe Rs 100 crore as dues. As per water board’s records, SCB has to pay Rs 12 crore towards dues. “We have utilised ‘One-Time Settlement’ (OTS) and paid Rs 8 crore out of Rs 12 crore dues and remaining will be paid soon,” said SCB water wing superintendent S Raj Kumar. “The water board is financially weak, but we have been providing uninterrupted potable water to the nearly 30 government departments on alternate days on par with domestic consumers,” added a water board official. The Water Board spends Rs 40 per kilolitre for drawing, pumping and purifying water and supplying at subsidised tariff to consumers. Some government departments have paid nearly Rs 70 to 100 crore. “They paid freshwater dues, which they were supposed to pay for one year, but the old dues are yet to be paid,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/30-govt-wings-owe-hyderabad-water-board-rs-1135-crore-in-dues/articleshow/80204395.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘This Uttarayan, be careful while handling injured birds’||AHMEDABAD: Annually, NGOs and volunteers across Gujarat handle thousands of injured and dead birds on January 14 and after. But this year, with H1N1 cases reported in Gujarat and other parts of India, the experts stressed on being vigilant. “The handling must be very careful – people must wear mask and gloves and not let their guards down,” said Dr Pradeep Kumar, additional dean and professor of community medicine at Dr MK Shah Medical College in Ahmedabad. He was speaking at an interactive session on bird flu organized by IIPH Gandhinagar (IIPH-G) on Sunday. Dr Kumar was posted in south Gujarat during the 2006 outbreak of bird flu. He shared his experience and learnings. “Human-to-human transmission in bird flu is rare. It’s mostly reported in those who have come in direct contact of the infected birds. It’s a good sign. But on the flip side, it has much higher mortality rate than Covid-19 at about 50 to 55%,” he said. “Vigilance must be set up in remote areas. We had carried out extensive survey during 2006 where we would approach the local population to assess the impact and create awareness.” Dr Kumar said that if cooked properly (above 70 degrees celsius), chicken doesn’t pose risk of spreading the infection. Even while handling raw chicken at home, proper handwash and proper cooking can reduce the risk, he said. He stressed on coordination between various departments for containment of viral spread, quick identification and culling of infected birds. He also advocated setting up virology labs in Gujarat so as to reduce dependence on Pune and Bhopal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/this-uttarayan-be-careful-while-handling-injured-birds/articleshow/80203278.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Over 29k health workers in city to get vaccine shots||Chandigarh: There are 29,652 health and frontline workers, whose data has been sent to the Union ministry of health and family welfare from the city till date. These include 11,500 health workers from the PGI, while the remaining 9,165 are health care workers from the UT health department and private hospitals and clinics. The PGI has also demarcated four sites within the institute for its health care workers, where priority will be given to those, who were posted in the sensitive areas of Covid-19 care. The four sites are at Advanced Paediatric Centre, Covid-19 hospital, lecture theatre complex at Nehru hospital and staff clinic at the new OPD block. “The vaccine is not mandatory. So those who do not wish to be inoculated can skip coming to the centre even after getting SMS or they can refuse even after coming to these sites,” said a faculty at the PGI. He said, “We have to decide timings for January 16, but we are prepared for the massive immunisation.” The city will get 21,000 Covishield vaccines for priority group. With 20,665 health workers, who are first in the priority group, the second priority group would need another lot of boxes of vials for the frontline workers as the supply would soon run out. “In case there is full strength of registered health workers, more vaccines would be soon required to meet the supply for frontline workers. Also, this will be the first shot as the health workers will be called again after 28 days for completion of the immunisation,” said an official at the UT health department. Sources said the PGI will get its supply not from the city’s quota of the Covishield. “We are not counted as a part of the state’s demand for the vaccine as we are an institute of national importance. So we will be getting our separate quota of the Covid-19 vaccines,” said an official at the PGI. However, it is still to be seen as to how many health workers actually come for the immunisation as most are not satisfied with the clinical data reports on the Covid-19 vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/over-29k-health-workers-in-city-to-get-vaccine-shots/articleshow/80202566.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Project to get treated waste water in taps back in pipeline||NEW DELHI: The project to reuse highly treated waste water to augment Delhi’s water supply is back on track as the Upper Yamuna River Board (UYRB) cleared it after discussing it for over two years. A Delhi Jal Board official said that the board has given the first-ever project-of-its-kind in India in-principle approval. “It took us a lot of efforts to convince UYRB about the significance of the project. Haryana still has objections, but it is our internal project and that state has no relevance because DJB will release treated water and relift it within Delhi’s own jurisdiction,” the official said. In July 2018, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who was then the DJB chairman, had announced that with Singapore’s NEWater as the model, treated sewage water from the Coronation Pillar Water Treatment Plant would be taken to Palla and dumped into the Yamuna. The diluted water would be then be lifted again 11km downstream in Wazirabad and re-used to augment the tap water supply. Haryana had objected to the use of treated water for consumption on grounds of social acceptability. While giving the green signal, UYRB has made the norms for treated water more stringent. During last month’s meeting of the board, it said: “Instead of biological oxygen demand to total suspended solids ratio of 10:10, the treated water from Coronation Pillar plant will be further purified with the use of advanced technology of microfiltration to 3:3 levels, which is Class C level for clean inland surface water level.” UYRB has also mandated that DJB can re-lift only 80% of the treated waste water released into river Yamuna at Palla, the remaining 20% should left in the river, both upstream and downstream of Wazirabad, for ecological purposes. To placate Haryana’s concerns about the project affecting water sharing between the states, DJB plans to install flow meters at Palla, and the intake point and each and every drop will be accounted for. Upper Yamuna River Board is the statutory body to resolve disputes between the basin states of Yamuna and regulates the allocation of available water flow among the beneficiary states. In announcing the use of treated waste water in 2018, Kejriwal had said that 15-20% of overall supply would be augmented in two years, before expanding to 50% over the following five years by upgradation of other water treatment plants. DJB is building Asia’s largest sewage treatment plant at Coronation Park to produce high quality treated water with BOD and TSS levels of 10 and 10. “The national norm for treated effluent dumped in rivers is 20:20. We will now further improve the water quality 3:3 level,” the DJB official claimed The augmentation timeline has to be reworked, however. The plan in 2018 was for DJB to add 70MGD from Coronation Park in the first phase to the available total water supply capacity of 930 million gallons per day. And then 40MGD from Rithala by December 2019 and another 40MGD by June 2020. “It may now take up to two years to set up the pumping infrastructure and pipelines to take water upstream to Palla,” admitted the official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/project-to-get-treated-waste-water-in-taps-back-in-pipeline/articleshow/80203307.cms||Paras Singh
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Saptak stars miss Ahmedabad audience||Ahmedabad: Heraclitus, a Greek philosopher, said that when you step into a river, the waters flowing across your feet may seem the same, but the force that washes your experience becomes a fugitive every second. The unstoppable flux applies to any raga. Malkauns essayed by the same musician can change with every rendition — while the structure is fixed, the flow of mood, insight, and contemplation give the raga the Heraclitean inexorability of newness. Therefore, when e-Saptak on Sunday replayed Pandit Hariprasad Chaurasia’s Jhinjoti classic from 2004, it seemed the river of Heraclitus had been frozen to preserve a masterwork. Jhinjoti will be familiar to millions of Mohammed Rafi devotees; his imperishable 1970 hit “Tum mujhe yun bhula na paoge” is based on that raga. Jhinjoti’s melancholy is not hapless. It shows we covet vulnerabilities to relish the full spectrum of passions that make us human. And Pandit Chaurasia’s flute relayed the wisps of wistfulness which should make us grateful that we have art to bind us in this era of isolation. Sunday’s other highlight was Kaushiki Chakraborty’s recital. You know Chakraborty is performing at Saptak when legions of young people sit in the front of the stage cross-legged, as though they are taking part in a landmark cultural ritual. They will be able to boast decades later that they have seen Mona Lisa at the Louvre; watched “Hamlet” in London; and heard Chakraborty in Ahmedabad. If for aspiring rasikas Chakraborty is a rock star, for purists she is already the rock on which the Hindustani tradition stands to illuminate the future. Her stature is built on her ability to contain her prodigious verve within the classical legacy’s stipulations. For example, when she hits the high notes, rasikas can sense fate flying to meet the most impossible longings — the flights are not only daring but also decorous. On Sunday, Chakraborty chose Bhimpalasi as one of the items of presentation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/saptak-stars-miss-ahmedabad-audience/articleshow/80203323.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 11, 2021||Meerut||Monkey menace: 70 caught, Bijnor locals breathe a sigh of relief||Bijnor: Locals of Dhampur town breathed a sigh of relief after a team from Mathura caught 70 monkeys which have been attacking women and kids. The team was called from Mathura after the simians attacked at least 12 people in Bijnor. According to palika chairman Raju Gupta, there are many monkeys in Dhampur town which have been attacking women and kids. More than 12 people were hurt in the attack by monkeys. Locals have been demanding that monkeys be caught and released in the forest areas. “We have hired a Mathura-based team of 12 members. The team has set up cages on terrace of many houses. Around 70 monkeys were caught on Sunday. They are to be released in the forest area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/monkey-menace-70-caught-bijnor-locals-breathe-a-sigh-of-relief/articleshow/80202533.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 11, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Clerk’s assets swell 560% in 7 years, booked||CHENNAI: In what it sees as a clear indication of corruption at taluk offices, the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has discovered that a record clerk in a tahsildar’s officer has had his wealth increase five-fold in seven years. He was booked for holding disproportionate assests earlier this week. The DVAC said the accused, M Sivakumar, was working as a record clerk in the office of Shollinganallur taluk tahsildar. He was first recruited as a night watchman in the office of Tambaram tahsildar in July 2000 and elevated to the rank of record clerk nine years later. The agency kept the check period for calculating the growth of his assets as January 2012 to January 2020, when the accused held the post of a record clerk in the election section of Greater Chennai Corporation. “This is the period when he accumulated maximum assets,” the agency said in a release. As per calculations by the agency, assets in Sivakumar and his wife’s names in January 2012 were worth Rs 20.4 lakh. By December 31, 2019, value of the assets the two held boomed to Rs 1.3 crore. Sivakumar’s legal income during the period was Rs 18.2 lakh. The couple had incurred an expenditure of Rs 6 lakh. Therefore, the assets acquired by the couple during the period were worth Rs 1.1 crore. Likely savings was calculated as Rs 12.2 lakh. As per DVAC’s calculations, this means that assets were disproportionate to the tune of Rs 1.02 crore, 561.2% times his income. The agency added that Sivakumar had purchased properties in his wife’s name as she had insufficient means to purchase them herself. The DVAC booked a case against Sivakumar under section 13(1)(b) of the Prevention of Corruption Act. In the past few months, the agency has conducted several surprise checks at registration and taluk offices and uncovered thousands of rupees of bribe money and a network of agents at play.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/clerks-assets-swell-560-in-7-years-booked/articleshow/80203309.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Govt’s ‘E-Kaksha’ initiative reaches out to students||Jaipur: For the last four months, school students in rural areas of the state are getting the benefit of recorded content uploaded on social media.This has been made possible by the Rajasthan government’s initiative called E-Kaksha under which recorded school content is uploaded on YouTube which is helping students learn.Due to the pandemic, classroom teaching was put on halt and students were finding it difficult to learn from online classes due to connectivity issues. Hence, the Directorate of Education, Bikaner, along with Mission Gyan, a private organisation, started this initiative in which government teachers record videos and upload them online.Sourabh Swami, director of secondary education, Rajasthan, said, “It was considered to be a need of the hour to create a platform where students can grasp knowledge without any classroom teaching. This turned out to be a success as unlike private schools, most of the government school students did not have gadgets all the time. Hence, with recorded videos, they can watch videos at will.”At present, around 40 government teachers who were shortlisted in an interview process are creating videos at the office of Mission Gyan in Jaipur.A government teacher Ritu Chaudhary said the videos are gaining popularity on social media looking at which many government teachers are coming forward to be a part of this initiative as well.Santosh Kumar, a government teacher involved in the project, said, “It is a difficult task. We have to give the organisation handwritten notes, which are then proofread and converted into power point slides. These slides are then displayed in the background on a digital board where we record videos. The videos are then edited and uploaded on YouTube for the students.”At present, chapter-wise content is being created for Classes VI to XII for Hindi medium. According to Jinendra Soni, director of Mission Gyan, they have contracted to develop content for Classes I to XII. “As Hindi medium students are more in numbers, we are focusing on them first. But we will create English content as well. We have started creating content in Gujarati, Urdu, Sindhi and Punjabi languages too. We have plans to extend it to students with disability as well,” Soni said.Queries are answered in the comments section of YouTube. Very soon, the government is planning to have live classes from the studio as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govts-e-kaksha-initiative-reaches-out-to-students/articleshow/80203298.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Mohali’s positivity rate highest in Punjab||MOHALI: The Mohali district has the highest positivity rate of 12% in the state of Punjab, which is 10 times more than the percentage of the state, but is placed 9th in the state for test per million (TPM). Punjab’s positivity rate under all testing was at 1.1% on January 9, which was 1.5% on December 31. This trend has decreased in January by 0.4%, which as compared to the national rate is quite less. National positivity rate of 5.5% is much lesser than the Mohali district, but Punjab is lesser at 1.1%. “The cumulative state of Covid-19 positivity rate stands at 1.1 % as on date, less than the 7% mark, while the daily positivity rate is just 1.2 %. Higher volumes of testing leads to low positivity rate,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The tests per million (TPM) figure of Mohali 1,56,484 in the state, whereas the state’s figures are 1,35,213, which is 11th in the country. Kapurthala tops the list at 2,20,915 TPM, followed by Jalandhar at 2,18,355, SBS Nagar at 1,88,385, Pathankot at 1,82,223, Gurdaspur at 1,79,166, Ropar at 1,76,423, Ludhiana at 1,73,092 and Hoshiarpur at 1,62,451. Mohali has 933 active cases, of which, 432 are under home isolation and the district has seen a total of 18,740 positive cases so far. Of these, 17,456 have recovered and 933 cases are still active. The total deaths in the district are 351.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mohalis-positivity-rate-highest-in-pb/articleshow/80202559.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 11, 2021||India||Gas activists request PM to stop vaccine trials in Bhopal||BHOPAL: Organisations working with Bhopal gas disaster victims on Sunday urged PM Modi to stop the clinical trial of Covaxin in Bhopal, alleging irregularities in process and protocol. The activists have written to the PM and Union health minister and marked copies to at least 20 government officials, demanding punishment for those who allegedly “neglected the safety and well-being of vaccine trial participants”. They also demand to know why India’s drugs regulator approved emergency-use authorisation of Covaxin “almost a fortnight after a volunteer died in Bhopal”. The volunteer, Pradeep Marawi, died on December 21, nine days after taking the first dose in phase-3 of the Covaxin trial at People’s Medical College. The preliminary autopsy report suspected poisoning, and Bharat Biotech, the vaccine maker, has said the death is “unrelated to the trial dosing”. TOI contacted Bharat Biotech for its reaction but got no response. “There are several factors that can cause an adverse event during a clinical trial, including the patient’s underlying disease, other pre-existing conditions or any other unrelated occurrence like an accident. This SAE has been thoroughly investigated and has been found not related to vaccine or placebo,” the company had said on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gas-activists-request-pm-to-stop-vaccine-trials-in-bhopal/articleshow/80205448.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Third party will verify land allotments at concessional rates||Jaipur: To verify the concessional rate land allotment survey report submitted by local bodies, the urban development and housing (UDH) department has decided to conduct a third-party inspection. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal. Out of 1,920 land allotments made at concessional rates, 1,467 have been done by the development authorities and Urban Improvement Trusts (UIT). Similarly, municipal corporations and municipalities have allotted 463 plots at concessional rates. An UDH official said, “After carrying out physical inspection, the local bodies have sent detailed reports. Now, for cross examination, a third-party inspection would be carried out. Many retired officials will be given the job.”In the past, the department received several complaints that many institutes were using the land for commercial purposes and had rented out the place violating norms.The state plans to take action against such institutes after examining the details. Officials claimed that many private hospitals, which are beneficiaries of concessional land, have failed to abide by the terms and conditions of providing free medication to 25% patients from Below Poverty Line (BPL) category.“As per a mandatory provision, private hospitals, which have been allotted land at concessional rates, have to provide free medication to 25% BPL patients. Moreover, it is compulsory to fix an hour and provide free medical check-ups to poor patients at the outpatient department (OPD). Similarly, 10% of beds should be reserved for the poor. However, majority of the hospitals have failed to fulfil the terms and conditions. The issue was also raised in the state assembly when the Congress was in opposition, an official said. Similarly,some educational institutes are not adhering to the norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/third-party-will-verify-land-allotments-at-concessional-rates/articleshow/80203317.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||UT gets Rs 5cr for improving air quality||Chandigarh: In a significant boost to improve the air quality of the city, the ministry of environment and forest of the central government has selected Chandigarh and will give Rs 5-crore financial aid to take all the required measures to improve air quality and environment of the city. The money will be given under the ministry’s national scheme of “National Clean Air Programme”, where the ministry gives money to the cities as per their plans related to the subject. Since the said financial aid has been approved for the ongoing current financial year 2020-2021 for Chandigarh, the department of environment of the UT administration is likely to receive the amount this month only. Moreover, the environment department has also collaborated with other departments of the UT too to take the required measures in this regard. Significantly, since the Chandigarh administration has already prepared its five-year action plan regarding improvement of air quality and environment of the city, the money will be spent as per the plan so that its impact can be assessed in the longer run. Moreover, various steps have also been taken in the recent past also like installation of air quality monitoring machines, purchasing mechanical sweeping machines, sprinklers etc. The plan for an air purifier for the city is also on the cards. “Since the progress report and utilisation of funds is the key in this entire exercise, we have to submit the utilisation report to the ministry of the central government. Based on the report, we will become eligible to get more such grants in the future. Therefore, we have already some plans in mind,” said sources. As per information, the Government of India from time-to-time monitors the exercise and initiative of various cities of the country. Based on that, the government gives finances to the cities for improving air quality. Debendra Dalai, director of the UT’s environment department, said, “We are hopeful to get the money from the ministry this month. We have plans for useful expenditure for the financial aid and work will be done accordingly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-gets-rs-5cr-for-improving-air-quality/articleshow/80202573.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||JDA plans market after razing MLA flats in Jalupura||Jaipur: After taking possession of MLA bungalows in Jalupura, the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) plans to develop a market area adjoining MI Road.The revenue earned after selling the market space will be utilised for the construction of multi-storey MLA apartments in Jyoti Nagar.In a see-saw decision, the state government has once again provided powers to the Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) to auction and develop the land acclaimed after demolishing bungalows of MLAs. Earlier, the task was provided to the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB).Jaipur Development Commissioner (JDC) Gaurav Goyal said, “After the state government’s examination, it was decided that land under JDA’s ownership will be sold and developed by the authority. The revenue earned will be provided to the RHB for construction of MLA apartments. Suggestions have been sought to develop an attractive tourist market in the Jalupura area,” he said.An official at RHB said as per the proposal, there are 24,810 square metre land of MLA quarters in Jalupura which will not be auctioned by the JDA. The RHB has proposed to construct an eight-storey building in the periphery of legislative assembly to accommodate160 MLAs. Considering the project as a special case, the 28-metre building height has been proposed against the 15-metre mentioned in the building bylaws.Although, the design has received in-principal approval, the final nod to provide relaxation in the bylaws will be received by the urban development and housing minister Shanti Dhariwal as for the assembly’s structural dominance, in the 100-metre periphery, the height of the buildings is restricted up to 15 metre. After the work was awarded to RHB, a design of the apartments has been prepared. The flat would measure 3,200 square feet and comprise of four bedrooms, one drawing room, a kitchen and one room for domestic help. As per the previous design, the JDA has proposed 176 flats. However, the idea did not go well with the committee which is overseeing the project as the open area was less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jda-plans-market-after-razing-mla-flats-in-jalupura/articleshow/80203331.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Chennai||600kg of leftovers from Chennai eateries fed over 1,500 in December||CHENNAI: About 600kg of leftovers from eateries in the city, which would otherwise be discarded, found its way to the poor and homeless in December. As part of efforts to tackle food waste and hunger in one go, ‘Eat Right Chennai’ initiative, part of a nation-wide campaign by the food safety department, was launched in the city on December 9, 2020. Under the initiative, NGOs with tie-ups with the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) under the Indian Food Sharing Alliance (IFSA) collect excess food from hotels and restaurants and distribute them in ‘hunger spots’ in the heart of the city.  Two NGOs have been engaged by the department to collect food that is left unconsumed in 30 select hotels and restaurants everyday. The Chennai chapter of No Food Waste, one of the NGOs, collected more than 500kg of food in the 21 days up to December 31. Around 1,500 people were fed with the food, with each individual receiving approximately 350 grams of food. The other 100kg was collected and redistributed by FOOD BANK-India, according to sources with the food safety department. Dr A Ramakrishnan, officer designated to handle the programme here, said the eateries were limited to 30 for a pilot run. The NGOs involved have strict rules to comply with, he said. “Those collecting the food from the hotels and restaurants have to ensure that the dishes are at specified temperatures and must handover the food to people in sealed packets. They must also record all the details and send it to us on a monthly basis,” he said. The number of serving hotels and restaurants under the network would be increased to 100 by March, he added. Explaining how it works, R Arun Kumar, director of No Food Waste, Chennai Chapter, said food is collected in the evening and distributed in hunger hotspots including Koyambedu, Central, Marina and other areas with slum settlements. “More eateries should join the initiative,” he said. The NGO, which has been redistributing food this way for years, said the quantity of leftovers and calls for food pickups have reduced due to the pandemic. “There weren’t many lavish weddings, business meetings were held online and people mostly worked from homes, leaving little business for hotels. We used to collect 1.5 tonnes of food daily before the pandemic, now it is barely one-third of it,” he added. There is no existing study or survey on food that goes to waste in Chennai. But rough estimates of Greater Chennai Corporation from pre-Covid times say about 25 tonnes of total solid waste generated in Chennai everyday is cooked food. “It has reduced to less than 1 tonne a day due to closed establishements,” an official with the solid waste management wing of GCC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/600kg-of-leftovers-from-eateries-fed-over-1500-in-dec/articleshow/80203333.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 11, 2021||Chandigarh||Youngest Covid death still a ‘mystery’ for PGI as no info on source of infection||CHANDIGARH: The PGI has documented the rare case of the youngest Covid-19 death of a three-day-old baby from Dadumajra, who died on May 24, as her had parents and relatives tested negative of the virus. However, there is no certainty about her source of infection still. Even while the PGI doctors believe that the newborn had Covid-19, the source of infection might have been her mother, where there is a possibility that she could have turned negative after a week or some health worker might have passed on the infection. The baby was delivered at the Sector 22 civil hospital and her death due to Covid-19 was unacceptable by the PGI doctors as such infection was rare in a newborn. The publication mentioned that a 38-week, 3 kg female neonate was delivered by elective cesarean section. The mother was not tested for Covid-19 before delivery. On the second day of the delivery, the baby developed jaundice, while the next day she had a sudden onset of cough after the feed and developed apnea (cessation of breathing). She could not be resuscitated and declared dead at 78 hours of life. She was found positive for Covid-19 after death using the RT-PCR test. Moreover, her parents, relatives and even the health care workers tested negative for the virus. The case report mentioned that the source of infection in this case could not be traced. However, some visitors and asymptomatic health care workers may not have been tested. The report did not rule out transmission from the mother as she was tested after eight days of delivery and might have turned negative by this time. There has been medical literature and reviews which have found that in neonates, the rate of infection is as low as 2.7% and 3.6% and are mostly asymptomatic. The medical publication also highlighted that the possibility of a false positive report was very unlikely as there were severe respiratory symptoms and RT-PCR is highly specific with false positivity rate of 3%. The case report has been published in the Indian journal of paediatrics by Drs Kanya Mukhopadhyay, Ashish Agarwal, Veena Laxmi,Gursimran Kaur Mohi, and Lakshmi PVM from the department of Pediatrics, department of Virology and the department of Community Medicine and School of Public Health, PGIMER.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/youngest-covid-death-still-a-mystery-for-pgi-as-no-info-on-source-of-infection/articleshow/80202569.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 11, 2021||Meerut||UP ramps up efforts to curb outbreak of bird flu||BAREILLY/PILIBHIT/MEERUT/BIJNOR: Crows and domesticated birds continued to succumb to the suspected avian influenza in Uttar Pradesh on Sunday and the officials of the forest department were put on high alert. Presence of lakhs of seasonal migratory birds in the scores of wetlands of the state has also led to “increased concerns”, officials said. In Himachal Pradesh, over 3,000 migratory birds have died so far. UP became the seventh state of the country to confirm the presence of avian flu in dead birds on Saturday, after two fowls which died in Kanpur zoo, were tested positive for it in a Bhopal lab. Dudhwa National Park, the house to over 400 species of birds, was also put under observation. The forest department workers have been told to immediately report the death of birds. Apart from the permanent residents, there are thousands of migratory birds which are now camping in the reserve’s wetlands. Officials at Pilibhit Tiger Reserve were also told to keep a close eye on the death of birds. “Forest staff has been issued directions to report the death of any bird without delay,” said Naveen Khandelwal, deputy director of PTR. In UP’s Bijnor district, several crows were found dead on roads and rooftops. Authorities said that a total of 14 crows have died in the last two days. Chief veterinary officer of Bijnor, Bhupendra Singh, said, “All veterinary officers and other staff have been put on alert. A task force has been formed which is monitoring all poultry farms. Samples of dead crows have also been sent to IVRI Bareilly for testing.” The officials are also concerned because several rivers, including Ganga and its tributaries, pass through Bijnor and their banks are home to thousands of migratory birds these days. In Pilibhit district, as many as 20 hens and a duck died in the last four days. Chief veterinary officer (CVO) Dr Akhilesh Kumar Garg, along with his team, rushed to the spot and collected the samples for test. In Meerut, rapid response teams have been formed to keep an eye on poultry farms. A control room has also been set up and a helpline number was issued to ensure that any untoward incident or questions related to bird flu can be reported. It all comes against the backdrop of two confirmed cases of avian flu of Kanpur zoo. Kanpur’s chief veterinary officer Dr RP Mishra said, “We found two red jungle fowls and sent their samples to ICAR National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD) Bhopal on January 6. The institute confirmed avian influenza on January 9.” Joint secretary of the Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Upamanyu Basu, has instructed the officials to strengthen surveillance in zoological parks and in water bodies. “There is an urgent need for taking all possible measures,” he has said. (With inputs from Harveer Dabas, Kehsav Agarwal, Ishita Bhatia, Kanwardeep Singh)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-ramps-up-efforts-to-check-outbreak-of-avian-flu-migratory-birds-a-cause-of-concern/articleshow/80202536.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Health officials to interact with school staff on Covid guidelines and SOPs||JAIPUR: As schools are set to reopen from January 18, the health department is taking measures to prevent spread of Covid by generating awareness among education department officials, teachers and schools. The health department has issued directions to all chief medical health officers across the state to hold meetings with teachers and create awareness on how to prevent the spread of the virus when schools for classes 9 to 12 reopen. The education department has already issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) for reopening of the schools. The SOPs include sanitisation of school, furniture, equipment, toilets, stores, water tanks, kitchen, labs and other parts of the school premises, continuous availability of sanitiser and water for washing hands. Also, availability of foot-operated sanitiser stand has been sought. Teachers have been asked to remain inside the room where students have lunch. A senior health department official said cases have gone down over the past month. Measures are being taken to ensure that schools reopen and all the SOPs are followed to create an infection-free environment. A detailed SOPs has already been issued by the state government for reopening of schools and the health department officials will now interact with teachers and school staff to ensure that SOPs are followed effectively. In the last three days, seven persons have died of Covid, including three on Sunday. Besides, 475 others tested positive taking the overall tally to 3,12,996. The state’s death toll stands at 2,734. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (89), Jaipur (81), Jodhpur (37), Udaipur (36), Ajmer (26), Bhilwara (26), Rajsamand (21), Alwar (21), Nagaur (17), Pali (17), Sriganganagar (16), Jhalawar (16), Chittorgarh (10), Dungarpur (9), Bharatpur (9), Sikar (8), Sirohi (6), Bundi (5), Jaisalmer (4), Barmer (3), Tonk (3), Baran (2), Dholpur (2), Karauli (2), Bikaner (2), Banswara (1), Churu (1), Dausa (1), Hanumangarh (1), Jalore (1), Jhunjhunu (1) and Pratapgarh (1). Jaipur reported its 509th Covid-19 death, Jodhpur 296th and Ajmer reported its 221st Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-officials-to-interact-with-school-staff-on-covid-guidelines-and-sops/articleshow/80203338.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Locals to block supply of food & ration for protesting farmers||Alwar/Jaipur: The residents of 35 villages from both sides of the border (Rajasthan and Haryana), during a mahapanchayat on Sunday, decided to block the supply of ration, food items, blankets and mattresses for the protesting farmers at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border. They also decided to block all the roads leading to the protest site in Shahjahanpur. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up on both sides due to the growing tension at the border. The locals and shopkeepers on Saturday met farmer leader Ram Pal Jat at Shahjahanpur and aired their grievances about the losses they incurred in their businesses due to the blockade on Delhi-Jaipur National highway. The shops, hotels and petrol pumps in the nearby areas and on the highway were shut and there were hardly any business transactions, they had complained. The locals took a decision to organise chaupals in the villages at night and mobilise the villagers to be united against the protesting farmers. The villagers on Sunday stopped an auto which was bringing blankets and mattresses for the protesters from Haryana and damaged all the items. Meanwhile, farmer leader Rajaram Meel issued a direction to prevent outsiders from entering the protest site and said “Aadhar cards and ID cards are required to be checked of those who are coming from outside”. Earlier in the day, panchayat leaders of 35 villages in Haryana and Rajasthan organised a mahapanchayat at a petrol pump near Shahjahanpur border. They demanded that the highway should be cleared and appealed to the farmer leaders to either end their agitation or move to a different location. They also said they would be compelled to evacuate the protesters forcibly if they didn’t concede to their demands. A meeting was also held between the representatives of the farmers and the locals on Sunday, but the farmers refused to clear the highway. “We didn’t want to block the highway. We stopped here because the Haryana government didn’t allow us to move ahead. We requested the locals to submit a written appeal to the Haryana government urging it to allow the vehicles to ply on the national highway. But, they do not want to talk to the government. Why don’t they show some courage and have a dialogue with those who are causing this problem. If they want to block the supply lines (of food items), they are free to do so. We have been protesting here for the past one month, but the villagers of the nearby villages (in Rajasthan) have been kind enough not to allow any shortage of food items and ration so far.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/locals-to-block-supply-of-food-ration-for-protesting-farmers/articleshow/80203358.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Commercial vehicles over 15 yrs can run till March 31||Jaipur: The transport department has extended the deadline for commercial diesel vehicles older than 15 years which were supposed to be prohibited from January 1 to March 31.The transport union had demanded for the extension of the deadline last month following which the notification was issued on Saturday.Gopal Singh Rathore, state president of Jaipur Truck Transport Operator Chamber, said, “On December 31 last year, during an event we had requested state transport minister Pratap Singh Khacharyiawas that the commercial vehicles older than 15 years should be allowed till March 31, 2021 as the transporters had already paid the taxes till then. He had agreed to the same and the transport department issued the notification for the extension of the deadline.”According to stakeholders, this extension has brought relief to the owners of 2.5 lakh commercial vehicles in the state. The national capital also has this policy in place.In a move to stop old unfit and polluting vehicles on roads, the government also outlined a policy wherein commercial vehicles will not get fitness certificate after 15 years and the old vehicle will be automatically deregistered from the system.“We are happy that our demand has been met otherwise it would have created financial issues for many people. Now, there is time of three months to make alternate plans,” added Rathore.The state is taking various initiatives to ensure reduction in pollution level especially from vehicles. For this purpose, state roadways will get over 500 BS-6 buses included in its fleet soon. Bharat stage (BS) emission standards are laid down by the government to regulate the output of air pollutants from internal combustion engine and spark-ignition engine equipment, including motor vehicles and last year it was made mandatory that all new vehicles will have this engine across the country to curb pollution level.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/commercial-vehicles-over-15-yrs-can-run-till-march-31/articleshow/80203332.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 42-year-old arrested over spying for ISI in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A 42-year-old man from Lathi in Jaisalmer, who was honeytrapped by Pak intelligence agency ISI, was arrested by the special police team of CID for being involved in spying activities. Satyanarayan Paliwal was arrested under the Official Secrets Act. He was active for quite a long time spying for ISI and was sending confidential information across the border. Intelligence police AGD Umesh Mishra said the ISI honeytrapped him with pseudo social media accounts to get information from the border areas. Mishra said he was in touch with ISI for quite a long time and was being watched. He spilled the beans when he was detained and interrogated. Many Army documents were stored illegally in his mobile phone, he added. Paliwal was working in Lathi as representative of a former sarpanch. His brother’s wife was a sarpanch and he used to handle all the works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/42-yr-old-arrested-over-spying-for-isi/articleshow/80203335.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Two arrested with 13.8kg charas||LUDHIANA: The police arrested two men with 13.8kg charas near grain market, Partap Singh Wala, on Saturday night. Shukar Singh, 34, of Moga and Jai Prakash, 23, of Motihari, Bihar, were nabbed on a tip-off. PAU police station ASI Ajit Singh said, “Shukar is a labourer who works at grain markets. Though he hails from Moga, he mostly lived at his sister’s house in Salem Tabri, Ludhiana. As his work involved lifting heavy sacks of grains and vegetables, he started consuming drugs.” A few months ago, when Shukar was consuming drugs on the railway station premises, a man from Bihar approached him. “The man, who is yet to be identified, asked him to work as a drug peddler. He told Shukar that he would send him drugs from Bihar. He also said that Shukar could sell drugs to make easy money and the trade would ensure he had enough supply. Shukar agreed to his proposal and shared his cellphone number with him,” the ASI added. During questioning, the accused revealed that Jai Prakash came to the city by a bus with 13.8kg charas, the first consignment worth Rs 2.70 lakh, on Saturday. Thereafter, Shukar met him and on his bike, the duo was going towards Partap Singh Wala to sell it among the addicts when the police nabbed them. A case has been registered under the NDPS Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/2-arrested-with-13-8kg-charas/articleshow/80202587.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Teachers object to new seniority list||Jaipur: Teachers in college education in Rajasthan have objected to a new seniority list released by the higher education department. According to teachers, around 200 faculty members, who are juniors, have been put ahead of others because of ‘good connections’ with higher authorities to get promotion ahead of them. The higher education department released a provisional list on September 23, 2020, in which teachers appointed between 1994 and 1996 were mentioned on the date of their appointment. However, on January 7, 2021, when the final seniority list was released by the department, around 200 teachers appointed on a later date were put above the teachers who joined the department earlier. “This is sheer misuse of rule of law in the state. Teachers who were appointed later on will become professors much earlier when the promotion list will be released. It is violation of Rajasthan Education (College Education) Rules 1996. When the provisional list was released by the government, the teachers were on a lower rank, how they can surpass senior teachers in a few months,” said Sridhar Sharma, member of College Shikshak Sangharsh Samiti, which constitutes many teachers who are objecting to this decision. He further alleged that many such teachers whose names are mentioned in the seniority list have connections with higher authorities. “One of the teachers is the sister of a senior IAS officer and her name is mentioned above us. Another teacher is a junior, but is politically connected. These teachers will become professors and enjoy the benefit,” said Sridhar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/teachers-object-to-new-seniority-list/articleshow/80203380.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Physical hearings: Lawyers to meet dist & sessions judge today||Ludhiana: As the high court has asked the district and sessions judge to consider starting physical hearing of cases from Monday, the District Bar Association will meet him to discuss the functioning in view of the order.DBA president Gurkirpal Singh Gill said in its recent order, the high court had told the district and sessions judge that it is his discretion to decide on physical hearing depending on Covid-19 situation in his district. He added that as per the order, the district and sessions judge will decide which cases will be heard and how many courts will sit.“If physical hearing is started in every type of case, then there will be a rush. So the types and number of cases, number of courts, among others, need to be decided. On Monday, we will be meeting the district and sessions judge to discuss the functionalities, after which we will also come to know whether clients have to come or not for physical hearings,” the DBA president added. He said for 10 months, courts were not functioning, so advocates had no work, besides there was pendency too. Many advocates are for physical hearing. “It should start soon as more than 80% lawyers are facing financial problems. Psychologically too, until the client comes to court, he does not feel that his work has been done and as a result he tells advocates that he will give fees at the next date of hearing. So it is necessary to start physical hearing, but government guidelines related to Covid-19, like wearing masks and social distancing, should be followed,” said advocate Yogesh Khanna. “Normally, the average daily footfall is more than 50,000 at district courts. As there are 65 to 70 courts, things can be managed to lower the footfall. Also, it is important to allow hearing in certain cases,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/physical-hearings-lawyers-to-meet-dist-sessions-judge-today/articleshow/80202588.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||3 crows found dead, authorities say it is normal in winter||TNNLudhiana: Amid scare of avian flu, three crows were found dead in various parts of the city on Sunday. However, the animal husbandry department said incidents wherein one bird was found dead were normal, especially in this season. Two dead crows were found at two separate open areas of Tandhari and one in Rose Garden. Manwinder Singh, a 55-year-old businessman from Maya Nagar, said when he was going in the eight-shaped part of the Rose Garden and walking from Nehru Planetarium towards Udham Singh Nagar side gate, he found a dead crow under a tree. “I have been coming to the garden for many decades. I have never seen a dead bird there and got suspicious due to the bird flu scare. I moved it to a side and don’t know whether the authorities have taken a sample,” he said. The Ludhiana animal husbandry department said such incidents were natural. “One or two incidents are natural as it is normal for birds to die due to cold weather. If a large number of birds, like 10 to 15, are found dead, then there is a chance of infection,” said Dr Neelam Grover, assistant director of the department. She added that they were sampling all dead birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/3-crows-found-dead-authorities-say-it-is-normal-in-winter/articleshow/80202591.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Pandemic fuels demand for relocating to Uttarakhand hills||NAINITAL: The novel coronavirus pandemic has resulted in a demand for relocating to the hills of Uttarakhand with places like Mukteshwar, Bhowali, Bhimtal as well as other areas in the Kumaon and Garhwal seeing a spurt in enquiries from people interested in purchasing property in these locations. Real estate consultants as well as local residents say that there has been a notable rise in number of land-related queries from people, especially from bigger cities, after the coronavirus pandemic. “People from big cities are now considering investment in properties in hills a better option and a better lifestyle choice as well,” said Anurag Tomar, a former media professional who moved to Mukteshwar a decade back and is now helping others to buy property in the area as well. He added that “the pandemic seems to have made people realise the importance of healthy living and triggered this interest in relocating to the hills.” Echoing similar sentiments, Yogeshwar Dutt Sharma, a Delhi-based lawyer, said that he had been planning to shift to the hills for a long time and due to the pandemic, the decision was hastened. “Due to increasing pollution in cities, we had decided to relocate to a smaller place in the hills. It had always been our dream to stay in the mountains and the pandemic hastened our decision,” said the lawyer, who is looking for a suitable option in either Bhimtal or Mukteshwar. The growing interest in properties in the Uttarakhand hills — many prospective buyers cite proximity of Uttarakhand to Delhi-NCR as another reason for their interest — has resulted in property rates in these places remaining stable even as the pandemic led to a dip in rates in cities. Property dealers say that not only people from outside but also migrants from the state now want to move back. “Many of those who had sold off their properties here and shifted to the big cities are now looking to move back. They are asking for renovation of their old homes and are even enquiring about land near their villages,” said Asif Baksh of Nainital Properties. Another realtor, Sandeep Bhagat of Bhimtal Properties, said that most of the enquiries he has received have been related to either land plots or studio apartments in gated societies that have come up in areas like Bhowali. “A 2BHK flat in a place like Bhimtal or Ramgarh would cost around Rs 45 lakh. Some people also prefer buying land and then building a cottage which would cost in the range of Rs 50 lakh to 1 crore,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pandemic-fuels-demand-for-relocating-to-the-hills/articleshow/80202578.cms||Prashant Jha
January 11, 2021||Chennai||TNRERA raps developer for one-sided agreement||CHENNAI: In a significant order, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority has ruled that a developer cannot demand arbitrary interest for delayed payments by homebuyers. The developers cannot exceed the rate of 10% interest fixed under TNRERA rules, it said. In its order over complaints regarding delay in handing over apartments to 10 homebuyers, TNRERA termed a construction agreement between the buyers and the developer ‘one-sided’, favouring only the latter. ‘Brindhavanam’ at RE Nagar in Kavanoor near Kundrathur is developed by Sri Lakshmi Builders Pvt. Ltd. While the agreements were entered into in 2012, 2013 and 2015, construction had to be completed within 18 months of the date of the agreement and the flats delivered. “A perusal of the construction agreement entered between the complainants (homebuyers) and the respondent (developer) reveals that terms are overwhelmingly one-sided and only in favour of the developer. Of the 39 clauses, there is not even one giving any right to complainants to claim compensation or damages for the delay on the part of the builder,” TNRERA adjudicating officer G Saravanan said. As per Clause 5, it provides for an interest at 24% for delayed payments by the allottees. “But, there is no provision for providing compensation, damages or interest on the delayed handing over of the flat by the promoter,” the order said. It cited a note made by the Supreme Court in another case that the builder could not seek to bind the buyer with one-sided contractual terms. Denying the allegations, the developer said the failure to complete construction was due to the buyers’ failure to make the payment within the stipulated time. Noting that the complainants made payments with a huge delay, the developer said the complainants were not entitled to compensation and should be directed to pay the balance amount with interest. TNRERA said the statement of accounts showed all homebuyers, barring one, paid 85%-100% of the total cost and are eligible to compensation for delay, metal agony and litigation cost. As per TNRERA rules, the rate of interest payable shall be the current highest marginal cost of the lending rate of interest of SBI and an additional 2% per annum. Hence, the complainants are entitled to be compensated at 10% on the amount paid to the developer. The developer is also entitled to interest at the same 10% per annum on the delayed payments from the due date for payment till the promised date of delivery of flats. The developer can adjust the amount due payable against the amount of compensation payable by him to the complainants, the order added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tnrera-raps-developer-for-one-sided-agreement/articleshow/80203365.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||PCC executive members still in race for govt positions, says Ajay Maken||Jaipur: AICC general secretary Ajay Maken on Sunday said that the new Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) executive members, including the MLAs, could still be considered for positions in the state government, like cabinet expansion and political appointments, which are in the offing. At the first meeting of the new executive held at Congress headquarters here on Sunday, a couple of senior legislators conveyed their concerns over being seen as no longer in the race for cabinet expansion or political appointments by virtue of them getting PCC posts. Dispelling the concerns, Maken said, "The path to power goes through the organisation." Addressing the media, the AICC general secretary said, "The new PCC in-charges of districts have been asked to send panels of names for appointments in DCCs and BCCs within next two to three weeks. They will also recommend names for nearly 30,000 political posts in the districts." In-charges of the 20 districts where the process for municipal polls has begun have been asked to begin touring the areas from Monday onwards. In Churu, Bhilwara and Rajsamand districts, the new in-charges have been asked to prepare the party for the assembly by-elections that could be held any time after February.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pcc-executive-members-still-in-race-for-govt-positions-says-ajay-maken/articleshow/80203366.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Madras HC allows seized sand vehicles to go after donating fund to govt home||MADURAI: While allowing the release of vehicles which were seized during illegal transportation of sand and PDS rice, the Madras high court directed the petitioners to pay a non-refundable deposit to the Government Observation Home in the district. Justice G R Swaminathan passed the order with payments ranging from Rs 5,000 to Rs 40,000 in separate cases seeking to release seized vehicles. The judge directed the superintendent of the observation home to spend the amount for the welfare of the institution or its inmates or towards the rehabilitation of its former inmates. The superintendent was also directed to submit a report to the registrar of Madurai bench indicating the exact deployment of funds. The bills and other relevant materials will be enclosed along with the report. The chairman of the Madurai Juvenile Justice Board will oversee the process, said the judge. The judge observed that the court has time and again held that keeping vehicle in custody of the authorities is not going to serve any purpose and only contribute to loss of value. “Even though the criminal case has been registered, the vehicle in question is yet to be produced before the jurisdictional court. The case is still under investigation. Therefore, the writ court will always have the power to direct release of vehicle,” observed the judge. The judge said that after completion of the aforesaid formalities, the authorities shall release the vehicles forthwith without any delay. If the undertaking given by the petitioner is breached, the petitioner will not be entitled to interim release of the vehicle and the order passed by this court will stand recalled and the vehicle in question will be taken back to custody and it will be released only after getting orders from this court. The judge said that the petitioner shall not alienate or encumber the vehicle in question till the proceedings are completed and should also produce the vehicle and cooperate with the inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-allows-seized-sand-vehicles-to-go-after-donating-fund-to-govt-home/articleshow/80204408.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||In a 1st after July: Weekly Covid case count below 200||Ludhiana: For the first time after July, the number of weekly Covid-19 cases in Ludhiana has come down to below 200-mark. This despite the fact that the number of tests done in July was less than half of the recent times.The latest health department data shows that between January 3 and 9, the number of new cases was 198 in the district. The figure had been on the decline since November-end after the festival season.An analysis of the data since July 6 last year shows that after reaching the highest value of 2,802 cases between September 13 and 19, the new cases in seven days witnessed a fall to 523 from October 11 to 17 and 325 between October 25 and 31. However, after that, the number increased to 439 between November 1 and 7 and 610 from November 8 to 14 before reaching 696 between November 22 and 28. The figure then started falling and was recorded around 248 between December 27, 2020, and January 2.According to the latest state media bulletin, in the weekly count, Ludhiana with 198 cases was at second spot in the state. SAS Nagar was at the top with 350 cases and Jalandhar third (141 cases). Tarn Taran had the lowest number of four.The health department officials said there was an overall improvement in the Covid-19 scenario in the district as well as the state.An officer said, “Hopefully, things will be better in the coming weeks. We request residents to follow the pandemic rules to check the spread of virus.”Increase in testingThe daily tests in July were between 373 and 1,163. After July 6, the weekly case count was between 297 (on July 12) and 1,109 (from July 27 to August 2). As the number of daily tests ranged from 640 to 4,344, the weekly cases were between 1,671 (in seven days from August 16) and 2,296 (in seven days from August 23).In September, the daily testing was between 2,900 and 5,636, and the weekly case count between 1,007 (in the week from October 3) and 2,802 (in seven days from September 19). While the tests per day mostly remained between 2,000 and 3,000 in October, November and December, the case figure in each month witnessed a fall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/in-a-1st-after-july-weekly-covid-case-count-below-200/articleshow/80202597.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Madras HC seeks response on steps to clear encroachment||MADURAI: Madras high court has sought response from the state government on the steps taken on its earlier direction to remove encroachments from the Megamalai Wildlife Sanctuary in Theni district. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi was hearing a contempt petition filed by S Pandi, a resident of Theni district. Pandi had filed a public interest litigation in 2017 urging the authorities to restore the wildlife habitat in the sanctuary and sought to remove the encroachments. In 2018, the court directed the authorities concerned to take steps to remove the encroachments by following due process of law within eight weeks. However, since the authorities failed to comply with the order, Pandi filed the present petition seeking to initiate contempt proceedings against the officials. During the course of hearing, the state government informed the court that it had identified the encroachers and issued notices to them. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-seeks-response-on-steps-to-clear-encroachment/articleshow/80204410.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Plea in HC to rename Madurai railway junction||MADURAI: Madras high court disposed of a plea seeking to name Madurai railway junction after freedom fighter N M R Subburaman, saying it expected the secretary to the railway ministry to look into the representation. The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by K K Ramesh, a litigant from Madurai appearing as party-in-person. Saying that N M R Subburaman was also a close associate of Mahatma Gandhi, the petitioner also wanted a bronze statue of the freedom fighter to be installed in front of Madurai junction. A division bench of Justices M M Sundresh and S Ananthi observed that though the petitioner has sought for a larger prayer, it cannot be granted by the court, but they expected the secretary to ministry of railways to look into the representation and do the needful. The judges said they are not issuing any mandamus as they are quite conscious about the position of law in even directing the said authority to consider the representation in the absence of any statutory prescription. Assistant solicitor general L Victoria Gowri appearing for the central government raised objections as the Prime Minister’s principal secretary and Union home secretary were named as first and second respondents in the petition. Taking into account the objections, the judges said these authorities’ names are deleted as being unnecessary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/plea-in-hc-to-rename-madurai-rly-junction/articleshow/80204409.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Hope floats: Gadkari hints at forming steel price regulator||Ludhiana: In a glimmer of hope for the city’s micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) facing problems due to rise in the rates of steel raw material, Union minister Nitin Gadkari has hinted at forming a steel price regulator. Gadkari disclosed this during an interaction with a business association and also claimed that he had taken up the issue of rising steel rates with the Prime Minister. City businessmen are happy over the development and are hoping that MSME minister’s assurance will bring some results. They say that in addition to this, more steps, like banning export of steel, should be taken immediately. On the other hand, the steel ministry is drawing flak for failing to take notice of the rising rates.Speaking to the TOI, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, president of Sewing Machine Development Club, says, “Due to huge fluctuations in the rates of steel raw material, that too without any justification, we were having sleepless nights. In case of the sewing machine industry alone, the rate of the raw material, especially pig iron, has increased by about 30% in the past five months. As the steel ministry failed to pay heed to our pleas for help, we took up the matter with the MSME ministry, that’s how minister Gadkari came into the picture. He has also assured to consider our another demand for formation of a steel regulatory body to monitor and control rates in the country. We are hopeful that the step will bear fruit. Besides, as now steel companies and middlemen, too, are aware that the issue is in the notice of the Centre, the artificial hike may stop.”Maninder Pal Guliani, president of Ludhiana Beopar Mandal, says, “Recently, our association exposed the misdeeds of the steel cartel, which was causing unprecedented increase in rates. There are some raw materials whose rates were hiked by almost Rs 17,000 per tonne during the past six months, but the steel ministry failed to act. We are thankful to MSME minister Gadkari who raised the issue. We hope this will have some impact on the markets. But if the government is really serious about this issue, then it should first scrap all import duties on steel and impose a total ban on export of steel goods and raw material.”Rajesh Bansal, president of All India Tiny and Small Manufacturers’ Association, says, “The bicycle industry is under tremendous pressure due to the hike in the rates of raw materials, like HR coil, TMT bars, MS, among others. We appreciate Gadkari’s positive response on our request for formation of a steel regulatory commission. We are hopeful that the rates of steel raw material will certainly see some correction in the coming days.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/hope-floats-gadkari-hints-at-forming-steel-price-regulator/articleshow/80202601.cms||Mohit Behl
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Man mowed down by truck in US Nagar||Rudrapur: A 32-year old man died after being hit by a speeding husk-laden truck in Baruabagh area of Sitarganj in Udham Singh Nagar district on Sunday morning. The victim has been identified as Vikas Rastogi, a resident of Chuna Bhatti village. The police said that he worked in a factory in the Sitarganj industrial area The accident took place when Rastogi was returning home after completing his night shift. The victim died on the spot. Later, cops rushed to the spot and started investigation. A case has been registered under section 304-A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code against the errant driver and the vehicle has been impounded. Furious over the death, villagers blocked the road. They alleged that many accidents have occurred on this road due to loaded commercial vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-mowed-down-by-truck-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80202595.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Rawdon Square locked up after opening, locals upset||Kolkata: Residents of a Park Street neighbourhood were deeply disappointed to find Rawdon Square padlocked on Sunday morning. The three-acre park with a 2.5-acre water body that had been left to decay for three decades after being locked up by the then Jyoti Basu government in the early 1990s, was revamped and inaugurated only a day earlier. During the inaugural function on Saturday afternoon, Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators (BoA) at Kolkata Municipal Corporation, said the park would be open to citizens from 6am to 6pm. The announcement drew cheers from all present at the function and the locals were excited to reclaim a green that had gone to waste for years. However, they were shocked when an hour after the programme, parks and squares staffers asked everyone to leave and locked the gate. It has remained locked since then. On Sunday morning, and again in the afternoon, Rawdon Street resident Mallika Jalan stepped out of her apartment, intending to take a walk in the park. But on reaching the gate, she found it locked from within. “The KMC has done such a wonderful job in gifting the park to the city. Yet, red tape appears to have reared its head. I contacted the local councillor who said that the park would be open twice a day, once in the morning and again in the evening, after a security staff is deputed. But why couldn’t the logistics be worked out before the park’s inauguration and why does it have to stay shut between 9.30am and 3pm when malls, cinemas and other public places are open all day?” she wondered. Debasish Kumar, a senior member of the BoA, who looks after parks and squares departments at KMC, said he would look into the issue and take corrective measures. “We've put in a lot of effort to revive the park that should be accessed by citizens,” he said. Green activist, Bonani Kakkar, whose initiative in reopening the park and perseverance over the years finally saw the restoration of the square, felt the civic body needed to sort out the issue quickly. “This park is different because it has many indigenous trees, plants and even grass species that help in attracting birds and regenerating the local biodiversity. It is not a showpiece to be locked and preserved. People need to visit it,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/rawdon-square-locked-up-after-opening-locals-upset/articleshow/80203443.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 11, 2021||Ludhiana||Thieves strike at bakery, police file case after 23 days||Ludhiana: Burglars broke open the locks of a bakery in Ajit Nagar in Field Gunj and escaped with Rs 1.25 lakh cash. The incident occurred in the early hours of December 17, but the police took 23 days to lodge an FIR.Victim Sanjeev Singh, 44, of Mohalla Kot Alamgir in Field Gunj has been running the bakery for over two decades. He said, “On December 16, I closed the shop around 9.30pm and went home. My workers live on the third floor of the shop. Due to severe cold, they had closed the door of their room and could not hear anything. Around 2am, four miscreants broke shop locks. There are three main shutters and two towards the inside lanes. The accused broke open all the shutters and also the lock of the glass door. They remained inside the bakery for 45 minutes. I have four different cash boxes and the accused broke locks of all and fled with Rs 1.25 lakh.” He said the CCTVs installed at the shop had captured the accused, all of whom were wearing masks. But mask of one of the accused suddenly fell off and his face got captured in the CCTV, he said, adding that in the morning, he called the police. Sanjeev said, “The police did not lodge an FIR and told me that they would trace the accused on the basis of a written complaint. When I asked the investigating officer to find the accused and scan more CCTVs installed in the market, he asked me to do it on my own. I was disappointed, and then approached my friend who helped me in getting the case registered.” He said in November, the thieves had targeted another bakery in the locality and escaped with Rs 2 lakh, but in that case, too, the police have failed to trace the accused. Investigating officer ASI Bhajan Lal said a case was registered against unidentified accused under sections 457 (trespassing), 380 (theft) and 34 (act done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the IPC on Saturday.The ASI, refuting the allegations, said the complainant did not want to lodge an FIR and asked them to trace the accused on the basis of his complaint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/thieves-strike-at-bakery-police-file-case-after-23-days/articleshow/80202603.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar asks Maharashtra home minister to reduce his security cover||MUMBAI: NCP president Sharad Pawar on Sunday asked home minister Anil Deshmukh to forthwith reduce his security cover. “I have been given the highest security cover,. I don’t need it. Security should be reduced forthwith,” Pawar said to Deshmukh. The home minister confirmed that Pawar had spoken to him and called for a drastic cut the security that is provided to him by the state today. “I informed Pawar that his security cover is based on the recommendation made by the high-level threat perception committee. In my opinion, Pawar has been provided Z+ cover after considering all aspects. Still, we will ask the chief secretary to re-examine it,” Deshmukh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-asks-home-minister-to-reduce-his-security-cover/articleshow/80204412.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 11, 2021||Salem||Indigenous paddy varieties in Madurai catch attention||MADURAI: Poongar, palkudavazhai, nallundai, vaalan samba, Salem channai and karunkuruvai were some of the indigenous paddy varieties on display at an exhibition aimed at promoting traditional varieties among farmers in the region, in Madurai on Saturday. Organised by the Maditssia Club and Nel Jayaraman Traditional Rice Saviour Centre, the event attracted many first-time farmers. Maditssia Club chairman A R M Ramasamy said they had undertaken the initiative in the last two years during Pongal season to popularise rice varieties and promote them among farmers. Nel Jayaraman centre state coordinator S Raju said indigenous rice varieties were best suited for all seasons based on the variety. “As we know many of the traditional rice varieties were lost after the green revolution and reviving them was the only solution to meet the food requirements of the country.” Two years after the demise of their founder, they have been promoting and ensuring the sustenance of 176 varieties that he had revived. They were also seeing good results. Raju, a progressive farmer from Panthanalur in Thanjavur, who has been cultivating the indigenous varieties for the last 15 years, said he was ready to vouch for the quality and goodness of these paddy varieties. “They are paddy varieties which have thrived for over 2,000 years unlike the hybrid ones produced in laboratories, which have to be modified every ten years so that they can continue to be cultivated,” he said. K Alagesan of Karaikudi, an automobile mechanic-turned-farmer who has been cultivating on three acres, had come to the exhibition to know about traditional paddy and also get seeds for cultivation. Raju told him they considered their paddy to be on par with gold and would only provide him with the seeds after visiting his field. “Chemical fertilizers have to be removed from the soil and this can be done by cultivating pulses and other crops for 60 days,” he said. Alagesan told him that he had completed this process. There are paddy varieties like karuppukavuni which are said to be preferred for diets of kings for their quality and nutritional benefits, and were grown in exclusive fields only for their consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/salem/indigenous-paddy-varieties-catch-attention/articleshow/80206984.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Indigenous paddy varieties in Madurai catch attention||MADURAI: Poongar, palkudavazhai, nallundai, vaalan samba, Salem channai and karunkuruvai were some of the indigenous paddy varieties on display at an exhibition aimed at promoting traditional varieties among farmers in the region, in Madurai on Saturday. Organised by the Maditssia Club and Nel Jayaraman Traditional Rice Saviour Centre, the event attracted many first-time farmers. Maditssia Club chairman A R M Ramasamy said they had undertaken the initiative in the last two years during Pongal season to popularise rice varieties and promote them among farmers. Nel Jayaraman centre state coordinator S Raju said indigenous rice varieties were best suited for all seasons based on the variety. “As we know many of the traditional rice varieties were lost after the green revolution and reviving them was the only solution to meet the food requirements of the country.” Two years after the demise of their founder, they have been promoting and ensuring the sustenance of 176 varieties that he had revived. They were also seeing good results. Raju, a progressive farmer from Panthanalur in Thanjavur, who has been cultivating the indigenous varieties for the last 15 years, said he was ready to vouch for the quality and goodness of these paddy varieties. “They are paddy varieties which have thrived for over 2,000 years unlike the hybrid ones produced in laboratories, which have to be modified every ten years so that they can continue to be cultivated,” he said. K Alagesan of Karaikudi, an automobile mechanic-turned-farmer who has been cultivating on three acres, had come to the exhibition to know about traditional paddy and also get seeds for cultivation. Raju told him they considered their paddy to be on par with gold and would only provide him with the seeds after visiting his field. “Chemical fertilizers have to be removed from the soil and this can be done by cultivating pulses and other crops for 60 days,” he said. Alagesan told him that he had completed this process. There are paddy varieties like karuppukavuni which are said to be preferred for diets of kings for their quality and nutritional benefits, and were grown in exclusive fields only for their consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/indigenous-paddy-varieties-catch-attention/articleshow/80204413.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||PM should take Covid-19 vaccine first: Dhasmana||Dehradun: Uttarakhand Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana on Sunday said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi should take the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine in order to dispel all myths regarding inoculation. He also said that the PM should take a cue from United States president-elect Joe Biden, who took the vaccine shot along with his wife to assure the people of his country. “The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party and health officials are trying to dispel myths relating to Covid-19 vaccine. I suggest giving PM Modi the first vaccine shot will be the best way to assure people,” said Dharmana. The senior leader also said that not just the PM but the chief ministers of all states and other dignitaries like governors should also be administered vaccines. Earlier, RJD leader Tej Pratap Yadav, Bihar Congress leader Ajit Sharma, and several others have raised a similar demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/pm-should-take-covid-19-vaccine-first-dhasmana/articleshow/80202606.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Two house-breakers held for murder of Versova senior citizen||MUMBAI: Nearly 11 months after a 75-year-old woman was found strangulated in her Andheri (W) home, the police claim to have cracked the case with the arrest of two thieves who were nabbed by Bandra cops in a house-breaking case last week. During interrogation, Rashedul Johad Shaikh (21) and Noorali Abdul Sattar (23) allegedly told the police that on February 24, 2020, they had killed Gulabi Shetty after breaking into her house built on the terrace of a ground-floor space she had rented to Chaitanya restaurant near Valia College, barely 30ft from Versova police station. Shetty’s body was found in the bathroom with her hands and legs tied with a sari. Her one-room kitchen house was ransacked. The murder case is being investigated by D N Nagar police as the crime was committed in their jurisdiction. The police initially suspected the accused were known to Shetty and might have killed her to either grab her property or rob her as she earned a monthly rent of Rs 2 lakh for the approximately 3,500-sq-ft restaurant space. police had even questioned her family members and a developer who had approached Shetty with a Rs 25 crore deal to buy the plot. Incidentally, Shetty’s husband, too, was murdered in 1975. “The two house-breakers have been handed over to DN Nagar police. They will interrogate them to know the motive behind the murder and to find out if it was a case of house-breaking gone wrong or they had been hired to kill her,” said an officer. Bandra police inspector Manohar Dhanwade and D N Nagar police Parmeshwar Ganme have confirmed the arrests, but declined to divulge details. On Sunday, the duo was produced before Bandra holiday court, which remanded them in police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/2-house-breakers-held-for-murder-of-versova-sr-citizen/articleshow/80204436.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 11, 2021||India||Covid vaccine: Pune set to see major air ops as 80% of SII vax will be flown out||PUNE: With the first phase of Covid inoculations less than a week away, at least 80% of India’s lead vaccine — Covishield — will be moved out of Pune by air, it has emerged. Officials said transport of vials is expected to begin by Monday or Tuesday. “At this moment, Serum has not received a go-ahead from the Centre on movement of the vaccine … We have been asked by Serum to be on stand-by. Initially, we expect 70-80% of transportation to happen by air. There will be some road movement too,” said Rahul Agarwal, co-founder of Mumbai-based Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited, the company contracted to transport vaccines nationally. Movement of the vaccine out of Pune airport has been held up for almost a week now. “The transportation needs to start latest by Tuesday or the vaccine will not reach the respective centres on time,” Agarwal added. A senior officer from Pune police said it’s very likely the vaccine movement will start from Tuesday. On Friday, airline authorities and representatives from SII said the transportation process had been delayed by around 48 hours. Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII, also refuted claims that pricing negotiations between his company and the government had caused the delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-pune-set-to-see-major-air-ops-as-80-of-sii-vax-will-be-flown-out/articleshow/80205494.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Mortal remains of jawan cremated with military honours||MADURAI: The mortal remains of jawan G Arumugam was cremated at his native place in Theni district on Sunday with full honours. G Arumugam, 38, a native of Vadugapatti, joined Indian Army around 16 years ago. He suffered burn injuries in an accident at his camp in Kashmir and was admitted to a hospital three days ago. He died on Friday night without responding to treatment. His body was flown to Coimbatore, from where it was brought to Vadugapatti in an Army vehicle. It was kept for the public to pay homage in his native village. Apart from a large number of friends and relatives, people from in and around the village also gathered to pay homage to the jawan. Family members including his children broke into tears and were uncontrollable. The relatives tried their best to console them. Later, his body was cremated at Vadugapatti crematorium. Army personnel paid honours with a 21-gun salute. Arumugam is survived by his wife Pandi Rani and children Jayasri and Sabari. Theni district collector M Pallavi Baldev, district superintendent of police E Sai Charan Tejasvi and officials from Indian Army paid tributes in the morning. Pallavi Baldev promised that all welfare measures meant for the family members from the state government would be arranged within a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mortal-remains-of-jawan-cremated-with-military-honours/articleshow/80204435.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||BJP office vandalised in Madurai, workers block road demanding arrest of gang||MADURAI:A group of BJP workers blocked Sivaganga Road at Melamadai in Madurai city on Sunday demanding the arrest of a six-member gang that attacked a party office in the city and damaged the furniture and portraits of the party leaders. A large number of police personnel were deployed at the party office at Melamadai to prevent any untoward incidents. Vehicles were diverted through other roads. Police also held talks with the protestors and promised that the culprits will be arrested soon. BJP rural district president Maha Suseendran told newsmen that a gang of six people armed with iron rods stormed into the first floor of the office, even as he was sitting on the ground floor. They damaged the furniture, portraits of national and state leaders and ornamental plants and left the place in a jiffy. One of them pelted stones on the office, before leaving the building. He said that he can identify the people involved in the attack.  Police should immediately arrest the culprits, he said. A police officer said that the incident took place around 3 pm. CCTV footage has been collected to identify the attackers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bjp-office-vandalised-workers-block-road-demanding-arrest-of-gang/articleshow/80204460.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Kite costs soar this year as demand stays high||Ahmedabad: The lockdown and uncertainty over the pandemic have resulted in a sizable reduction in the number of kites in the market this year, spurring a rise in prices of kites and thread ahead of Uttarayan. Traders say that compared to last year, only about half of the stock of kites has reached the market even as there is a big demand this year as well. “There is no stock in the market. Workshops remained closed for several months last year,” said Pappubhai Patangwala, 52, whose family has been selling kites for the past ten generations. Patangwala added: “And then there was also uncertainty about whether flying kites will be allowed. People are turning up in large numbers to buy kites, but the supply is limited.” The last Sunday before the annual kite festival witnessed brisk selling in kite markets of Raipur, Jamalpur and Delhi Darwaza areas of the old city. With the government allowing families to fly kites on their respective terraces, people thronged markets to purchase kites, thread and other items. “Most shops have old stocks of kites and even these are priced higher than those of last year. Fresh stocks are limited and expensive,” said Gaurav Shah, a kite enthusiast. A set of 20 kites which cost about Rs 70 last year is now selling for Rs 100. The famous Bareilly thread which cost about Rs 140 for a 1,000-metre spindle now costs Rs 170.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/kite-costs-soar-this-year-as-demand-stays-high/articleshow/80204522.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai police find girls hidden in secret room in bar raid||MUMBAI: The social service branch of the Mumbai police found at least a dozen girls hidden away in a secret chamber created on the terrace of a bar in Andheri during a raid. The sleuths learnt that the hotel staff of the Auro Punjab, LP Bar in Andheri (West) used an escape route to get the girls to reach the terrace to hide. The raid was carried out early on Saturday based on a tip-off received that there were many customers present in the hotel, who were not following social distancing norms imposed during the pandemic. Police said that the girls were performing obscene moves on dance numbers before the team raided the place. The Andheri police have registered an FIR on a complaint filed by the social service branch team against the hotel owner and 43 others, including 31 customers and 12 staffers. Police will also send a letter to the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to take further action for violation of the prohibitory order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/police-find-girls-hidden-in-secret-room-in-bar-raid/articleshow/80204462.cms||V Narayan
January 11, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Two thrash forest guard, booked||GURUGRAM: A forest guard was allegedly thrashed by a group of men in Satnali village of Mahendergarh district on Friday. An FIR was registered on Saturday against two villagers. According to police, the guard, Ved Pal, was on his regular inspection when he saw that some men had chopped down trees in the area and were putting them into their vehicle. “I took a picture of them as evidence but they came towards me carrying sticks and thrashed me,” he said. A case was lodged at the Satnali police station under IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 332 (voluntarily causes hurt to any person being a public servant in the discharge of his duty), 34 (common intentions), 341 (wrongful restraint), 353 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation). No non-forest activity is permitted in the area as it falls under sections 4 and 5 of the Punjab Land Protection Act (PLPA), 1900. “This is the second incident when a department personnel was assaulted by those involved in illegal activities in the forest area,” said Vipin Kumar Singh, divisional forest officer, Mahendergarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/two-thrash-forest-guard-booked/articleshow/80204468.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||7,000 trees to be hacked for Ajni inter modal station||Nagpur: While the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) claimed that a total of 1,940 trees will be felled for the construction of inter modal station coming up at Ajni, the real green loss will be around 7,000 trees. The Rs1,288.81 crore project is coming up on Central Railway land, which is a thriving biodiversity habitat of bird and animal species. In a proposal submitted to the garden department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), two NHAI applications have sought permission to cut 1,940 trees on 44.6 acres land acquired for the first phase. Following demand from activists, a joint survey by officials from NHAI and garden department started in December last year. As per officials, most of the survey is now over and almost 6,500 trees have been marked for felling. “We have almost finished surveying the land and apart from this count, another 300-400 trees that are to be felled might increase. These trees belong to different species,” said Amol Chorpagar, garden superintendent of NMC. He further informed that after the survey, cross verification will also be done. “We will re-check if the counting has been done properly or not. Apart from us, a third party, most likely Dr Punjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, will also undertake a survey,” the official said. Once the final report of the survey is ready, it will be submitted to municipal commissioner and the tree committee, which will decide the fate of thousands of age-old trees of Ajni Vann. As per activists, the project is going to cause probably the biggest environmental damage to the city. “The environmental viability of the project remains a big question mark. The tree committee should do an in-depth study of the project, which should include species identification of the trees, how much oxygen they will transfer and how much carbon dioxide they will absorb in the coming years. This should be compared to the carbon emission that will be saved by the inter-modal station during the same period,” said Kaustav Chatterjee, founder of NGO Green Vigil Foundation, adding that NHAI needs to come out with clear calculations rather than assumptions. Former honorary wildlife warden, Nagpur, Jaydeep Das said, “In less than 100 acres, the count is crossing 7,000. The total project area is 490 acres which means the count of trees will easily cross 30,000. Where is the place to carry out such large-scale compensatory plantation?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/7000-trees-to-be-hacked-for-ajni-inter-modal-station/articleshow/80205243.cms||Manka Behl
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 14-year-old boy killed during cricket brawl in Pen||A minor dispute while playing cricket resulted in the death of a 14-year-old boy at Kumbhar Ali area, Pen, on Saturday evening. A few children were playing cricket inside a housing society when the victim hit the accused, a 13-year-old boy. The accused retaliated by hitting the victim on his leg using a cricket bat and then again on his head, leading to his death. A murder case was filed against the 13-year-old. The incident happened at the Sadguru Park building in Kumbhar Ali. The accused will be produced before the juvenile court. Post-mortem was conducted,” Pen police station inspector Balkrishna Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/14-yr-old-boy-killed-during-cricket-brawl-in-pen/articleshow/80204514.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Tension over BJP rally at Thirupalai||MADURAI: Tension prevailed when BJP members took out a procession with loud music in front of a mosque at Thirupalai in the district on Sunday. The situation was later brought under control by police officials and the procession was carried out without any untoward incident. Police sources said that the party had obtained permission for organising Pongal celebration at Thirupalai Mandhai and had stuck posters and erected flag-post to welcome BJP state president L Murugan. The posters stuck in Muslim residential areas were removed by the locals. Police sources said that the party members received Murugan and took out a procession to the venue on Sunday morning. While crossing a mosque in Thirupalai, the members from Muslim community objected to the loud music and tried to stop them. Tension escalated as a stone fell on a car belonging to a BJP member and someone hurled a footwear into the crowd. Police posted at the spot intervened and brought the situation under control. On being alerted, additional police strength was dispatched to prevent any untoward incident. Police negotiated with the Muslim community members and allowed the procession to continue. Subsequently, the Pongal celebration was carried out at the Thirupalai Mandhai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tension-over-bjp-rally-at-thirupalai/articleshow/80204484.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Forest patches in Canacona turn into garbage dumps||POINGUINIM : Garbage is seen strewn at various places in the forest area at Gulem till Canacona outskirts along the national highway 66. Gulem stretch of the NH comes under the jurisdiction of Agonda panchayat, while the other stretch under Shristhal panchayat. Despite both the panchayats taking up cleaning of the waste from time to time, they have been left frustrated as litter is seen accumulating again at the spots within no time. The panchayats have now written to Canacona police officials alerting them of the issue and asked them to intensify patrolling. Forest officials said that dumping of the waste near such a forest patch will also prove harmful to the flora and fauna. “Two months ago, we had employed some labourers and got the stretch of over a kilometer cleared of the trash. However, every third or fourth day after this exercise, people dump garbage,” said sarpanch of Shristhal panchayat Pandurang alias Datta Gaonkar. Even if bins are placed along the stretch, miscreants dump waste outside the bins. “Though geographically the jurisdiction does not come under our panchayat, I still get the waste cleared every 10 days,” said Agonda sarpanch Pramod Faldesai. Range forest officer (Pissonem range) Devidas Velip said he is aware of the issue and said his staff had even cleared some of the waste recently. “When someone throws trash irresponsibly like this, it is detrimental to flora and fauna and harms the environment,” said Velip. A local environmentalist said irresponsible dumping of waste takes place when there is a lack of proper garbage management system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/forest-patches-in-canacona-turn-into-garbage-dumps/articleshow/80204569.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||BJP’s Chimur MLA booked for cheating in 2 cases in Nagpur||Nagpur: Two separate offences of cheating have been registered against BJP’s Chimur MLA Kirti Kumar Bhangdiya for allegedly obtaining flats under a scheme meant for economically weaker section of the society in 2007 and 2008. The offences have been registered at Imambada and Sakkardara police stations following order of a magisterial court. To avail benefits under the special schemes for the poor, floated by Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT), Bhangdiya had furnished false information under oath that he owned no properties in Nagpur. Citing information under RTI Act, a city lawyer Tarun Parmar has accused Bhangdiya of filing false affidavit to illegally grab flats in NIT scheme stating that he didn’t have any house, flat or plot within the NIT limits. The MLA already has a flat at Dahipura in Imambada, purchased in 2008, and another in Ayurvedic Layout in Sakkardara, purchased in 2009. Both these flats are purchased under the NIT’s Lok Housing Scheme. Only those, not having any flats or house within NIT’s jurisdiction, can have a flat under the scheme, as per the complainant. The FIRs have been registered under sections 199 (making a false statement), 200 (using as true such declaration knowing it to be false) and 420 (cheating and dishonesty) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bjps-chimur-mla-booked-for-cheating-in-2-cases-in-nagpur/articleshow/80205244.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Uttarayan alert||Ahmedabad: DGP Ashish Bhatia has held a video-conference with top police officers in which he has directed them to stay alert during Uttarayan to ensure Covid guidelines are followed and no mischief occurs. He urged the officers to be particularly watchful on January 14 and 15. The video-conference was held on Saturday and involved district police chiefs, range IGPs, and police commissioners from across the state. Bhatia wanted adequate bandobust to avert mischief. He said police should ensure that the implementation of the curfew is strict in Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat, and Rajkot. He instructed officers to maintain surveillance with the help of drones and CCTV cameras and deal with Covid-norms violators in line with the law. “In addition to the SRPF, we have local police for the bandobust,” Bhatia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uttarayan-alert/articleshow/80204897.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Poultry rates down for farmers, not consumers||Nagpur: A second crisis appears to be here for the poultry farmers. After the rates fell drastically in the initial days of Covid due to rumours that the virus spreads through poultry, now it is the bird flu scare. The state department of animal husbandry has already issued statements that no prohibition has been ordered on sale of chicken or eggs yet. However, the scare has already begun taking a toll on prices, says traders. Some wholesalers said, though, there were initial shocks but the prices recovered in a few days. “Farmers are already suffering losses up to Rs50 a kg. The traders are buying it at Rs30 a kg. For a breeder to recover the expenses, the price has to be at least Rs80 a kg,” said Amit Duddalwar, treasurer of Vidarbha Poultry Association. Explaining the chain, Duddalwar said that farmers sell it to bulk traders, from whom it ultimately reaches retail market through semi-wholesalers. There was no change in the rates in the retail market. Traders at Gokulpeth market said dressed chicken was sold at Rs200 and it was Rs180 for live bird as usual. Abdul Raes, a shopkeeper at Gokulpeth, said there was no impact of the bird flu scare at all. “The Sunday crowds were as usual and the stock is almost over,” he said. Retail sellers like Raes sell birds bought from the bigger traders at a margin of Rs25 to 30. On the other hand, Zuber, whose Amar Chicken Shop is right behind Raes’ shop, said business was down to a quarter of normal levels. “The usual rush that used to be seen during Sundays is not there,” he said, with some others also agreeing. A shopkeeper near Pratap Nagar also said business was not even half of any other weekend. At Mominpura, traders said there was an impact of bird flu scare but the rates recovered fast. “Last week, wholesale prices had touched Rs55 a kg but are now back at Rs75. The normal range is up to Rs100 per kg,” said Fahim Qureshi, a wholesale trader. “We are aware that chicken is perfectly safe. The meat is heated at the shop itself. After it’s cooked at home there is no chance of any microbes surviving,” said Raina Meshram, a buyer at Gokulpeth. Sunil Meshram, a customer at another shop, said he had bought 7kg for the family’s weekend feast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/poultry-rates-down-for-farmers-not-consumers/articleshow/80205248.cms||Shishir Arya
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||‘Fool-proof safety against electric hazards in GMCH’||Aurangabad: Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) dean Kananbala Yelikar, in the wake of the fire incident at the Bhandara hospital, has assured that miniature circuit breaker (MCB), an automatically operated electrical switch that prevent short-circuit in electric supply, is in place at the NICU and other key wards. The state-run hospital, as an additional measure, also conducted a mock fire drill for staffers on Saturday evening. Yelikar said the state-run hospital has a fool-proof safety against any possible electric hazard. “Besides MCB, we have an electric board of standard capacity for every bed and the power load is equally divided as a safety measure. We use only standardized equipment such as warmer, monitor, photo therapy unit, infusion pump and ventilator at the NICU and other wards,” she said. The dean added that the entire electrical network within the GMCH is inspected on a regular basis and maintenance work is carried out as and when needed. “We have competent bodies and panels in place who ensure safety on all fronts, including that involving electricity supply,” Yelikar said.She said that each infant kept at NICU is monitored by four trained staffers round-the-clock in order to ensure proper care. As a fire-fighting measure, the GMCH has installed different types of fire extinguishers, smoke detectors and fire-alarm system at different places. “We give fire-fighting training to staff and carry out mock-drills. The last drill before the latest one was carried out in September last year,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/fool-proof-safety-against-electric-hazards-in-gmch/articleshow/80201894.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Lucknow||BJP MLA’s widow slams Priyanka for shielding Mukhtar||Lucknow: Alka Rai, widow of BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai and Ghazipur MLA, on Sunday slammed the Congress government in Punjab and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra for not transferring Mau MLA Mukhtar Ansari to UP. Ansari is an accused in the murder of Krishnanand Rai and is currently lodged in Ropar jail in Punjab. “I want to request the Congress government and Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi not to shield a dreaded criminal like Mukhtar,” Rai said. Her statement came a day after Ghazipur police reached Punjab with the Supreme Court notice ordering transfer of Ansari to Uttar Pradesh. “I came to know that the Punjab government did not accept the notice. They should send Mukhtar to UP so that justice in the case pending against him could be done,” Alka Rai, MLA from Mohammadabad in Ghazipur, said. UP government had filed a criminal petition in the apex court to bring Ansari to Ghazipur jail. The next hearing in the SC is on Monday. In October last year, Rai had written a letter to Priyanka asking why the Congress government in Punjab was shielding Mukhtar. She had also claimed in the letter that it was not possible that Priyanka and her brother Rahul Gandhi were not aware of the Punjab government’s attempt to protect Mukhtar Ansari. Rai has filed a petition in the Delhi high court challenging Ansari’s acquittal in the murder of her husband. Former UP DGP AK Jain said Ansari was being given political patronage by the Punjab government which was not allowing his transfer to UP on medical grounds. “Despite SC notice, Ansari has not been handed over to UP Police and this is a cause of concern,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/bjp-mlas-widow-slams-priyanka-for-shielding-mukhtar/articleshow/80204549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Madurai: Boy playing with cradle gets strangled, dies||MADURAI: A 13-year-old boy died after he was accidentally strangled in a cradle made using a saree at his house in Madurai on Saturday. The deceased was identified as S Chandru from Sumathipuram near Keelavalavu in Madurai district. Police sources said that a saree cradle was being used for an infant in the house. Chandru was playing in the cradle alone while his mother had gone out. When she returned, she found him hanging from the cradle with the sari around his neck. She relieved him immediately and rushed him to a government hospital in Singampunari with the help of relatives. Doctors checked the boy and declared that he was brought dead. Based on a complaint from his mother S Thavamani, a case was registered with the Keelavalavu police station under the CrPc section 174 (suspicious death). Sub-inspector Sudhan conducted an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/boy-playing-with-cradle-gets-strangled-dies/articleshow/80204550.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||Will retrieve Kalapani from India through talks: Nepal PM KP Oli||NEW DELHI: Even as he reached out to India saying he wanted to be a real friend, Nepal PM K P Oli on Sunday said Nepal will "retrieve" Kalapani, Limpiyadhura and Lipulekh from India through diplomatic dialogue. Speaking in the National Assembly, Oli also confirmed his foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali's visit to India on January 14 and said the talks will also focus on the border issue that damaged bilateral ties last year. "We will hold diplomatic talks with India and our foreign minister is also going to India,” he said. “Today, we are facing difficulties to get back our land because Nepali rulers never made efforts to reclaim Nepali territories after Indian military forces started to station there following the India-China war in 1962. After the India-China war, an Indian Army battalion is stationed in Kalapani that Nepal has been claiming as its territory,” he added. Oli, however, underscored that ties between the two countries had improved dramatically in the past few months. "We are working to deepen ties with India based on sovereign equality. In fact, we want to deepen the relationship with India in the true sense and we should not hesitate to raise our issues of genuine concerns with India,” Oli said in his address on Sunday. He said a notable initiative was made to solve problems in the relations with India by holding comprehensive dialogue. “Some had said the relations with India would be strained when a new map was issued by incorporating Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani as Nepali land but it did not happen. Now, the discussion with India is held on the basis of friendship. Nepali land will be retrieved at any cost,” he stressed while addressing the seventh session of the parliament. Oli dissolved the House of Representatives on December 20 and recommended snap polls be held on April 30 and May 10. But his decision to dissolve the House and hold fresh polls has been challenged in the Supreme Court and the hearing is going on. Oli’s decision to dissolve the House has sharply divided opinion in Nepal and his own party, Nepal Communist Party, is on the verge of split. A case is pending with the Elections Commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-retrieve-kalapani-from-india-through-talks-nepal-pm-kp-oli/articleshow/80205501.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: To pay off debt, single mother takes to chain-snatching at Kurla station||MUMBAI: A twist of fate and the pandemic-induced lockdown sent a woman with a promising future spiralling down the world of crime. Kajal Mhaske, mother to a two-year-old, was caught snatching a commuter’s gold chain at Kurla station on Saturday. After constable Vrushali Mayekar took Mhaske into custody, a search revealed a broken piece of the stolen chain. It was the second time in two days Mhaske had targeted a commuter. When she narrated her story though, even the officials in khaki, who are all too familiar with the underbelly of the city, were left moved. Mhaske, 27, is the daughter of a civic conservancy staffer. After doing well in class X, she enrolled at a Wadala college in the science stream. But due to her family’s financial condition, she dropped out after the second year of B.Sc. She then joined a five-star hotel in Worli, assisting junior chefs in the kitchen. She was keen on studying hotel management once she saved up enough. Around the same time, she became friends with a swimming coach. The couple eventually tied the knot in 2018 and she gave birth to a boy shortly afterwards. But in 2020, her life turned upside down when her husband was accused of molesting her sister and arrested. Mhaske had to run the household, look after her baby and arrange funds to secure her husband’s release on bail, all alone. She joined an NGO working for the welfare of tribals, but the job didn’t pay much and she had to take loans to fight her husband’s case. In September 2020, her husband returned home from prison. But within days, he passed away. He had been HIV positive. She had to pay back the loans, but due to the lockdown, she couldn’t get a well-paying job. She committed her first crime on January 7, snatching the chain of a commuter, Sanju Kanaujia, at Kurla station. Two days later, she targeted another commuter, Prachi Gupta. “We had studied CCTV footage of the station from January 7 and posted plainclothes personnel to look out for her. Mhaske admitted to both the thefts and gave up the stolen chain. Once she is convicted and serves her sentence, we will help her reform,” said senior inspector Shailendra Dhiwar, GRP crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/to-pay-off-debt-single-mom-takes-to-chain-snatching-at-train-station/articleshow/80204609.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag: 120 of 350 hospitals have fire safety NOC||VISAKHAPATNAM: Only 120 hospitals, nursing homes and dental clinics in Vizag out of nearly 350 have obtained the mandatory no-objection certificate (NOC) from the fire department of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Nearly a half of hospitals in the city, including some government hospitals, don’t have the NOC. Surprisingly, even King George Hospital (KGH), the biggest government hospital in north Andhra, lacks holistic fire safety clearance. Officials informed that while the CSR block of KGH is equipped with a fire safety mechanism and has obtained the NOC, the remaining blocks lack the same. In fact, a significant number of government hospitals lack proper fire safety mechanism. It is only the big private hospitals that have the NOC. Even among them, some hospitals have been unable to properly maintain their fire safety equipment. Niranjan Reddy, regional fire officer of GVMC, said that there are more than 350 small, medium and big hospitals, nursing homes and dental clinics in Vizag city. Of them, only 120 have obtained the NOC. “The lack of fire safety clearance is a serious issue,” Reddy said while adding, “We will serve legal notices to hospitals that have failed to get the NOC. If they ignore the legal notices, we will serve show-cause notices for prosecution.” Fire safety officials have observed that in many cases fire safety mechanism is limited to installation of fire extinguishers. Staff members of such establishments are not trained to handle fire mishaps. In case of fire, the entire responsibility of fighting the fire falls on guards outsourced from security agencies. It may be recalled that in October 2018, a private hospital at Maharanipeta was victim of a fire mishap due to an electrical short circuit. Fortunately, the hospital staffers were alert and no one was injured. The hospital management shifted the 70 patients at the hospital at the time to various other hospitals. Further, timely intervention of staff members helped avert at fire accident at KGH some time ago. In another incident, the entire paediatric ward of Victoria General Hospital (popularly known as Gosha Hospital) was gutted. Prompt rescue operations ensured that there were no injuries. Visakhapatnam district fire officer B Ram Prakash said that while some big hospitals have installed fire safety equipment, they need to conduct a series of mock drills and overhaul the system periodically in order to handle potential mishaps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/120-of-350-vizag-hosps-have-fire-safety-noc/articleshow/80202096.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Telugu body in North America set for nail-biter polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Telugu diaspora in North America is preparing for an election which could be a nail-biter. The Telugu Association of North America (TANA) is the biggest Telugu organisation outside India and will be going for its biennial elections next month. For the first time in its history, election for future president of TANA is likely to end up in a triangular fight. While Niranjan Srungavarapu, present chairman of TANA foundation and Srinivas Gangineni have already announced their candidature for president, Naren Kodali is likely to announce his candidature soon. Niranjan, who owns an IT company, has the backing of incumbent president Jay Talluri, which makes him the frontrunner. He faces stiff competition from Naren Kodali, who also has his own IT company. According to sources, he enjoys the support of former TANA president, Satish Vemana. Though he is yet to announce his candidature, many believe that it is only a matter of time before he makes a formal announcement. Srinivas Gogineni, who works as a professor lost to Jay Talluri in 2017. He too has a long association with TANA and previously held various positions including that of chairman. While Niranjan and Naren have the support of two influential groups, Srinivas came to fray on his own. Speaking to TOI, Niranjan said that though the competition is going to be tough this year, he is confident of winning. He claimed that his opponents had not been active with the association over the past few years whereas he has been continuously involved in various service activities especially during Covid-19 times. Niranjan also put forth his vision if he is voted to TANA president. He said the top priority for him is to involve the next generation in activities. He claimed that while his generation has been more active and connected with Telugu people across the globe, the same kind of attachment is not seen in the present generation. He says he wants to change that by involving them in culture and language promotion activities. Another area which he wanted to work is on Telugu-medium schools started by TANA across USA. His third goal is to set up speciality hospitals and orphanages back in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telugu-body-in-north-america-set-for-nail-biter-polls/articleshow/80202178.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Factory operator kills employee in VKI||JAIPUR: The VKI police registered a murder case against a factory operator for stabbing an employee to death on Sunday. The incident happened on Saturday evening when the factory operator Brijraj Singh engaged in a tiff with one employee Sanjay. “Singh stabbed Sanjay with an iron rod in his body leaving him critically injured and fled from the spot. Other employees rushed him to the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries,” said Mangilal Vishnoi. a police official. The industry was located in Akhepura Aryan Nagar in VKI. The FIR was filed by the watchman of the factory. Report said that Singh was a close relative of the factory owner. Police is tracing the family of the deceased who is a migrant labourer. Vishnoi said that Singh fled the spot and is yet to be arrested. “We are raiding all possible places where the accused can be found or could have taken refuge. The deceased is from UP and his family has not been traced so far,” said Vishnoi. Police have been dialling the contact number from his mobile phone to track his family. His body has been kept in the SMS mortuary. Police registered a case of murder and have started questioning other employees to find the reason for the fight between the two.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/factory-operator-kills-employee-in-vki/articleshow/80203565.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||TTD’s Ram idol for Vizianagaram temple to be ready soon||VISAKHAPATNAM: A new idol of Ram, being prepared by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanam (TTD), is likely to be ready in the next ten days. Vizianagaram’s assistant commissioner of the endowments department, Ch Ranga Rao, said that the TTD was making the idol as per Agama guidelines. The endowments department official told TOI that they had given the order for the Ram idol to TTD following a report by a three-member committee formed by the government. “The TTD offers the service of making idols free of cost. We are expecting that the idol will reach us in the next 10 days. The idol will be three feet tall,” Ranga Rao said. Ranga Rao said that the vandalised idol was made of rock hence the new idol too shall be sculpted in rock. CM YS Jagan Mohan Reddy is likely to visit Ramatheertham to participate in the idol consecration ceremony.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ttds-ram-idol-for-vzm-temple-to-be-ready-soon/articleshow/80202163.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||PROTECTING KAHN’S OVERALL IIM-A CAMPUS PLAN||With good reason, recent discussions, polemics and revelations have been focused upon saving the ensemble of 18 dormitories in Louis Kahn’s masterpiece, the Indian Institute of Management in Ahmedabad, from the bulldozer and the wrecking ball. Under huge global pressure from national and international press, from individuals and cultural institutions world-wide, and from IIM-A alumni, the director and board of IIM-A have retreated for the moment from their initial intention of demolishing the whole lot, as announced on December 15. They stepped back from doing the wrong thing, but will they now do the right thing? It is obvious that they should invite back SNK (Somaya and Kalappa Consultants), who did such a good job on restoring the library and administration block, to complete the restoration and consolidation of the dormitories to the same high level. But for the moment, there is no sign of this happening as false information continues to circulate about supposed structural weaknesses in the dorms. The ultimate aim should be the full status and protection of a Unesco World Heritage Site: all in the international community agree upon this. But what area should be included in this definition? The original campus plan included staff and faculty housing based upon concepts and sketches provided by Louis Kahn and carried through to design and construction by the very able Anant Raje, Balkrishna Doshi and their colleagues. The IIM-A campus was conceived as a whole and the diagonal arrays of housing in brick with concrete lintels carry on the major themes at a smaller, more domestic scale as part of the overall hierarchy. Constructed in the 1960s and 1970s, these supplied secure homes to staff and faculty that were exemplary at the time in terms of layout, materials, hygiene, natural ventilation, shaded terraces and surrounding green space. Low cost but high quality: were you to transpose this well-proportioned and practical terrace housing to a leafy suburb of Mumbai, London or Shanghai today, it would sell for a pretty price in the current housing market. But it has been clear for years from the Campus Plan of 2014 provided by HCP (Director Bimal Patel) that all of this fine work is to be demolished and replaced by far inferior designs that are hostile to Kahn’s architecture and overall planning concept. One sees free standing blocks and even towers, apparently designed by the commercial firm ARCOP. This is run-of-the-mill corporate work, and could be found anywhere. There is a lost opportunity here to achieve high density but low-level solutions that are ecologically sensitive, integrating sunken courts, greenery and natural cooling. After all, we are in Gujarat, the land of tanks, stepped wells and havelis with terraces at all levels: principles that could have been transformed in modern terms. The existing housing should be embedded in a more sympathetic social landscape project: the greening of IIM-A. In any case, at least some of the housing, even the most modest, should be preserved as a social document of the time, testifying to an integrated social vision in the Nehru period. The same goes for the ‘sample arch’ demonstrating the basic structural grammar of Louis Kahn. Then there are two major interventions that were also launched by Kahn in concepts and sketches but interpreted and realized with great skill by Anant Raje (1930-2009): the management design centre and the dining and kitchen hall, both superb buildings occupying key sites and helping to anchor IIM into its site. In the HCP plan these are replaced by nasty looking red and purple boxes, diabolical oblongs, that are not even sited in an intelligent way. With its layers of protective structure in textured brick, its shaded walkways, planted sunken courtyard and bold geometrical arches, the MDC has a timeless air. Recently the IIM-A director proposed the idea of replacing Kahn with buildings in a ‘Kahnian’ grammar, a bizarre idea which would have ended up with an inauthentic pastiche. With Raje one has the real thing, a former collaborator who has digested the principles of the master and transformed them. The dining hall is a gem, with its skilful massing, fine proportions and twin refectories. It has a ceremonial air like a small symmetrical palace, and would be ideal for special events such as top international level congresses requiring catering. The buildings on the new campus designed by Patel are bland and soulless when compared with those of the Kahnian legacy. They act as a warning concerning the lowered architectural ambitions of IIM-A. It is time now to focus upon protecting Kahn’s vision for the campus as a whole from debasing and destructive interference. William J R Curtis is an architectural historian and critic, author of the classic Modern Architecture Since 1900 (Disclaimer: The views expressed here are the author’s own)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/protecting-kahns-overall-iim-a-campus-plan/articleshow/80199641.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Naidu behind SEC decision on polls: Min||Visakhapatnam: Municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday alleged that the state election commission’s decisions on local body polls were against the spirit of the Constitution. Addressing the media here, the minister questioned the SEC’s alleged unilateral decision to hold panchayat elections while the administration was busy trying to contain a pandemic. “N Chandrababu Naidu was behind the sudden announcement of panchayat election schedule by SEC. Naidu is trying hard to make sure the fruits of welfare schemes do not the reach the poor. PM Narendra Modi had announced the vaccine rollout from January 16, AP is also working in this direction. But within an hour after the chief secretary expressed his inability to conduct polls, the SEC sprang a surprise by releasing the schedule,” said Satyanarayana. The minister added that earlier, the poll body had postponed polls in March, 2020, citing the outbreak of Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/naidu-behind-sec-decision-on-polls-min/articleshow/80202145.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Edappadi K Palaniswami, O Panneerselvam to inaugurate Alanganallur jallikattu||MADURAI: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam will inaugurate Alanganallur Jallikattu on January 16. This time, the best bull and bull tamer will win cars. Minister for revenue, disaster management and IT R B Udhayakumar participated in the ceremony to initiate the work on the Alanganallur jallikattu with the ceremonial ‘muhurthakkal’. He said that a grand welcome would be accorded to the chief minister and deputy chief minister at the jallikattu venue. The members of the organising committees had met the chief minister and requested him to participate in the games this year. The game, in which 655 bull tamers are expected to participate, will be inaugurated at 8am. The administration of the Alanaganallur town panchayat, revenue department and PWD officials would ensure that all the arrangements are in place and the standard operating procedures are followed for the conduct of the games. Barricades will be erected at the venue to ensure safety. The entire proceedings would be recorded using CCTV cameras installed at key places in the town. RT-PCR tests were conducted for 367 of the 430 bull tamers who were registered for this year’s game at Avaniapuram. Medical teams under the supervision of the chief medical officer of the Madurai Corporation, Dr Ismail Fatima, conducted the tests as Avaniapuram. The results of the tests would be sent to the registered mobile numbers of participants on Monday. Tests for participants of the Palamedu jallikattu would be conducted on January 11 and 12 and for Alanganallur on January 12 and 13. All the participants and the audience will have to wear masks. Meanwhile, jallikattu bull owners staged a protest at Kuruvithurai in Madurai district with their bulls, demanding the state government to relax its norms and allow four people to accompany each bull. The government has allowed only two people to accompany a bull this year. This would make it difficult to manage bulls, as one man will have to stand at the vaadivaasal and the other man at the collection point. There would be no way of receiving the prizes if only two people accompany the bulls, they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/eps-ops-to-inaugurate-alanganallur-jallikattu/articleshow/80204578.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Amaravati||Telugu body in North America set for nail-biter polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Telugu diaspora in North America is preparing for an election which could be a nail-biter. The Telugu Association of North America (TANA) is the biggest Telugu organisation outside India and will be going for its biennial elections next month. For the first time in its history, election for future president of TANA is likely to end up in a triangular fight. While Niranjan Srungavarapu, present chairman of TANA foundation and Srinivas Gangineni have already announced their candidature for president, Naren Kodali is likely to announce his candidature soon. Niranjan, who owns an IT company, has the backing of incumbent president Jay Talluri, which makes him the frontrunner. He faces stiff competition from Naren Kodali, who also has his own IT company. According to sources, he enjoys the support of former TANA president, Satish Vemana. Though he is yet to announce his candidature, many believe that it is only a matter of time before he makes a formal announcement. Srinivas Gogineni, who works as a professor lost to Jay Talluri in 2017. He too has a long association with TANA and previously held various positions including that of chairman. While Niranjan and Naren have the support of two influential groups, Srinivas came to fray on his own. Speaking to TOI, Niranjan said that though the competition is going to be tough this year, he is confident of winning. He claimed that his opponents had not been active with the association over the past few years whereas he has been continuously involved in various service activities especially during Covid-19 times. Niranjan also put forth his vision if he is voted to TANA president. He said the top priority for him is to involve the next generation in activities. He claimed that while his generation has been more active and connected with Telugu people across the globe, the same kind of attachment is not seen in the present generation. He says he wants to change that by involving them in culture and language promotion activities. Another area which he wanted to work is on Telugu-medium schools started by TANA across USA. His third goal is to set up speciality hospitals and orphanages back in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/telugu-body-in-north-america-set-for-nail-biter-polls/articleshow/80208804.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Magisterial inquiry into mysterious death of minor in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: A magisterial inquiry has been ordered into the mysterious death of a 16-year-old girl at Balayogi SC Gurukul school/college hostel at Veldurthi in Kurnool district. N Pushpalatha was pursuing her first-year intermediate at Balayogi SC Gurukul College. On Saturday night, she was found unconscious on the staircase near her dormitory. When hostel authorities took her to the hospital, doctors declared her ‘brought dead’. Upon learning of the incident, Veldurthi police registered a case and sent the body for post mortem to Kurnool government general hospital (GGH). On Sunday, Kurnool collector G Veerapandian and SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa visited Kurnool GGH. They interacted with doctors on duty about the likely cause of the girl’s death. Doctors at Kurnool GGH told the district collector that no external injuries were found on the girl’s body and that they would have to wait for the post mortem report to arrive at a conclusion. The Kurnool collector said that a magisterial inquiry headed by RDO Venkatesulu has been ordered to probe into the mysterious death of the intermediate student. Atmakur DSP Y Sruthi will head the police investigation into the case. After the post-mortem, the girl’s body was handed over to her parents Amanda Rao and Hymavathi. The district collector consoled them and assured a speedy and fair investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/magisterial-inquiry-into-mysterious-death-of-minor/articleshow/80202074.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Coaches of 11 Vizag-bound trains revamped||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Railways are currently operating 11 Visakhapatnam-bound trains, the coaches of which have been upgraded to make them more passenger friendly under Project Utkrisht which was started in April, 2018. The coaches of these trains have been upgraded at a cost of Rs 5 crore according to a railway spokesperson from the Waltair division of East Coast Railway. “The Railways have spent between Rs 2 lakh and Rs 4 lakh to upgrade each coach under the project. All 11 trains together have at least 220 coaches,” the spokesperson told TOI. “The coaches developed under Project Utkrisht are not better than LHB coaches but they are passenger friendly with an aesthetic look. These coaches have modern facilities, improved interiors and exteriors,” said a railway official working at the Coach Care Centre in Visakhapatnam. The toilets of all the coaches have improved fittings. Vinyl wrapping was provided at the doorways of the coaches. Night glow stickers and braille signage were also provided inside the coaches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/coaches-of-11-vizag-bound-trains-revamped/articleshow/80202124.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||NEET 2021: Lack of clarity on syllabus cut troubles students, teachers||NAGPUR: Lakhs of students planning to appear for the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET) this year are still unaware whether or not the syllabus will be slashed. The anticipation has been building up for the last few months because of CBSE slashing their syllabus by 30%. Sameer Phale, who prepares students for NEET, said this uncertainty is increasing anxiety for everyone. “We were teaching the full syllabus and all the while wondering if there will be a cut in syllabus, meaning precious teaching hours will have got used up. For the board exams, we have prepared students for the slashed syllabus,” said Phale. Panini Telang, a coaching institute owner, said it is surprising that no clarity has come from the authorities. “All of this builds up pressure on students. Authorities must clarify and communicate whatever is their final decision. It’s a question of lakhs of students across the country,” said Telang. For NEET, the two main stakeholders are the National Testing Agency (NTA) and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW). The syllabus is finalized by the MoHFW through an independent body. Earlier it used to be the Medical Council of India, but now that has been dissolved and hence the task falls upon the National Medical Commission (NMC). After NMC approves the syllabus, NTA takes over as the exam conducting body. The latter’s role is restricted to conducting the exam, evaluating it, and declaring results. The problem is compounded by a ban on physical classes for coaching institutes. Due to this, it is taking more time to complete the course, as online classes are dependent on connectivity and access by students. Jagdish Agrawal, a coaching institute owner, said, “The quality of learning that one can get in a physical class set up can never be compared to online mode of teaching.” Virag Mitkari, a coaching institute owner, said, “There is no reason for the government to keep our institutes closed. In restaurants and bars, people have to remove their masks to eat, thus adding to the risk factor. In our classrooms, there is no need to remove the mask due to which safety level is always maintained.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/lack-of-clarity-on-neet-2021-syllabus-cut-troubles-students-teachers/articleshow/80207508.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 11, 2021||Surat||Sans contract, parking nightmare at Surat airport||Surat: While you plan to drive down to Surat airport to pick up or drop someone off, add a few more hours to your schedule mentally before your turn the ignition key. Chances are you may be forced to spend inside your car trapped in the maze of vehicles clogging the parking lot inside the airport premises. With the Airports Authority of India (AAI) yet to find a bidder for the parking contract at the airport, chaotic scenes are witnessed every day due to the haphazard parking at the free parking lot. Vehicles are not having to pay any charges for the past many months now, and it’s literally a free ride inside. Sources said that about 200 cars and more than 100 two-wheelers are parked in the vehicle parking area throughout the day. The two-wheelers are parked in the car parking area and vice-a-versa. Ashish Maisuriya, a jeweller who was going to Delhi said, “I was surprised to see the parking scene at the airport. I did not get space at the parking lot as vehicles were parked haphazardly. Since it is free parking, people are using it as their own property.” Official sources said that the vehicle parking contract at the airport was to be operationalized in May-20. However, it failed to commence due to the coronavirus pandemic. There are challenges being faced for the finalisation of contract. In an email reply, a senior officer at Surat airport stated that due to uncertainty about business and operational conditions, the response of the bidders is not balanced. Therefore challenges are being faced for finalisation of contract for vehicle parking management. Nonetheless, continuous efforts are being made by Surat airport to manage vehicle parking area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/sans-contract-parking-nightmare-at-surat-airport/articleshow/80202015.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||Hooda’s act unpardonable, says BCA||Vadodara: Baroda vice-captain Deepak Hooda, who walked out of the team just a day ahead of the Syed Mushtaq Ali National T20 tournament, is set to face strict disciplinary action. The Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) management said that initial inquiry revealed that Hooda was at fault and may also de-register him as a player. Hooda had on Saturday left Reliance Ground in a huff after a verbal altercation with captain Krunal Pandya during the practice session. He even left the hotel and broke the bio-bubble created by the BCCI to keep the players safe amid Covid-19 pandemic. Hooda has accused Pandya of dada giri (intimidation) and hurling expletives at him during the net practice, which left him "demoralised and depressed.” “Inquiry into the incident showed that no such unpleasant incident had happened that warranted Hooda to withdraw from the team. By walking out, he showed that he is above the team. The BCA is in support of Pandya and the team management,” said Satyajit Gaekwad, chairman, BCA press and publicity committee. Gaekwad added that Hooda failed to hold on to his responsibility as the vice-captain and he should have talked with the BCA management first instead of taking such drastic step. “If the BCA de-registers Hooda as a player, he may have difficulty in playing in the IPL as well. The management is very upset due to his behaviour,” a BCA official said. Hooda played for Kings XI Punjab in last season. BCA officials said that the team management had decided to do fielding practice during the net session on Saturday. But Hooda reportedly insisted that he wanted to do batting practice. “Pandya asked him to join the team in fielding session but Hooda refused and it led to some arguments between the duo,” a senior BCA official said. Hooda then left the ground and later sent an email to the BCA management accusing Pandya of abusing him. Hooda, who has played 46 first-class games for Baroda apart from 123 T20 matches, said in his email that he had permission from the coach to do the practice. He further alleged that Pandya abused him in presence of his team mates and other state teams. BCA CEO Shishir Hattangadi on Sunday replied to Hooda’s email and said that the cricketer’s act was unpardonable. ‘By walking away from responsibility of vice captaincy and leaving the team because of a difference you have sent out a message that you hold yourself above the team,’ Hattangadi wrote. He further added that he had chatted with Hooda’s IPL franchise and BCCI too will be informed about his misconduct. “The BCA apex council will take a decision on the action to be taken against Hooda,” Hattangadi told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/hoodas-act-unpardonable-says-bca/articleshow/80202091.cms||Tushar Tere
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Sivaganga collector asks potters to enter online trade||MADURAI: Sivaganga district collector P Madhusudhan Reddy visited the Manamadurai Pottery Workers Co-operative Society on Sunday and listened to the grievances of the workers and urged them to up-scale the industry to enter online trade and make use of the latest opportunities. The unusual rain has led to stagnation of Rs 6 lakh-worth pots, which could not be baked due to the climate. President of the society, C Lakshmanan, said that they were grateful to the district collector for his visit. The ‘ghatams’ made here, figure among the important instruments of musical directors such as A R Rehman and Ilayaraja. C Nagalingam, an employee at the society, said that the collector had urged them to explore possibilities of selling their products online. Packaging systems would also help them scale up their trade. Export was another prospective move, the collector told the officials concerned to help them in the same. The potters in turn sought help from the collector to purchase individual sand mixing machines, as the machine they had is huge and is more than 50 years old. The collector said he would take steps to get them 30 new machines at subsidized rates. Stagnant water around their work place is another challenge, as the moisture in the air is affecting the production. The collector directed the town panchayat officials to ensure that the problem is solved at the earliest. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/sivaganga-collector-asks-potters-to-enter-online-trade/articleshow/80204597.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Covid-19, bird flu scare restrict rescue camps for birds||JAIPUR: The animal rights groups are not holding bird rescue camps ahead of Makar Sankranti this year due to Covid-19 and bird flu scare. They are turning down 90% of the rescue calls due to unavailability of volunteers and resources leading to the death of hundreds of birds in want of proper rescue. Adding to the woes, this year more number of calls are being received than previous years due to work from home making it possible for many people to fly kites during the day. Thousands of birds get entangled in the razor-sharp or glass-coated manjha leaving them injured or dead. "The rescue camps are not happening since the format of the camp doesn’t allow us to follow Covid-19 guidelines. We are operating from our bird shelter home with a handful of volunteers. Every year, we get over 150 volunteers who are ready to work for us a week before January 14 but this year we have restricted the number to 20," said Rohit Gangwal of RAKSHA, an NGO working for animal rights. His full-time members are working overtime rescuing birds in PPE kits. This afternoon, they received a call to rescue a peacock which requires two volunteers due to the bird's size. They had to wait for two hours for the full-time members to rescue the peacock as they were rescuing other birds. Those interested in volunteering for the cause have to be in the age group of 20-40 years, they have to present Covid-19 report, they must not have any comorbidity and bring their own PPE kits and sanitise themselves after every rescue. These rules have been set by the animal rights groups to make sure that no one contracts either coronavirus or bird flu. The animal husbandry department has found bird flu positive cases among sparrows in Jaipur. The situation has again forced these groups to strictly turn down rescue of sparrows. "This year, I am going to miss saving birds since I am above 40 with a comorbidity," said Sahil Singhal, of People for Animal, who expressed fear that this year casualties are going to be more than ever before. Sanjiv Sankhla of Help Suffering Lives Society says that this year civil society has to step in to minimize the deaths of the birds. "The ideal situation is that nobody should fly kites with deadly manjha. Secondly, if they see any injured bird they should first throw a handkerchief or cloth on its face and body. Do not touch the bird without surgical gloves and face mask. Put the injured bird in a shoe box and transport it to any animal hospital," said Sanhkla.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-19-bird-flu-scare-restrict-rescue-camps-for-birds/articleshow/80203561.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Hit by bird flu scare, poultry sales nosedive in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Ahead of Sankranti, the fear of bird flu fear has hit p sales across the state. Poultry and meat markets in Vijayawada city wore a deserted look on Sunday as residents hesitated to make purchases. Every year, demand for chicken goes up during Sankranti, with one kilo of broiler chicken selling at Rs 220 during the festival in 2020. The price of country chicken, too, had touched a high of Rs 530 per kilo. This year, however, with the festival just round the corner, demand is muted and has pulled down poultry prices. As on Sunday, broiler chicken in Vijayawada was selling at Rs 150 per kilo in local markets. With the fall in price, poultry traders who invested large sums in raising chickens anticipating brisk sales during Sankranti are now in a quandary. “I have invested around Rs 15 lakhs on country chicken expecting good sale. The birds are very healthy and we got high yield. But news on the spread of bird flu has impacted chicken sales. We are even ready to sell country chicken live at Rs 250 per kilog. But there is poor response from retailers,” said M Hemanth, who runs a poultry farm of country chickens at Kankipadu. Meanwhile, in an attempt to boost sales, retailers are offering discounts on the price announced by the poultry federation. “The government announced there is no case of bird flu in state. But people are scared. We have noticed a huge fall in sale over the last two weeks and are offering discounts to attract buyers,” said J Krishna who runs a chicken shop at Maganti Market on Besant Road. A number of hotels in the city have also started to remove poultry items from their menu on account of the bird flu scare. Poultry farmers have appealed to the government for assistance and to run awareness camps.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hit-by-bird-flu-scare-poultry-sales-nosedive/articleshow/80201909.cms||Venu Lanka
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad: Rat snake rescued from a suicide spot||AURANGABAD: A rat snake was rescued from a dug well in the fringe areas of the city, in which a teenager had jumped to commit suicide on Saturday afternoon.  Though the snake was rescued, the youth could not survive due to lack of timely help. Mangesh Sanjay Mahanor (18), a resident of Nakshatrwadi had jumped into the well in the farm allegedly due to a family dispute. As soon as he jumped, his father shouted for help but nobody dared to enter the well due to the presence of a full-grown (over eight-feet-long) snake in the well. The fire brigade and snake rescuers Manoj Gaikwad and Suresh Salve were called. “The snake must have accidentally fallen into the well, We reached the spot and removed the reptile from the well using a branch of berry tree. The fire brigade team took out of the body of the youth,” Gaikwad said. He said the lack of public awareness about poisonous and non-poisonous snake led to delay in saving the teenager’s life. “The rat snakes are non-venomous snakes commonly found in India. The creature feeds on rodents. They are good swimmers and therefore it survived in the well,” he said. While the snake was released into its natural habitat, Satara police have registered a case in connection with the death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rat-snake-rescued-from-a-suicide-spot/articleshow/80201938.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Telugu body in North America set for nail-biter polls||VIJAYAWADA: The Telugu diaspora in North America is preparing for an election which could be a nail-biter. The Telugu Association of North America (TANA) is the biggest Telugu organisation outside India and will be going for its biennial elections next month. For the first time in its history, election for future president of TANA is likely to end up in a triangular fight. While Niranjan Srungavarapu, present chairman of TANA foundation and Srinivas Gangineni have already announced their candidature for president, Naren Kodali is likely to announce his candidature soon. Niranjan, who owns an IT company, has the backing of incumbent president Jay Talluri, which makes him the frontrunner. He faces stiff competition from Naren Kodali, who also has his own IT company. According to sources, he enjoys the support of former TANA president, Satish Vemana. Though he is yet to announce his candidature, many believe that it is only a matter of time before he makes a formal announcement. Srinivas Gogineni, who works as a professor lost to Jay Talluri in 2017. He too has a long association with TANA and previously held various positions including that of chairman. While Niranjan and Naren have the support of two influential groups, Srinivas came to fray on his own. Speaking to TOI, Niranjan said that though the competition is going to be tough this year, he is confident of winning. He claimed that his opponents had not been active with the association over the past few years whereas he has been continuously involved in various service activities especially during Covid-19 times. Niranjan also put forth his vision if he is voted to TANA president. He said the top priority for him is to involve the next generation in activities. He claimed that while his generation has been more active and connected with Telugu people across the globe, the same kind of attachment is not seen in the present generation. He says he wants to change that by involving them in culture and language promotion activities. Another area which he wanted to work is on Telugu-medium schools started by TANA across USA. His third goal is to set up speciality hospitals and orphanages back in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/telugu-body-in-north-america-set-for-nail-biter-polls/articleshow/80208803.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Plasma therapy trial halted, but will have lasting benefits||Nagpur: The Platina trial that was studying the efficacy of convalescent plasma therapy in treating severe Covid-19 patients may have been halted in the state, but the exercise has not been in vain. The Project Platina has given never-before infrastructure boost to 21 medical colleges and hospitals in state which will have a lasting impact, said officials. Project Platina was launched from Nagpur as World’s biggest trial of plasma therapy in Covid-19 patients. It was a brainchild of the then medical education secretary Dr Sanjay Mukherjee and director of DMER Dr T P Lahane. Nagpur was selected as the principal trial site and the coordinating centre of the project. Dr Mukherjee said that stopping such an ambitious project like this was not scientific. “It is difficult to digest that we could not manage the trial. But halting the academic exercise is not scientific,” he said. A senior official from Nagpur told TOI that the trial may have halted for a while, but there are lots of benefits for the trial sites. “High end plasma extraction machineries are now available at 21 centres across the state. Plasma is used not only for Covid-19, but for many other ailments. These hospitals will have this facility permanently now,” said the official. In addition, the available infrastructure will enable these medical colleges to start the courses in transfusion medicine. “Colleges may apply to the National Medical Council (NMC) for the new courses on transfusion medicine. In the long run, the NMC can allot additional PG seats in this subject,” said the officials. In short, the infrastructure boost given to these institutions through the Project Platina will be useful for other purpose. Even non-Covid patients will continue to get benefited as the plasma is commonly given to trauma, burn and shock patients, as well as people with severe liver disease or multiple clotting factor deficiencies. It helps boost the patient’s blood volume, which can prevent shock, and helps with blood clotting. Finally, the officials claimed there is good chance of the trials getting revived in some other format in future. PROJECT PLATINA: NOT ALL IS OVER - Plasma infrastructure useful for other diseases, non-Covid patients - Plasma extractors now available at 21 trial sites - Being medical colleges, they may start courses in transfusion medicines - Plasma is useful for treating other patients - In case the trial resumes, infrastructure is ready||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/plasma-therapy-trial-halted-but-will-have-lasting-benefits/articleshow/80203572.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 11, 2021||Amaravati||AP govt to aid small scale units in food processing industry||AMARAVATI: In a big boost to food processing sector, the state government has decided to promote about 10,000 small-scale processing units at a cost of Rs 460 crore. Financial assistance including subsidy up to Rs 10 lakh would be granted under the new scheme formulated by the Centre under PM Atma Nirbhar Yojana. “The state government has decided to grant permissions to food processing units in a big away by providing land on lease at nominal prices. We are discussing with big corporates to invest in food processing industry,” said agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu. He explained that they would also provide raw material, chiefly agriculture produce, at low prices as they would be procuring stocks from farmers through AP Markfed and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently directed district collectors to acquire land for setting up of Multi-Purpose Facility Centres in villages where the state government is planning to construct cold storages, godowns and food processing units. The Multi-Purpose Facility Centres would be linked with the local Rythu Bharosa Kendras to help farmers get either remunerative prices or storage facility. The land in these centres would be provided to private firms on lease to create adequate storage facilities and also set up food processing centres to give value addition to the agriculture produce. The agriculture marketing department is readying plans to rope in multinational firms in food processing sector particularly those who could make use of surplus production of tomato, orange, citrus fruit, onion, mango, chilli, turmeric, millets, jowar and red gram. “Setting up of food processing units in the clusters where the perishable agriculture crops are being produced in high quantities will bring the farmers unrest in selling their stocks to an end because these units will be requiring the stocks throughout the year,” said the agriculture minister. Interestingly, the state government is also planning on setting up incubation centres in all districts to provide skill development training to the youth in setting up micro-level food processing units. The incubation centre would also help the youth in getting required technology support from big corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/govt-to-aid-small-scale-units-in-food-processing-industry/articleshow/80206352.cms||Samdani MN
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||AP govt to aid small scale units in food processing industry||AMARAVATI: In a big boost to food processing sector, the state government has decided to promote about 10,000 small-scale processing units at a cost of Rs 460 crore. Financial assistance including subsidy up to Rs 10 lakh would be granted under the new scheme formulated by the Centre under PM Atma Nirbhar Yojana. “The state government has decided to grant permissions to food processing units in a big away by providing land on lease at nominal prices. We are discussing with big corporates to invest in food processing industry,” said agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu. He explained that they would also provide raw material, chiefly agriculture produce, at low prices as they would be procuring stocks from farmers through AP Markfed and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently directed district collectors to acquire land for setting up of Multi-Purpose Facility Centres in villages where the state government is planning to construct cold storages, godowns and food processing units. The Multi-Purpose Facility Centres would be linked with the local Rythu Bharosa Kendras to help farmers get either remunerative prices or storage facility. The land in these centres would be provided to private firms on lease to create adequate storage facilities and also set up food processing centres to give value addition to the agriculture produce. The agriculture marketing department is readying plans to rope in multinational firms in food processing sector particularly those who could make use of surplus production of tomato, orange, citrus fruit, onion, mango, chilli, turmeric, millets, jowar and red gram. “Setting up of food processing units in the clusters where the perishable agriculture crops are being produced in high quantities will bring the farmers unrest in selling their stocks to an end because these units will be requiring the stocks throughout the year,” said the agriculture minister. Interestingly, the state government is also planning on setting up incubation centres in all districts to provide skill development training to the youth in setting up micro-level food processing units. The incubation centre would also help the youth in getting required technology support from big corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/govt-to-aid-small-scale-units-in-food-processing-industry/articleshow/80201943.cms||Samdani MN
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Nokh solar park to attract Rs 3,300cr investments: RRECL CMD||Jaipur: Nokh Solar Park in Jaisalmer having 925MW capacity will fetch an investment Rs 3,300 crore the state. The government expects to meet the deadline of completing the project by March 2022 despite the challenges posed by the pandemic.Meeting the deadline is important to avail the central financial assistance extended to the park. Last year, public sector major NTPC and Rajasthan Development Company Ltd (RSDCL), a subsidiary of Rajasthan Renewable Energy Corporation Ltd (RRECL), had signed signed an last year.As per the agreement, the RSDCL will develop infrastructure in the solar park and NTPC will develop the solar projects. “Meeting the deadline for Nokh Solar Park is very important. This will help our JV partner NTPC benefit from the aggressive capacity addition happening in the country. We have set a target of 24,000 megawatt from big projects. The projects in the park will also help us in reaching the milestone,” said Subodh Agarwal, chairman and managing director, RRECL. Solar parks are going to play a key role in achieving the ambitious targets fixed by the Centre and the state government. Besides Nokh, two other parks are under development. Rajasthan government has inked joint ventures with Adani and Essel Infra to set up two parks having capacity of 1500 MW and 750 MW respectively. Besides this, there is a plan to develop two ultra mega renewable energy power parks having 5,000 MW capacity. The proposal of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy has been approved by the state government and MoUs are likely to be signed soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nokh-solar-park-to-attract-rs-3300cr-investments-rrecl-cmd/articleshow/80203571.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur markets flooded with kites ahead of Makar Sakranti||JAIPUR: Ahead of Makar Sakranti, markets in the Walled City, especially kite shops, were flooded with customers on Sunday. Be it Handipura, Tripolia Bazaar, Haldiyon Ka Raasta or Chandpole, people in large numbers were seen flocking to kite shops. TOI on Sunday visited the markets to see if the spirit of the kite festival had been dampened by Covid or not. “In Jaipur, nothing can beat the fervour of kite festival. We have been seeing customers since the first week of January. Today we had a good footfall of customers,” said Abdul Naeem, a wholesale dealer of kites and manja at Tripolia Bazaar. People of different ages were seen at Handipura, which is known as biggest kite market in Jaipur. Due to the recent spell of fog in Uttar Pradesh from where kites arrive in Jaipur markets, prices have increased. “Kites which were sold for Rs 80 per 20 pieces are now being sold for Rs 120 per 20 pieces. The starting range of kites is Rs 4 per piece. Cost of the paper, climate and increased labour charges are responsible for the increase in prices,” said Naeem Ahamed, a wholesale dealer of kites at Handipura, who gets kites from Bareilly and Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. Customers with masks were busy in selecting kites. “Patang to udaani hi hai, direct sunlight milti hai(We have to fly kites as you get direct sunlight),” said 46-year-old Avinash Sharma who purchased 100 kites and 2 charkhees of manjas. The local manufacturers were busy sending supplies of kites to other districts. “Apart from Jaipur, people in Sikar and Jhunjhunu districts also fly kites on Makar Sakranti. As merely five days are left, we have to finish and pack their orders by Monday,” said Anees Ahamad of Handipura, whose family is into kite manufacturing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-markets-flooded-with-kites-ahead-of-makar-sakranti/articleshow/80203573.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP govt to aid small scale units in food processing industry||AMARAVATI: In a big boost to food processing sector, the state government has decided to promote about 10,000 small-scale processing units at a cost of Rs 460 crore. Financial assistance including subsidy up to Rs 10 lakh would be granted under the new scheme formulated by the Centre under PM Atma Nirbhar Yojana. “The state government has decided to grant permissions to food processing units in a big away by providing land on lease at nominal prices. We are discussing with big corporates to invest in food processing industry,” said agriculture minister Kurasala Kannababu. He explained that they would also provide raw material, chiefly agriculture produce, at low prices as they would be procuring stocks from farmers through AP Markfed and Rythu Bharosa Kendras. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently directed district collectors to acquire land for setting up of Multi-Purpose Facility Centres in villages where the state government is planning to construct cold storages, godowns and food processing units. The Multi-Purpose Facility Centres would be linked with the local Rythu Bharosa Kendras to help farmers get either remunerative prices or storage facility. The land in these centres would be provided to private firms on lease to create adequate storage facilities and also set up food processing centres to give value addition to the agriculture produce. The agriculture marketing department is readying plans to rope in multinational firms in food processing sector particularly those who could make use of surplus production of tomato, orange, citrus fruit, onion, mango, chilli, turmeric, millets, jowar and red gram. “Setting up of food processing units in the clusters where the perishable agriculture crops are being produced in high quantities will bring the farmers unrest in selling their stocks to an end because these units will be requiring the stocks throughout the year,” said the agriculture minister. Interestingly, the state government is also planning on setting up incubation centres in all districts to provide skill development training to the youth in setting up micro-level food processing units. The incubation centre would also help the youth in getting required technology support from big corporations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/govt-to-aid-small-scale-units-in-food-processing-industry/articleshow/80206351.cms||Samdani MN
January 11, 2021||Goa||‘Look for alternative land for IIT’||Panaji: The Goa government must look for alternative land for the IIT at Melauli and it should be a participatory process of informed consent which is in conformity with the laws protecting the rights of people and the environment, said women’s collective Bailancho Saad on Sunday. “The government should withdraw FIRs against protesters and stop witch hunting of activists and community leaders,” convener Sabina Martins said. ‘The tribal people who have nurtured their lands and forests are the first stakeholders and cannot be dispossessed,” she added. Physically stomping on women is a tyrannical, despicable act and violates human rights, Martins said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/look-for-alternative-land-for-iit/articleshow/80204639.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolkata||Dad no more, son from UK stuck in Delhi quarantine||KOLKATA: A Kolkata youth, working in the UK and coming back home to perform last rites of his father, got stranded at the New Delhi airport after the new norms for institutional quarantine were put in place. Desperate to make it to his father’s Shraddh, Souravan Roy, a resident of Patuli in Kolkata, has approached the Delhi state government and the Union minister Debasree Chaudhuri, to help him reach home soon. The youth who works for a multinational IT firm was in the UK when he was informed that his father, Subrata Kumar, was critical and admitted to a hospital. He passed away on January 2. “He was looking after my ailing mother. I was in Southampton and decided to take the earliest possible to Kolkata. I knew about the pandemic situation here but I had to take a chance. I underwent the RTPCR test in the UK and was found Covid-19 negative. I travelled within the 72-hour stipulated time set by the Indian authorities.” On Friday, Roy landed at the New Delhi airport, from where he was supposed to take another flight to Kolkata. “Institutional quarantine for seven days meant that I would not be able to attend my father’s Shraddh. I am the only child and my mother’s condition is critical,” Roy said. Hoping against the hope Roy took it to social media and narrated the ordeal. “I was at the Surat airport when I suddenly saw the message on my WhatsApp number. Immediately, I asked my personal secretary to see how this person can be brought out of the trouble. ” Chaudhuri said. By Sunday afternoon Roy received a few phone calls from the Delhi government and Airport Authority. “I was told that his papers are being cleared by this evening. Hopefully he will reach Kolkata soon,” Chaudhuri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/dad-no-more-son-from-uk-stuck-in-delhi-quarantine/articleshow/80203577.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Safety Week: MSEDCL issues safety advisory||Aurangabad: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) — ahead of the start of the Safety Week that will be observed from Monday — has issued an advisory for consumers across all categories. “It is important to ensure that the power cable and all other equipment carry ISI mark and have the correct capacity. Do not put excessive load on the electric circuit. Carry out electrification works through knowledgeable person to avoid any lapse,” an official release from the state power utility said. Stressing on the need of using Miniature Circuit Breaker of the right capacity to deal with the threat due to overload or short circuits, the MSEDCL has also emphasized upon the need of proper earthlings. “Earthing is a very important component in the use of electricity. Therefore, the use of efficient copper plate or copper rod for wiring installation is advisable. Also, Earth Leakage Circuit Breaker is essential to avoid the risk of leakage,” the state power utility said. While many large apartments have a meter room to house the electricity meters of all flat owners at one place, the MSEDCL has advised that such room should be clean and well-ventilated. “The electricity is such an entity that if you do not take care while handling or using it, then dire consequences cannot be avoided. There is no forgiveness in case of improper use of electricity,” MSEDCL public relations officer (Nanded division) Dhananjay Pawar said. For further help or emergency, the consumers can contact on toll-free numbers 18001023435 or 18002333435.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/safety-week-msedcl-issues-safety-advisory/articleshow/80201948.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi Traffic Police directs its staff to stay out of harm’s way||NEW DELHI: With incidents of traffic cops suffering grievous injuries, sometimes even dying, after being hit by unruly drivers at night, traffic personnel posted at pickets have been instructed never to stand in front of a vehicle until it has come to stop after signalling them to do so. Senior officers have advised the on-duty cops to first use the lighted baton to signal the vehicles to stop and then to focus on their registration, make and colour if they failed to comply. An officer said, “These rules have been notified after realising that policemen routinely get injured trying to stop suspicious vehicles by standing in their way.” Many cases of this kind have been reported, with policemen dragged on the bonnet of the offending vehicles. Times ViewTrying to stop a speedy vehicle physically was a rash, if not entirely a foolhardy, act. It endangered the life of the cop in action, the driver behind the wheels as well as innocent people in the vicinity. This step will prevent avoidable accidents and injuries.Another officer said, “Accidents of this kind have to stop.” Policemen of officer rank have also been instructed to discontinue the practice of asking the on-road personnel to try and stop moving vehicles by physically coming into their path. “All districts and units concerned have been directed to procure light-emanating batons for use at night pickets,” said the officer. In October last year, a traffic police constable was dragged on the bonnet of a car for some distance after he attempted to stop the vehicle for violating road rules in Delhi Cantonment. In July, Sanket Kaushik, assistant commissioner of police of Delhi Traffic Police died in an accident at Rajokri Flyover while on duty managing the traffic there. In February, a motorist dragged a constable over 2km in Nangloi. The constable, along with other traffic police personnel, was checking papers at Nangloi Chowk when the accused's vehicle drove in from the other side. The policeman signalled him to stop, but after slowing down, the man speeded up, catching the policeman unawares. In November 2018, a 48-year-old traffic policeman was killed when a speeding truck hit him and dragged him for about half a kilometre when he flagged it down for a routine check near Rao Tula Ram Marg in southwest Delhi. Three years ago, lieutenant governor Anil Baijal had held a meeting with the brass of Delhi Police regarding the city’s law and order. Expressing concern at the death of a police constable, who was run over by a truck during checking, the LG had emphasised the need to adopt more scientific ways of keeping an eye on moving traffic to replace these risk-filled methods.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traffic-police-directs-its-staff-to-stay-out-of-harms-way/articleshow/80203579.cms||Pankhuri Yadav
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Ecological park in Madurai city in need of facelift||MADURAI: The Ecological Park located near Madurai Corporation’s main building is in poor condition as the play equipment have also not been maintained. The park is in need of an immediate facelift. The equipment installed at the children section are damaged. The sharp and protruding parts of the equipment pose threat to the children visiting the park. The equipment meant for exercising for adults, installed a couple of years ago, have also become worn out. S Vijaya, a mother of two from Shenoy Nagar said that “The play equipment like swing, see-saw and merry-go-round are in bad shape for long, but they are not being looked into. Children have fewer options to play and spend time here. There are not many parks available in the city and it is important to take proper care of the available ones,” she said. R Shahjagan, a visitor, urged the corporation to improve the quality of equipment and to explore possibilities of introducing more features. Shenbagavalli Ravichandran from KK Nagar said she regularly visits the park for walking as the park has got a good walking track. The equipment installed for exercising was an added attraction. But the equipment requires repair works and replacement, she said. An official from the corporation said that broken equipment will be repaired at the earliest. Equipment that are beyond repairing will be replaced with newer ones, he said. The park is spread across 5.5 acres with the entry through Dr Thangaraj Salai. It was developed in two phases and was opened to the public in 2004. Musical fountain and various structures made out of scrap iron and boating are the key attractions of the park. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ecological-park-in-madurai-city-in-need-of-facelift/articleshow/80204642.cms||V Devanathan
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Fewer kite makers from UP reach Jaipur due to Covid-19||JAIPUR: No Makar Sakranti is complete without kite and manjha makers from Rampur and Bareilly in UP, who come to the Pink City as their products are in much demand by the kite lovers here. However, the scene is different this year. These UP kite makers stay in Jaipur as tenants two months prior to Makar Sakranti. But this time, they have not been accorded the same hospitality in the Walled City. Fewer kite makers have arrived in Jaipur due to the pandemic and lack of accommodation facilities. One reason being that areas like Ramganj and MD Road in the Walled City had been epicenters of Covid-19. Places like Muslim Musafirkhana and a few cheaper hotels and guests houses on the MD Road have accommodated them. “I had called up one landlord in Ramganj where we had been staying for past so many years ahead of Makar Sakranti. This time, they have not allowed us. Since we had already planned to come we are staying at Muslim Musafirkhana,” Anees Ahamad, a 40-year-old kite manufacturer and trader from Bareilly told TOI on Sunday. On the other hand, local traders are directly getting kites and manjhas from Uttar Pradesh. “It is a better and safer option. But, yes the number of kites from Rampur and Bareilly are lesser this year as many makers preferred not to come may be because accommodation was a problem,” said Kishan Agarwal, a wholesale kite trader at Chandpole Bazaar. “We wait every year to visit Jaipur which is the biggest market for kites. We have taken a shop on rent in Handipura locality and started selling kites since January 4 onwards,” said Riyazuddin, a native of Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. Those who are fond of kites from Uttar Pradesh are seen thronging these places especially Muslim Musafirkhana, MD Road and Handipura to get the best lot of kites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fewer-kite-makers-from-up-reach-pink-city-due-to-covid-19/articleshow/80203576.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Historic results: Out of 70,000 final yr students, only 953 fail||Nagpur: Final year examinees are grinning from ear to ear. That’s because, as predicted by TOI on November 7, 98.58% cleared their final year exams. The experiment to conduct the exams online wherein students were allowed to appear for their papers from the comforts of their respective homes failed miserably. In 28 courses, including bachelors’ and masters’, students secured 100% pass percentage. Replies to an RTI query by activist Abhay Kolarkar revealed that 69,988 students had applied for their final year exams conducted in October and November. In all, 66,997 appeared, but 52,059 cleared all their papers. According to the reply submitted by Nagpur University assistant registrar Satish Murmare, only 953 students failed, while the remaining results are either withheld or yet to be declared. In a series of reports, TOI had exposed how the Maharashtra government and NU had made a complete mockery of final year exams by not keeping separate marks for theory and internals. TOI also reported how even a zero score in MCQ tests can get students a degree, if they have scored well in the internals and practicals. Attributing the jump to internal and practical marks, TOI had reported on how results would be historic, if they scored 14/20 marks in these exams conducted by their respective colleges. The government had asked universities to change the internal component to 50% marks and conduct MCQ exams for the remaining 50%, which made all the difference. Normally, the component is 20% internals and 80% theory marks. PASSED & FAILED IN 2020 Exams — 203 Applied — 69,988 Appeared — 66,997 Passed — 52,059 Failed — 953 EXAMS WITH 100% RESULT Bachelor courses — App. Elect & Soft. Tech Part IV (Final), App. Ele. & Soft. Tech 8th Sem, Cosm. Tech. 8th Sem, Fashion Design 6th Sem, Interior Design 8th Sem, BSc (Forensic Sci) 6th Sem, Journalism (old & new), Jewellery Design 6th Sem, B.Sc. (I/T) 6th Sem, Cosm. Tech. Part IV (Final), Eighth Sem BE (Aeronautical Engg) (CBS), Eighth Sem BE (Electronics Comm.) (CBS) New, Eighth Sem BE (Comp. Engg) (CBS) New, Eighth Sem BE (Power Engg) New, BFA 8th Sem (Painting), B. Voc. 6th Sem (Automotive), B. Voc. 6th Sem (Acting), Post B.Sc. Diploma in Comp Science and Application 2nd Sem, & PG Diploma in Cloud Tech 2nd Sem (CBS) Masters courses — LLM 4th Sem C (Intellectual Property Law) (CBCS), MA 4th Sem (Gandhian Thoughts) (CBCS), MA 4th Sem (RTM Thoughts) (CBCS), MSc 4th Sem (Home Science) (CBCS) (Human Development), MSc 4th Sem (Home Science) (CBCS) (R/M), MSc 4th Sem (Forensic Science) (CBCS), MSc 4th Sem (Medicinal Plant) (CBCS)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/historic-results-out-of-70000-final-yr-students-only-953-fail/articleshow/80205259.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 11, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Banned manja sale continues, cops say it’s a seasonal thing||JAIPUR: Despite a ban on sale and purchase of manja made of metal, plastic and other items, it is easily available in the city markets and no major action has been taken against the defaulters so far. “We are not selling plastic manja also known as Chinese manja. But other varieties are being sold as we are witnessing customers everyday,” said Anil Samtani, a wholesale trader of kites and manja at Ajmeri Gate. Police had registered 14 FIRs against those selling manja initially, however with the intervention of some public representatives, they withdrew four FIRs. Senior police officers remainned tightlipped on being asked why they were not taking action against the sale and purchase of manja. “It is question of livelihood for many and is a seasonal thing. Some of the public representatives had shown their reservation against our action. Thus, we are making them aware of the ill effects of manja than directly taking stern against them,” said a senior officer of Jaipur police commissionerate. Police on December 29 had issued an order of section 144 CrPC and banned the sale and purchase of manja made of plastic, metal and glass.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sale-of-banned-manja-on-cops-silent/articleshow/80203578.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Sangli dist admin proposes sand mining on 13 riverbed locations||Kolhapur: The Sangli district administration has proposed mining of sand from 13 locations on the beds of five rivers — Agrani, Nandani, Man, Korda and Bor — which flow through rainfall-deficient tehsils.Five of the proposed sand mining sites are on the Agrani riverbed alone. Incidentally, it took nearly two decades of sustained efforts by the local residents, non-government organisations and the administration to rejuvenate the Agrani river, which has started flowing properly once again. These efforts were also recognised by a national award recently.Now, despite opposition from local residents, the administration has moved the sand mining proposal. The tehsils along which the five rivers flow get 450-500mm average rainfall — much less than the district average of 700mm annually.Sangli upper district collector Gopichand Kadam said surveys were carried out by the mining and groundwater survey and development agency (GSDA) officials. The surveys have found that good rainfall had helped the rivers become free-flowing round the year, and this, in turn, generated ample sand. “The tehsil-level monitoring committee has proposed sand mining after keeping the central government’s guidelines in mind. We have sought suggestions and objections within 30 days and villagers can register their views,” said Kadam.Shivdas Bhosale, a river activist, said: “A month ago, the revenue officials had visited us seeking our opinion on sand mining on the Agrani riverbed. We opposed the idea and will continue to oppose it. Sand mining will lead to drying up of the riverbed and we will revert to the dark old days of drought. I don’t know how other villages will react, but we will continue with our opposition.”Bhosale said the the Agran Dhulgaon village panchayat will once again pass a resolution banning sand mining along the section of the Agrani river that passes through the village. He is hopeful that other villages will follow the suit.As per the proposal, 43 depots will be set up at 13 locations along these five rivers by the sand miners. According to the survey report, the GSDA has recommended mining of 12,500 brass (1 brass equals 4,500kg) of sand from these depots. The maximum depth of mining (1.54 m) will be at the Man river site in Atpadi tehsil, while the minimum (0.7m) will be at the Korada river in the severely water deficient Jat tehsil. In case of the Agrani river, the depth of mining has been fixed at 1m at all the five locations from where 4,500 brass of sand will be mined.TOI had earlier reported on the Agrani sand mining plans. Then, district collector Abhijeet Chaudhary had said that sand mining is being proposed to curb illegal sand mining. He had said that if the locals were willing to take the responsibility of stopping illegal mining, the administration will not auction the sites for sand mining. The GSDA study also claims the replenishment capacity of these rivers is more than the actual sand to be mined out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/sangli-dist-admin-proposes-sand-mining-on-13-riverbed-locations/articleshow/80201963.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Hold workshop over new devpt rules: AE||Kolhapur: The Architects and Engineers (AE) association of Kolhapur has asked district collector Daulat Desai to organize a workshop about the recently notified uniform development control and promotion regulations (UDCPR) announced by the state government. President of the association Ajay Korane has written a letter to Desai stating that the experts who guided government as well as urban development department’s officials should be invited to guide architects, engineers, town planners and surveyors of Kolhapur Municipal Corporation, Kolhapur Urban Development Authority and district town planning office. “The implementation of the UDCPR has begun. We have asked our technical fraternity to inform us the issues arising during getting the development proposals approved. The officials need clarity over several clauses of the regulations. The workshop will help implement regulations smoothly and uniformly as there will be no varying interpretations of various agencies involved.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hold-workshop-over-new-devpt-rules-ae/articleshow/80201953.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bank customers’ compensation plaint dismissed||Catherine, Jude and Aleta DeSouza had invested in five fixed deposits of Bank of Maharashtra, payable to “any one or survivor”. Aleta later instructed the bank not to break the fixed deposits except in her presence and with her signature. So the bank refused to either renew or repay the deposits on maturity unless all the three holders personally remained present to give joint and unanimous instructions. Catherine and Jude filed a civil suit in Margao, claiming Rs78,32,808 toward the maturity value of the five deposits, and Rs1 lakh as compensation. The court ordered the bank to pay the maturity value, but did not award any compensation. The bank complied with this order. Subsequently, they filed a consumer complaint against the bank seeking compensation for deficiency in service. The claim was contested on ground that the dispute had already been decided by the civil court. Upholding the bank’s contention, the Goa State Commission dismissed the complaint. Catherine and Jude appealed to the National Commission, which observed that the claim for compensation was an integral part of the main dispute regarding non-repayment of the fixed deposits. It pointed out that the Consumer Protection Act does not confer any new right, but merely provides an additional remedy. So, if the civil court does not award compensation, or if the amount is considered inadequate, the appropriate remedy would be to file an appeal against that order. It held that a fresh complaint would be barred by res judicata, meaning that fresh litigation cannot be filed on the same cause of action. In an order dated November 18, 2020, delivered by Anup Thakur, the National Commission held that the dismissal of complaint was justified. (The author is a consumer activist and has won the Govt. of India's National Youth Award for Consumer Protection. His e mail is jehangir.gai.columnist@outlook.in)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bank-customers-compensation-plaint-dismissed/articleshow/80204713.cms||Jehangir B Gai
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag nature lovers launch green calendar||VISAKHAPATNAM: With the aim to create awareness on the importance of environment and biodiversity, green lovers from the city have launched an environmental days’ calendar that contains month-wise international, national and United Nations observances and messages. Members of the organisation Green Climate launched the Environmental Days Calendar at the Visakha Public Library. Messages in the calendar are in Telugu and English. Founder of Green Climate Team J V Ratnam said, “Natural biodiversity is being reduced due to urbanisation, human-induced land and climatic changes. Many species are classified as rare or endangered or threatened. As per a study by IUCN, there are over 210 threatened species of fauna and nearly 250 flora species under threat and facing extinction in the Indian subcontinent. Under this scenario, awareness about environmental conservation is important.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/nature-lovers-launch-green-calendar/articleshow/80201964.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Adivasi students deprived of drinking water||Yavatmal: Village Mangrul Chavhal of Nandgaon Khandeshwar (Amravati district) is deprived of potable drinking water, thanks to the contractor of Nagpur-Mumbai Samruthi Maha Marg (High Way) currently under construction. There is a big well on a two-acre land which belongs to the Adivasi Fase Pardhi Sudhar Samiti which is running a school for the community since 2011. The water from the well was used for catering to the daily needs of the students and employees of the school. However, on the night of January 4, labourers of the construction company reached the spot with JCB and tried to dump murrum into the well to seal it. Alert employees of the school rushed to the well and protested against the action. “We shall jump into the well and commit suicide and then, you may fill up the well,” they told the construction workers around midnight. When workers of the contractor found that the school employees were unrelenting, they slowly withdrew from the site. Around 60-70 litres of diesel thrown into the well contaminated the water. On January 5, a delegation of women from the village under the leadership of Ratisha Matin Bhosale met the tehsildar and submitted a memorandum to be forwarded to the district collector of Amravati to ensure justice to the aggrieved. Students have been rendered waterless since January 4. Leading light of the Fase Pardhi community, Matin Bhosale, said that though they are Indian citizens by birth, they are deprived of any facility made available by the Centre as well as the state. “We have no identity cards, we have no education, we are denied constitutional protection and are often implicated in false criminal cases,” said Bhosale, adding, he has played an important role to ensure education to the Fase Pardhi community students and Prashnachinna Adivasi Fase Pardhi Ashram Shala. “During PM Narendra Modi’s visit to Pandharkawda before the general elections, we had undertaken a 40-km rally on foot to the venue which was well attended by the community members from all over Vidarbha. We were stopped by bureaucrats 5km away from the PM’s public address. They promised to provide us constitutional protection but nothing is being done,” lamented Bhosale. Meanwhile, women from the Fase Pardhi community were rounded up by forest officials in Pusad on January 6. Birds (thither) trapped by them to earn their livelihood were seized. Women were confined in the forest office till the evening. “Though 16 birds were seized, the panchnama was made for only 12,” complained Maya Pawar who later led a protest to the SDO office and submitted a memorandum addressed to the governor of Maharashtra urging him to intervene in the planned atrocities meted out to them. Permit us to either opt for mass suicide or join the Naxalite movement, she added. “Forest wealth is the constitutional right of the adivasis. But power drunk officers are deliberately exploiting adivasis under the pretext of lame excuses,” said social activist Manish Jadhav, who warned the government for indirectly encouraging youngsters of the Fase Pardhi community to join the Naxalite movement by taking up weapons to fight against unpardonable injustice and second rate treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/adivasi-students-deprived-of-drinking-water/articleshow/80203584.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh reports 227 new Covid cases, 1 death||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 227 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,84,916. The toll increased to 7,129 as one more patient from Visakhapatnam district succumbed to the novel coronavirus. As many as 289 patients were discharged from various treating facilities on Sunday. There are currently 2,544 active cases with 8,75,243 cumulative recoveries and 7,129 deaths, translating to a recovery rate of 98.9%. The active cases are less than 100 in three districts, while the active case load is fewer than 500 in all the districts. With about 99.4% recovery rate, Vizianagaram has the lowest active case load of 36. Guntur reported 50 new infections on Sunday, followed by Krishna (38). The remaining 11 districts recorded less than 30 new cases. Nellore, Kadapa, Prakasam, Srikakulam and Vizianagaram posted single-digit case numbers to the table. East Godavari continued to lead the table with 1,23,940 cumulative cases. Andhra Pradesh tested 50,027 Covid-19 samples on Sunday and detected 227 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The share of RT-PCR testing in the overall daily test total has significantly increased in the last few weeks. The state so far conducted 1.23 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7.2%. Nation-wide 10 states have contributed 82.25% of the 18,645 new cases recorded on Sunday. But Andhra Pradesh, which is consistently exhibiting the downward trend, has not found a place in this list of states. Kerala reported 5,528 cases, followed by Maharashtra (3,581) and Chhattisgarh (1,014).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/state-reports-227-covid-cases-1-death/articleshow/80201951.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Cold winds from northwest cause temperature to dip again||NEW DELHI: Mercury has started dipping once again with cold northwesterly winds bringing Delhi’s maximum temperature down to 16.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday — four degrees below normal. In comparison, the maximum was 19 degrees Celsius on Saturday. Similarly, Delhi’s minimum temperature on Sunday was 7.8 degrees, a drop from Saturday’s 10.8 degrees Celsius. Track the pollution level in your cityIndia Meteorological Department (IMD) said cold winds will continue to impact the region over the next few days. “After the withdrawal of the western disturbance, there has been a change in wind direction and cold northwesterly winds from the snow-clad mountains is blowing towards Delhi again. Wind speed on Sunday was around 18 km/hr and this could pick up to around 25-30 km/hr on Monday,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) in Delhi. Srivastava said despite sunny conditions, which is likely to prevail over the next few days, Delhi’s maximum temperature may hover around 16-17 degrees Celsius. “These ice-cold winds will ensure day-time temperature remains below normal. Even with sunny conditions through the day, Delhi will feel the chill over the next few days,” he said. The lowest maximum temperature recorded across Delhi on Sunday was 13.8 degrees Celsius at Jafarpur. It was 14.2 degrees Celsius at Palam. In terms of the minimum temperature, Lodhi road was the coldest with a low of 6.9 degrees Celsius. According to the IMD, Delhi is only expected to see shallow fog over the next few days, owing to strong winds. This increase in wind speed has also helped improve Delhi’s air quality over the last 24 hours. Delhi’s 24-hour average AQI improved from a reading of 301 (very poor) on Saturday to a reading of 245 (poor) on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-winds-from-northwest-cause-temp-to-dip-again/articleshow/80203588.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Congress: Probe human rights violations in Melauli||PANAJI: Condemning the arrest and alleged custodial assault of Shailendra Velingkar, Congress on Sunday demanded that the government form a panel of doctors to examine Velingkar’s injuries. Congress also said that an impartial probe should be conducted into the alleged human rights violations that occurred at Shel Melauli on January 6. State Congress president Girish Chodankar alleged that Velingkar was brutally assaulted by police personnel to the extent that he is no long able to hear and stand properly. Velingkar, the son of former RSS Goa chief Subhash Velingkar, was arrested by police for allegedly leading the anti IIT-Goa protests at Shel Melauli. Congress said that BJP was using police personnel, particularly IPS officers, to terrorise farmers, locals and political office bearers. Chodankar also claimed that DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena has been sidelined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-probe-human-rights-violations-in-melauli/articleshow/80204752.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Streets for People: Trichy corporation gets architects’ help||TRICHY: The Trichy corporation in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Architects (IIA), Trichy centre is preparing for the ‘Streets for People’ challenge launched by the ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA). Smart cities across the country will compete in the challenge by designing and implementing a model street that effectively utilises the public spaces and has pedestrian-friendly roads. While the civic body is still reluctant to take part in the challenge, sources said that IIA, comprising 150 city-based architects, has pitched in to technically support the drive. ‘Streets for People’ is to be implemented with the support of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), involving the local citizen groups. On a pilot basis, a design for a model street with public spaces that are safe, child-friendly and conducive for economic generation will be mooted and submitted to MoHUA. An expert panel will scrutinise the submissions and shortlist 11 cities. The shortlisted cities will be supported to scale up the pilot model to streets in other parts of the cities. In Trichy city, around 10 streets are in consideration for planning the design under one of two categories- neighbourhood streets and commercial streets. Maximum usage of the public spaces such as pedestrian platforms and vacant spaces adjacent to the roads will be considered while devising the model. “We will design a professional model street incorporating successful street models across the globe. Our technical assistance will continue even if Trichy is shortlisted for the next round,” A Abubacker Sidique, chairman, IIA Trichy centre said. While February 2021 is set as the deadline for submitting the proposal, Trichy corporation is yet to invite citizen groups to participate in the contest. “We have spoken to the architects and soon a street will be identified for the pilot project. People will be requested to submit their ideas. We have requested to extend the deadline for the contest citing Covid-19 pandemic,” an official source with Trichy corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/streets-for-people-trichy-corpn-gets-architects-help/articleshow/80203589.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Gap Road widening work to be complete by February 15||IDUKKI: Traffic will remain suspended along the Gap Road stretch of Kochi-Dhanushkodi National Highway till February 15 to complete the widening works. “We expect to complete the works on the entire stretch by February 15. The road tarring works of 7km of the 42km road stretch have been completed. The rocks that fell onto the Gap Road due to the landslides have been cleared. In the present situation, we can’t resume the traffic on this route till the road widening works in the Gap Road stretch is complete,” said Rex Felix, assistant executive engineer, NHAI. “Construction of protection wall along the Gap Road has also begun. We need permission from the forest department to complete the widening works of along 2.7km of the highway,” he added. Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said, “Traffic along Gap Road stretch will resume only after we get a green signal from the NH officials. The road remain closed till the road widening work is complete.” The road widening work on the Gap Road stretch was resumed in November last week after a gap of five months. The works were suspended following major landslides on the Gap Road which destroyed nearly 200m of the road and cardamom plantations on the lower side of the road last June. After that, another landslide on August 6 damaged more cardamom plantations. The farmers then blocked the construction works demanding compensation for the farm loss. The construction works resumed after discussions and resolving the issue. The Rs 268.2-crore road-widening work on the 42km-long Munnar-Bodimettu stretch was started in 2017. To ensure the safe passage of elephants and other wild animals across the Kochi-Dhanushkodi national highway, the officials decided to construct bridges and ramps on the Gap Road stretch in Munnar. The forest department had submitted a proposal which the National Highway Authority of India has approved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/gap-road-widening-work-to-be-complete-by-feb-15/articleshow/80201950.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Nashik prepares for 2,300 vaccinations per day||Nashik/Aurangabad: The Nashik district administration has decided to raise 23 vaccination centres in the first phase wherein health workers are to be administered Covid-19 vaccines. “We will raise 23 vaccination centres across the district, including Nashik and Malegaon municipal corporations as well as areas the Nashik Rural areas in which each of the centres will administer 100 vaccines per day,” district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal. Addressing the media on vaccine preparedness, the minister said that the dry run was carried out perfectly well in the district and suggestions from the state government on any improvisation would be included in the programme. “The first phase is only limited to health workers in the district and, hence, we will raise 23 centres so that health workers get the vaccination first. Each centre will administer 100 vaccines per day,” Bhujbal said. The district has enrolled 28,400 beneficiaries under the vaccination programme in the first phase. “We will have to carry out vaccination of about 30,000 beneficiaries. In phase two, we will require more than 650 centres and that will be planned accordingly,” Bhujbal said. The district is likely to require vaccine storage capacity of 5,000 litres with the administration already identifying 15,000 litres facility which can be brought into use at a short notice. Meanwhile in Aurangabad, shots of Covid vaccine will be given to frontline health workers at five identified places within municipal limits as a part of nationwide first phase of vaccination drive from January 16. The health centre at N-11 Bheem Nagar, Sadat Nagar, Silk Milk Colony and Bansilal Nagar are among the places where vaccination drive will take place. “The civic administration is all geared up for launching the vaccination drive from January 16. Frontline health workers from government and private hospitals will get vaccine shots during early phase,” health officer with Aurangabad Municipal Corporation Nita Padalkar said. Civic authorities said that the storage capacity of three lakh doses of vaccine has been created once the drive gets scaled up. At the district level, the vaccination drive will be carried out at 14 places in the early phase. The district civil hospital and rural hospitals from non-municipal limits would be involved during the drive. The online registration for beneficiaries of vaccination is being carried out using the CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Work) mobile application. Stating that the online registration is mandatory for every beneficiary, health authorities said that each registered beneficiary would get an alert through SMS. “The beneficiary getting both stipulated doses of vaccine as per guidelines will also get a certificate having QR code through a registered mobile,” authorities said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-prepares-for-2300-vaccinations-per-day/articleshow/80203586.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Father-son duo stabs goon to death||Nagpur: Sumeet Pingle, 23, was stabbed to death by his neighbour father-son duo in New Balaji Nagar of Ajni on Sunday following some misunderstanding over a police complaint. Ajni police have taken Nihal Joshi and his father Devender into custody. Pingle, who was out on bail in a murder case, suspected that Nihal had provoked his girlfriend to approach police against him. It’s learnt Pingle had snatched his girlfriend’s mobile around a week ago, following which the woman had lodged a complaint with Ajni police. Pingle was summoned at the police station. On reaching there, Pingle noticed Nihal too was present. Police said Nihal was at the police station regarding his family related issue. “There was no connection between Pingle’s case and Nihal’s issue yet the victim suspected it was a conspiracy against him,” said senior inspector Pradeep Rayanawar of Ajni police station. Pingle had been threatening Nihal since their meeting at the police station. On Sunday, Nihal had gone to a salon where Pingle too turned up. There was fight between the two when Nihal stabbed Pingle. Nihal’s father Devendra too had reached the spot and got involved in the fight. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/father-son-duo-stabs-goon-to-death/articleshow/80205262.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala DGP against moving cops out of home units||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The system of “working arrangement” which is synonymous with the indiscriminate attachment of policemen with senior officers and for the personal convenience of policemen has become a talking point in the force once again. In the latest development, the state police chief has issued an order nullifying all such orders issued by unit chiefs, other than from the police headquarters. In his communication to all the unit heads on December 31, state police chief Loknath Behera has said that it is noted that some of the unit heads are issuing working arrangement orders and had posted some of the police personnel on working arrangement to other units without the orders of the state police chief in defiance of the instructions. “It is strictly reiterated that no personnel shall be posted on a working arrangement without the orders of the state police chief. All such orders of working arrangement issued from any other office other than the police headquarters are hereby nullified and are void,” the order said. However, the police chief diluted his own order subsequently in the same communication, saying that any personnel who are currently attached on the basis of any working arrangement order issued from any other office other than the state police headquarters, should immediately submit the request for ratification from the police headquarters, failing which such policemen will be treated as being on unauthorized absence. Asking all the unit heads to “strictly adhere to the directions”, the order also asked all the “applicants” to immediately comply with the instructions so as to avoid being on unauthorized absence. There were multiple controversies in the past that had exposed the issue of working arrangement of the policemen and the camp followers. The whole issue had triggered in 2018 when the then ADGP K Sudesh Kumar’s driver filed a complaint with the police that the ADGP’s daughter had manhandled him. After the issue erupted, a stock taking was initiated by the police, and the government had conducted a high-level probe against the then deputy commandant of special armed police battalion P V Raju for misusing the services of camp followers and the ministerial staff at the SAP. While the list of police officers who are attached to the senior police officers, political leaders and other individuals facing ‘threat for life’ were prepared, it had also come to light that policemen were allowed to work outside their parent units without adhering to the norms. The classified data (accessed by TOI in 2017) showed that at least 1,644 police officers then, were operating on a working arrangement basis in the state, which means that they are working elsewhere and not at the unit where they originally are meant to. The numbers are only more at present, if not the same, top police sources said. The list also showed that half of the policemen who were on working arrangement were even without a director general’s order (DGO) – without the knowledge of the state police chief granting them permission to work outside their parent unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dgp-against-moving-cops-out-of-home-units/articleshow/80201975.cms||KP Saikiran
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||PMO seeks dismissal of PIL on PM Cares Fund with cost, HC Reserves Verdict||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Saturday reserved review PIL alleging irregularities in the PM Cares Fund for judgment. Earlier, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) in its reply had demanded dismissal of the PIL with exemplary cost to prevent misuse of such judicial forums. The PIL by lawyer Arvind Waghmare was listed before a division bench comprising Justice Sunil Shukre and Justice Anil Kilor. The PMO’s reply on affidavit filed by undersecretary Pradeep Kumar Srivastava, through additional solicitor general Anil Singh, informed that the PM Cares Fund is registered under the Indian Registration Act, 1908, and it doesn’t have any provision of appointment of two trustees from opposition parties, as demanded by the petitioner. “Even the HC, while dismissing the first PIL by the petitioner, had held that nomination of two members on the fund wasn’t mandatory for the chairman,” said Srivastava. Waghmare had pointed out that three trustees weren’t appointed on the board till date despite clear guidelines, but crores of rupees are being accepted. Being a donor to this fund himself, he insisted on appointment of other trustees for fortifying the confidence of the general public. However, the PMO argued that Waghmare failed to explain how and why the statutory mechanism applicable to the Public Charitable Trust Act is insufficient. “Petitioner wrongly mentioned that the PM Cares Fund was created by the central government. It is, in fact, a public charitable trust. It can’t be created by the Constitution of India or by any law made by the Parliament or by state legislature,” said Srivastava. On the petitioner’s contention that Public Charitable Trust Act is not applicable in the national capital, the PMO said the PM Cares Fund is registered under the Registration Act, and such trusts are governed by their own trust deed and by the provisions of the Act. “There are statutory mechanisms in law that oversee conduct of such public trusts. There’s no occasion for audit by Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India for such trusts, as demanded by the petitioner. Audit statements of receipt and payment accounts for financial year 2019-20 are available on the PM Cares Fund website,” he said. Quoting earlier HC verdict that had dismissed Waghmare’s plea, the PMO pointed out that no case was made out as the petitioner failed to proper research or present material to back his allegations. “The HC also observed that since the contributions to the PM Cares Fund are voluntary, its interference isn’t justified. This review plea lacked bona fides and it’s another misconceived attempt of using the medium of public interest litigation as publicity interest litigation. Not all aspects of public interests could be a matter for PIL unless there’s dereliction of statutory duty. No specific grounds are made for filing a review petition, only bald and bare points were made which are vague,” said Srivastava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pmo-seeks-dismissal-of-pil-on-pm-cares-fund-with-cost-hc-reserves-verdict/articleshow/80205266.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala govt ignored objections by law, finance department to regularize Kila staff||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state cabinet had ignored and overruled the strong objections raised by the finance department and law department against regularizing the contract and daily wage employees of Kerala Institute of Local Administration (Kila), reveals the cabinet notes accessed by TOI. TOI had reported on December 28 how the state cabinet had on December 24 conveniently ignored the verdict by a Constitution bench of the Supreme Court against regularizing daily wages and contract employees in government, while regularizing the temporary employees of Kila. The proposal that was initiated by the executive committee of Kila, was forwarded to the government by Kila director, on which the opinion of the law department was sought. The law department cited three verdicts State of Karnataka vs Umadevi case, 2006; Upandra Singh vs state of Bihar case, 2018, and Ram Sewak Yadav vs state of Bihar and Other, 2013. “The administrative department can be informed that on the basis of the aforementioned court verdicts, the proposal for regularization is illegal,” the law department wrote as its opinion. Subsequently, the file was forwarded to the finance department, which also strongly objected to the regularization. “The administrative department is informed that it is impossible to consider the proposal to regularize the 10 employees who are working on contract, daily-wage basis on Kila as they are not eligible as per the conditions laid out in the verdict State of Karnataka vs Umadevi case,” wrote the finance department. The finance department also said that if the administrative department, which is the local self-government department, wanted to get the employees regularized, the matter can be referred to the consideration of the cabinet. The chief minister then instructed the file to be kept on hold till the local body elections are completed, and was considered by the cabinet after the election results were announced. The government used its discretionary powers to ratify the proposal in contravention to the court order. Earlier, the government had issued an order refusing to regularize them after hearing the employees concerned as instructed by the high court. Those who were regularized in Kila include one lecturer, two employees in assistant grade, three DTP operators and four multi-task workers. After the regularization of employees in Kila on December 31, the cabinet again regularized 296 contract employees in Keltron and its allied wings. The present government had in 2017 cited the same SC judgments to cancel the regularization of 40 employees by the previous UDF government in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/govt-ignored-objections-by-law-fin-depts-to-regularize-kila-staff/articleshow/80201992.cms||KP Saikiran
January 11, 2021||Nashik||2,246 residents participate in sero survey||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has conducted sero survey of over 2,246 residents in the city so far. The survey started from Saturday in a bid to check the herd immunity among city residents. Under the survey, antibody tests of residents are to be done through a private lab identified by the civic body. The reports of the antibody tests are to be sent directly to residents. NMC’s medical superintendent Bapusaheb Nagargoje said that the civic body has decided to conduct antibody tests of 2,500 city residents aged above 18 years. So far, 90% of the survey has been conducted and is expected to be completed by Monday. The survey is being conducted under the technical guidance by experts from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Aurangabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2246-residents-participate-in-sero-survey/articleshow/80203612.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Nurse, newborn die in delivery bid at home||TRICHY: A 29-year-old BSc nursing graduate lost her life while delivering a baby under the supervision of her husband, an acupuncture practitioner, at their residence in Perambalur district on Sunday. The woman developed serious medical complications including blood coagulation while the unborn baby was found dead and decomposed within the uterus. Health department sources identified the deceased as Alagammal, hailing from Poolambadi village, and her husband as Vijayavarman. The woman was scheduled to deliver a baby on December 28 and the family had registered her name with the health department for reproduction and child health (RCH) identification number. However, officials said Alagammal did not undergo routine health checkups including pregnancy screening. “The family told us that they will take care of the childbirth at their residence. They even agreed to bear the consequences and threatened us for intervening,” said R Geetharani, deputy director of health services (DDHS), Perambalur. On Saturday night, the woman developed labour pain. The DDHS said that during the delivery attempt at home, only the head of the baby came out and Alagammal’s health deteriorated. She developed further complications and was rushed to Perambalur government hospital in an ambulance. The woman had developed liver and renal complications while her uterus was damaged since the baby had decomposed, the official said. Despite treatment, Alagammal’s condition worsened with blood platelets declining drastically and she had to be referred to Trichy MGMGH. However, she succumbed to serious complications on Sunday. While the woman’s body was kept in the government hospital for medical examination, the family allegedly demanded that it be handed over immediately. “We have registered a case for death under suspicious circumstances. Based on further investigation and reports from the health department, we may alter the section,” Nisha Parthiban, Perambalur superintendent of police, told TOI. An RDO inquiry will also be conducted, police sources said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nurse-newborn-die-in-delivery-bid-at-home/articleshow/80203618.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Trichy man held under Pocso for assaulting Class X girl||TRICHY: Police arrested a 20-year-old man under Pocso Act for sexually assaulting a 15-year-old girl, here on Sunday. According to police, the accused has been identified as J Marimuthu, a native of Manamelkudi in Pudukottai district. He had befriended the victim, who was a native of village near Samayapuram in Trichy district, through Tik-tok. Marimuthu had contacted the girl and asked her to come to Coimbatore, from where they planned to visit Ooty. The girl, a Class X student of a government higher secondary school in Manachanallur, shared their plan with one of her classmate and another Class 10 boy studying in another school in Trichy. Both of them were residing in the same area. All the three reached Coimbatore on January 6. As the three went missing, their parents lodged complaints with Kollidam police station. As the three students along with Marimuthu boarded at bus to Ooty, a government bus conductor asked for their Aadhaar card as they did not have e-pass to travel, from Mettupalayam. Since none of them had Aadhaar, the conductor contacted their parents.  Kollidam police reached Coimbatore and brought them back. After reaching home, the victim said Marimuthu had sexually assaulted her in Coimbatore. Her parents lodged a complaint. Based on the compliant, police arrested Marimuthu and remanded him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/man-held-under-pocso-for-assaulting-class-x-girl/articleshow/80203625.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Bird flu: Maharashtra government orders ‘humane’ culling||State animal husbandry department has called for “humane” culling of poultry birds — a quick twist of the neck (cervical dislocation) in Parbhani. It has directed that a mixture of 80mg of sodium phenobarbital and 55ml water be used before manual or mechanical cervical dislocation for birds weighing above 3kg, in keeping with the OIE Terrestrial Animal Health Code 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-govt-orders-humane-culling/articleshow/80204767.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Corporation cracks down on violations at parking sites in Delhi's Karol Bagh markets||NEW DELHI: Taking cognizance of the issue of mismanagement at parking lots in Karol Bagh markets, North Delhi Municipal Corporation launched a drive during the weekend and found major violations at many parking sites, including those on Ajmal Khan Road and Arya Samaj Road. Officials said that during the drive, cars were found to be parked in multiple lanes and the parking staff were not in uniform. “Instead of issuing printed slips or using hand-held devices, the staff was issuing parking slips manually. Also, there were no boards at more than 15 parking sites,” said the official. Earlier, TOI had reported how parking beyond permissible limits on roads leads to traffic jams in the area, especially on the busy Arya Samaj and Ajmal Khan roads. The civic agency claimed to have imposed a penalty of Rs 2 lakh on more than 10 parking sites during the drive. “Our teams found parking staff without uniform at 12 places. They were detained and taken to Karol Bagh Police Station,” said Himanshu Gupta, deputy commissioner of Karol Bagh zone. Officials said the drive will continue in the coming week. “There are some key areas, such as Rajendra Place, Saraswati Marg, Arya Samaj Mandir, etc where our teams will work actively. Our licensing department will work with the local police and if required, help of traffic police will be taken to enforce norms strictly,” said Gupta. The parking attendants have also been told to make sure that more than permissible space is not occupied and parking boards with all details are installed at prominent places. “Failing to fulfil these responsibilities in time will not just invite heavy penalties, but repeated violations may also result in cancellation of the parking contract,” said a corporation official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-cracks-down-on-violations-at-parking-sites-in-karol-bagh-markets/articleshow/80203627.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Wait for potable water ends in Piduguralla||PIDUGURALLA (GUNTUR): Municipal administration and urban development minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Saturday inaugurated the drinking water scheme for Piduguralla town. He also participated in the house sites distribution programme. Addressing a public meeting, Botcha said that local legislator Kasu Mahesh Reddy has proved that he is a peoples’ leader like the chief minister as he has revived the defunct drinking water scheme. “The scheme was neglected by the previous TDP legislator even after spending close to Rs 40 crore. Mahesh not only resumed the old scheme but prevailed upon the chief minister to grant Rs 240 crore for a dedicated drinking water scheme to cover the entire Gurazala constituency,” said Satyanarayana. The minister said that TDP president N Chandrababu Naidu is working to stall welfare programmes initiated by chief minister Y S Jagan Moha Reddy. The minister also charged Naidu of being behind the unilateral decision of the State Election Commission (SEC) to release panchayat polls schedule even as the entire state administration is busy preparing for the rollout of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. Mahesh Reddy said the works on the proposed Buggavanka drinking water scheme would begin shortly to provide water from the Krishna river to all residents of Gurazala constituency. The MLA said the government has delivered on two crucial poll promises—Krishna water and Government Medical College to the constituency—within two years. TDP leaders, Mahesh Reddy said, are making baseless allegations against the government and its welfare programmes. He said the government is determined to bring Krishna waters to the Palnadu region within the next few months. District collector I Samuel Anand Kumar, Sattenapalle MLA Ambati Rambabu, Vaddera Corporation chairman Devalla Revathi and other leaders were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/wait-for-potable-water-ends-in-piduguralla/articleshow/80201977.cms||Samdani MN
January 11, 2021||Kozhikode||Greens urge new LSGs to focus on eco-restoration||Kozhikode: Environmentalists have written an open letter to the newly elected heads and members of local bodies in Wayanad urging them to pursue a sustainable development model focusing on ecological restoration and agricultural revival in the district. In the letter, Wayanad prakruthi samrakshana samithi (WPSS) called upon elected representatives to focus on measures to arrest and turn the tide of environmental degradation in the highly eco-fragile district. “Even as the district has been facing recurring natural disasters in the form of floods and landslides, several organized groups have been putting forth skewed notions of development which will only exacerbate environmental damage including a tunnel road beneath Western Ghats, alternative ghat roads,” the letter, signed by WPSS president N Badusha and secretary Thomas Ambalavayal, said. The samithi said that though human-wildlife conflict has been a social issue in the district for the last three decades, successive governments and political parties that led them have not been able to find effective solutions to the issues. “Local bodies will be able to make effective interventions in this regard. Monocropping being carried out on one-third of forest land is a major cause of the escalating human-wildlife conflict. We hope that panchayats and other local-body institutions will not adopt a hostile attitude towards forests and wildlife,” the letter added. Among the proposals mooted for sustainable development include securing geotagging of traditional agriculture varieties of the district including paddy, coffee and spices which would earn them a place in the global market. The activists also called for retrieving and utilizing the thousands of acres of puramboke land along riverbanks for grass cultivation, through MGNREGS, which will provide over two lakh tonnes of fodder. Local bodies and government should think of levying a green tax on vehicles entering the district from outside the state and other districts and the money collected could be used for eco-restoration activities, the letter said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/greens-urge-new-lsgs-to-focus-on-eco-restoration/articleshow/80201968.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Now, students can take weekly tests on WhatsApp||HYDERABAD: School students in Telangana will now be able to take weekly tests on WhatsApp as the school education department has launched a new chat bot that enables them to assess their understanding in various subjects. Telangana school education department has launched a new programme titled ‘Intinta Chaduvula Panta’ under which the WhatsApp chat bot has been developed that enables class 1-8 students to take the weekly tests. The chat bot (8595524405) has been designed to enable quality education at home for children in view of extended physical closure of schools due to the pandemic. It would enable students to take weekly tests, containing eight questions each from any two subjects. Currently, the weekly tests are limited to English and Maths for class 1-8 students and would soon be extended to other subjects. “The weekly worksheet content created for all subjects for classes 1-10 is being disseminated through WhatsApp chat bot. Every week, up to 10 questions from two subjects can be practised by the students. After the practise, the answer key is sent with correct answers,” state project director, Samagra Shiksha, Telangana, and commissioner of school education A Sridevasena said in a letter. The chat bot would also send relevant video links to students if they fail to answer less than five questions correctly. A live dashboard has also been developed that gives performance overview of all students, who have undertaken weekly tests using the chat bot. As of Sunday, as many as 27,546 students used the WhatsApp chat bot of which 25,859 completed at least one weekly test. Hyderabad recorded the highest number of participants, while Mulugu and Nagarkurnool recorded the lowest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/now-students-can-take-weekly-tests-on-whatsapp/articleshow/80203622.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Ads on road medians flout Madras HC order, remove them: Activists||TRICHY: Claiming that back-lit advertisement boards placed on the medians of arterial roads in Trichy city violate orders of the Madras high court, consumer activists have urged the local body and district administration to remove them. The activists said such advertisements put up on the centre medians and traffic signals distract road users and can cause road accidents. Recalling the order passed by the Madras high court in April 2012 that directs the removal of illegal advertisements placed on centre median, activists said that the directive is being ignored in various parts of the city. Most of the four-lane roads in the city including Bharathiyar road, Melapudur road and Bharathidasan road have such ad boards put up on centre medians. Similarly, advertisements are also hanging on the poles of traffic signals. “The Madras high court, based on our PIL, had passed an order banning the placement of advertisements on centre medians and traffic signals. The highways department had even instructed the district collectors not to accord permissions to place advertisements,” said K Kathirmathiyon, a consumer activist. Electricity connection has been given for the ad boards on Bharathidasan road and Melapudur road near Trichy head post office. Activists said that this violates the parameters of Indian roads congress (IRC) as it invades the right of way of the road users. Similarly, adverse weather or fatigue may cause the iron bars of the illuminated hoardings to fall off from the medians. For the roads without centre medians, metal railings were placed including in Sasthri road. Activists said that such advertisements can be placed only at a distance of 10 feet away from the road margin. Even after the state government had insisted the district collectors to cancel the permissions for advertising on centre medians, the activists said that the ad boards may attract contempt of court. “We had obtained permission from the district administration earlier which is being renewed. The ban is only for placing flex boards, however, we will examine the pleas,” an official with Trichy Corporation said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ads-on-road-medians-flout-hc-order-remove-them-activists/articleshow/80203628.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 80% city hospitals violate fire safety norms||HYDERABAD: As per Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation records, there are 1,751 hospitals in city (as per trade license issued), 80% of which are said to be non-compliant with fire safety norms. Following the death of 10 babies in a hospital fire mishap in Maharashtra’s Bhandara, a recce here revealed that while the reputed private hospitals had fire fighting equipment including fire extinguishers, hose reels, water tanks, etc in place, building plans deviated from the approved layout. TimesViewThe tragic blaze in a Maharashtra hospital that left 10 babies dead and similar fire accidents in the twin Telugu states, including last week’s mishap at the Guntur district hospital, should serve as an eye-opener for authorities. They should immediately examine hospitals and check deviations in building plans and verify their fire-fighting infrastructure and plans. Guilty hospitals, who on paper have submitted a compliance report, but have not done anything on fire safety should be shut down and others asked to immediately put in place the necessary infrastructure to avoid a fire mishap.Even reputed hospitals built labs, reception centres, X-ray machine rooms, and rooms used for routine medical purposes in the cellar. The rules dictate that building rooms in cellars is illegal. Some hospitals did not even have proper setbacks (the vacant area between constructed portion of building and compound wall). According fire fighters, building deviations are a hurdle to rescue operations. “If the approved layout is deviated by establishments, even the fire fighting vehicles can’t move around easily to douse fire,” an official from Telangana State Disaster Response & Fire Services (TSDRFS) told TOI. According to V Papaiah, regional fire officer-central region, measures are being taken to ensure fire safety in hospitals. “We are conducting surprise inspections and mock drills. In 2020, more than 220 surprise inspections were conducted and 1,000 mock drills were held,” he said. GHMC records revealed only after the civic body’s enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EVDM) served notices to hospital, after which over 1,200 hospitals submitted a self-declaration form with details of fire safety measures taken and renovations taken up after the notice was served. GHMC officials said that the details furnished will be cross-checked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/80-city-hosps-violate-fire-safety-norsms/articleshow/80203626.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||BSY gets nod, set to ‘expand cabinet after Sankranti’||BENGALURU: Karnataka CM BS Yediyurappa said on Sunday he has secured the nod of the central leadership to effect the long-delayed expansion of his cabinet after Makar Sankranti on January 14. After a 40-minute meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah, Yediyurappa told reporters that “sweet” news about the reshuffle would be announced “very soon”. “We had a very fruitful meeting. He has given the seal of approval for the cabinet expansion,” he added. After the collapse of the Congress-JD(S) government, BJP took power in July 2019. It currently has seven cabinet vacancies, and the previous rejig took place in February 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/bsy-gets-nod-set-to-expand-cabinet-after-sankranti/articleshow/80205508.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Dip in bird strength at Kole lands, say survey||THRISSUR: A steady decline is noticed in the number of birds spotted in the Kole lands of Thrissur and Malappuram, an annual survey conducted as part of a global initiative to collect data on the birds in the wetlands has revealed. According to ornithologist Dr P O Nameer, who coordinated the survey, 33,499 birds were noted in the survey in 2018, and it came down to 27, 519 birds in 2019 and further down to 22,049 birds in 2020. Interestingly, only 15,959 birds were spotted in this year’s edition of the survey carried out on last Sunday. However, the number of species of birds spotted remained more or less steady. Interestingly, the decline was prominent in the case of species like ducks and cormorant, which are deep-water dependent species, Dr Nameer said. He said detailed studies were required to identify the factors which are leading to the decline in the strength of the birds in the Kole lands, which are rich in biodiversity in the state. Kole land is a Ramsar site, and has been identified as an Important Bird and Biodiversity Area (IBA) by BirdLife International. It is difficult to identify a single cause behind the decline in the bird population in the Kole lands, he said. He said the survey was part of the global initiative by the Wetland International and it was conducted this year by about 50 people in 10 spots. The areas covered included Adat, Enamavu, Mulloorkayal, Pullazhi, Maranchery and Uppungal. The highest number of 2,319 birds were spotted during the survey belonged to the species garganey, followed by Indian whistling duck (681) and whiskered tern (610). Dr Nameer said the survey was conducted by adhering to the Covid-19 protocol, and only a limited number of people were permitted in each group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dip-in-bird-strength-at-kole-lands-survey/articleshow/80202009.cms||T Ramavarman
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Equipment not upgraded at government hospitals, say sources||HYDERABAD: Although most government hospitals in the city have fire safety equipment installed or have upgraded over the last two years, in many cases these are barely ‘dummy equipment’ and not in functional condition. At many places where these equipment were installed a year or two back, there has been no follow up testing or mock drills, say insiders. “We had fire safety system installed at our hospital a little over two years back, but it has never been tested till date. In fact, none of us know how to use the fire extinguishers. In most cases, these are not in functional condition,” said a source from the Government ENT hospital at Koti. At the state-run Niloufer hospital too the functional status of the fire safety equipment is not known, although the entire range of equipment is available. Doctors at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH) and the Gandhi hospital admittedly have limited exposure to fire safety measures, although proper fire safety equipment is in place, including extinguishers, water sprinklers and water pipelines. The fire department, meanwhile, maintains that drills are being conducted every Friday in hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/equipment-not-upgraded-say-sources/articleshow/80203637.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||After downtime complaints, govt asks IT dept to upgrade Goa Online servers||PANAJI: After receiving flak from users that the state’s single window e-governance platform, Goa Online, frequently crashes and is unavailable, the industries department has asked the department of information technology to upgrade the servers of State Data Center (SDC), which hosts the portal. “It has been observed by the business, citizen and government users alike that the Goa Online has unusually high instances of downtime and interruption in connection causing a lot of frustration for the users,” industries secretary J Ashok Kumar said. In a circular dated January 5 and issued to all department heads, Kumar has asked the IT department to take up the issue ‘on priority’ so that the state can improve its score on the ease of doing business scale. The state government hopes that improvement in the online service will encourage users, both citizens and entrepreneurs, to use the Goa Online portal. “It is, therefore, recommended that the SDC may consider upgrading its servers to provide a more seamless user experience, thereby improving the perception and opinion about the single window,” Kumar said. Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar and then IT minister Rohan Khaunte had launched the portal in May 2017 to facilitate e-governance and deliver government services online. The Goa Online portal provides services such as Form I and XIV, partition of land and conversion of land as well as applications for residence certificate, divergence certificate, domicile certificate, matriz certificate, caste certificate, income certificate along with permissions for entrepreneurs such as registration of factories, application for incentives, new investments and payment of several other dues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/after-downtime-complaints-govt-asks-it-dept-to-upgrade-goa-online-servers/articleshow/80204793.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||185 cases, 1 death in Nashik district||Nashik: As many as 185 Covid-19 positive cases, including 118 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,12,478. One person succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the district. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/185-cases-1-death-in-nashik-district/articleshow/80203635.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Trichy colleges welcome free mobile data for students to attend classes||TRICHY: Colleges in the city have welcomed the move from the state government to give 2GB of mobile data free to students of government and government aided colleges for attending online classes. The move is expected to make online classes accessible to students who were unable to afford internet packs. While private colleges have been able to get maximum students attend online classes, there was less patronage among government and government aided colleges. Collegiate education regional joint director (Trichy) A Mekala said that on an average 50-60% of the student are attending online classes in government arts and science colleges. “As student could not afford data, especially in the rural areas, this scheme will help those students attend online classes,” she said. “Many students started going for jobs instead of attending the online classes during the lockdown as they could not afford internet pack of Rs 300- Rs 400 per month,” said Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers Association state vice-president G Ramesh. Since the colleges are reopened only for final year students, the rest have to attend online classes from home, he added. Saying that lack of data was cited by students for not attending the online classes, Jamal Mohamed College principal S Ismail Mohideen said that free data will enable students to fully attend classes. Teachers organisations said that the announcement has come too late when students have spent for an entire semester. “The online classes for arts and science colleges started from August last year and students are done with their internals and semester examinations. When the next semester is going to start after Pongal, the state government has come up with the announcement,” said AUT general secretary M S Balamurugan. “When final year undergraduate and postgraduate students have started coming to colleges and classes for other may start after Pongal, the decision looks more political considering the upcoming elections,” said Balamurugan. Aided College Teachers Association general secretary S Sahaya Sathish said it would have been more appropriate if the government takes steps to reopen colleges which will help them acquire knowledge in an effective manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/colleges-welcome-free-mobile-data-for-students-to-attend-classes/articleshow/80203636.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vizag cops seize Rs 70 lakh from car, suspect hawala racket link||VISAKHAPATNAM: Acting on a tip-off, Vizag city police on Saturday night found and seized Rs 70 lakh cash from a car near Telugu Talli Flyover. Police suspect that the money could be linked to a hawala racket. Two persons, Roshan Kumar Jain and O Srinivas, were arrested. Investigation is underway to find others likely to be involved. According to the police, Roshan Kumar Jain runs CK Electrical near Rama Talkies in Vizag city. On Saturday evening, Roshan and his friend Srinivas went to Autonagar in Gajuwaka, on instructions of a Charitra Kumar, to meet Vikram, the owner of Mayuri Glass Factory. Minutes after reaching the place agreed upon, Roshan received the image of a ten rupee currency note on his phone. When Roshan showed the image of the currency note, purportedly encoded, to Vikram, Vikram gave two bags full of currency notes (Rs 500 and Rs 2,000 denomination) worth Rs 70lakh to Roshan to hand it over to a Praveen Kumar Jain. When Roshan and Srinivas were on their way to handover the money, Three Town police, led by inspector K Eswar Rao, intercepted the vehicle and seized the cash from the duo. The cash was then handed over to the Income Tax department for further investigation. The probe, so far, has revealed that Roshan was supposed to get 0.3 per cent of the amount as commission for the allegedly illegal transaction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cops-seize-rs-70l-from-car-suspect-hawala-racket-link/articleshow/80202001.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 11, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu assembly poll is acid test for DMK, AIADMK, says Khushbu||TRICHY: BJP leader Khushbu has said that the ensuing assembly election is an acid test for both the DMK and AIADMK in the absence of their late leaders M Karunanidhi and J Jayalalithaa. Speaking to reporters here on Sunday, the actor-turned-politician, however, said, “AIADMK has several plus points as people of Tamil Nadu cannot complain about the regime headed by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami. There are no negative factors against him. People of Tamil Nadu are fully satisfied with the functioning of the government.” Asked about the accusation against Udhayanidhi Stalin of having spoken disparagingly about women, Khushbu said “People could now understand why I left the party. The DMK of Karunanidhi period is different from the present day party.” Addressing reporters in Thanjavur earlier in the day, she reiterated her readiness to contest against DMK leader M K Stalin. “Let Stalin first decide which constituency to contest from. I am always ready to take on anyone. However, I don’t know if I am going to contest in the election,” she further said. Asked about P Chidambaram's statement that Khushbu would change party once in four years, she said people like P Chidambaram took steps to send out people like her from the party “out of fear that his son may not be able to withstand us in the party.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/assembly-poll-is-acid-test-for-dmk-aiadmk-says-khushbu/articleshow/80203639.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Positivity rate dips to 0.5% in Delhi, fresh Covid cases under 400||NEW DELHI: The Covid-19 positivity rate in the capital dipped further to 0.5% on Sunday. A total of 399 cases were reported, while 12 fatalities took place in the past 24 hours. Among the 77,600 tests conducted in the previous day, 45,116 was via the RT-PCR testing while 32,484 were tested via RAT. For the past six days, the number of daily Covid cases have continued to fall, leading to more and more vacant beds in both government and private hospitals. According to the state health bulletin, 1,438 beds are currently occupied, among the 121,15 beds in hospitals. Meanwhile, barring 30 beds, the rest of 7,392 beds in dedicated Covid Care Centres currently lies vacant. Delhi now has only 3,468 active Covid cases, of which 1,585 are under home isolation. The number of containment zones in the city has also come down to 2,781. The capital has so far conducted 93 lakh tests, which is equivalent to 4.9 lakh tests per million. While over 6.1 lakh people have recovered from the virus, 10,678 people have died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/positivity-rate-dips-to-0-5-fresh-cases-under-400/articleshow/80203642.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kozhikode||No logic in giving up Pala seat, says NCP Kerala chief||KOZHIKODE/PALAKKAD: Reiterating that NCP will not hand over the Pala seat to Kerala Congress (M), state president T P Peethambaran said there is no logic in saying that the party that had won the seat after 20 years of systematic organizational efforts should hand it over to the party that lost it. Meanwhile, amid the continuing factional feud in the party, transport minister and Elathur MLA, A K Saseendran, did not participate in the party meeting convened by Peethambaran Master, in Kozhikode, on Sunday. In an oblique reference to Saseendran, Peethambaran told reporters there is a growing chorus in the party calling for the need to blood a new generation of leaders for the upcoming assembly elections. “The new generation should be given a chance. Party leaders, including the late A C Shanmughadas, had given a chance to Saseendran to contest the polls. Now, there is demand in the party to give opportunity to new faces. That is the trend in the state now and people have supported young candidates wherever they are fielded. Grooming a second line of leaders is also crucial to the survival of the party,” Peethambaran Master said. He, however, said NCP has not thought of leaving the LDF. “I don't think that the situation warrants leaving the front. We have been part of the front for 40 years,” he said, adding he would hold talks with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan for clarity on the Pala issue. Reiterating the stand, Saseendran, speaking in Palakkad, said leaving LDF is not an option for NCP. Inaugurating a meeting organized by the party’s district committee to honour its elected representatives to the local bodies on Sunday, the transport minister said, “There are no differences between him and Peethambaran Master on the issue. “The final decision on such matters will be taken by the NCP central leadership. Any differences in the NCP will be solved within the LDF,” Saseendran said. NCP national president Sharad Pawar is also of the opinion that the party should not give up any of the four assembly seats it had contested in the last election, Peethambaran Master said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/no-logic-in-giving-up-pala-seat-says-ncp-state-chief/articleshow/80201984.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Once upon a morning||Somehow, the morning has changed. Growing up in a slower India, mornings felt different. It might well be nostalgia, but they did not seem to be as full of portent, as crammed with activity, as performative in their character. Mornings hung on to the day, not in clammy desperation but in airy surprise at the newness of everything. If the morning today is a perpetual flashback in blur, a compressed space rarely experienced and only occasionally remembered, it seemed that the mornings of yore had time to be themselves, before hardening into the day. Memories of mornings as they used to be invariably involved the radio. There was something about the AIR signature tune that did not merely usher in the morning; it became the morning in all its unfolding sonorousness. Meter bands sprang gently to life, and tanpuras filled out the empty spaces in the day, curling into the distant corners of the room. The sound became the light, as the tanpura echoed the coming to life of a new day, contemplative, unhurried, setting the background to the activity to follow, refraining from giving us any concrete signs of what was to come. Somehow, morning time is tanpura time; where the intent of the day is not fully ripened, where time is rubbing sleep from its eyes and settling down, stretching to give itself room to eventually take some shape and form. Sound that creates diversion but avoids shape; that gesticulates musically without articulating any precise content; that is all aura and little substance. Like the newly born day, morning radio music was content to play the apprentice intent on meditative practice and not the maestro launching into a fully realised and exquisitely finished performance. Gradually, strains of sunlight streamed in through the veranda, light claiming territory patch after bright patch. Windowpanes glowered as if caught unawares; light began to get tinged with heat, stirring the bones into some form of activity. If the radio understood that the morning called for quiet saturation, the newspaper put us in direct touch with the very idea of time. Every day brought a new newspaper, freshly printed, ink still wet, the world crinkling between one’s fingers. Whatever the contents, the newspaper made the world fit into one’s hands and made it comprehensible. Unlike the untidy and unpacked nature of time today, where news tumbles out of media every single moment of the day, in earlier times, news deferred to time and kowtowed to order. News came to us decorously, knocking on our doors every morning. This was still a time when editors knew best; even if what was called news often consisted of the most mind-numbingly boring utterances of the people in office, it was still news, and mornings decreed that we read about it. Of course, none of this was possible without being accompanied by a cup of tea. The function of tea was to wake us up, one sip at a time. Unlike coffee, which admittedly had its own adherents, tea delivered us without startling us alarm-clock like, into the morning. Before descending into a cup of tea, the morning has rendered us sub-human, with the idea of awakening not only being one of making peace with a new day, but also in some way returning to a human form, from the state of oneness with the primal force of sleep. Night confers on us a return to primitive unity, which the cold light of day fractures into a sense of being an individual and tea helps us cleave back into being conscious and singular again. Tea helped gun our engines, while letting them idle, till it was time shift into first gear. And then of course, mornings became purposeful; time became an arrow, and the day sucked us in to do its bidding. There was still the bath; the last frontier between a self immersed in yesterday and one having defected to today. The bath renewed us as it undid the past, by jolting us out of one state into another. The bath was a shock of today delivered on the unsuspecting torso of yesterday. It broke down all remaining allegiance to the past, and delivered us all shiny and new into the future. Looking back from the vantage point of today, it does seem that we understood mornings better then than we do now. As a threshold that allows us to prepare for the day, as an intermediate space between the fact of being awake and alive and performing the act of living, it allowed us to inhale the new deeply before participating in it. Not that the mornings of today are completely different, or that the role they play in our lives has dramatically changed. A cup of tea is still as gentle in its embrace, and a bath just as bracing, but the quality of the morning has certainly changed. The morning jumps into action in unseemly haste. The tanpura no longer hangs on the air, making time seem momentarily infinite, and the newspaper is gradually being replaced by the abrupt glare of the mobile phone screen, particularly in these Covid times. We think too much, and know too much, for the morning to work its magic on us. It is possible that it is not the mornings that have changed; it is we who have become a new version of our old selves. When we insist that everything in our life must deliver value and must have a reason for existence, we make all parts of our life instrumental, part of some grand, if not entirely well defined, plan. The morning need not have a responsibility to the day that follows and the day in turn might not be an officer on perpetual duty for the rest of our lives. Without fallowness, there is no fertility and without mornings that drift purposelessly till they hit shore, we may not do justice to the day that follows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/once-upon-a-morning/articleshow/80204838.cms||Santosh Desai
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: Amma Vodi phase 2 to be launched today||NELLORE: Education minister Dr Adimulapu Suresh has said that there will be no change in launching the second installment of the Amma Vodi scheme by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday, despite the release of the panchayat election schedule by the State Election Commission (SEC). He said the programme is being organised by following the Model Code of Conduct (MCC) and there will be no physical disbursement to people from rural areas. All transactions will be digital and hence will not come under the MCC, the minister said. Speaking to media here on Sunday, Dr Suresh however, criticised the State Election Commissioner (SEC) for its unilateral decision on the conduct of elections. “YSRC will be the winner in any election held in the state. We are not worried about the result. We are concerned only about public health during the pandemic,” said the minister. Meanwhile, industries minister Mekapati Gautham Reddy found fault with Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan over the Divis pharma issue. “The chief minister has made it clear that Divis should not go ahead with the works till all issues raised by the locals are resolved. We are not in a hurry to give permissions to the industry as we are committed the welfare of the locals particularly fishermen,” said Mekapati. Industry would only be allowed to function when pollutants were found to be at the zero liquid emissions level, the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/amma-vodi-phase-2-launch-today/articleshow/80202020.cms||Samdani MN
January 11, 2021||Nashik||‘Only govt Covid centres will operate’||Nashik: As Covid-19 cases in Nashik are on the decline constantly, district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has said that only government-run Covid facilities will continue to serve patients while those set up by private organisations as well as centres in schools, etc. will be shut to make optimal use of manpower. Addressing the media after reviewing Covid-19 situation in the district, Bhujbal said “Cases are reducing rapidly and the ones that are still detected are asymptomatic in nature. Hence, we have decided to close the facilities (mostly the Covid Care Centres) housed in private facilities.” As of now, the district has about 1,700 Covid-19 patients, of which, 500 need hospitalization of any kind — be it the CCC or the Dedicated Covid Health Centres (DCHC)s or Dedicate Covid Hospital (DCH). “Considering the current situation, there are about 4,200 beds across the district with the government facilities and, hence, all private institutes will be released though we will be closely monitoring such the movement of the infection in the society to keep tab on its spread and review the decision of restarting the facilities from time-to-time,” Bhujbal said. District Health Officer (DHO) Dr. Kapil Aher said that the CCC facilities would mostly be withdrawn from schools and Ashramshalas as well some community halls and centres. The staff from the concerned facilities which will be disengaged and will be shifted and accommodated for other health purposes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/only-govt-covid-centres-will-operate/articleshow/80203648.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||NIV test report delays six-year-old boy’s discharge, dad chooses to stay with him||Nagpur: Delay in getting genome sequencing report from the National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune, has forced a suspected patient of UK mutated variant of Covid-19 to stay back in the special ward of Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), despite being discharged on Sunday, for his six-year-old son. His son’s reports are awaited from the NIV and also he is yet to complete 14-day quarantine period in GMCH. The 36-year-old man from Mahal told TOI, “My RT-PCR tests on two consecutive days — Friday and Saturday — came negative. I had also completed 14-day stay in the GMCH when I requested GMCH officials to also discharge my son, who had tested negative in three RT-PCR tests in 11 days. However, they did not consider my request, saying my son will have to wait for two more days. Therefore, I have no option but to stay in the GMCH to accompany my six-year-old son.” The man along with wife and son had returned to the city on November 28 from Ireland, where he works. The man and wife had undergone Covid testing after their names featured in the list of Bureau of Immigration. The man tested positive and his wife negative on December 27. Test of their son was not done the same day. After insisted by Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), their son was also tested and the report came positive on December 30. He was admitted to the GMCH where he was again tested using RT-PCR, but the report came negative. As per NMC officials, NIV had not conducted genome sequencing on the samples of the man citing inadequate quantity sent by GMCH. After receiving this report on January 7, the man was tested using RT-PCR as part of the discharge policy. Samples of the flyer’s son were sent to NIV twice on January 5 — first the negative sample of December 30 and the second one (preserved) in which the six-year-old had tested positive. GMCH is yet to receive the results. Another patient, a 42-year-old woman from Deendayal Nagar, completed the 14-day period in GMCH, but her results are also awaited from NIV. The woman was not discharged as she tested positive in RT-PCR test on January 8. Her daughter (16) was discharged on Saturday as she tested negative in RT-PCR. Her results are also awaited from the NIV. On December 4, three suspected patients were discharged. NIV had not done genome sequencing of their samples citing they all had tested negative in RT-PCR tests. These eight suspected patients were among the 100 who have undergone testing following the NMC directives. They had returned from countries in Europe between November 25 and December 23. Also, 40 city residents, who had returned from countries in Europe and Middle East after December 24, were placed in quarantine centres. Of them, 36 had tested negative and after seven days they were discharged on January 9. NMC medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar said, “Remaining four also tested negative on Sunday. They will be discharged after completion of seven-day quarantine, probably on Monday.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/niv-test-report-delays-six-year-old-boys-discharge-dad-chooses-to-stay-with-him/articleshow/80203643.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Open land parcels turn headache for civic officials in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Private land, especially the ones caught in legal tangles, are turning out to be a big hurdle ahead of Swachh Survekshan rankings 2021. A land parcel at TNGO’s Colony (Gachibolwi), another open plot behind Kukatpally Housing Board Colony (KPHB) bus stop, a land near Miyapur police station and another piece of land located at SBH Colony (Kothapet) have become eyesores and residents abutting these places have urged authorities to take up sanitation activities, fearing vector-borne diseases. “If a land caught in litigation has to be cleaned up, we are not sure which party should be served notice. In case it is a private land, we serve notice on property owners. If the land is not cleaned despite serving a notice, penalty is imposed,” GHMC assistant health officer Chandra Shekar told TOI. Residents said authorities should come up with an action plan to ensure people don’t suffer. “Due to the seven acre open land, over 3,000 families in Gachibowli are suffering. Open defecation, dumping carcasses and garbage are the major issues. We fear diseases as the land has now turned into a dump yard,” said Praveen Raa, a businessman from TNGO’s Colony, Gachibolwi. The seven acre land is surrounded by a housing society, independent houses and apartment complexes, while the open land at KPHB is surrounded by houses and commercial establishments. “Irrespective of property ownership, GHMC should ensure a clean city. They should come up with an action plan to deal with sanitation in disputed properties. Piles of garbage have accumulated behind KPHB bus stop,” B Jayashree, a resident of HMT Sathavahana Nagar, said. This year Swachh Bharat Mission would rely more on citizen feedback, while ranking cities in Swachh Survekshan Rankings 2021. While the weightage of citizens’ feedback was 1,500 points in 2020, it would be 1,800 this year. The cities would be rated on the basis of how many marks they score out of 6,000 in Swachh Survekshan 2021. Apart from citizen feedback, segregation of waste and other sanitation activities would carry 2,400 marks. Sanitation and ODF category carry 1,800 marks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/open-land-parcels-turn-headache-for-civic-officials/articleshow/80203650.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Delhi||AAP holds mohalla sabhas over ‘corruption’ in corporations||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Sunday held mohalla meetings in several parts of the city. Claiming that Delhiites joined the meetings with enthusiasm, AAP said it was proof that people are tired of corruption by BJP-led corporations and have made up their mind to throw BJP out of office. The civic polls are over one year away, but both AAP and BJP have already launched their ground-level campaigns. “People of Delhi want to bring honest people to office in the corporations who will work for the development of the capital within the available resources,” the party said in a statement. Around 450 mohalla sabhas were organised across 65 assembly constituencies of the city. Around 45,000 people joined the meetings, including local AAP MLAs and councillors besides several local organisations and AAP volunteers. Since January 7, the party has been holding neighbourhood meetings where party leaders are “exposing the corruption in corporations”. “Citizens are also sharing their own experiences of graft,” said AAP in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/aap-holds-mohalla-sabhas-over-corruption-in-corpns/articleshow/80203652.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Trichy||NIT students in Trichy to help more govt school students crack JEE||TRICHY: Trichy district chief education office is aiming at sending at least 10 students from the government schools in the district to the centrally-funded technical institutions next year by helping them clear the joint entrance examination (JEE) main. Since last year, students of National Institute Technology (NIT) Trichy have been roped in to train government school students following the efforts of district collector Sivarasu who was instrumental in signing an MoU with NIT Trichy for providing training to government school students. Following the training, two students from government schools in Trichy district, P Sethupathy and S Pugazharasi, joined NIT Trichy last year. “Next year, we want at least ten students from government schools to join central technical institutions,” said Trichy district chief education officer R Arivazhagan. The students will be selected on the basis of a qualifying test to be conducted by IGNITTE at four centres in Trichy on January 20. The CEO office has been collecting the list of interested students from school headmasters. The students who qualify for the exam will get weekend residential training on the NIT Trichy campus. They will stay on the campus for two days and prepare for JEE Main free of cost, said Arivazhagan. While the state government is giving free coaching for NEET and JEE Main for government school students, this is an additional training for students in Trichy district. S Rohit, coordinator of IGNITTE, said that they are expecting more students this year as two students have managed to join NIT Trichy. We are planning to select at least 15 students this year from class XI, said Rohit adding that they will be able to focus on each student, if the numbers are less.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/nit-students-to-help-more-govt-school-students-crack-jee/articleshow/80203644.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||City youths launch e-commerce store for kites in time for Sankranti||Nagpur: With Makar Sankranti or Uttarayan just around the corner, many citizens are gearing up to add a dash of colour to the Nagpur skyline. But kite sales are facing problems due to Covid-19 pandemic and uncertain weather. To keep the spirit of the season alive, a group of young engineers from the city have launched India’s first hyperlocal e-commerce kite store ‘patang.cbat.in’, to deliver kites across the city within an hour. An initiative of the software company CBAT, it is founded by Manthan Admane along with Agrim Agrawal. Their team includes Mansi Admane, Aniket Tinkhede, Raju Admane, Anurag Patil and Sarvesh Kinariwala. Admane said, “The project was started with a vision to increase the fun of the Uttarayan festival amid Covid negativities. The year 2020 has been rough, and the project not only equips small scale kite producers with benefits of e-commerce but also plans on distributing free kites and positive vibes to kids in orphanages, police stations and hospitals, thanking the warriors for their selfless efforts against Covid.” The variety of kites on the website are sourced directly from a couple who earn their living through producing kites all year round. Through the website, they are reaching a larger customer-base without the ruckus of setting up multiple shops in different locations. Buyers have a wide range of options to choose from, without having to venture out during the pandemic. One of the buyers, Sangita Randive, said, “I was able to order a number of kites in beautiful colours, delivered to my home in a few simple steps. I was worried if I’d be able to enjoy Sankrant this year. It has been quite sad to see my children attending online classes. They haven’t even been able to interact with their friends or celebrate important festivals last year. We are now having a small Sankranti party for them to celebrate the kite festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/city-youths-launch-e-commerce-store-for-kites-in-time-for-sankranti/articleshow/80205267.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Forest range officer injured in tiger attack||KOZHIKODE: A forest range officer was injured in a tiger attack at Kolavally in Mullankolly panchayat in Wayanad on Sunday afternoon. Chethalath forest range officer T Sasikumar sustained bite injuries on his left shoulder resulting in bone fracture and has been admitted to DM WIMS at Meppadi. The tiger pounced on Sasikumar while he along with other forest department staff was searching for the animal which had strayed into human habitations. The incident took place in a private coffee plantation at Seetha Mount. South Wayanad divisional forest officer P Renjith Kumar said Sasikumar had a narrow escape as the forest staff and residents screamed aloud following which the tiger left him and ran away. Hospital authorities said that his condition is stable. The tiger has been spreading panic in the area for the last five days after straying into human habitations. Residents said that the tiger has been spotted multiple times and it had killed two pet dogs during the last three days. Chethalath deputy forest range officer Baijunath said that forest department has installed two cages in the area to capture the tiger. Kolavally is a border village alongside the Kabini river and it is suspected that the tiger would have come from the Bandipur Tiger Reserve . This is the second tiger attack suffered by Sasikumar in the last five months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/forest-range-officer-injured-in-tiger-attack/articleshow/80202023.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vijayawada||Eight treasure hunters held for digging up ancient shrine in Andhra Pradesh||TIRUPATI: Kurnool police on Sunday arrested an eight-member gang of treasure hunters for allegedly digging up an ancient shrine at Maddikere village in Chippagiri mandal on December 16. Briefing reporters about the case, Kurnool SP Kaginelli Fakeerappa said the local village revenue officer (VRO) had lodged a complaint claiming that some unidentified miscreants had dug up the ancient Ammavari temple in the village in search of hidden treasure. In course of the investigation, police found that there was a popular belief in the mandal that treasure may be hidden beneath the feet of Ammavari at the ancient shrine. According to the police, the prime accused, Dasari Venkatesh of Kubdanagurthi village, hatched a plan to dig up the temple to look for treasure. He shared his plan with his brother-in-law Jaya Ramudu. The duo roped in Mangali Venkateswarlu, O Bhaskar Reddy, Golla Peddaiah, P Mareppa and G Ramanjaneyulu. Fakruddin, the owner of an earthmover, was also roped in. The gang reached the temple on December 16 and executed its plan without a hitch. But the group had to return empty handed as they did not find any treasure even after digging 10 feet below the shrine. Special teams probing the case arrested all eight accused on Sunday and seized one earthmover, three bikes and eight mobile phones from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/treasure-hunters-held-for-digging-up-shrine/articleshow/80202026.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Tejas Express must stop at Tambaram, demand passengers||MADURAI: Passengers who travelled from Chennai to Madurai by the reintroduced Tejas Express were welcomed by Madurai MP Su Venkatesan at Madurai railway junction on Sunday. Many of them thanked him for his efforts to restore the service. The train which was introduced on March 1, 2019 was cancelled from January 4 this year citing poor patronage. Following opposition from various quarters including the MP who shot off a letter to the ministry, the train was reintroduced from Sunday. Venkatesan offered sweets to the passengers and loco pilot on their arrival at the junction. C Saravanan, an IT professional working in Sholinganallur, Chennai said one drawback in the service was that it did not stop at Tambaram. As many people had to travel to Egmore to take the train early in the morning it saw fewer passengers. “Either the departure time of the train should be extended by about an hour or a stoppage provided at Tambaram on the outskirts of the city,’’ he said. Another passenger who arrived on the Sunday train, V Meenakshi, said the train should stop at Dindigul rather than Kodai Road. Many people from places like Palani, Oddanchathiram and surrounding areas would find a stop at Dindigul more useful, she said. The MP said that their grievances would be taken up with the ministry of railways. He also suggested a reduction in the fares of the train, which was about 35% more than the chair car facility of Vaigai Express.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/tejas-express-must-stop-at-tambaram-demand-passengers/articleshow/80204832.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Jacobites attempt to enter churches||KOCHI: The Jacobite faction of the Malankara Church on Sunday tried again to enter the churches which were taken over from them and handed over to the Orthodox faction. The Jacobites had been running this campaign for over a month now and had attempted to enter the churches as a group during the past five Sundays. The group was stopped at the gates by police on almost all occasions. Except for churches like Kadamattom and Kandanad, the faction was blocked this Sunday as well. They were blocked at churches like St Mary’s Church, Kattachira; St John’s Church, Kanniattunirappu; St Mary’s Church, Vadavukode; St George Church, Mannathoor in Kochi and St Peter’s and St Paul’s Church in Thrissur. Though the faction members were initially blocked at St Peter’s and St Paul’s Church at Puthencruz and St George Church, Kadamattom, later they were allowed to offer prayers at the cemetery on the church premises. At St Mary’s Church,Kattachira, the members raised allegations of police excess and complained that their vicar was attacked by the police. The tussle between police and the faction members happened, reportedly when they staged a demonstration outside the church gates. Meanwhile, the satyagraha protest conducted by the Jacobite faction in front of Secretariat demanding an ordinance to circumvent the court ruling that effectively made them lose several churches, entered the 10th day. The members of the faction will be taking out a Secretariat march on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/jacobites-attempt-to-enter-churches/articleshow/80202005.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Garbage stench, carcass burning make life hell for residents near Ziaguda transfer station||HYDERABAD: The localities of New Ganga Nagar and Ganganagar are among the most affected due to the garbage transfer station located in Ziaguda. The garbage from parts of Old City and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation’s (GHMC) Khairatabad zone are dumped at the Ziaguda transfer station, from where it is transported to the Jawaharnagar dumpyard. Residents say that there have been instances when people have rushed out of their homes in the wee hours of the morning due to the smell from the garbage station. “People have rushed out of their homes many times assuming it to be a gas leakage. It was only later that they found out that the smell was garbage being transported,” said G Tulsi Ram, a resident of New Ganga Nagar. M Bharat, a resident of Ganga Nagar, said that several people have fallen ill due to the garbage being dumped in the area. “Vector-borne diseases and respiratory issues are haunting us due to the transfer station. Children and senior citizens fall ill frequently ,” he said. Garbage burning in the meat market has only added to their woes. The meat market, popularly know as Ziaguda Kamela, is located opposite to the transfer station. Some vendors burn the carcass in the market. “The polluted air enters our homes and there is a lot of dust due to frequent movement of cattle. We are forced to keep our doors and windows closed most of the times due to this. Most people in our locality try to stay indoors,” said M Veeraiah, who works at a grocery store. On the road heading towards Attapur, where Ziaguda transfer station is located, piles of garbage were spotted at multiple locations and several vehicles filled with garbage were also parked. According to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) officials the existing transfer station is being converted into a model transfer station. “The transfer station has been handed over to Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited. Works are under way to convert it into a model transfer station, which will be closed and compact. Extensive fogging activities are being taken up in localities in and around the transfer station,” said Dr Aizaz Khasim, GHMC assistant medical officer of health, Karwan and Mehdipatnam circle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/garbage-stench-carcass-burning-make-life-hell-for-residents-near-ziaguda-transfer-stn/articleshow/80203655.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Madurai Kamaraj University extends deadline to submit thesis to June 30||MADURAI: The Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) has issued an official notification extending the deadline for submission of thesis for terminal PhD students to June 30 this year. As per the latest notification from the MKU registrar (in charge), Dr VS Vasantha, a further extension of six months is granted for terminal PhD students who were supposed to submit their thesis by December 31, 2020. This notification from the university is in accordance with the public notice issued by the University Grants Commission (UGC) on December 3, 2020. This is the second extension for the PhD students who were originally supposed to submit their thesis by June 30, 2020. The extension has been provided considering that during the course of the Covid-19 induced lockdown, the university campus remained closed. The students have hence been unable to access the laboratory and library facilities for carrying out research work. However, by December 2020, MKU reopened its campus for research scholars and now students can access the university facilities. Meanwhile, MKU has also declared the results of the online semester exams conducted in November 2020 for final year PG students from all departments for their third semester. The results are available online to be downloaded from the official website of the university at www.mkuniversity.ac.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mku-extends-deadline-to-submit-thesis-to-june-30/articleshow/80204846.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Madurai||Madurai schools planning extra classes for Class X, XII||MADURAI: With the state government set to take a call on reopening schools for Class X and XII after Pongal, many schools are planning to put in additional hours to cover the syllabus and for revision, be they offline or online. Principals of several schools in Madurai said they would need more working hours than what is currently being held. “Especially for government school students, we have to cover as much as we can in the two-three months that we are likely to get. At least if we can cover the most important topics, students will have some chance of clearing the exam with good scores,” said the headmaster of a government school. Since students are accustomed to studying for long hours in the last few months before the exams, this time has to be effectively used. However, the situation varies among schools. “In most private schools, the syllabus has been completed through online classes though it remains to be seen as to how far students have learnt well from home. Both offline and online classes are likely to be held in the coming months,” said M Senthilnathan, president, Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation. Private schools may consider holding online classes additionally when schools reopen. Parents of some students in private schools have already been enrolling their wards for tuitions to cover the syllabus. “The syllabus has been covered and revision tests have started. But only when we bring them back to the classroom will we actually know how well students have learned, and hold additional classes if needed,” said Barath Silvester Raj, dean, Sri Aurobindo Mira group of educational institutions. A Class XII maths teacher, S Ramesh said that for each of the core subjects, students would need at least two to three hours a day for every subject to cover and revise even with the reduced syllabus. Schools are also concerned about the lack of clarity on how the classes are going to be when they reopen. “We still don’t know if full-day or half-day classes are going to be allowed. Hopefully, with the syllabus cut by 30-40%, 50 days’ time is enough for minimal preparation,” said Selvan Arputharaj, a Class XII biology teacher and an assistant headmaster.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-planning-extra-classes-for-class-x-xii/articleshow/80204863.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 11, 2021||Goa||Goa: 800 health workers to get first Covid vaccine jab||PANAJI: A total of 800 healthcare workers including doctors, nurses and housekeeping staff from the private and public sector will receive the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. Goa is expected to receive the vaccines from the government medical store depot, Mumbai, over the next few days. The vaccinations will be done across eight centres. All the 800 who will get the jab have pre-registered for it. “Only they will receive the vaccine on Saturday. There will be no spot registrations,” state immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar told TOI. Goa is planning to increase centres and take the vaccine to the primary health centre level depending on how it goes in the initial days and the stock of vaccine the state receives. Each centre will have one vaccinator and four vaccination officers who will assist in the vaccine rollout between 9 am to 5 pm. Each of the centres will vaccinate 100 healthcare workers. The three private hospitals that have been identified as vaccination centres will vaccinate healthcare workers in the private sector. The 800 beneficiaries will receive their second dose of the vaccine after 28 days. A total of 18,277 healthcare workers, both public and private, have registered for the vaccine in Goa. They are among one crore healthcare workers who will be vaccinated across the country, followed by two crore frontline workers, including municipality, police and revenue officers. This will be followed by those above 50 with comorbidities. The portal for registration for these different groups will open at a later stage. “Everybody will get the vaccine in time,” Borkar said. “It is very safe. Everybody should have the vaccine as and when it comes, and there is no need to get (too) eager about it. There is also no need to hesitate to get vaccinated. People must stay away from misinformation and disinformation, and go to the correct authorities and public health centres to get accurate information.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/800-hcws-in-goa-to-get-covid-jab-on-sat/articleshow/80203675.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pune: 40kmph speed restriction on the cards to curb mishaps near Navale bridge||PUNE: Transport officials last week said speed limits of vehicles plying along Katraj-Dehu Road bypass to Navale bridge were expected to be reduced to 40km per hour from the existing 80km per hour. This comes in the wake of several accidents, some of which were fatal, near Navale bridge. Deputy regional transport officer Sanjay Sasane told TOI that the transport department had appointed a Delhi- based agency to inspect the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass as well as the Navale bridge and figure out the main factors leading to the accidents and ways to avert them. TimesViewSeeking solutions from experts is not enough to avert accidents along the bypass near Navale bridge. The most vital aspect of the process is effective implementation of the recommendations, including speed limit control. Many a time, several quality reports on traffic management gather dust in the absence of proper enforcement. There are occasions when some suggestions are implemented with zeal for a few days, but only to lose momentum gradually. This should not happen in the case of Navale bridge.A person was injured after a truck lost control and rammed many vehicles near Navale bridge in December 2020. On November 29, four people died and seven were injured after a truck ploughed through many vehicles in the same area. “The transport commissioner’s office had appointed SafeLIFE Foundation, which provides solutions for road safety, to study the cause of accidents along the stretch of the bypass. A four-member team, in coordination with our officials, has been working for the past four days and has collected data. They will prepare a detailed report on the basis of the data and submit it to the transport commissioner,” Sasane said.  “It was observed that most of the heavy goods vehicles’ speed from the Katraj tunnel to the bridge, which has a 2.5km slope, at nearly 120km per hour. The average speed of a cars and two-wheeler on the same stretch is around 80km per hour and 50km per hour, respectively. Many drivers lose control while speeding along the slope. Suggestions are to put a uniform speed limit of 40 to 50 kmph on all vehicles,” the official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/40kmph-speed-restriction-on-the-cards-to-curb-mishaps-near-navale-bridge/articleshow/80203666.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Kolhapur adds 19 patients, Satara 59||Kolhapur: The number of active patients in Kolhapur district has dropped to 35, the lowest so far in the current declining phase of the epidemic cycle. A total of 18 patients were discharged from various facilities on Sunday, taking the total of recovered patients to 47,898. Meanwhile, the district registered 19 fresh coronavirus cases on Sunday. With this, the number of confirmed cases in the district swelled to 49, 643. The district has reported 1,710 Covid-related casualties so far. Sangli, on the other hand, identified 18 Covid cases on Sunday. So far, the district has reported 47,789 cases. While Satara district reported 59 new cases and two deaths on Sunday, Solapur city identified 36 patients along with one casualty. Solapur rural, on the other hand, added 71 cases to its list along with two deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/kolhapur-adds-19-patients-satara-59/articleshow/80203658.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||NMC budget for next fiscal to focus on edu, health & water||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC), which is reeling under severe financial crisis, would focus on core sectors such as health, education, water supply, drainage lines etc. in the next financial year’s budget. Talking to TOI, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav said in the current financial year, the civic body is facing shortage of Rs 350 crore and the budget for the current financial year is yet to be revised. According to Jadhav, during the next financial year, the NMC will be spending very judiciously and the focus will be on core sectors like health education, water supply and sewage lines. Jadhav said austerity measures have to be taken to improve the financial health of the civic body. “We are also working on increasing the civic body’s revenue through advertising hoardings on NMC’s spaces. Earlier, the rate finalized by the NMC was on the higher side and, therefore, it got poor response from advertising agencies. But, we will revise the rates to attract agencies and boost revenue,” he said. “Moreover, we are also working on increasing property and water tax collections. We will also bring new residential buildings under the property tax net. Moreover, we are also expecting more revenue due to the new unified development control promotions and regulations (DCPR) that came to effect last month,” he added. The NMC had set a target of securing over Rs 1,800 crore revenue through property and water taxes, GST compensation as well as various other taxes generated from the town planning department. The municipal corporation receives Rs 84.9 crore GST grant from the state government every month. So far, it has received Rs 765 crore from the state as GST compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-budget-for-next-fiscal-to-focus-on-edu-health-water/articleshow/80202038.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 11, 2021||Goa||Demarcation for IIT to resume today: CM Pramod Sawant||PANAJI: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Sunday said that the demarcation work for the IIT-Goa project that had to be stopped on a few occasions due to protests from Melauli villagers will continue. “While there are some obstructions, it (demarcation) will start on Monday,” Sawant told reporters. “People should not fight with the government and create obstructions. If the issue is discussed then we can come out with a solution,” he said. There have been strong protests from villagers who are opposing the project. Villagers and police clashed over the last week and cops resorted to lathi charge and use of tear gas to disperse protesters who prevented surveyors from demarcating the land for the proposed site of the new IIT-Goa campus. Goa Police have also filed cases against the protesting villagers for attempt to murder and unlawful assembly. Sawant had appealed to the villagers to allow the government to conduct the demarcation work. “IIT is an issue of development and parties as well as NGOs are here to stop all development,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-demarcation-for-iit-to-resume-today/articleshow/80204888.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||50% drop in road accident deaths in Pune in April-May 2020||PUNE: Road accident fatalities in April and May last year — the months when the Covid-induced nationwide lockdown was in effect — was down by 50% compared to the casualties in the corresponding months in 2019 in Pune city. A total of 13 lives were lost in road accidents in April and May last year in the city. In 2019, as many as 26 deaths were reported in those two months. The nationwide Covid-induced lockdown was in effect from March 25 to June 7 last year. A total of 31 people died in road accidents on the city roads from March 1 to June 7, 2020. The year before, there were 56 road accident fatalities in Pune city in the same period. Thus, the road accident fatalities in those four months of the Covid-hit year was 44.6% less compared to that in 2019. A total of 143 road accident deaths were reported in Pune city in 2020 as against 206 such casualties in 2019, prompting the traffic police officers cite the nationwide lockdown between the last week of March and the first week of June last year as the prime reason for the decline in the numbers. The number of accidents involving fatalities was 135 last year as against 199 in 2019, the police said. Besides, the city roads witnessed 245 accidents in 2020, in which 296 people suffered grievous injuries. Data provided by traffic police showed the first two months of 2020 accounted for 44 deaths (22 each) — the highest road fatalities in a month in 2020. A total of 31 road accident deaths were reported in four months from March to June. Another 68 deaths were reported in six months from July to December — the period of phased opening of the lockdown, when more vehicles started hitting the streets. July (17), November (13) and December (19) recorded two-digit accident deaths last year. Most of these were reported from the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and the busy Solapur highway stretch from the RWITC racecourse to the Manjari Budruk toll post. Deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame said, “The number of fatalities reduced because of the lockdown as there were very few vehicles on the city roads in that period, resulting in fewer accidents. April, June, August and October registered lowest number of fatal accidents. A majority of casualties were of two-wheeler riders and pillion riders.” He said, “In November and December, the number of accidents increased as more vehicles started plying. The movement of heavy vehicles also increased after the manufacturing companies started production. The accidents on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and the Solapur highway contributed largely to the casualties in November and December.” According to the traffic police, the stretch of Pune-Solapur highway — from the racecourse to Manjari Budruk — is in the jurisdiction of the Pune city police. Four deaths were recorded in the highway section in November 2020, and five in December. Similarly, the Katraj-Dehu road bypass section, from New Katraj Tunnel to Chandni Chowk, witnessed nine deaths in November and eight deaths in December, the police said. “We undertook studies of accident black spots in the city earlier and we shall conduct the exercise again. We want to study the infrastructure and other issues of the roads to reduce the number of accidents in the city. We are planning to study all the fatal accidents by visiting the spots and take corrective measures to avert accidents on those particular spots again,” Shrirame said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50-drop-in-road-accident-deaths-in-april-may-2020/articleshow/80203661.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Visakhapatnam||EG artist sets world record||Rajahmundry: A micro artist from Mandapeta in East Godavari, Donthamesetty Bala Nageswara Rao, created the smallest spoon in the world on Sunday making a Guinness World Record. The feat was performed in accordance with guidelines of Guinness World Record authorities. The artist made the 3.09mm wooden spoon in 2 hours, 13 minutes and 40 seconds. The government surveyor examined and approved the spoon. The record for making the world’s smallest spoon was previously held by Gowrishankar Gummadidhala from Telangana for designing a 4.5mm-long spoon on April 9, 2020. — Samson Raj | TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/eg-artist-sets-world-record/articleshow/80202040.cms||Samson Raj
January 11, 2021||Pune||Chilly weather conditions this week in Pune, forecasts IMD||PUNE: The night temperature in the city will start falling gradually from Monday onwards, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has forecast. The city has been experiencing warmer nights from the beginning of January, as the easterly winds were bringing in moisture over the state. Also, the intensity of the cold northerly winds was very low, a met official said. Anupam Kashyapi, the head of IMD’s forecast division here, told TOI on Sunday, “The northerly winds are expected to penetrate through the Vidarbha and the north Maharashtra regions in the days to come. Subsequently, the night temperature will start falling gradually. By the end of the week on January 15 and 16, the temperature is likely to fall to around 11°C, which is below normal by one degree. The city will experience winter chill.” Kashyapi also said that the sky condition would mainly remain clear. For the last few days, the city had been experiencing overcast conditions, with the day temperature between 30 to 31°C. “The day temperature is expected to remain between 28 to 29°C in the days to come. People can expect conducive weather conditions, with clear sky and chill nights in the city. There is no chance of rainfall either,” Kashyapi added. On Sunday, Shivajinagar and Lohegaon observatories recorded 19.4°C and 20°C night temperatures, which were above normal by 8.8 and 8 degree Celsius. respectively. Similarly, the day temperature at Shivajinagar and Lohegaon was 30.6°C 31.5°C, which were above normal by 1.6 and 1.5 degree Celsius, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chilly-weather-conditions-this-week-forecasts-imd/articleshow/80203684.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 11, 2021||Nashik||13-yr-old gang-raped; Nashik Rd police arrest 6 & detain a minor||Nashik: A 13-year-old was allegedly gang-raped by six people, including a minor, in the Nashik Road area of the city on Saturday. On Sunday, the Nashik Road police arrested six individuals — five accused men and a woman, who is the girl’s neighbour — under relevant sections of the IPC and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act. The minor, meanwhile, has been detained. The suspects were produced before a city court, which remanded them in police custody till January 16.Confirming the incident, Nashik city police commissioner Deepak Pandey said that according to the complainant, her daughter had also been raped on January 7 by the suspects who held her (the child) at knifepoint.“The police have taken serious cognizance of the incident and have arrested the suspects under section 376 DA (punishment for gangrape of a woman under 16 years of age) of the IPC and other Pocso Act sections. According to the complainant, her daughter was gang-raped again by the same people two days ago (on Saturday),” said Pandey.The 13-year-old girl’s parents are workers and had gone out when the incidents took place. The woman arrested in the case is the family’s neighbour. On Saturday evening, she had allegedly called the girl to her room, where the six suspects had raped her for the second time.When the victim’s mother came back home from work on Saturday night, she saw her daughter sitting on the terrace in distress. On being asked, she narrated the horrific incident. The mother then lodged a police complaint.Soon after a complaint was lodged by the girl’s mother, the Nashik Road police swung into action and detained the suspects from the incident spot. They were formally arrested early on Sunday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-yr-old-gang-raped-nashik-rd-police-arrest-6-detain-a-minor/articleshow/80202058.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 11, 2021||Pune||Man jumps to his death from flyover||Pune: A man (40) jumped to his death from a flyover in Chinchwad on Sunday afternoon . The police said that Walhekarwadi resident Kailas Mahajan, who jumped from the flyover, was mentally disturbed. “Before jumping, he had attempted suicide twice by standing in front of PMPML buses,” an officer from Chinchwad police said. Mahajan was walking on the flyover and he suddenly took a leap . “A woman who noticed him, tried to save him. He was i taken to a hospital. He succumbed to his injuries during treatment,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-jumps-to-his-death-from-flyover/articleshow/80203715.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Two held for threatening cops||Gaekwad Haveli police of city on Saturday booked two men for threatening cops over an issue of wearing mask. According to an FIR filed with Gaekwad Haveli police, Rehan Shaikh and Hasnain Shaikh, residents of Tangarwad in Jamalpur, were sitting on a motorcycle at Khamasa Crossroads on Saturday evening without wearing masks. A team of city traffic police patrolling in the area went to them and asked for fine for not wearing masks. The cops alleged that the duo began abusing cops and also indulged in scuffle after which they were held and booked for causing obstruction in the duty of cops, uttering abusive words and criminal intimidation and abetment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/two-held-for-threatening-cops/articleshow/80204936.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Nagarjuna Sagar bypoll crucial for 3 main Telangana parties||HYDERABAD: The ruling TRS and a resurgent BJP are busy in selection of candidates to take on K Jana Reddy of Congress in the bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. Congress has cleared the name of veteran leader Jana Reddy and an announcement from the high command is only a formality. Jana Reddy, who had won the seat seven times, suffered a setback in 2018 when he lost to Nomula Narsimhaiah of TRS. The TRS leadership is under pressure to give party ticket to Nomula Bhagat, son of Narsimhaiah whose death has caused the vacancy in the constituency. Legislative council chairman Gutha Sukender Reddy, T Chinappa Reddy and Koti Reddy are some of the leaders under active consideration of TRS leadership to take on Jana Reddy. Sukender Reddy has already started campaigning in the constituency. The bypoll is crucial for all the three main parties. The ruling TRS cannot afford to lose a third election in a row after its poor show in Dubbak and GHMC elections. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is keen to show the BJP its place by ensuring that the saffron party is relegated to third place and send a clear message to the people that there is no alternative to the TRS in Telangana. For the Congress, a victory will give the party the much-needed impetus to bounce back. A win here will help rejuvenate the party cadre and give them the hope of winning the 2023 assembly elections. The BJP, on its part, is going all out to score another stunning victory and to consolidate its position in Telangana. The bypoll is crucial for the saffron party too to prove that it has vote-bank in rural areas and that its victory in Dubbak was not a fluke. The BJP is searching for a strong candidate. K Anjaiah Yadav, who had polled over 27,000 votes by garnering over 17% of the vote share in 2014 election on a TDP ticket, is now with the saffron party. Anjaiah Yadav is a front-runner along with K Niveditha Reddy. Yadavs comprise the highest number of voters among various castes in the constituency and their vote is crucial in deciding the winner. Votes of SCs and STs also could be the clinching factor, pollsters say.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nagarjuna-sagar-bypoll-crucial-for-3-main-t-parties/articleshow/80203734.cms||Roushan Ali
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 33-year-old woman dies in road accident||HYDERABAD: A 33-year-old person who worked at RGI airport in housekeeping died in a road accident at Shamshabad on Saturday night. The victim, S Krishnaveni of Nandigama village in Ranga Reddy district, died when she was hit by an unknown vehicle traveling from Shadnagar to Hyderabad, at Madanpally X Roads while she was crossing the NH-44. She died on the spot due to her multiple injuries, Shamshabad police said. A case was registered under section 304-a of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/33-year-old-woman-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/80203711.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana records 350 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||HYDERABAD: Telangana, on Sunday, recorded 351 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total caseload in the state to 2,89,784. The death toll has risen to 1,565, while 2,83,463 patients have so far recovered from coronavirus in the state. The current recovery rate is over 97 percent while the case fatality rate (CFR) is 1.54 percent. On Sunday, a total of 38,451 tests were carried out in the state, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 72.5 lakhs. With this Telangana has reached 1,94,874 sample testing per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-records-350-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80203702.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Over 8k hawkers to benefit from transfer policy||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation has planned to authorize the hawkers’ licences transferred from owners to others and January 31 has been set as the deadline to submit the details and documents for the same. Over 8,000 hawkers will be authorized via this initiative, a civic official said. “The final call on allowing the transfers will be taken based on the documents and their validity. The data will be cross verified and the licence will be renewed accordingly,” Madhav Jagtap, the head of PMC’s anti-encroachment department, said. The PMC has started taking action against the hawkers, who have subleased their licence. According to a survey conducted by the PMC, 3,000 hawkers were found to have illegally rented out their stalls. The civic administration has given notices to these hawkers. If they fail to comply, their hawkers licenses would be cancelled. The transfers can only be done on the name of direct blood relatives. According to PMC officials, they have carried out a drive against the illegal hawkers in the last couple of weeks. The drives had been halted due to the spread of Covid-19 since March. As per the PMC’s data, around 20,000 hawkers operate in the city officially. They have been allotted licences for vending on the road. Around 10,000 are operating without any proper registration. PMC officials said they are taking action against the roadside vendors, who operate without authorization. Their material and handcarts are confiscated and they are also fined.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-8k-hawkers-to-benefit-from-transfer-policy/articleshow/80203699.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Seventh Pay Commission in NMC soon||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will implement the 7th Pay Commission for its employees in line with the one implemented in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. The decision to this effect was taken during a meeting between district guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal and municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. After the meeting, Bhujbal assured that the seventh pay commission will come into effect at the earliest. Jadhav has already given instructions to the finance department to calculate how much burden will increase on NMC after the implementation of the new pay commission. Jadhav said that financial provision related to 7th pay commission for its employees will be made in the budget during the new financial year 2021-22. The NMC has 7,090 approved posts of officials and employees. Presently, 4,788 officials and employees are employed while other posts are vacant as recruitment could not take place in the last few years. In October last year, the urban development department of the state government had given its nod to the NMC to implement 7th pay commission to its employees and officers. It had also sent an order in this connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/seventh-pay-commission-in-nmc-soon/articleshow/80202053.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||PM to interact with vaccine centre at Gandhi hospital in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Among the 139 centres in the state which will be the vaccine session sites for the Covid vaccine on January 16, the centres with which the Prime Minister will interact are the state-run Gandhi hospital and the Rural Health Centre Narsingi in Ranga Reddy district. Meanwhile, Hyderabad has a total of 13 centres—six private and seven government centres—where the programme will be rolled out. Nearly 35,000 staffers have been trained to carry out the vaccination programme. Telangana records 350 new cases, 2 deathsHyderabad: Telangana, on Sunday, recorded 351 new cases of Covid-19 and two deaths, taking the total caseload in the state to 2,89,784. The death toll has risen to 1,565, while 2,83,463 patients have so far recovered from coronavirus in the state. The current recovery rate is over 97 percent while the case fatality rate (CFR) is 1.54 percent. On Sunday, a total of 38,451 tests were carried out in the state, taking the total number of samples tested so far to 72.5 lakhs. With this Telangana has reached 1,94,874 sample testing per million population.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pm-to-interact-with-vaccine-centre-at-gandhi-hospital/articleshow/80203691.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pune Rural police arrest 39 criminals in combing operations||PUNE: The Pune Rural police on Sunday carried out an elaborate combing operation in the entire district and arrested 39 criminals on police records. They also recovered four country-made pistols, six cartridges and six sharp weapons. They checked hotels, lodges, petrol stations and vehicles. Senior inspector of the local crime branch Padmakar Ghanwat said 79 teams comprising 72 police officers and 307 personnel had been formed. “During the drive, the teams had checked 158 criminals with a previous record of possessing illegal firearms. We have recovered four country-made pistols, six cartridges and six sharp weapons from 11 suspects,” Ghanwat said. The police also checked about 352 criminals who are on the run. “Of these, 39 have been taken into custody. We have also registered an offence against three criminals for violating the externment order,” Ghanwat said. During the drive the police filed cases against 38 restaurants found operating beyond the prescribed time limit, the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rural-police-arrest-39-criminals-in-combing-ops/articleshow/80203704.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Trichy||South Tamil Nadu reports 82 fresh Covid cases, central region 67||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 82 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 1,34,592, which include 888 active cases. With two deaths, the toll has climbed to 2,117. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 67 new cases taking the tally to 74,728, which include 674 active cases. The region also recorded two deaths pushing the toll to 935. Kanyakumari reported 20 new cases. All other districts in the south reported less than 15 new cases. Kanyakumari (186) has the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Madurai (165), Tirunelveli (100), Tenkasi (47), Sivaganga (39) and Ramanathapuram (30). Except for Madurai (13), Tirunelveli (12) and Dindigul (10), all the remaining districts reported new cases in single digits on Sunday. Tenkasi (4), Theni (4), Sivaganga (3) and Ramanathapuram (2) reported less than five new cases, while Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported seven fresh cases each. Both the Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Ramanathapuram, which has seen hardly any Covid-19 deaths recently. The casualties were a 55-year-old man with chronic liver disease and a 46-year-old woman with diabetes. The Covid-19 death rate in the region is 1.57%. Trichy (20) is on top in the central region in reporting new positive cases and its tally is 14,382. Thanjavur recorded 16 fresh positive cases, where the total count is 17,371. Nagapattinam reported nine new cases and Pudukottai and Tiruvarur recorded seven new cases each. Karur district recorded six, Ariyalur two and Perambalur zero new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/south-tn-reports-82-fresh-cases-central-region-67-four-dead-in-all/articleshow/80206846.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||20% rise in wholesale price of onions at Lasalgaon||Nashik: The average wholesale price of onions has increased by around 20% over the last four days — from Rs 2,600 per quintal on Wednesday to Rs 3,100 per quintal on Saturday — at Lasalgaon APMC due ot rise in demand. On Saturday, the minimum and maximum wholesale price of onions were recorded at Rs 1,000 and Rs 2,901 per quintal, respectively. Around 8,000 quintal of onions were auctioned at Lasalgaon. “The harvest of new late kharif onions has come to an end in states like Gujarat and Rajasthan. As a result, the demand for Nashik onions has increased. Moreover, the demand for export of onions is also increasing gradually,” Narendra Wadhawane, secretary of Lasalgaon APMC, said. “The demand in both domestic and export markets has led to rise in wholesale price of onions during the last four days,” he added. Earlier, the government had imposed a ban on onion export, between September 14 and December 31 last year, due to rise in wholesale onion prices that had shot up retail prices in the range between Rs 80 and Rs 100 per kg. The average wholesale onion price had dropped from Rs 4,450 per quintal on November 20 to Rs 1,950 per quintal on December 28 due to rise in supply. Following persistent demands by onion farmers, the Centre lifted the ban on onion export from January 1. This resulted in rise in demand for onions. Since December 28 last year, the average wholesale onion price has increased by 60% — from Rs 1,950 per quintal to Rs 3,100 per quintal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/20-rise-in-wholesale-price-of-onions-at-lasalgaon/articleshow/80202065.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 11, 2021||Agra||Dubai returnee tests positive for new Covid strain in Aligarh||Agra: A 33-year-old man, who recently returned from Dubai, has tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 in Aligarh. Talking with TOI, chief development officer Anunay Jha said the condition of the patient is fine. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on December 29 and immediately admitted to hospital. “As a precautionary measure we had sent his sample to Delhi for test for the new strain of coronavirus as he returned from Dubai,” said Jha, adding that the report, received on January 6, revealed “positive” status for the new strain. Meanwhile, the patient was discharged from the hospital after he tested negative for Covid-19 on January 5. He will be home isolated for 20 days now, said health officials. The patient’s family members were tested again and their reports will be received in a day or two. Till now, 11,000 patients have tested positive for Covid out of total five lakh people who were tested for the viral infection, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dubai-returnee-tests-positive-for-new-covid-strain-in-aligarh/articleshow/80202024.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||PCMC draw for more than 3k affordable housing flats||Pimpri Chinchwad: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will conduct an affordable housing draw on Monday for 3,664 flats in Charholi, Ravet and Borhadewadi. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar and former revenue minister Chandrakant Patil of the BJP are likely to be present at the draw that will be conducted at Ramkrishna More Auditorium in Chinchwad.“In Monday’s draw, a list of selected candidates and a waiting list will be prepared for this housing scheme. Out of the 3,664 flats, 1,442 are in Charholi, 934 in Ravet and 1,288 in Borhadewadi,” it stated.The winners of the draw will need to pay a 10% advance, the details of which will be available on Monday. The housing project, under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, received over 47,000 applications earlier last year.The press statement from the PCMC stated that there will be reservation for this housing scheme as per the guidelines of the Central Government for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, Divyang and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcmc-draw-for-more-than-3k-affordable-housing-flats/articleshow/80203721.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||BMC helping those who put up illegal constructions: HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has criticised the BMC for its approach towards illegal structures in the city. “We get the impression that you are trying to help people putting up unauthorised constructions. You don’t take our orders seriously and go out and say this court is very harsh to officers of (BMC). When our orders are not followed, what do we expect to do?” said a bench of Justices Shahrukh Kathawalla and Riyaz Chagla on Friday. A petition was filed by the A H Wadia Trust regarding an illegal structure on its property in Kurla. In August 2020 the HC had directed that the site be inspected and appropriate action taken. The trust moved for contempt against the BMC alleging that no action was taken pursuant to the order. The BMC’s advocate, Joel Carlos, said the site was inspected and second floor construction stopped and demolished. The judges said action ought to have been taken against the entire structure, and not only the second floor. They asked the executive engineer present whether he read the order and understood it. Carlos said the engineer was under the impression that it was an ongoing construction. “It is unpardonable. You are senior-most in the hierarchy after the assistant (municipal) commissioner. Can you be heard to say this? After reading the order, you have not complied with it,” said Justice Kathawalla. It was then that the judge observed that BMC was not taking the court’s orders seriously. “Simple English orders they don’t understand and don’t implement,” said Justice Kathawalla. Carlos urged to permit action under section 351 (demolition) of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act (also known as the BMC Act). Justice Kathawalla pointed out that encroachers obtain an injunction from the civil court. “You are giving them that handle… an opportunity to do what they have not done. Whole purpose of the order is lost,” he said. Carlos said the trust owns large chunks of land in the Kurla-Kalina area. “Its managers give these properties on rent, issue rent receipts and then the trust expects the BMC to remove the encroachments,” the BMC’s advocate said. To that, Justice Kathawalla remarked, “We are not at all happy with the functioning of the Wadia Trust.” The judges were inclined to initiate contempt action asking whether the executive engineer “will go to jail or pay fine?” They relented and accepted Carlos’s statement that the BMC will take action under section 351 "to its logical end”. The judges will pass a formal order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-helping-those-who-put-up-illegal-constructions-hc/articleshow/80203726.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 11, 2021||Madurai||South Tamil Nadu reports 82 fresh Covid cases, central region 67||MADURAI/TRICHY: The ten southern districts of the state reported 82 fresh Covid-19 cases on Sunday taking the tally to 1,34,592, which include 888 active cases. With two deaths, the toll has climbed to 2,117. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 67 new cases taking the tally to 74,728, which include 674 active cases. The region also recorded two deaths pushing the toll to 935. Kanyakumari reported 20 new cases. All other districts in the south reported less than 15 new cases. Kanyakumari (186) has the most number of active cases in the region, followed by Madurai (165), Tirunelveli (100), Tenkasi (47), Sivaganga (39) and Ramanathapuram (30). Except for Madurai (13), Tirunelveli (12) and Dindigul (10), all the remaining districts reported new cases in single digits on Sunday. Tenkasi (4), Theni (4), Sivaganga (3) and Ramanathapuram (2) reported less than five new cases, while Tuticorin and Virudhunagar reported seven fresh cases each. Both the Covid-19 deaths were recorded in Ramanathapuram, which has seen hardly any Covid-19 deaths recently. The casualties were a 55-year-old man with chronic liver disease and a 46-year-old woman with diabetes. The Covid-19 death rate in the region is 1.57%. Trichy (20) is on top in the central region in reporting new positive cases and its tally is 14,382. Thanjavur recorded 16 fresh positive cases, where the total count is 17,371. Nagapattinam reported nine new cases and Pudukottai and Tiruvarur recorded seven new cases each. Karur district recorded six, Ariyalur two and Perambalur zero new cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/south-tn-reports-82-fresh-cases-central-region-67-four-dead-in-all/articleshow/80204921.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Silver lining for babus in waiting||It has come as a huge relief for bureaucrats in waiting when Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray declared they would get their monthly salary till they landed a regular assignment. Three months after Thackeray took over the reins, there was the biggest ever reshuffle in the bureaucracy, but it lacked planning. While key bureaucrats were given plum assignments, a large number was not given a posting. Additional chief secretary Rajeev Jalota led the list of bureaucrats in waiting, followed by Shyam Tagde, Thane municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal, controversial bureaucrat Tukaram Munde, Rajesh Patil, Dilip Gawde and the latest to join the list was water resources secretary, Lokesh Chandra. Jalota was posted in the higher and technical education department after a seven-month wait, and later took over as the Mumbai Port Trust chairman. After a short stint in the water resources department, Lokesh Chandra was replaced by V K Gautam. Even as several bureaucrats are forced to play the waiting game, a few others hold additional charge of key departments such as additional chief secretary (finance) Manoj Saunik and the CM’s additional chief secretary Ashish Kumar Singh. If a senior bureaucrat is to be believed, then the general administration department can fill up all vacant posts in a single day, provided the bureaucrats do not insist on a posting of their choice. A fitting reply to detractors? Additional chief secretary Ashwani Kumar’s annual confidential report has proved his detractors in the bureaucracy wrong. In their ACR, chief election commissioner, Sunil Arora, and election commissioner, Sushil Chandra, lauded his efficiency during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. He drew praise on several counts and was acknowledged as an “overall outstanding officer”. They gave him a ranking of 9.5 out of 10. In the run-up to the crucial LS polls, Kumar, an IAS officer of the 1987 batch, took stringent measures to ensure they were conducted in a free and fair manner. Apparently, during the exercise, he had proposed strong action against a section of district returning officers. According to reports, a section of the officers had approached the then CM to seek his transfer, following which he was relieved.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/silver-lining-for-babus-in-waiting/articleshow/80204915.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 11, 2021||Pune||Undertrial nabbed a day after escape||Pune: A 21-year-old undertrial prisoner was nabbed from an SRA scheme housing in Warje within 24 hours of him escaping from the custody of a Murum police constable in Osmanabad district while he was being taken there from the Yerawada jail for investigation in a theft case. The Hadapsar police arrested Warje resident Rohit Biru Sontakke in a theft case and he was since then in judicial custody, lodged at the Yerawada jail. “Following his arrest here, the Murum police secured an Osmanabad court’s production warrant for securing his custody from the Yerawada jail authorities and transferring him to Murum,” an officer from Swargate police said. Constable Yashwant Vishnu Sagar from Murum police arrived here last Friday to take custody of Sontakke. “While getting down from the bus, Sontakke shoved the constable and fled,” said Kopnar. Sagar then lodged an FIR with Swargate police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/undertrial-nabbed-a-day-after-escape/articleshow/80203754.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||State polls coming, stay away from controversies: BJP to Goa govt||PANAJI: With the state assembly elections barely a year or so away, BJP has decided to stay away from new controversies, apprehensive that they may damage the party’s electoral chances. The party has advised CM Pramod Sawant, ministers and other functionaries to distance themselves from any policy decisions or development projects that could attract opposition or spark fresh controversy. “We have advised the government to complete existing projects before the election,” a senior BJP core committee member told TOI. “We don’t want to get into any controversies by announcing new projects or taking new decisions.” Another member said that even after the thumping ZP election win, BJP can’t take the municipal and assembly elections lightly. Equations change from election to election, he said. The municipal election will be held in February-March. BJP has started mandal training programmes in all constituencies to galvanise its cadre and train them in booth management. The coming assembly election will be the first for the party without its star campaigner, former CM Manohar Parrikar. It is his absence that may have prompted the party to watch their step before the election, a political observer said. Sawant, who became CM after Parrikar’s death, managed to cobble together a stable government by inducting two MGP and 10 Congress MLAs, but this didn’t stem the deluge of controversy. Before the ZP polls, the government faced stiff opposition over issues such as coal handling at MPT, double-tracking of the railway line, etc. Recently, the movement to oppose IIT-Goa at Melauli, too, got the government plenty of flak after police adopted a tough stance against protesters. A recent ordinance regarding municipal shops and properties too faced opposition from merchant associations, forcing the state to put its implementation on hold. On Saturday, Sawant reiterated his government is sensitive and people-centric, and willing to listen. However, analysts feel that statements such as these need to be reflected on the ground for a public change of perception.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-polls-coming-stay-away-from-controversies-bjp-to-govt/articleshow/80203751.cms||Murari Shetye
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||21-year-old auto driver takes his life||Hyderabad: A 21-year-old auto driver ended his life due to personal problems. B Bhavani Prasad, was a resident of Rajiv Gruhakalpa Colony in Bachupally. On Sunday, neighbours found Prasad hanging from the ceiling fan in his house. Police said that Prasad was depressed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/21-year-old-auto-driver-takes-his-life/articleshow/80203752.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Tuition class owner booked||Ahmedabad: Paldi police on Saturday held a man for allegedly running a tuition class without maintaining social distance where 25 students were called for their study at a commercial complex in the area. According to an FIR filed with Paldi police, the cops got a message that around 40 persons gathered at Parasmani tuition class in Sahjanand Plaza in Paldi Bhattha area on Saturday afternoon. When cops reached there, they found that a man along with around 25 students were present in the class. The FIR mentions that the tuition class was being run without maintaining social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/tuition-class-owner-booked/articleshow/80204935.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Nashik RTO gets ISO certification||Nashik: The Nashik Regional Transport Office (RTO) has been awarded the ISO 9001-2015 certification given by Quality Veritas Certification Limited (UK). This comes after finding that Nashik RTO is meeting the requirements of ISO 9001:2015 quality management system for providing services of driving licenses, vehicle registration, fitness certification and enforcement of Motor Vehicle Act for road safety and revenue recovery. Bharat Kalaskar, the regional transport officer, Nashik, said, “Nashik RTO is a 100% digitized office, which has over 40 lakh digital records of licenses and vehicle registrations. It gives about 60 time-bound services of licenses and vehicles with online appointments.” He said Nashik RTO also has the state’s first automated inspection and certification centre to check vehicle fitness. The office also conducts regular online training along wirh counselling courses for new learners’ license holders, especially the youths in association with Nashik First NGO with an aim to achieve road safety. “Nashik RTO would continue to improve its services even in the future,” he said. As per the release by the Nashik RTO, the office had begun computerized offline vehicle registration and license in 1997. The initial offline computerized work was done through Tools software. In 2007, the RTO switched to Sarathi 1.0 and Vahan 1.0 web-based system for driving license and vehicle registrations, respectively. The RTO switched to online Sarathi 4.0 and Vahan 4.0 online system in January 2017. Records of over one lakh driving licenses and 18.74 lakh vehicles have been computerized so far. Nashik RTO gives 150 appointments daily for the learner’s license test, 200 for driving license test and 165 vehicles for renewing fitness certificates of vehicles. The RTO also provides online services of issuing learner's license, driving license, renewal of licenses, the inclusion of new address in driving license among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-rto-gets-iso-certification/articleshow/80202072.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 11, 2021||Pune||Man shot at in Sangvi, survives||Pune: A 30-year-old man from old Sangvi on Saturday night had a narrow escape when an unidentified person shot at him from close range. “The bullet grazed past Vijay Solanki’s neck muscle and hit his cellphone while he was talking on the phone. We found an empty cartridge at the spot,” deputy commissioner of the Pimpri Chinchwad police Anand Bhoite told TOI. “Solanki is undergoing treatment in a hospital and is out of danger,” Bhoite said, adding, “We suspect the involvement of one person in the attack. We have found out his identity. The reason behind the attack would be revealed after the arrest.” The officer said on Saturday around 11pm, Solanki, his wife and their three-year-old daughter had stepped outside to have a walk after dinner. Solanki was on the phone while walking. When they reached near a petrol pump, an unknown person shot at Solanki from a very close range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-shot-at-in-sangvi-survives/articleshow/80203755.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||One held, booty stolen from Pune's Mandai temple recovered||PUNE: A 19-year-old jobless youth from Hingoli was arrested from the Crawford market area in Mumbai on Saturday night in connection to a theft at Akhil Mandai Ganesh Mandal temple in Shukruwar Peth on Friday. The police recovered gold ornaments worth Rs5.13 lakh and cash worth Rs1.5 lakh from Ajay Mahavir Bhuttar. “Bhuttar had travelled to Mumbai from Pune by train for disposing of the stolen gold ornaments with some jewellers there,” senior inspector Vijay Tikole of the Vishrambaug police said. The officer said, “In fact, he did manage to sell some ornaments considering that ornaments worth Rs6.65 lakh and cash of around Rs10,000 was reported stolen in the FIR lodged by the temple office-bearers. The police recovered ornaments worth Rs5.13 lakh and much more cash which Bhuttar had collected from disposing of some ornaments with jewellers in north Mumbai.” He said, “A Pune court has ordered his remand in police custody till January 14.” Tikole said, “Bhuttar’s face was clearly visible at one point in the CCTV footage recovered from the temple. The police further spotted him in the CCTV footage while he was boarding the Hubli-Mumbai express train around 3.15am on Saturday. We had forwarded his image and the footage to the Mumbai police and the Government Railway Police (GRP), Mumbai.” “It was a joint action by the GRP, Mumbai, and the LC Marg police. They tracked Bhuttar based on his circulated image,” Tikole added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1-held-booty-stolen-from-mandai-temple-recovered/articleshow/80203772.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Sanjay Raut praises Ratan Tata, taunts PM in Saamna||MUMBAI: Sena leader Sanjay Raut in his weekly column, ‘Rokhthok’ in the Sena mouthpiece, ‘Saamna’, applauded the 83-year-old industrialist Ratan Tata for visiting an ailing employee at his home in Pune The column also taunted the PM for his response to the farmers’ stir near Delhi. The column said, ‘the insensitive rulers in Delhi’ did not respond to the farmers protest, even after 57 lost their lives. “Why is he (Tata) a legend? The answer is, his lifestyle ... while our rulers are not visiting the border of the city, where farmers are protesting,” wrote Raut. Modi did not make any foreign trip last year. “But how many issues have been resolved?” asked Raut.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/raut-praises-tata-taunts-pm-in-saamna/articleshow/80204934.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: CRPF constable’s wife goes on hunger strike after being abandoned||KAMALAPUR (WARANGAL): A CRPF constable’s wife went on a hunger strike on Sunday after her husband abandoned her at an agricultural field in Kamalapur mandal headquarters of Warangal district. According to sub-inspector Deshini Vijay Kumar, the CRPF constable, Pogu Omkar, who is part of the Chhattisgarh regiment, had married Deepa in 2013, but soon began harassing her for dowry. “Deepa’s parents had given her 11 grams of gold ornaments, Rs 2.5 lakh cash and three guntas of land in dowry at the time of marriage, but Omkar demanded additional dowry. He also began physically harassing her after the birth of their son,” Kumar said. Although village elders intervened and tried to settle the issue, Omkar took his wife and son to Kamalapur and left them in a field. A few farmers who saw Deepa alerted the police, following which the couple were taken to the Kamalapur police station for counselling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/constables-wife-goes-on-hunger-strike-after-being-abandoned/articleshow/80203779.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops find body floating in cellar in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Punjagutta police found the semi decomposed body of an unknown 40-year-old man in the water gathered in the cellar of an under construction building. Police received an alert about a body floating in the water at an under construction site near Sitara Residency hotel in Ameerpet and fished out the body. The deceased was clad in black trousers, black T shirt and blue jacket. A suspicious death case was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-find-body-floating-in-cellar/articleshow/80203785.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad woman, son found murdered; husband primary suspect||PUNE: A 41-year-old woman from Chinchwad and her four-year-old son, who were missing since January 5, were found murdered in a room at Morya Colony in Walhekarwadi on Saturday night. The murder came to light around 8.30pm on Saturday when the residents of Morya Colony detected a foul smell emanating from a room located on the third floor. “We found decomposed bodies of Sumaiyya Shaikh and her son, Ayan. Their throats had been slit with a sharp knife, which was found in the room,” senior inspector Sudhakar Kate of the Chinchwad police told TOI. Kate said, “We suspect the involvement of Shaikh’s husband in her and their son’s brutal murders. Shaikh’s 18-year-old daughter, from her first marriage, has lodged an FIR against her stepfather.” Prima facie probe revealed that Shaikh had thrown the suspect out of her house as the latter had started harassing his two stepdaughters. “He may have killed his wife and son for revenge. We have fanned four teams to trace him,” Kate said. Shaikh has two daughters from her first marriage. “Around five years ago, Shaikh had married the suspect,” Kate said. The officer said, Shaikh started suspecting last year that her husband was harassing her two daughters. “In June, Shaikh threw the suspect out of her house, following which, he returned to his native village in Amravati district,” Kate said. The suspect returned to Chinchwad recently and used to visit Shaikh’s house to meet his son. “On January 5, the suspect took his son along with him. When he did not return home, Shaikh went out to search for them,” Kate said. When she did not return home, her daughters started calling her but her cellphone was not reachable. The next day, Shaikh’s daughter managed to connect with her mother briefly. Shaikh told her daughter her that she was locked in a room in Walhekarwadi. After that she could not be contacted anymore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-son-found-murdered-husband-primary-suspect/articleshow/80203743.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pune traffic cops push for parking facility||PUNE: The traffic police has written to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to start the multi-level mechanized car parking facility located near Sambhaji Garden considering parking space on Jangali Maharaj Road has reduced after the Smart City project work was executed on the stretch. The parking facility has remained closed for the last two-and-a-half years now. The facility can accommodate 40 cars, the police said. “If started soon, the facility will reduce traffic chaos on the road as seen during the evening hours,” said assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Sushma Chavan. The officer has written a letter to the civic body last week. Chavan told TOI, “Vehicular movement on JM Road, especially between Rani Jhansi junction and Garware bridge, becomes chaotic when car drivers slow down while looking for an appropriate place to park their vehicle. Many vehicles are also seen parked on the road without caring for the ease of vehicular movement.” According to the traffic police, cars and SUVs are often seen parked in the small and narrow bylanes connecting JM Road and Apte Road. Eventually, due to the parked vehicles, movement of traffic in the bylanes is also affected. “We were looking for parking spaces on the road and adjacent areas. Then we realized that the multi-level facility is closed and it can be used. Thus, we have written a letter to the PMC requesting that the facility be started at the earliest,” she said. A senior PMC official said, “Following an accident at the multi-level parking facility about three years ago, the facility had been shut down. We will think about reopening it. However, it will take time as it will require maintenance and trained manpower to operate the facility.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/traffic-cops-push-for-parking-facility/articleshow/80203741.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pravasi Samman for American NRI body||Ahmedabad: The Federation of Indian Associations (FIA) of New York, New Jersey & Connecticut (FIA-Tristate) was conferred the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman on January 9 during the 16th Pravasi Bharatiya Divas (PBD) celebrations. The FIA received the honours for community service, according to the MEA website.A total of 30 individuals and organizations from across the globe were conferred the honours, the highest for non-resident Indians (NRIs), in the presence of President Ram Nath Kovind and PM Narendra Modi.Established in 1970, FIA-Tristate celebrated its Golden Jubilee in 2020. Since its inception, the Gujarati diaspora settled in the US has remained an important part of the federation. Ramesh Patel, the founding member of the federation, played an important role in making the India Day Parade the biggest celebration of Independence Day outside India. The three states have one of the highest concentrations of Gujarati population, said members.“We are very proud, humbled and thankful to be the recipient of the Pravasi Bharatiya Samman,” said Anil Bansal, the president of the body. “This award is for exceptional and meritorious contribution to India and to social and humanitarian causes.”Ankur Vaidya, the chairman of the FIA, said that even during one of the worst times in recent history, the federation continued to shine through its initiatives. “We managed with the motivated team and Ramesh Patel’s spirit and soul to show us light and inspiration,” he said. “This is only the beginning and bigger and better things are coming.”The federation represents about 10 lakh NRIs and hosts several major events including India Day Parade. In 2020, the federation organized the Tricolour hoisting ceremony in Times Square for the first time. The organization also helped students stranded due to Covid-19 over the past few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pravasi-samman-for-american-nri-body/articleshow/80204937.cms||Parth Shastri
January 11, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Technology & process-laden Covid vaccine drive sparks some anxiety||PUNE: The arrival of Maharashtra’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines — seven lakh doses for priority groups — is now imminent. State officials said they are fully prepared for the mass vaccine drive that’ll follow, but felt what should be a “cakewalk” for them has been weighed down by a heavy reliance on technology and process. Mass vaccination is not a novelty for the state. Nearly three crore young children were vaccinated against measles within seven days a little over two years ago. Some five crore children were given oral drops against polio within a single day. However, for Covid, the list of ancillary jobs that’ll need a good communications signal is long. Officials at over 500 vaccination sites will have to verify beneficiary details, ensure texts are sent out to the right people and oversee data going into the CoWIN database. All this despite known challenges such as weak internet connectivity and phone-signal dropouts in remote regions. “Record-keeping is key to every mass vaccination campaign. But an intensive use of technology makes the Covid drive a challenge,” said public health expert Satish Pawar, additional director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra. Quite a few vaccination centres, during dry runs, reported glitches while operating the CoWIN app, which needs a steady internet link. Some sites in Mumbai and other parts of the state found lags in the Aadhaar authentication process on CoWIN. In fact, most of the delays during the mock drills were caused by this process, officials said. “We have to verify a beneficiary’s Aadhaar and check if the name is enrolled on the app. We then have to administer the vaccine and update doses used,” said Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. There were other problems too. “During the dry runs, some states saw that beneficiaries had not received the SMS containing time and location supposed to be generated by the CoWIN system,” said public health expert Subhash Salunke. Besides the technology, monitors will have to ensure physical distancing at sites; that shots are being given as quickly as possible; adverse events are being recorded; and there’s help available if a person needs some reassurance before vaccination. “One centre will vaccinate 100 people per day. That means the vaccination of seven lakh health workers in the state should take 15 days,” said Archana Patil, director of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tech-process-laden-vax-drive-sparks-some-anxiety/articleshow/80207557.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Technology & process-laden Covid vaccine drive sparks some anxiety||PUNE: The arrival of Maharashtra’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines — seven lakh doses for priority groups — is now imminent. State officials said they are fully prepared for the mass vaccine drive that’ll follow, but felt what should be a “cakewalk” for them has been weighed down by a heavy reliance on technology and process. Mass vaccination is not a novelty for the state. Nearly three crore young children were vaccinated against measles within seven days a little over two years ago. Some five crore children were given oral drops against polio within a single day. However, for Covid, the list of ancillary jobs that’ll need a good communications signal is long. Officials at over 500 vaccination sites will have to verify beneficiary details, ensure texts are sent out to the right people and oversee data going into the CoWIN database. All this despite known challenges such as weak internet connectivity and phone-signal dropouts in remote regions. “Record-keeping is key to every mass vaccination campaign. But an intensive use of technology makes the Covid drive a challenge,” said public health expert Satish Pawar, additional director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra. Quite a few vaccination centres, during dry runs, reported glitches while operating the CoWIN app, which needs a steady internet link. Some sites in Mumbai and other parts of the state found lags in the Aadhaar authentication process on CoWIN. In fact, most of the delays during the mock drills were caused by this process, officials said. “We have to verify a beneficiary’s Aadhaar and check if the name is enrolled on the app. We then have to administer the vaccine and update doses used,” said Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. There were other problems too. “During the dry runs, some states saw that beneficiaries had not received the SMS containing time and location supposed to be generated by the CoWIN system,” said public health expert Subhash Salunke. Besides the technology, monitors will have to ensure physical distancing at sites; that shots are being given as quickly as possible; adverse events are being recorded; and there’s help available if a person needs some reassurance before vaccination. “One centre will vaccinate 100 people per day. That means the vaccination of seven lakh health workers in the state should take 15 days,” said Archana Patil, director of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/tech-process-laden-vax-drive-sparks-some-anxiety/articleshow/80207558.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 11, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Technology & process-laden Covid vaccine drive sparks some anxiety||PUNE: The arrival of Maharashtra’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines — seven lakh doses for priority groups — is now imminent. State officials said they are fully prepared for the mass vaccine drive that’ll follow, but felt what should be a “cakewalk” for them has been weighed down by a heavy reliance on technology and process. Mass vaccination is not a novelty for the state. Nearly three crore young children were vaccinated against measles within seven days a little over two years ago. Some five crore children were given oral drops against polio within a single day. However, for Covid, the list of ancillary jobs that’ll need a good communications signal is long. Officials at over 500 vaccination sites will have to verify beneficiary details, ensure texts are sent out to the right people and oversee data going into the CoWIN database. All this despite known challenges such as weak internet connectivity and phone-signal dropouts in remote regions. “Record-keeping is key to every mass vaccination campaign. But an intensive use of technology makes the Covid drive a challenge,” said public health expert Satish Pawar, additional director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra. Quite a few vaccination centres, during dry runs, reported glitches while operating the CoWIN app, which needs a steady internet link. Some sites in Mumbai and other parts of the state found lags in the Aadhaar authentication process on CoWIN. In fact, most of the delays during the mock drills were caused by this process, officials said. “We have to verify a beneficiary’s Aadhaar and check if the name is enrolled on the app. We then have to administer the vaccine and update doses used,” said Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. There were other problems too. “During the dry runs, some states saw that beneficiaries had not received the SMS containing time and location supposed to be generated by the CoWIN system,” said public health expert Subhash Salunke. Besides the technology, monitors will have to ensure physical distancing at sites; that shots are being given as quickly as possible; adverse events are being recorded; and there’s help available if a person needs some reassurance before vaccination. “One centre will vaccinate 100 people per day. That means the vaccination of seven lakh health workers in the state should take 15 days,” said Archana Patil, director of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tech-process-laden-vax-drive-sparks-some-anxiety/articleshow/80203810.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Cops in Gujarat top charts in graft cases||AHMEDABAD: Cops were hailed as ‘corona warriors’ due to their work enforcing the lockdown and night curfews during this pandemic, but cases of corruption filed against them put a blot on their reputation. Even though the Gujarat anti-corruption bureau (ACB) did not register a single case during the lockdown, Gujarat Police still topped the charts in corruption cases with 60 of the 199 offences filed by the agency in 2020 being against cops. According to ACB figures, some 107 accused from the home department including two Class 2 officers, 74 Class 3 officers, one Class 4 officer and 30 individuals were nabbed in corruption cases in 2020. Thus cops make up around 30% of the 310 accused caught by the ACB in 2020. If cases numbers are compared to 2019, where 66 cases were recorded, there has been a negligible decline, by six cases in 2020. There has been a minimal rise, seven, in the number of persons accused from the home department in 2020 from 2019, when 100 persons were reported. However, there is a steep decline in the bribe amounts involved, which went from Rs 37 lakh in 2019 to Rs 10 lakh in 2020. This suggests cops have “compromised” for smaller amounts during Covid times. A senior ACB officer said, “During the lockdown, cops refrained from taking bribes fearing Covid infection. As the number of cases fell, and the lockdown was lifted, they began taking bribes but settled for very small ones because people were also suffering financially.” Apart from the home department, the second highest number of cases was reported from the panchayats, rural housing and rural development department where 29 cases were filed and 46 accused were caught taking bribes totalling Rs 2.18 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/cops-in-state-top-charts-in-graft-cases/articleshow/80203836.cms||Ashish Chauhan
January 11, 2021||Pune||Senate meet at SPPU takes up free vaccines, timetables||PUNE: Free vaccines for teaching and non-teaching staff, sanitisation of hostels and reopening rooms for students, reduction in college affiliation fees against the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic were some decisions undertaken at the senate meeting on Sunday at the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). The university has been in talks with the Serum Institute of India for the vaccine and its availability for the varsity’s staff on priority. It was also decided to restructure the academic calendar due to several delays caused during the pandemic. Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said,”We will ensure that the staff gets vaccinated on priority as they are working hard in this pandemic period.” He was replying to a proposal by senate member Sanjay Kharat to give free vaccine, and funds be provided by the SPPU. Senate member Abhishek Bokey had proposed that the university hostels, departments and colleges should be reopened soon as students were suffering a huge academic loss. Bokey said, “Before the reopening, the hostel rooms should be sanitised thoroughly.” The senate approved the proposal. A proposal to restructure the academic calendar was also approved by the senate at the meeting. Karmalkar said timetables are being worked out by the respective departments considering all the losses faced by the students and it will be announced soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/senate-meet-at-sppu-takes-up-free-vaccines-timetables/articleshow/80203794.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Poultry breeders in Nashik district put on alert||NASHIK: The animal husbandry department has alerted the poultry breeders in Nashik district against a possible bird flu outbreak by asking them to ensure complete biosecurity for the birds. “At this point, there is no incident of bird flu in Nashik district. But since the infection has been noticed in the neighbouring state, we have asked the breeders to take utmost care,” said G R Patil, the assistant commissioner of animal husbandry in Nashik. The department has issued a list of dos and don’ts for the poultry breeders and the gram panchayats. The animal husbandry department of the Government of India has already issued guidelines and has drawn up a security plan for poultry. Some of the key measures announced are to ensure strict biosecurity protocol at the poultries to prevent any untested bird from coming inside the premises as well as to stop any infected bird from going out into public areas or enter the food chain. Poultry breeders must maintain cleanliness of their premises, ensure transportation on clean vehicles, manage the waste properly, ensure proper disposal of birds that may have died (but not because of any disease) and ensure quality food and vaccination for the birds. Moreover, if there is an unnatural bird death, the local administration must be informed so that samples can be taken for investigation to establish the cause, he said. Patil said every gram panchayat has also been asked to spread sodium carbonate solution on poultry infrastructure, cattle farms, gutters and other areas. This process must be repeated fortnightly. He has asked all breeders to be cautious of goods coming from the affected states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/poultry-breeders-in-nashik-dist-put-on-alert/articleshow/80202076.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 11, 2021||Pune||NIBM residents approach authorities to demand water, roads & drainage||PUNE: The Anandvan Parisar Resident’s Forum from NIBM held a meeting with the local corporator and authorities on Sunday to discuss issues faced by them. “The main issues discussed were about water, drainage pipeline and road access to this area. We want supply of Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) water as a majority of societies in the area are currently using borewell water. We also have to bear additional costs to soften the water,” Vaibhav Kankariya, a resident of Raheja Vista phase 3 and representative of the forum, said. He added there was an urgent need for a sewage system. “Reduction of the slope from Sunshree Kangan up towards Cloud 9 and the widening of the approach road will reduce the traffic hazards. There is no police station or outpost in this vicinity. The stray menace is a concern as well. We also brought up basic requests for street lights, footpath, tree plantations,” Kankariya said. Nanda Lonkar, the local corporator who addressed the concerns of the residents present at the meeting, said, “This side of NIBM is a newly developed area, where the housing societies are huge with big buildings and numerous flats. The concerns raised mainly pertain to the builders of these societies. Our budget has been spent on the work for the pandemic, but we are still going to work towards sorting the residents’ issues.” Lonkar said they were planning to allocate Rs1 crore towards widening the road and making a footpath and setting up a police station. “We will also be meeting with the PMC commissioner to sort out their water issues,” Lonkar added. MLA Chetan Tupe, who was also present at the meeting, said, “Builders weave grand stories for potential buyers and give them false hope regarding the amenities. In some cases, the builder provides these amenities only till the completion of the project and then raises his hands, putting the responsibility on the corporation. But, the corporation should also not pass the sanctions for such big projects in areas where sewage system or water line are not present, until the builder makes proper arrangements to provide the amenities they advertise.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nibm-residents-approach-authorities-to-demand-water-roads-drainage/articleshow/80203792.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Scammers phish for victims in run-up to Covid vaccine rollout||MUMBAI: Cyber criminals have sensed a new opportunity in Covid vaccination to defraud by fraudulently obtaining personal data. Reports have poured in of people receiving phishing emails and text messages with links seeking registration for vaccination. The links lead to sites requiring individuals to enter personal details like Aadhaar number, PAN and bank details. The Maharashtra police’s cyber cell has warned people against falling victim to such tricks and urged that only digital platforms developed by the government, such as vaccine.icmr.org.in, be trusted. The public has also been warned against fake messages circulation on social media and chat apps. “The fraudsters are targeting people in another way too, which especially targets senior citizens. The elderly are getting calls from the so-called ‘Drug Authority of India’ and are told that their vaccine allocation is ready. They are told that to avail of that, they need to share their Aadhaar number, etc, and also reveal OTP numbers they would receive on their phones. But within seconds, they would discover that money was fraudulently transferred from their accounts,” said cyber expert Ritesh Bhatia. Maharashtra cyber cell joint commissioner of police Yashasvi Yadav said that the darknet is also being used to carry out Covid vaccine frauds.  “Ads are being published through this medium that the vaccine is supplied on a priority basis by making payments through bitcoins on the darknet. Lakhs of cyber attacks are taking place. Also attacks are being carried out on companies that are getting rights on Covid data and fraudster are trying to steal such data to sell it to rival companies. The Interpol has alerted agencies worldwide about the fraud.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/scammers-phish-for-victims-in-run-up-to-covid-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/80203817.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Technology & process-laden Covid vaccine drive sparks some anxiety||PUNE: The arrival of Maharashtra’s first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines — seven lakh doses for priority groups — is now imminent. State officials said they are fully prepared for the mass vaccine drive that’ll follow, but felt what should be a “cakewalk” for them has been weighed down by a heavy reliance on technology and process. Mass vaccination is not a novelty for the state. Nearly three crore young children were vaccinated against measles within seven days a little over two years ago. Some five crore children were given oral drops against polio within a single day. However, for Covid, the list of ancillary jobs that’ll need a good communications signal is long. Officials at over 500 vaccination sites will have to verify beneficiary details, ensure texts are sent out to the right people and oversee data going into the CoWIN database. All this despite known challenges such as weak internet connectivity and phone-signal dropouts in remote regions. “Record-keeping is key to every mass vaccination campaign. But an intensive use of technology makes the Covid drive a challenge,” said public health expert Satish Pawar, additional director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra. Quite a few vaccination centres, during dry runs, reported glitches while operating the CoWIN app, which needs a steady internet link. Some sites in Mumbai and other parts of the state found lags in the Aadhaar authentication process on CoWIN. In fact, most of the delays during the mock drills were caused by this process, officials said. “We have to verify a beneficiary’s Aadhaar and check if the name is enrolled on the app. We then have to administer the vaccine and update doses used,” said Pune district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. There were other problems too. “During the dry runs, some states saw that beneficiaries had not received the SMS containing time and location supposed to be generated by the CoWIN system,” said public health expert Subhash Salunke. Besides the technology, monitors will have to ensure physical distancing at sites; that shots are being given as quickly as possible; adverse events are being recorded; and there’s help available if a person needs some reassurance before vaccination. “One centre will vaccinate 100 people per day. That means the vaccination of seven lakh health workers in the state should take 15 days,” said Archana Patil, director of the state health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tech-process-laden-vax-drive-sparks-some-anxiety/articleshow/80207559.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 11, 2021||Pune||Auto driver held on charge of abusing traffic warden||PUNE: The Bhosari MIDC police on Saturday arrested an autorickshaw driver on the charge of abusing a traffic warden when the latter tried to stop him for jumping a traffic signal at Dehu Phata in Moshi on the Pune-Nashik highway. Ajay Jadhav (30) of Chikhali also abused the police personnel and hit himself with a broken liquor bottle after he was brought to the traffic police chowkey, police said. Assistant sub-inspector Dattatreya Thigale (52) sustained injuries on his right hand when he tried to prevent Jadhav from harming himself with the bottle. Jadhav has been arrested under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Thigale told TOI, that on Saturday around 2pm, the traffic warden at Dehu Phata noticed an autorickshaw was jumping the traffic signal at a high speed. When he tried to stop the driver, the latter abused him and drove away. “After sometime, the autorickshaw driver returned there and abused the warden again, following which, he was brought to the police chowkey,” Thigale said. “Inside the chowkey, Jadhav began abusing the police and even hit me. He then took out a liquor bottle from his pocket and broke it. Before he could harm himself with it, I caught hold of the bottle. In an attempt to remove bottle from his hands, I sustained injuries on my right hand,” Thigale said. The Kondhwa police on September 1 arrested an autorickshaw driver and his two friends after a traffic policeman lodged an FIR accusing them of abusing and charging at him following a dispute regarding presenting of documentation after the autorickshaw driver overtook a police vehicle at Kausarbaugh without giving any signal. The arrested were identified as Naresh Wathade (22), Akash Kshirsat (20) and Mahadev Ghadge (25).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/auto-driver-held-on-charge-of-abusing-traffic-warden/articleshow/80203789.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Loneliness a major stressor for elderly||Hyderabad: Another parameter which shows the overall well-being of the elderly population in the state has indicated that 11% of the elderly above the age of 60 live alone. While this is also closely related to sleep and mental health issues—as elderly living alone were found to be more prone to sleep problems—other health issues among this age group—including diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease and eyesight problems—are particularly high in the state. Explaining the interplay of these aspects, Dr Virinchi Sharma, consultant psychiatrist at Manasa Hospital, said, “With growing age, there is a reduction in the brain neuro transmitters, which are responsible for a healthy functioning of the brain and induce sleep. With additional stressors like chronic pain, loneliness, side effects of medicines and increase in physical health issues, there is a further reduction of brain neuro transmitters, which can lead into serious psychological health issues.” The latest Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI) report meanwhile showed that the Telangana scored high on the prevalence of neurological or psychiatric problems among the elderly. Among states that recorded more than 5% in this respect were West Bengal (8.1%), Telangana (7%), and Puducherry (6.9%). Also, around a third of the elderly (33%) reported bone or joint diseases in Telangana and 46% of elderly were found to have restrictive lung disease. “Around 10 to 15 percent of the patients we get at our rehabilitation centre are elderly men and women who are either without children or lack of support from their children. Chronic loneliness over years has a significant impact on the mental health of such patients, which manifests in several kind of disorders,” Mujtaba Hasan Askari, from helping hand foundation. an NGO which works with patients and abandoned people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/loneliness-a-major-stressor-for-elderly/articleshow/80203829.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Woman beats father over handwash in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: A 62-year-old man from Vasna on Saturday evening filed a police complaint alleging that his daughter attacked him over a handwash bottle dispute. In his FIR filed with Vasna police, Jayesh Dave said that the accused — his daughter and only child — Payal, 34, attacked him with a wooden table. Dave said that he lives with his wife Soha and their daughter. “Payal had divorced her husband about four years ago and since then has been living with us,” Dave said. He further said: “When I was at home at about 6pm on Saturday, my daughter returned from a shopping trip.” He added: “She had bought a big bottle of handwash. I asked her what the need was for such a huge bottle. Payal began shouting at me.” When Dave told her not to scream, she began thrashing him. “She began beating me and found a small wooden table with which she attacked me indiscriminately,” he said. “I was injured on my hands and feet.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/woman-beats-father-over-handwash/articleshow/80204939.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Aurangabad||Avian flu confirmed as cause of bird deaths in Parbhani||AURANGABAD: Avian flu has been confirmed as the cause of the recent bird deaths in Parbhani’s Murumba village. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar said culling of more than 8,000 hens has been ordered in the village. “All hens within a 1km radius of the village will be culled. Moreover, poultry firms in the entire district will be under watch,” he said. Meanwhile, another 35 bird deaths were also reported from another nearby poultry farm in Murumba. Mugalikar said the farm concerned is owned by an individual, who reported the incident to the local government authorities. “Samples from the dead and the living hens at the second site have been collected and sent to the laboratory,” he said. The district administration had already declared Murumba a prohibitory zone, putting a ban on sale on poultry products from the village. Unusual death, diarrhoea, purple discolouration of the wattles, combs and on legs of the birds, soft-shelled or misshapen eggs, lack of energy and appetite and nasal discharge are some of the signs of bird flu. Meanwhile, prices of poultry products have plummeted. Pralhad Kadam, a seller in Parbhani, said the prices have nearly halved. “Before the bird deaths, broiler chicken was sold for Rs 180 per kg, whereas the Kadaknath variety commanded a Rs 800 price for each kilogram,” he said. An “alert zone” has also been declared in a 10-km radius around the Ahmedpur area in Latur after 180 birds were found dead over the past couple of days. The alert zone has been marked as a precautionary measure around Kendrewadi village by Latur collector Prithviraj BP. (With PTI inputs)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/avian-flu-confirmed-as-cause-of-bird-deaths-in-parbhani/articleshow/80202097.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Goa likely to receive draft coastal plan soon: Cabral||PANAJI: The state government is expecting to receive the draft coastal zone management plan (CZMP) from the National Centre for Sustainable Coastal Management (NCSCM), Chennai, this week, environment minister Nilesh Cabral said on Sunday. Speaking to TOI, Cabral said that, if everything goes right, then the CZMP 2011 will be uploaded on the environment ministry’s website somewhere between January 16 and 18 for public consultation. “The National Green Tribunal (NGT), has given us a deadline of January 31 to complete the plan, but we are preparing a final plan by February end and it will be submitted to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEFCC) for final notification,” he said. Cabral said that once the plan is uploaded, people can submit their objections and suggestions and that if the realistic ones will be incorporated in the final CZMP. “Given the pandemic, we cannot hold public consultations. The CZMP presentation will be uploaded on the website for people’s viewing,” Cabral said. Once the CZMP 2011 is notified, the state government will start work on preparing CZMP 2019, he said. Earlier, the state had filed an application seeking time till March 10, 2021, to complete the plan, stating that the Covid-19 pandemic had affected work on the plan. The application had stated that, in the meanwhile, it has been ensured that no violations occur in coastal regulation zone (CRZ) areas and that necessary directions are issued from time to time in terms of Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1985. Goa submitted that no approval is being granted for any development in coastal areas till the CZMP is finalised and clarified that the delay in finalising the plan is not deliberate. The government had said that local bodies had expressed their desire to know the contents of the CZMP and hence field visits were organised through the officials of the Directorate of Settlement and Land Records in North and South Goa to explain to each and every local body as to what is a CZMP and what features should be incorporated in the plan as per the provisions of CRZ Notification 2011. The state government said that all of the local bodies prepared their own CZMP and the same were forwarded to NCSCM. The NGT, has given us a deadline of January 31 to complete the plan, but we are preparing a final plan by February end and it will be submitted to the ministry of environment, forest and climate change for final notification||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-likely-to-receive-draft-coastal-plan-soon-cabral/articleshow/80204938.cms||Murari Shetye
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Internet penetration just 31% in the Telangana||HYDERABAD: Despite the efforts of the state government to create a mark for Telangana in the information technology space and a suitable infrastructure by improving an online network, the state continues to have the least amount of internet penetration among the southern states and remains among the lowest in the country. According to the data released by the Internet and Mobile Association of India’s (IAMAI) Digital India 2019 report, internet connectivity has reached only 31% of Telangana. When compared to other southern states, Kerala recorded 54%, followed by 47% in Tamil Nadu, 39% in Karnataka and 31% in both Telangana and AP, the IAMAI report said. Experts TOI spoke to, attributed the trend to lack of access to individuals who stay in rural areas. “Around 40% of the state population is in Hyderabad. We are still an urban state because most of Telangana’s population is in urban areas. So, the issue would be rural connectivity. The way internet connectivity of government programme works is they will give access to schools and gram panchayats at the maximum. But now, Telangana is trying to install fiber optic cables which show that the state is working towards improving the connectivity,” said Srinivas Kodali, a data security researcher. In contrast to AP and Telangana, several states which play a key role in the IT sector in the country such as Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka recorded a substantial increase in internet penetration when compared to March 2019 and November 2019. When contacted, IT Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said, “We have started the T-Fiber (Telangana Fiber Grid Project) to create more internet penetration in rural areas. The project is now in the final stages of implementation and we are expecting it to start by August or September this year. Once that is in place, this 31% will become 100%.” Meanwhile, Hyderabad Software Enterprises Association (Hysea) president Bharani Kumar Aroll pointed out that internet penetration in the state would have improved drastically in 2020 and expects the user base to grow exponentially in the coming years. “Due to work from home (WFH), many techies, who are from Telangana have gone back to their homes and this has also boosted internet penetration in 2020,” he said. In fact, in a recent HYSEA survey that was released earlier in January this year, 25% of the IT companies reported that more than 50% of their Hyderabad workforce is working from outside Hyderabad and more than 50% of the IT players stated that more than 25% of their Hyderabad-based workforce is operating from outside the city. Aroll also pointed out that apart from the IT sector, where over 90% of the workforce is on WFH, the overall requirement for citizens to carry out transactions online or avail government services have boosted the internet penetration in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/internet-penetration-just-31-in-the-state/articleshow/80203861.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Effort at Sassoon hospital to cover 4,500 staff members||Pune: The Covid-19 vaccination drive at Sassoon General Hospital will cover around 4,500 staff members, including doctors, nursing and administrative staff. The drive, which is yet to be scheduled, will be held in the hospital premises with five booths covering strict vaccination protocols issued by the Union government. According to BJ Medical College and hospital dean Murlidhar Tambe, the vaccination drive is likely to take at least eight days to complete. The hospital has three ice-lined refrigerators, enough to store the vaccines. The hospital will not be carrying out a vaccination drive for other hospitals’ health care workers, as the venues are being finalized accordingly. Rajesh Karyakarte, deputy dean of the hospital, said that the medical and paramedical staff of the hospital worked tirelessly throughout last year and the infection of the staff members was around 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/effort-at-sassoon-hospital-to-cover-4500-staff-members/articleshow/80203843.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Navi-mumbai||90-year-old raped in Ratnagiri, kin file complaint a month later fearing accused||NAVI MUMBAI: A 90-year-old woman was raped by a labourer in Dapoli, Ratnagiri last month. The daughter-in-law of the victim lodged a police complaint on Friday. The victim was raped on December 19, 2020 by Soham Bhil, the 33-year-old accused, but she did not reveal about the incident to anyone fearing the accused would harm her. “The nonagenarian was staying alone in Hatip village at Dapoli. Her son and daughter-in-law are based in Mumbai. After the incident, the woman did not reveal anything for several days to anyone out of fear that the accused may harm her,” said Dapoli police assistant inspector, Pooja Hiremath. She added that a few days later, the victim had developed an illness and went to stay with her brother-in-law in the same village. She then told her daughter-in-law about it.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/90-yr-old-raped-kin-file-plaint-a-month-later-fearing-accused/articleshow/80204940.cms||Umesh K Parida
January 11, 2021||Thane||Three hurt in daylight attack at Ambernath jewellery shop, Rs 7 lakh robbed||AMBERNATH: Three people were injured in a daylight robbery attack in an Ambernath jewellery shop on Sunday. The owner, his brother and a staffer were attacked by four robbers, who barged into the shop with a revolver and a chopper at around 1.30pm and fled with valuables worth over Rs 7 lakh. While Vasan Singh, the owner and his brother Laxman Singh are seriously injured, the staffer, Bhairav Singh, has suffered minor injuries. The robbers entered the shop and threatened Bhairav at gunpoint to hand over the valuables. As Vasan raised an alarm, the robbers opened fire injuring Laxman. Bhairav managed to catch hold of the robber with a revolver during which the weapon fell. The robbers then started stabbing them with chopper and fled with the valuables they could lay their hands on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3-hurt-in-daylight-attack-at-jewellery-shop-rs-7l-robbed/articleshow/80203899.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Raman Patel arrested in land-grabbing case||Ahmedabad: Popular Builders’ promoter, Raman Patel, was on Sunday held in a land grabbing case which allegedly took place in 1977. The arrest came in the wake of a complaint filed on December 21 by an 85-year-old man from Thaltej gaam. In his complaint he alleged that his ancestral agricultural land, measuring about 200 acres, located in Thaltej, was grabbed by Patel and his aides, by floating an agricultural cooperative in 1977. An officer of Sola police said that Patel’s custody was taken from the Sabarmati Central Jail where he has been lodged since August last year. In his FIR with Sola police, Khodaji Thakor, said he recently obtained land documents though RTI after which he learned that his land was in the name of one Someshwar Kheti Sahkari Mandali, and had been transferred to the cooperative in 1977. Thakor said as he is old now and could not work, he decided to sell the agricultural land but learned that the plot, which was transferred to his name in 1956, was sold to the office-bearers of Someshwar Kheti Sahkari Mandali. He said that neither he nor his wife, the co-owner of the land, had made any land deal with any person. He said that the price of the land on the deal document was shown to be Rs 6,078. The FIR says that Patel and four others hatched a criminal conspiracy and grabbed Thakor’s ancestral land. As of now, Patel and other promoters of Popular Builders have been facing charges of land-grabbing in five FIRs filed at different police stations in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raman-patel-arrested-in-land-grabbing-case/articleshow/80203992.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||All ‘missing’ UK returnees traced, says civic body||Pune: The civic body said it has traced all 107 passengers who had gone “missing” after their arrival in Pune from the United Kingdom since early December. Vaishali Jadhav, assistant medical officer of health, Pune Municipal Corporation, said 35 UK returnees were traced in PMC limits, while the rest were found to be residents of areas outside its jurisdiction. “Of these 35, two tested positive and have been admitted to the Naidu hospital. All of them have been traced,” Jadhav said. Late in December, PMC had received a list of 544 people who returned to Pune from the UK after the mutation was discovered. Of these, 107 failed to provide correct details — contact numbers, addresses, etc — in the self declaration forms given by the airlines. “We took help from police to trace them. We are relieved that, barring two, none of the ‘missing’ flyers tested positive. However, we are still carrying out contact-tracing, as these two flyers might have come into contact with many people,” a PMC official said. “We have told airlines and the airport authorities to be careful and have a system to ensure international flyers fill in the correct details in the self-declaration forms. The responsibility lies with the airlines. AAI should regulate this. Such lapses can lead to severe consequences. This also makes the jobs of PMC ground staff and other agencies extremely difficult,” the official added. At present, 90 UK returnees — 11 in Maharashtra (until last week) — have tested positive for the mutant strain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/all-missing-uk-returnees-traced-says-civic-body/articleshow/80203864.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Sleep deficit hurting Telangana’s elderly||HYDERABAD: In Telangana, nearly 14% of the elderly above 60 years of age and 9 percent of people between the age of 45 and 59 years have sleep deficit—a problem which can have serious implications on their mental and physical health. While Madhya Pradesh, with 22% sleep deficit, has recorded the highest deficit in the country, Telangana is in the 6th position as per the latest ‘Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI)’ report. Sleep problems refer to difficulty in falling asleep or staying asleep throughout the night and also feeling unrested during the day (on one or more days). Without the essential restorative sleep, significant daytime impairment is seen in these people, as per the study. In the LASI, the quality of sleep in the month prior to the interview was assessed based on a total of five domains: trouble falling asleep, waking up at night and having trouble getting back to sleep, waking too early in the morning and not being able to fall asleep, feeling unrested during the day, and taking a nap during the day. The study pointed out that 11% of older adults between the age of 45 and 59 years and 15% of elderly aged 60 and above in India have sleep problems. The study also shows that the elderly in rural areas were more prone to sleep problems as compared to urban areas. Similarly, elderly women as compared to elderly men, elderly who are widowed and elderly living alone experience more sleep problems. “Around a fifth of the elderly age 60 and above have sleep problems in the states/UTs of Madhya Pradesh (22%), Punjab (21%), Puducherry (21%), Kerala (20%), and Delhi (20%),” as per the study. At 14%, Telangana is slightly better than these states. Meanwhile, previous studies have shown that people in general do not seek treatment for sleep. “Measuring sleep or pain has several limitations, such as under-reporting or being considered as a normal aspect of ageing. However, the health implications of sleep and pain are serious, because these conditions are closely linked with cognitive impairment, morbidity, and mortality,” pointed out the study. Loneliness a major stressor for elderlyAnother parameter which shows the overall well-being of the elderly population in the state has indicated that 11% of the elderly above the age of 60 live alone. While this is also closely related to sleep and mental health issues—as elderly living alone were found to be more prone to sleep problems—other health issues among this age group—including diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease and eyesight problems—are particularly high in the state. Explaining the interplay of these aspects, Dr Virinchi Sharma, consultant psychiatrist at Manasa Hospital, said, “With growing age, there is a reduction in the brain neuro transmitters, which are responsible for a healthy functioning of the brain and induce sleep. With additional stressors like chronic pain, loneliness, side effects of medicines and increase in physical health issues, there is a further reduction of brain neuro transmitters, which can lead into serious psychological health issues.” The latest Longitudinal Ageing Study in India (LASI) report meanwhile showed that the Telangana scored high on the prevalence of neurological or psychiatric problems among the elderly. Among states that recorded more than 5% in this respect were West Bengal (8.1%), Telangana (7%), and Puducherry (6.9%). Also, around a third of the elderly (33%) reported bone or joint diseases in Telangana and 46% of elderly were found to have restrictive lung disease. “Around 10 to 15 percent of the patients we get at our rehabilitation centre are elderly men and women who are either without children or lack of support from their children. Chronic loneliness over years has a significant impact on the mental health of such patients, which manifests in several kind of disorders,” Mujtaba Hasan Askari, from helping hand foundation. an NGO which works with patients and abandoned people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sleep-deficit-hurting-ts-elderly/articleshow/80203869.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 11, 2021||Surat||Bootlegger to ‘return’ his car to police||Surat: The District and Sessions Court in Surat ordered Jeram Vanzara, a resident of Krishnakunj Vrindavan Society in Adajan of Surat to return his vehicle, which he had used to ferry liquor, to Adajan Police. Cops had seized the vehicle in connection with the prohibition case lodged in March last year. The court set aside the trial court order which allowed the interim custody of the Swift Dzire car to its owner after the Adajan Police challenged it demanding custody as per rules. As per the Gujarat Prohibition Rules, 2012, when the quantity of seized liquor is more than 20, then the seized vehicle will remain cops’custody till the trial ends. Cops had recovered 32 bottles of whisky and 96 beer bottles from the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bootlegger-to-return-his-car-to-police/articleshow/80202031.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region: Marginal decrease in fresh Covid cases; 10 patients succumb||PUNE: The number patients who recovered from Covid-19 was marginally lower than fresh positive cases for the contagion in Pune Metropolitan Region on Sunday. As many as 548 people were discharged in 24 hours till 8pm on Sunday, taking the overall number of recoveries in the region to nearly 3.55 lakh. The region added 637 fresh cases in the same period — 11 fewer than on Saturday — pushing the progressive tally closer to the 3.7 lakh mark. Ten people succumbed to the virus on Sunday, taking the total death toll in the region to 8,909. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) areas reported 264 new cases, while Pimpri Chinchwad recorded 183. The rural areas (131), municipal council limits (53) and cantonments (6) accounted for the rest, as per a report issued by the district health office. As of Sunday, there were 5,808 active cases in PMR — 1,963 patients were being treated in various hospitals, while 3,845 people were under home quarantine. As per a daily report issued by PMC, 305 patients were being treated with oxygen support in Pune municipal limits. Additionally, 208 patients were in a critical condition, the report stated. Out of 10 deaths in the region on Sunday, PMC limits recorded the highest number of fatalities, at seven. One person succumbed to the virus in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits and two people breathed their last in the rural areas. Health officials said the deceased were suffering from underlying health conditions, such as hypertension and heart problems. More than 8,000 samples were tested in the region on Sunday, taking the total number of samples tested to 19,58,937. PMC tested the most samples — 3,954 on Sunday and 9,59,006 overall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/marginal-decrease-in-fresh-cases-10-patients-succumb/articleshow/80203914.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 11, 2021||Pune||Four police vans with 16 cops to escort Serum institute vehicles ferrying vials||PUNE: The Pune city police will provide security cover to Serum Institute of India’s (SII) vehicles transporting Covid-19 vaccine from their Hadapsar facility to the Lohegaon airport, Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Sunday. Batches of the vaccine will be flown to destinations across the nation from the Lohegaon airport. “We will allot four police vans. Each van will have four personnel. It will avert any following of the SII vehicles and interception by other vehicles on the roads. Some policemen will be armed. A total of sixteen men will escort the SII vehicles,” he said. No schedule for the movement of the vehicles from the SII has been received as yet, he added. “However, we want to avert any untoward incident around SII and during the transportation of the vaccine. We will add to the security at the entrance gates. Eight of our men will guard these gates,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-police-vans-with-16-cops-to-escort-serum-institute-vehicles-ferrying-vials/articleshow/80203893.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Price of poultry nosedives as citizens ‘chicken’ out||NASHIK: The wholesale price of chicken in Nashik district has declined 35% in the last eight days following the outbreak of bird flu reported from some states in the country. The wholesale price has declined from Rs 90 a kg to Rs 57 a kg. The price rose marginally by Rs 3 and stood at Rs 60/kg on Saturday. Krishna Gangurde, vice-president of the association of poultry farm owners, said, “The demand for chicken in Nashik district dropped from 60 tonne per day to 40 per tonne per day between Tuesday and Friday. The demand improved on Saturday.” “Apart from bird flu, another factor that led to a drop in demand was that Thursday and Friday, on which Ekadashi was observed, were two auspicious days. Most people do not consume chicken on these days,” said Gangurde. “Many small poultry farmers resorted to panic selling due to a drop in price. On Saturday, we observed a marginal rise in wholesale price,” said Gangurde. “We are incurring huge losses. The production cost is Rs 70/per kg of chicken. The wholesale price is still hovering around Rs 60/kg,” he said. “My sale has been affected by 30-40% in the last four days because of the panic among consumers,” said Arun Pawar, owner of a poultry farm in Deola taluka of the district. Apart from chicken, egg prices have also been badly affected. “There has been a 30% drop in the wholesale price of eggs. The wholesale egg price has declined from Rs 5.7 per egg to Rs 4.1 per egg in the last couple of weeks,” said Fauwaz Shaikh, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/price-of-poultry-nosedives-as-citizens-chicken-out/articleshow/80202129.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Protocol violation at the behest of TRS: Uttam Reddy||HYDERABAD: Congress on Sunday said officials were not following protocol in inviting local MPs for government programmes allegedly at the behest of ruling TRS leaders and said it would complain to the Lok Sabha speaker seeking action against those responsible for protocol violation. Telangana Congress president and Nalgonda MP N Uttam Kumar Reddy said protocol violation was done repeatedly by the TRS government. He strongly condemned it and said the issue would be raised in Parliament. Uttam was speaking to media persons after visiting the Mattapalli bridge in Huzurnagar assembly Constituency, which falls in his Nalgonda parliamentary constituency. The bridge is a link between Telangana and Andhra Pradesh as it connects Mattapalli village in Suryapet district of Telangana to Tangedu village in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh. The bridge construction began in January 2014 and completed in 2018. “The TRS government recently inaugurated the bridge, but did not extend a proper invitation although it falls in my Lok Sabha constituency. They delayed its inauguration by not laying approach roads just to deprive Congress of its credit for the construction of the bridge.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/protocol-violation-at-the-behest-of-trs-uttam/articleshow/80203897.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||1L bovine ear tagged under ‘Mission Aadhaar’ for cattle||Vadodara: Around one lakh cattle in Vadodara have been ear-tagged with unique identification numbers similar to that of 12-digit Aadhaar number. The UID number tagging is part of an ambitious nation-wide project to create a centralised recording mechanism called the Information Network for Animal Productivity and Health (INAPH).Officials in animal husbandry department said that around 25% bovine population of Vadodara has so far been covered under the National Animal Disease Control Programme (NADCP). “Vadodara has an estimated population of 4 lakh bovines. As part of the national programme, every bovine in the country has to be tagged. The ear tags have a bar-coded UID containing information such as artificial insemination, vaccination and diseases that will help owners of the animals to avail compensation in the event of loss of their livestock,” said Dr Prakash Darji, deputy director, animal husbandry, Vadodara. “This ear tag will help the government in detecting diseases like foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) and brucellosis prevalent among bovine. The government aims for complete eradication of FMD by 2025,” said Darji, adding that the project of ear tagging the cattle began in Vadodara in November last year. NADCP will be rolled out in two phases. While the first phase aims to eradicate FMD and brucellosis, the second phase aims at linking the UIDs with productivity of the bovine and with focus on indigenous breeds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/1l-bovine-ear-tagged-under-mission-aadhaar-for-cattle/articleshow/80202108.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Duo get two-day NCB custody in drug seizure case||MUMBAI: A court on Sunday sent Karan Sajnani, a UK national and Rahila Furniturewala to Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) custody for two days. The NCB had arrested Sajnani and Furniturewala under the NDPS act in a case of smuggling of 200kg of high-quality ganja into the country. Rahila’s sister, Shaista, who was also arrested, was granted bail of Rs 5,000. NCB officer told the court that financial transactions between Sajnani and Rahila were being probed. Rahila is the ex-manager of an actor but the latter had no role in the smuggling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/duo-get-2-day-ncb-custody-in-drug-seizure-case/articleshow/80204990.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP makes false promises, says Telangana minister Errabelli||HYDERABAD: Panchayat Raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao on Sunday sought to ask BJP state president Bandi Sanjay whether the saffron party has implemented its promise of giving a car for a car damaged in floods in Greater Hyderabad. Stating that the BJP is misleading the people with its tall promises and communal agenda, the minister said the BJP had promised to give a two-wheeler for a two-wheeler and a car for a car damaged in the floods in Greater Hyderabad. “This car for car promise was made by the BJP in the GHMC elections. Not only this, but the saffron party had also promised at the national level in the earlier Lok Sabha polls that it would deposit Rs 15 lakh each in the bank accounts of the citizens by bringing back the black money stashed in banks in foreign countries,” Dayakar Rao said. He sought to ask the BJP leaders how many cars and two-wheelers have been given to the people in Greater Hyderabad and how many citizens have been given Rs 15 lakh each, and how much black money has been brought back. The minister appealed to the people, not to believe the BJP leaders' promises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-makes-false-promises-says-errabelli/articleshow/80203934.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Goa||Clear skies, lower temperatures in Goa after Jan 11||PANAJI: With only isolated places being forecast with rain on Sunday, and the trough in the Arabian Sea moving slightly away from Goa, clear sky conditions are expected to prevail over Goa, from Tuesday onwards. The India meteorological department (IMD) has said that the minimum temperature is likely to fall by one to two degrees celsius after January 10. Dry weather conditions expected after January 10 as a result. As on Sunday, the IMD analysis shows that there is less likelihood of rain on January 12 and 13. However partly cloudy skies can be expected on January 11. “After Monday mainly, clear sky conditions will prevail,” IMD scientist, Shambu Ravindren said. The unseasonal rain was attributed to the formation of a trough in the Arabian Sea. The trough is currently running from south east of the Arabian Sea to north Maharashtra across east central Arabian Sea. “Since it is now prevailing off from the Goa coastline, it is not likely to have much influence over the state,” Ravindren said. TOI had earlier reported that parts of the state were lashed with unseasonal rain on January 7, despite it being the winter season.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/clear-skies-lower-temperatures-in-state-after-jan-11/articleshow/80204989.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 11 lakh to get Covid vaccine in first phase, says CM Vijay Rupani||AHMEDABAD: Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani on Sunday said that 11 lakh persons — including healthcare workers and frontline workers — will get vaccinated for Covid in the first phase. The CM said that Gujarat would roll out vaccination from January 16 and the state is prepared for the exercise. “Over four lakh healthcare workers and over six lakh frontline workers have been identified for the first phase,” said Rupani. “The house-to-house survey is completed in which 1 crore above 50 years of age, and 2.75 lakh below 50 years with co-morbidities have been identified for receiving the vaccine in later phases.” The CM said that both the vaccines approved are made in India, which is a matter of pride for the country. “Over 16,000 health workers have been trained for vaccination. The cold chain transport is also prepared, with setting up of six regional depots,” said Rupani, adding that the vaccine trial run has been successfully completed at six locations in both urban and rural areas. The CM said that it would be a three-room set-up at all the vaccine centres which would include waiting room, vaccination room and observation room. The set-up will ensure adequate precautions, he said. “Do not get swayed by the misinformation. Follow the guidelines and official details. The citizens will surely get vaccine according to priority. I appeal to citizens to support the initiative,” said Rupani. Earlier, the state government had reviewed connectivity issues for remote locations. The vaccination would be based on the Co-WIN applications, where the beneficiaries will be informed about the vaccination site on SMS. The officials had also asked to explore offline mode in some of the spots. Dry runs done Gujarat was part of the earliest dry run for vaccinations. So far, the state has carried out dry runs in all 248 talukas and 26 designated zones for the vaccination at 931 session sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/11-lakh-to-get-vaccine-in-first-phase/articleshow/80204991.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Two from Saharanpur killed after car falls into gorge on Badrinath highway||Dehradun: Two Saharanpur-based traders died after the car they were travelling in plunged into a 150-metre-deep gorge on Badrinath national highway near Devprayag in Pauri district of Uttarakhand on Sunday morning. The deceased — identified as Saharanpur residents Kurshid (43) and Shamsuddin (33) — traded in second-hand electronic items and were on a business trip to Srinagar. “Both were on their way to Rishikesh from Srinagar when their car skidded off the road and fell into the gorge between Devprayag and Teen Dhara,” said a State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) official. Upon receiving information, a team of SDRF reached the spot, climbed down the gorge, and recovered the bodies after a search operation that lasted for a few hours, according to SDRF. Both of them died on the spot. Later, their families were informed about the accident. The bereaved kin reached Devprayag by late evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/two-from-saharanpur-killed-after-car-falls-into-gorge-on-badrinath-highway/articleshow/80202165.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Soon, Indians overseas can renew international driving permits||MUMBAI: Indians whose international driving permits (IDPs) expired while they were abroad can now renew them from overseas. The new system will come into effect from February 15. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne, who received the General Statutory Rules (GSR) for Maharashtra on Sunday morning, told TOI: “It is a good step and will benefit scores of Indians abroad during the pandemic. Indian students based abroad are facing problems with renewal of IDP, and this will help them.” TimesViewThis is a welcome step, specially for students stuck abroad due to Covid-19 and want to renew driving permits. As per UN convention, validity of IDP is for a year. Many representations were made online following which IDP renewal norms were revised so that one need not come to the RTO in person.So far, there was no mechanism to renew IDPs while citizens were abroad. Now, it is proposed that Indian citizens can apply for renewal through the Indian Embassies/Missions abroad, from where these applications would move to the VAHAN portal in India, to be considered by respective RTOs. The IDP will be couriered to the citizens at their addresses abroad, said Dhakne, adding that such couriers will be sent on priority. “This notification also removes the conditions of a medical certificate and a valid visa at the time of requesting the IDP in India,” Dhakne said. The fees for renewal will be Rs 2,000, which the applicants will have to furnish online. They will also have to provide proofs with the application—which includes proof of valid driving licence, three copies of passport photographs, proof of nationality and proof of valid passport. “There are countries where visa is issued on arrival or visa is issued at the last moment. The application can now be made without a visa now.” Ajay Govale, Director of Community Impact at United Way Mumbai, said that if processes are made easier to follow, people tend to follow them more. “It is a good step, and by sending IDP through courier, the government is going out of the way. It’s a good approach,” he said. Nitin Dossa from Western India Automobile Association said this was a WIAA initiative as many members from the association who are based abroad were affected. "We took up the issue with the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH) whose director Piyush Jain was instrumental in pushing for the amendment in the existing rules," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/soon-indians-overseas-can-renew-intl-driving-permits/articleshow/80203968.cms||Somit Sen
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||None will be made scapegoat, but guilty won’t be spared: CM Uddhav Thackeray||BHANDARA: Ruling out any immediate action against the district general hospital administration, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said the government will not make anyone a scapegoat but warned that if it turns out in the probe that the tragedy was a result of deliberate negligence, no one will be spared. Addressing the media at the district general hospital, the CM also said that he has now entrusted the responsibility of the probe to Nagpur divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar. The decision rendered Dr Sadhana Tayade as ‘chairperson’ of the probe panel only on paper as she will be reporting to the divisional commissioner now. Dr Tayade’s appointment as panel chairperson had come under the scanner as she allegedly sat on the Rs1.41crore proposal for installing fire safety measures at the hospital. The number of committee size went up to eight after the inclusion of the divisional commissioner and BMC deputy commissioner (disaster management and fire safety) PS Rahangdale. A section of local media and political activists have been demanding suspension of top officials and doctors following the fire which claimed 10 premature babies at the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on the first floor of the hospital. Their mothers were on the floor exactly above the SNCU when the fire broke out. Soon after the CM concluded his visit, Dr Tayade started recording statements of top hospital authorities and staff. As per the government order, the panel has to submit its report by Monday evening. A top officer said the probe will take more time and hence the report is unlikely to be submitted by Monday. Dr Tayade refused to comment saying “the inquiry was under way”. Civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate too said he can’t comment on the inquiry. Shubhangi Sathawane (32) and Smita Ambilduke (34), both on-duty nurses at the time of incident, and Ajit Purjekar, male nurse at ICU, too recorded their statements which went on for a couple of hours at the civil surgeon’s chamber. The CM too refrained from making speculations about the cause of fire. “We need to find out if any proposals or complaints regarding advanced safety system were made. Our health facilities are already stressed since the last one year because of Covid,” he said. “Hence, it also needed to be ascertained if there was any negligence. We need to find out whether this was a sudden accidental fire or due to some wiring fault, and whether there were repeated complaints,” he said. Before visiting the hospital, Thackeray visited Bhojapur where the Behre family lost its two-month-old daughter in the fire. “I don’t’ have words. It’s a heart-wrenching incident. I visited the ward where the fire broke out. Before that, I met some families which lost their babies. I tried to console them for the irreparable loss,” he said. The CM added, “The probe panel will help frame guidelines to prevent such incidents. I have already ordered a fire audit of all government hospitals in the state. We will ensure no lives are lost because of such lapses,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/none-will-be-made-scapegoat-but-guilty-wont-be-spared-cm/articleshow/80203949.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||In dry Gujarat, women drinkers double in 5 years, percentage of drinking men slide by 50%||AHMEDABAD: In ‘dry’ Gujarat and in just five years, the percentage of alcohol consumption among women has doubled and nearly halved in case of men during the same time. This was revealed in the recently released National Family Health Survey (NFHS), 2019-20 report where a total of 33,343 women and 5,351men were surveyed during the period. Of these 200 women (0.6%) and 310 men (5.8%) claimed that they consumed alcohol against 68 women (0.3%) and 668 men (11.1%) during the 2015 NFHS survey when 6,018 men and 22,932 women were surveyed. Comparing the two data sets reveals that in 2015 just 0.1% of the urban women said that they consumed alcohol whi- le in 2020, 0.3% of the women surveyed reported they consumed liquor. In case of men in 2015, there were 10.6% who revealed they consumed liquor, while this reduced to 4.6% in 2020. In rural areas, the percentage of women consuming alcohol jumped from 0.4% in 2015 to 0.8% in 2020. In case of men, the number crashed from 11.4% in 2015 to 6.8% in 2020. Sociologist Gaurang Jani says, “Drinking liquor is deep rooted among several communities in the state. It is a custom in these communities, where both men and women sit together and drink on special occasions. Our tribal population is an example, and in certain communities as well. It only became a crime in over half a century.” A senior IPS official seconded the fact but said that the numbers are still underestimated. “Many people will not reveal their liquor status as it’s a crime in the state. But the number of permit holders and the increasing liquor raids will reveal the true picture.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-dry-gujarat-women-drinkers-double-in-5-yrs-percentage-of-drinking-men-slide-by-50/articleshow/80205515.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||‘Late FIR will help suspects get anticipatory bail’||Nagpur: More than 48 hours have elapsed since the devastating Bhandara hospital fire claimed the lives of 10 babies in the intensive natal care unit, but district police have not filed a first information report (FIR) in the case so far. Even as SP Vasant Jadhav said investigation was underway and no FIR has been lodged yet, legal experts blasted the delay, calling it a miscarriage of justice that may benefit the guilty in the case. Nishant Katneshwarkar, former chief standing counsel for the state of Maharashtra in Supreme Court, said the delay in filing FIR in this case would only help suspects and accused to seek ad-interim or anticipatory bail before the sessions court. This will, in the long run, affect delivery of speedy justice to the deceased and aggrieved families. “Considering the gravity of the incident, prima facie an offence should have been registered immediately. Now, the persons who are under scanner will approach the sessions court for anticipatory bail. There would be additional burden of getting their bails cancelled and taking them into custody if they are to be interrogated. All this shall lead to wastage of crucial time and the case would suffer delay in the process,” he said. Advocate and activist Tushar Mandlekar said an offence under section 304 of IPC for homicide not amounting to murder should have been registered at once against unidentified persons and then cops could have proceeded with the investigation. “The Supreme Court has already laid down guidelines for taking prompt cognisance of serious offences and in this case (Bhandara hospital fire) there is a clear cut case of negligence and apathy. Actions should be initiated against hospital chief, Bhandara fire department, local civic body and collector,” he said. Advocate Amruta Gupta, practising in high court, said families of the victims should not wait for the authorities but come forward to lodge a complaint. “Did anyone asked the victims’ families whether they wanted to file a FIR too along with doling out the compensation? Police have to register an offence if the families want to lodge them,” she said. Former district government pleader Prashant Sathianathan supported the police decision to wait for the inquiry report, saying it would not harm the prospects in this case. Former DGP and CP Nagpur PKB Chakravorthy said an accidental death is already registered and inquiry is being conducted under it’s provisions, which is itself an investigation. “Police are not delaying the case but their investigation is in process, which must be allowed to end before registering an offence,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/late-fir-will-help-suspects-get-anticipatory-bail/articleshow/80204003.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 11, 2021||Kozhikode||CPM leader’s threat to police sparks row||Kozhikode: CPM Onchiyam area committee member E M Dayanandan’s speech against the police in the public at Chombala has triggered controversy as it is alleged that he was threatening the police. Police had tried to take a person into custody on January 1 for allegedly creating problems during New Year celebration and the CPM workers had resisted the attempt of the police. Police came to the house the next day and forcibly took the man into custody. CPM alleged that police unleashed violence while arresting the man. CPM had organized a programme at Chombala on January 4 in which Dayanandan dared the civil police officer Vishwanathan to take on the CPM in civil dress. He threatened to kick out the policeman if he played dirty tricks with the party. After the speech became a controversy, Dayanandan said he was speaking against certain policemen who are not implementing the police policy of the LDF government. He told reporters that the police had created a panic situation at a house where a New Year celebration was going on. Dayanandan said the police had taken the photographs of the people present at the house. “They withdrew after the intervention of the circle inspector. But the next day they took a person from the house into custody,” Dayanandan said. Police said two persons were arrested for preventing them from discharging their duty. They, however, did not register any case for threatening the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cpm-leaders-threat-to-police-sparks-row/articleshow/80202147.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Pune||Pune set to see major air operations as 80% of Covishield vaccine will be flown out||PUNE: With the first phase of Covid inoculations less than a week away, at least 80% of India’s lead vaccine — Covishield — will be moved out of Pune by air, it has emerged. Officials said transport of vials is expected to begin by Monday or Tuesday. Rahul Agarwal, co-founder of Mumbai-based Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited, the firm contracted to transport vaccines nationally, said Covishield — made by Serum Institute of India — will be first moved mainly by air. He said, “At this moment, Serum has not received a go-ahead from the Centre on movement of the vaccine. But things will really start to move by Monday or latest by Tuesday. We have been asked by Serum to be on stand-by. Initially, we expect 70% to 80% of transportation to happen by air. There will be some road movement too. We have more than 300 trucks.” Movement of the vaccine out of Pune airport has been held up for nearly a week now. “Transportation must start latest by Tuesday or the vaccine will not reach centres on time” Agarwal added. A senior officer from Pune police said it’s very likely the vaccine movement will start from Tuesday. “We will be providing security cover to the vaccine trucks as per instructions from the state government. We expect transportation to start from Tuesday. But it can start earlier too,” the officer said. On Friday, airline authorities and representatives from SII said the transportation process had been delayed by around 48 hours. Adar Poonawalla, CEO of SII, also refuted claims that pricing negotiations between the vaccine maker and the government were responsible for the delay. Read AlsoSerum’s vaccine despatch delayed another 48 hoursThe massive airlift of the Covishield vaccine doses from here has been delayed by another 48 hours. It is now likely to happen only by Monday. Vaccine manufacturer Serum Institute of India has dismissed talk of the transportation delay being due to “price negotiations” with the Union government. SIISources had told TOI last week that 20 million doses are set to be rolled out during the initial phase. Meanwhile, cargo handlers of airlines at Pune airport said they have received briefings on how the vaccines should be loaded onto waiting aircraft. “There have been many discussions over the past week on how to handle the cargo. According to protocols, which will be monitored by senior officials, vaccines will be loaded onto planes after the luggage. This plan will ensure the vials are offloaded first at the destination airport,” a cargo handler with a major airline said. He added that all airlines have been asked to form special teams to load and offload the vaccine vials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/80-of-vaccine-transport-from-pune-will-be-by-air/articleshow/80203982.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Many MLAs want to leave TRS: Bandi Sanjay Kumar||HYDERABAD: BJP state chief Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the TRS party is facing an internal rebellion as many MLAs are planning to leave and some are even ready to float a new party. Addressing a press conference, Sanjay said that many MLAs are looking for cabinet berths and if they don’t get they may leave the party. He alleged that Telangana people are suffering due to the U-turns taken by the CM and the rampant corruption prevalent in the government. Wishing good health to KCR he said that he doesn’t need to learn from the CM on how to speak. The Karimnagar MP said that the state government is least bothered though the Central funds are getting diverted and due to chaotic administration, people are suffering a lot. He reiterated that BJP will repeat Dubbak and GHMC success in the Nagarjuna Sagar by-election. Dismissing Sanjay’s comments, government whip in the assembly, Guvvala Balaraju said that there is no internal turmoil in TRS.  “No one is insecure in TRS and everyone knows their work in the party. Since the statehood movement, all of us have joined hands and are working together. Sanjay’s comments are far from the reality,” Raju said, adding that there is no truth that central funds are being underutilised. “We are revealing all the details regarding the funds we got from the Centre. Many funds are still pending,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/many-mlas-want-to-leave-trs-bandi/articleshow/80203970.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Disposal of Mayem evacuee property cases begins, locals want speedy hearings||Bicholim: Deputy collector Deepak Vaigankar has said that so far, from the pending 810 evacuee property applications, 80 have been disposed of from Bicholim taluka. Locals, however, said the issue has not received the priority chief minister Pramod Sawant had promised. They said the disposal of the matters needs to be further expedited. Taking cognisance of the issue of evacuee property of the Mayem custodian, the chief minister has instructed the North Goa collectorate to streamline the process of providing charters (sanad) to the villagers of Mayem to allot them ownership right over the property. The Bicholim deputy collector said that under North Goa collector R Maneka and deputy collector Gopal Parsekar, his office has undertaken the process of providing charters since the last three days. But Mayem locals, affected by issue, are restless. “Our demand is that the government should provide all ownership rights to the people of Mayem immediately and that our repeated demand for a hearing should be fulfilled. The chief minister has agreed to complete this process expeditiously. We want that after the issue is resolved, it should be ensured that these Mayem residents should also get benefits of the government schemes, which have been denied to them until now due to government delay in resolving their land ownership right issue,” Mayem sarpanch Tulshidas Chodankar said. Mayem locals under the banner of Mayem Bhuvimochan Nagarik Kruti Samiti (MBNKS) had decided to hold a dharna on the occasion of the 60th Goa Liberation Day on December 19, 2020. However, on learning of this planned protest, Sawant had convened a special meeting with the members MBNKS where he had assured to resolve this issue on priority basis. Based on this assurance, the organisation had put off their agitation. MBNKS president Rajesh Kalangutkar and members have welcomed the move by the North Goa collectorate to start the processing of applications related to evacuee property. “People of Mayem have been suffering the humiliation for the last several years and they are not getting any benefit of different government schemes because they do not have land ownership documents,” Kalangutkar said. “Former chief minister Manohar Parrikar had paid special attention to these issues by enacting a new law and the charter process has started now. Now everything will be settled,” Mayem MLA Pravin Zantye said. MBNKS members have demanded that the government should complete this process immediately and ensure that no legal disputes arise in the future over this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/disposal-of-mayem-evacuee-property-cases-begins-locals-want-speedy-hearings/articleshow/80205011.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Robbers beat elderly farmer to death, seriously injure his wife||Nashik: A 70-year-old farmer was allegedly beaten to death by a gang of robbers at his residence in Vinchur of Niphad taluka early on Sunday. His 65-year-old wife too sustained grievous injuries in the attack. The deceased has been identified as Karbhari Abaji Jagtap. His wife, Alka, has been admitted to the Nashik civil hospital. A case has been registered at the Lasalgaon police station. Sub-divisional police officer Somnath Tambe said, “Some unidentified robbers entered the couple’s house and beat both Jagtap and Alka.” “The couple stayed in a house on their farm, while one of their sons resided in another house some 100m away. On Sunday, the son went to meet them as they had not turned up for morning tea. On witnessing the scene, he immediately called police,” said Tambe. Soon after receiving information, senior police officers went to the spot to conduct the panchanama. Additional superintendent of police Sharmishtha Valavalkar told reporters cash and articles worth Rs 15,000 were missing from the house. “Things will be clear only after Alka is in a position to give her statement to the police. She has sustained serious injuries and is in trauma. Once she is out of trauma, police will be able to record her statement,” said Valavalkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/robbers-beat-elderly-farmer-to-death-seriously-injure-his-wife/articleshow/80202173.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||16% dip in new cases in A’bad||Ahmedabad: Analysis of the weekly cases and deaths reveals that Ahmedabad district recorded decrease of 16% in new positive cases - from 1129 to 946 - and 32% in deaths of Covid-19 patients - from 19 to 13 - between January 4 to 10. The figures are in comparison to December 28 to January 3. The dip was bigger than 12% recorded by Gujarat — from 5,383 to 4,716 — for cases and 28% for deaths — which dipped from 36 to 26. Among the districts, Porbandar recorded the biggest dip of 66.6%, followed by Panchmahal (56%), Valsad (53%), and Aravalli (50%). On the other hand, Dang recorded the biggest jump in cases — from six in the last week to 17 in the week that ended on January 10. Out of the total, 10 were recorded on Sunday itself. Other districts that showed upward trend include Narmada (92%), Chhota Udepur (69%), Surendranagar (61%), and Jamnagar (39%). In both the weeks, out of 33, nine districts recorded deaths of Covid-19 positive patients. The share of Ahmedabad in state’s deaths decreased slightly from 53% (19 out of 36) to 50% (13 out of 26). The state’s daily bulletin omitted the daily testing data on Sunday. The weekly trend had revealed 9% dip in the tests. TOI had earlier reported that the average positivity rate of 1.4% has remained the same in January. Compared to average 53,607 tests carried out between December 27 to January 2, the following week recorded average daily test of 48,826.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/16-dip-in-new-cases-in-abad/articleshow/80205006.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Covaxin trial: Recruiting at 2 Mumbai hospitals done||MUMBAI: Recruitment of participants for Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin trial ended in the two city hospitals, J J and Sion, after the company said it completed the overall target of enrolling 25,800 participants for phase III trial. At J J Hospital in Byculla, 436 participants were recruited, against the original target of 1,000. Of these, 201 have already been administered the second dose. Civic-run Sion Hospital managed to recruit around 200 participants, confirmed dean Dr Mohan Joshi. Given the lukewarm response from common people, the hospital had to recruit several healthcare workers. Dr Dinesh Dhodi, co-investigator in J J trial, said participants will have to undergo an RT-PCR test every month for the next seven months. After the physical follow-ups spanning eight months, there will be four telephonic follow-ups. “An interim analysis may be done in another few weeks. To understand basic efficacy, we have to wait for minimum 14 days after the second dose is completed.” Bharat Biotech said on January 7 recruitment for all participants was complete. The company has been facing heat since Covaxin was granted emergency-use authorization by the drug regulator without the completion of phase III trials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covaxin-trial-recruiting-at-2-hospitals-done/articleshow/80204019.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||85 surveillance cameras to go live soon||COIMBATORE: Police commissioner Sumit Sharan inaugurated 85 CCTV cameras installed at Kuniyamuthur police limits on Saturday. The new cameras will be connected to the modern police control room for round-the-clock surveillance, he said. The city police have been installing CCTV cameras to bring the city under a surveillance blanket with the help of traders and also using public contribution. Kuniyamuthur police have installed 85 CCTV cameras at Saramedu, Karumbukadai, Athupalam and on the 6km stretch between Kuniyamuthur and Kovaipudur. The inaugural function was held at Athupalam. Addressing cops and general public, Sharan said that the cameras would help to detect and prevent crimes, and also identify reckless motorists. Deputy commissioners of police G Stalin, R Mutharasu and NGOs also participated in the function.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/85-surveillance-cams-to-go-live-soon/articleshow/80204023.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Meet the ploggers, Mumbai’s latest eco-warriors||MUMBAI: In October last year, a jogger who stepped out of the confines of the lockdown to go trekking in the Kharghar Hills found herself fuming. Instead of views of flowers, butterflies and waterfalls along the climb, she found her eyes resting on cups, wrappers, beer bottles and even mattresses left behind by people increasingly flocking the wide open expanse. Frustrated with the amount of litter mottling the otherwise pristine terrain, Rashmi Singh, 23, found resolution in plogging —a mashup of the words ‘jogging’ and ‘plocka upp’, Swedish for ‘pick up’ — a Scandinavian fitness craze where people pick up litter while jogging or brisk walking as a way to save the climate and get into shape. The discipline — invented rather accidentally in 2016 in Sweden by a trail runner who decided to clean up litter he often encountered — has caught on among exercisers fed up of dodging rubbish along parks and pavements with an active ‘Mumbai Ploggers’ community emerging as the new heroes in the city’s cleanliness drive. “The sight of bottles and packets at the top of the hill and people’s lack of consciousness made me angry and spurred me into action,” says Singh, who is now at the helm of the Mumbai Ploggers community. “I’d put up stories on my social media page and friends, family and acquaintances would join me. Slowly other trekkers started joining in. We also caught the attention of ploggers in other cities and with their support we have managed to create a community of 30 dedicated ploggers.” The ploggers spend two hours every Sunday plucking litter on the run and another two hours planning awareness drives. “We usually take the waste to the municipal bins and when it’s difficult for us to carry it down, we seek help from local municipal officers,” says Singh. If the city’s community-led beach clean-ups were about cleansing shorelines, plogging is an environmental pursuit to halt waste at the source before it lands in sea. Looking for alternate ways to better manage the waste, the ploggers are also making ecobricks, a low-tech solution to repurposing plastic waste. “About two weeks of plastic generated by a family can make one ecobrick,” said Singh. While Pune is the state’s oldest chapter, the newer ones are in Nashik, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Mumbai and Latur. The ploggers plan to expand their efforts to other parts of the city too, starting with Parsik Hill in Navi Mumbai. A tangible reward of plogging is its health benefits. Think stooping, squatting, twisting and a wide range of muscle movements while jogging. “A half hour of plogging burns 288 calories compared to 235 calories burned during a traditional run. If you’re also lifting huge bags of garbage and climbing downhill that would count as weight lifting!” laughs Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/meet-the-ploggers-mumbais-latest-eco-warriors/articleshow/80205008.cms||Mohua Das
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||12-year-old from Uttarakhand gives birth to child of rapist, infant dies||RUDRAPUR: On Saturday night, a 12-year-old from Thakur Nagar locality in Rudrapur in Udham Singh Nagar was rushed to JL Nehru district hospital after she complained of stomachache. An examination revealed she was seven months pregnant and the doctors attending on her termed her stomachache as labour pain. Soon after, she delivered a baby girl, who died because of premature delivery. The minor, in a critical condition herself, revealed she had been raped by her neighbour a few months ago. Following a complaint filed by her parents, police have detained the accused, 22-year-old Deewan Mandal from Thakur Nagar. Officials said a DNA test will be conducted on the accused and charges will be framed thereafter. KG Mathpal, SHO of Transit Camp, under whose jurisdiction Thakur Nagar falls, said, “The girl gave a statement identifying Mandal as the rapist. According to her, the man lured her with chocolates, allegedly raped her and threatened her against revealing it. Until now, she never told her parents about the alleged the rape or the pregnancy. Her mother said she skirted questions about the visible changes in her body. Investigations are on in the case.” Circle officer (CO) of city police Amit Kumar said that the accused has been booked under section 376 (Rape) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/12-yr-old-gives-birth-to-child-of-rapist-infant-dies/articleshow/80202183.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Minister lays foundation for Mudiraj bhavan at Kokapet||HYDERABAD: Backward classes minister Gangula Kamalakar said a meeting would be organised soon to discuss the strategy on Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led BJP government at the Centre for setting up of a Backward Classes welfare ministry in Central government. He was speaking at the foundation laying ceremony of mudiraj Bhavan. As part of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao government’s “self-respect bhavans” project for various castes from the Backward Classes community, ministers Gangula Kamalakar, Eatala Rajender, Talasani Srinivas Yadav and Sabita Indra Reddy laid the foundation for the construction of ‘Atma Gaurava Bhavan’ of Mudiraj community at Kokapet on Sunday. Speaking on the occasion Kamalakar said CM KCR has allotted 82.30 acres of land for 25 BC castes in Uppal Bagayat, and for another 40 sub-castes in Malkajgiri and Bata Singaram in addition to land given to 13 more BC castes in Kokapet. “The market value of each acre is about Rs 50 crore. CM KCR has not only allotted the land for the welfare of the BCs but has also sanctioned Rs 95.25 crore towards construction of BC Atma Gaurava buildings,” Kamalakar said. He said that even power supply and underground drainage network would be provided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minister-lays-foundation-for-mudiraj-bhavan-at-kokapet/articleshow/80204022.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kanpur||6 held for extortion bid, attacking Freight Corridor supervisor||Kanpur: Six persons were arrested on Sunday for allegedly trying to extort money from Dedicated Freight Corridor supervisor engaged in digging work at Bidhnoo’s Koriya village on Saturday night. Police said the men had demanded Rs 50,000 from the supervisor Ram Dayal Jaat, a resident of Jaipur in Rajasthan. “It was when the supervisor raised objection, one Guddu Yadav arrived at the site along with his five aides. One of them then allegedly opened fire at him. The bullet, however, missed the target and the supervisor escaped unhurt,” said inspector Bidhnoo Pushpraj Singh. Acting on the supervisor’s complaint, a police team reached the site and arrested Guddu and his five aides. They all have been booked under sections 384 (extortion), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC at Bidhnoo police station. The arrested persons were produced in the court and sent to jail, inspector added. Supervisor Ram Dayal Jaat told police that Guddu, along with his aides, had been making threat calls and demanding extortion money. “They came on Saturday late night and said that if I had to continue working there, I have to give them money every month. Also, they had demanded Rs 50,000. They threatened to stop the work and kill me if I did not pay the money. When I said that it’s a work related to the Railways, then one of them opened fire on me, I somehow escaped and saved myself,” he told the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/6-held-for-extortion-bid-attacking-freight-corridor-supervisor/articleshow/80202865.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ahmedabad||Women beat men in tobacco use in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The National Family Health Survey (NFHS) report reveals that while the number of men who consume tobacco has gone down in the state by 10.3%, the number of women who consume tobacco has increased by 1.3%. The detailed NFHS data suggests that 60.2% of men consumed tobacco in 2005-06, which fell to 51.4% in 2015-16 and further declined to 41.4% in 2019-20. Some 33.6% of men in cities and 46.7% of men in rural areas consumed tobacco according to 2019-20 figures. According to NFHS-IV (2015-16) 46% of men in cities and 56.2% of men in rural areas consumed tobacco. The proportion of women consumers, however, fell by just one percentage point. In 2005-06, 8.4% of women consumed any type of tobacco which decreased to 7.4% in 2015-16 and 8.7% in 2019-20. The number of women who consumed tobacco according to NFHS-V was 11% in rural areas and 5.4% in urban areas. However, according to NFHS-IV, 9.1% of women in rural Gujarat used tobacco compared to 5.2% in urban areas. Officials said that men are much more likely to use gutka or paan masala with tobacco than use any other type of tobacco. Among men and women, the use of any form of tobacco is higher in rural areas — gutka or paan masala with tobacco, followed by bidis, are especially popular in rural areas. Sociologist Gaurang Jani said that like drinking liquor, consuming tobacco for rural women was a part of traditions. The use of tobacco is still a cultural practice and one will find women eating betel nuts and tobacco after a meal. Now the easy availability of gutka has increased tobacco consumption in rural areas, he said. In some villages one will find even children eating tobacco. There is a sizeable population of such children, said a senior health officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/women-in-state-beat-men-in-tobacco-use/articleshow/80204017.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 11, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Panchayat member files abduction complaint||PALAKKAD: Sunitha Sukumaran, a member of Nemmara grama panchayat belonging to the UDF, filed a complaint with Nemmara police that she was kidnapped by three people at 6.30pm on Saturday in a car from Kavalapara and was thrown out after 10 minutes of drive. Sunitha said that she was blindfolded and the kidnappers threatened her with a knife asking her to resign her panchayat membership. She is admitted to the Nemmara community health centre with minor injuries. Police have registered an FIR and are investigating the matter. The CCTV footage of the area from where she was allegedly kidnapped is being examined, said Nemmara circle inspector of police A Pradeepkumar. She said that the abductors asked her whether she wanted her life or politics. “When I said that I wanted to live, they kicked me out of the car after 10 minutes in the same place at Kavalappara from where they had taken me,” Sunitha said in her complaint. The LDF and UDF have nine members each in Nemmara panchayat. UDF is now ruling the panchayat after winning the toss. Soon after she was elected as member, Sunitha had received a temporary job through employment in the Erithiampathy government farm. Since it was a temporary job she did not accept it. Sunitha said that some CPM activists had forced her to resign the post and join the job so that the UDF will loss power and a byelection could be held in her ward.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/panchayat-member-files-abduction-plaint/articleshow/80202155.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Welfare Party rules out truck with UDF for assembly polls||KOZHIKODE: Welfare Party of India (WPI) has declared that ‘seat adjustments’ with UDF for the election to local bodies will not be extended to upcoming assembly polls. WPI state president Hameed Vaniyambalam told reporters that policies and strategies will differ for different elections. “We are a political party with a different set of agenda and politics. We will pursue our own politics in the assembly and Lok Sabha polls,” he said, adding that his party has no problem in joining hands with secular parties. Vaniyambalam said his party has not approached any front and that collaboration with UDF was a result of the joint work at the last Lok Sabha election. “The adjustment was with the full knowledge of Congress leaders, including KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran,” he said. Ramachandran has been a bitter critic of the alliance. He maintains that it was one of the reasons for the poor performance of UDF. Vaniyambalam said that he himself held talks with Mullappally on seat sharing. The Congress leader had the responsibility to lead the front to victory. But after the election he took the easy route of putting the entire blame on WPI. It may be recalled that other UDF leaders have also blamed the alliance for the dismal performance of the front. Muslim Youth League state general secretary P K Firos told mediapersons on Saturday the organisation was against any sort of tie-up with WPI, which is ‘a communal outfit.’ He said the alliance will not continue for the assembly polls. UDF leaders were clearly divided on the issue. While Ramachandran and K C Venugopal were opposed to it, M M Hassan, K Muraleedharan and K Sudhakaran were all in favour of the alliance. The WPI-Jamaat-e-Islami tie-up was the main reason for the rift between Samastha Kerala Jam-Iyyathul Ulema and IUML. Samastha was against any understanding with WPI, but IUML went ahead with the tie-up. Leaders such as Umar Faizy Mukkam had come out in the open against such an understanding. Other Muslim organizations, too, including various Mujahid groups had raised concern over giving respectability to Jamaat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/welfare-party-rules-out-truck-with-udf-for-assembly-polls/articleshow/80202182.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Modi govt should announce crop-wise MSP in the budget’||HYDERABAD: A round table meeting attended by the farmers and representatives of their welfare associations, leaders from the Congress among other political parties unanimously resolved on Sunday to demand the Narendra Modi government to come out with a “comprehensive agriculture produce procurement policy announcing crop-wise MSP with financial allocations to it” in the ensuing union budget to be presented on February 1. While demanding an unconditional repeal of the new farm laws, which are detrimental to the interests of the farmers, the meeting also resolved to demand that the Centre and state governments to immediately convene a special session of the Parliament and the state assembly to discuss the problems being faced in getting MSP by the farmers. Kanneganti Ravi of Rythu Swarajya Vedika, a farmers’ welfare organization, said the ongoing agitation for over one-and-a-half month by the farmers in Delhi is not confined to the ryots of just Punjab and Haryana but the farmers of the entire country and demanded that all the cases booked against agitating farmers should be withdrawn immediately. All India Kisan Congress vice-president M Kodanda Reddy alleged that the BJP government at the Centre is handing over agriculture produce storage space to the corporates. “The Modi government’s new farm laws are against the federal spirit of the constitution. Most importantly, the BJP has bulldozed the new farm laws without consulting the farmers,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/modi-govt-should-announce-crop-wise-msp-in-the-budget/articleshow/80204031.cms||Roushan Ali
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Bhujbal assures help for Sahitya Parishad||Nashik: District guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal on Sunday assured of all possible help to the organisers of Akhil Bhartiya Marathi Sahitya Sammelan (ABMSS) that will be hosted by Nashik in the second half of March. The members of Lokhitwadi Mandal, organizer of Sahitya Sammelan in Nashik, met Bhujbal and apprised him about the gathering of literary figures from across state and the country. Later, Bhujbal inspected the meeting place of Gokhale Education Society (GES) that will host the literary meet. Expressing happiness that the event will be held in the city, which was home to renowned literary figures like Kavi Kusumagraj and renowned playwright Vasant Kanetkar, Bhujbal said the government would take all steps to ensure proper care of the guests arriving in the city. He hoped the event would richly contribute to the tradition, literature and culture of the state and the language. Bhujbal said a nodal office would be appointed which would coordinate with the Sammelan to ensure smooth functioning of the convention. With the Covid-19 infection still looming large, Bhujbal asked the organisers to be take proper precaution and safety measures to ensure the safety of the dignitaries and the attendees of the convention.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bhujbal-assures-help-for-sahitya-parishad/articleshow/80202185.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||AIADMK determined to protect accused in Pollachi case: Kanimozhi||COIMBATORE: AIADMK is making a concerted effort to protect the accused in the sensational Pollachi sex scandal case, DMK women’s wing chief M K Kanimozhi said on Sunday. Coming down heavily on the rival party at a protest organised by DMK and its allies in Pollachi, she urged CBI to intensify the probe and bring to book all those involved in the incident. “The probe was flawed from the beginning. A senior police officer revealed the name of the survivor, which was illegal. Then, brother of the complainant was assaulted by a gang led by AIADMK man Bar Nagaraj. After that, there was constant threat to withdraw the complaint,” she said. “But the ruling party was not ready for a transparent and thorough probe.” “Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had wanted proof of the link between AIADMK and the scandal. Now, the proof is steadily surfacing,’’ she said, displaying photographs showing accused Arulanantham with AIADMK leaders. Arulanantham was Pollachi town secretary of AIADMK’s student wing, but was sacked from the party after his arrest. There could be more people involved in the case, Kanimozhi said. “I don’t believe that AIADMK wanted to bury the case only to protect Arulanantham. Justice should be rendered to the sexual assault survivors.” “While sexual offences against women in Tamil Nadu has increased, justice for survivors is evasive. That’s why DMK promised that special courts would be set up in all districts to probe cases of atrocities against women,’’ she said. Earlier in the day, police stopped Kanimozhi at Eachanari and denied entry in to Pollachi. She sat on the road with party cadres and staged a protest against police. DMK president M K Stalin also condemned the police department and warned that DMK would organise protests across the state over the Pollachi case, after which police relented.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/aiadmk-determined-to-protect-accused-in-pollachi-case-kani/articleshow/80204024.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Rs 3.2 crore cigarettes from Dubai seized||MUMBAI: The DRI on Thursday intercepted an import container from Dubai and found 18 lakh sticks of Gudang Garam cigarettes in it, with declared goods, ladies’ footwear. The consignment of cigarettes worth Rs 3.2 crore, was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rs-3-2cr-cigarettes-from-dubai-seized/articleshow/80205012.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Congress to launch ‘Mera booth, mera gaurav’ campaign across U’khand||Dehradun: After the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) started booth-level training of its workers at shakti kendras, the opposition Congress is planning to launch a similar campaign — Mera booth, mera gaurav — by the end of this month. Party officials said that the campaign is intended for workers at the grassroots level where they will be trained “to make voters understand about scams, poor governance of the BJP and the Congress’ plans for the 2022 elections.” The plan to launch the campaign was announced by Congress state in-charge Devendra Yadav. He said that the party secretaries will handle the training of party workers in the state legislative assemblies while the general secretaries will handle districts. The vice-presidents of the party will train the office-bearers in towns. Yadav, who was on a three-day visit to the state, also reiterated leader of opposition Indira Hriyadesh’s claim, “It’s true that many people from the BJP are using various channels to get in touch with our leadership.” Congress state president Pritam Singh told TOI that the booth-level training will be given to workers which will help them connect with voters. We don’t want to engage in mudslinging and abusive politics like the BJP. Congress will only focus on development agendas. “To make people aware of poor governance of the ruling BJP, the party has formed a ‘chargesheet committee’ that will document all the failures of the existing government. The chargesheet, which will be launched on March 18, will be distributed to each household of the state,” he added. “We will tell people how the Congress is planning to revive the state's economy which is badly hit due to the Covid pandemic,” Congress state president said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/congress-to-launch-mera-booth-mera-gaurav-campaign-across-ukhand/articleshow/80202213.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 11, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Probe ordered against land deals at Chinnakkanal||IDUKKI: District collector H Dineshan has ordered vigilance units of revenue and police departments to probe all the land deals registered under Chinnakkanal village office in Idukki since 2000-01. The collector also rejected a revision plea submitted by Vellookkunnel Jimmy Zakaria against the takeover of his land and resort at Anayirankal near Munnar by Devikulam sub-collector. An order issued by the collector and accessed by TOI termed the decision of the sub-collector to take over Calypso adventure resort and camp tents right. It was in October, revenue department took over nearly 8.5 acres, including ‘Calypso Adventure Resort and camp tents, under the ownership of Zakaria who had encroached the land and illegally constructed the buildings. Then Zakaria submitted a revision plea to collector Dineshan. In his plea, Zakaria alleged that the resort, including land, was in the ownership of other people and the takeover decision by sub-collector was illegal. The collector verified the documents and rejected the Zakaria’s appeal. “The verification revealed that the title deeds were issued in the name of blank thandaper names. It was found that the title deeds were forged with the assistance of revenue officials in the period from 2000-01. Strict action will be taken against such officials who helped the deals,” said the order. The order also stated that a large number of forged title deeds were created in Chinnakkanal village office in the previous years. If shady deals are allowed to continue in the village office, then the public will be denied proper service. Devikulam tahsildar Niju Kurian said, “The district collector ordered revenue vigilance and police vigilance to conduct probe against the officials in Chinnakkanal village office who provided assistance to make forged title deeds.” The order also directed to handover the resort and land to Kerala Forest Development Corporation (KFDC) for tourism. Devikulam sub-collector S Premkrishnan told TOI “KFDC will conduct tourism programmes in the Calypso adventure resort and camp tents. The decision to hand over it to KFDC is to assure the protection and management of the resort and camp sheds.” A report by former Devikulam sub-collector Renu Raj pointed out that the Vellookkunnel family encroached over 300 acres of government land in Munnar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/probe-ordered-against-land-deals-at-chinnakkanal/articleshow/80202187.cms||Sandeep Thomas
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Daily toll in Maharashtra, Mumbai lowest in about a week||MUMBAI: A day after the state crossed the grim milestone of 50,000 Covid deaths, Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus toll dropped to 34 on Sunday, the lowest in the last six days. This was a significant decline from an average of 66 deaths seen in the past days. The state’s total Covid-19 toll as of Sunday stood at 50,061. Mumbai too recorded only five deaths on Sunday, the lowest in eight days. The last the city had seen fewer than five deaths was on January 4 when three lives were lost to Covid-19. Mumbai’s death toll has now reached 11,186. The city has consistently seen death in single digits since December 31 except on January 8 when there were 11 deaths. The state’s case fatality rate has declined to 2.54% while that of Mumbai continues to be 3.74%. The state, on Sunday, reported 3,558 new cases, taking the overall tally to 19,69,114. Mumbai also reported 657 cases, a marginal rise from 596 recorded on Saturday. The city’s case total has reached 2,98,892, inching closer to the 3-lakh mark. Active cases for the state jumped to 54,179 whereas it dropped for Mumbai to 7,184. State officials said 4,869 UK returnees have been traced so far, of whom 3,506 have undergone RT-PCR tests and 75 have come positive. The samples of all 75 have been referred to NIV, Pune, for whole genome sequencing. Eleven have so far been found with the UK strain and all are asymptomatic, said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. BMC’s Suresh Kakani said the city was prepared to start the vaccination drive. The all-India vaccination drive is scheduled to start on January 16. Meanwhile, the highest cases and deaths in the state on Sunday were reported from the Mumbai circle (1,208 and 12). Within MMR, there were 71 positive cases from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s areas on Sunday, taking the region’s total Covid count to 51,739. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,069. Thane city saw 134 new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 56,653.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-toll-in-state-city-lowest-in-about-a-week/articleshow/80204036.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana govt to act tough on encroachments on FTL||HYDERABAD: The state government will soon come out with a revised policy framework with stringent provisions to check encroachments on full tank level (FTL) of water bodies and minimise the scope of flooding of residential areas in towns and cities. As a first step towards achieving this, officials of the irrigation department have been asked to mark the FTL boundaries of all the water bodies in municipalities and municipal corporations and submit it to the respective district collectors. Instructions have been issued to the district collectors to conduct a survey and submit the list of encroachments in the FTL areas and also the buffer zone of the water bodies. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao will soon discuss the provisions to be incorporated in the revised framework to minimise urban flooding. A large number of residential colonies were flooded with rainwater in Greater Hyderabad, Warangal, Sanga Reddy, Nirmal, Jangaon after continuous heavy rains. Encroachment of FTL areas was found to be one of the main reasons for urban flooding. The state government has taken a serious note of the issue when several people sought registration of their property in FTL areas on the Dharani portal. No property falling under the limits of the FTL area is being registered, said an official. The new framework will include stringent provisions regarding the issuance of No Objection Certificate (NOC) in the vicinity of water bodies. Even the officials, giving permission or ignoring complaints submitted to them by whistleblowers, will be punishable under the revised framework.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-to-act-tough-on-encroachments-on-ftl/articleshow/80204035.cms||Roushan Ali
January 11, 2021||Nashik||Parents persuade children against using nylon manja||Nashik: With the administration getting strict against those selling nylon manja, many parents have also come to the fore in persuading their children to not use the banned string to fly kites.“It was a horrific sight when we saw the friend of my neighbour who got injured due to glass coated manja in 2012. The person did not receive serious injuries, but considering he has a one-and-a-half year old daughter, the whole incident shook me and that is the day when I decided that my children would not be given manja at all,” recalled Sanjay Patil, a resident of Chetana Nagar.Patil, who has two sons, said he has made them understand the importance of healthy kite flying. Most of the times the children are very demanding and the parents find it difficult to keep them away from such influential things. Ragini Pandit, who is a working woman, found it all the more difficult to tackle the situation when her only son would ask for manja.“I have never let him buy nylon manja. I would make him see the news channels and videos in which the birds have got injured due to the strings. Unfortunately, a pigeon got stuck in regular white thread on our terrace and died. I told him that birds do not understand the man-made things though they are experts in dodging each other in the air in fraction of seconds. Since then he has stopped flying kites,” Pandit, a resident of Panchavati Karanja, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/parents-persuade-children-against-using-nylon-manja/articleshow/80202214.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Daily toll in Maharashtra, Mumbai lowest in about a week||MUMBAI: A day after the state crossed the grim milestone of 50,000 Covid deaths, Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus toll dropped to 34 on Sunday, the lowest in the last six days. This was a significant decline from an average of 66 deaths seen in the past days. The state’s total Covid-19 toll as of Sunday stood at 50,061. Mumbai too recorded only five deaths on Sunday, the lowest in eight days. The last the city had seen fewer than five deaths was on January 4 when three lives were lost to Covid-19. Mumbai’s death toll has now reached 11,186. The city has consistently seen death in single digits since December 31 except on January 8 when there were 11 deaths. The state’s case fatality rate has declined to 2.54% while that of Mumbai continues to be 3.74%. The state, on Sunday, reported 3,558 new cases, taking the overall tally to 19,69,114. Mumbai also reported 657 cases, a marginal rise from 596 recorded on Saturday. The city’s case total has reached 2,98,892, inching closer to the 3-lakh mark. Active cases for the state jumped to 54,179 whereas it dropped for Mumbai to 7,184. State officials said 4,869 UK returnees have been traced so far, of whom 3,506 have undergone RT-PCR tests and 75 have come positive. The samples of all 75 have been referred to NIV, Pune, for whole genome sequencing. Eleven have so far been found with the UK strain and all are asymptomatic, said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. BMC’s Suresh Kakani said the city was prepared to start the vaccination drive. The all-India vaccination drive is scheduled to start on January 16. Meanwhile, the highest cases and deaths in the state on Sunday were reported from the Mumbai circle (1,208 and 12). Within MMR, there were 71 positive cases from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s areas on Sunday, taking the region’s total Covid count to 51,739. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,069. Thane city saw 134 new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 56,653.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/daily-toll-in-state-city-lowest-in-about-a-week/articleshow/80206032.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 11, 2021||Thane||Daily toll in Maharashtra, Mumbai lowest in about a week||MUMBAI: A day after the state crossed the grim milestone of 50,000 Covid deaths, Maharashtra’s daily coronavirus toll dropped to 34 on Sunday, the lowest in the last six days. This was a significant decline from an average of 66 deaths seen in the past days. The state’s total Covid-19 toll as of Sunday stood at 50,061. Mumbai too recorded only five deaths on Sunday, the lowest in eight days. The last the city had seen fewer than five deaths was on January 4 when three lives were lost to Covid-19. Mumbai’s death toll has now reached 11,186. The city has consistently seen death in single digits since December 31 except on January 8 when there were 11 deaths. The state’s case fatality rate has declined to 2.54% while that of Mumbai continues to be 3.74%. The state, on Sunday, reported 3,558 new cases, taking the overall tally to 19,69,114. Mumbai also reported 657 cases, a marginal rise from 596 recorded on Saturday. The city’s case total has reached 2,98,892, inching closer to the 3-lakh mark. Active cases for the state jumped to 54,179 whereas it dropped for Mumbai to 7,184. State officials said 4,869 UK returnees have been traced so far, of whom 3,506 have undergone RT-PCR tests and 75 have come positive. The samples of all 75 have been referred to NIV, Pune, for whole genome sequencing. Eleven have so far been found with the UK strain and all are asymptomatic, said Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer. BMC’s Suresh Kakani said the city was prepared to start the vaccination drive. The all-India vaccination drive is scheduled to start on January 16. Meanwhile, the highest cases and deaths in the state on Sunday were reported from the Mumbai circle (1,208 and 12). Within MMR, there were 71 positive cases from Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation’s areas on Sunday, taking the region’s total Covid count to 51,739. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,069. Thane city saw 134 new cases on Sunday, taking its tally to 56,653.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/daily-toll-in-state-city-lowest-in-about-a-week/articleshow/80206031.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand lose against Baroda in first domestic game of season||Dehradun: Uttarakhand started their domestic season with a loss against Baroda on the opening day of the Syed Mushtaq Ali T20 Trophy in Vadodara on Sunday. Opting to field first, Uttarakhand reduced Baroda to 41/3 by the eighth over. Unfortunately, the bowlers couldn't take advantage of the initial breakthroughs. Baroda skipper Krunal Pandya used his extensive IPL experience and smashed 76 off 42 deliveries. The star bowler for Uttarakhand was pacer Akash Madhwal who took three wickets while giving away just 16 runs. Another Uttarakhand bowler Girish Rauturi also scalped three wickets while giving away 34 runs. For Uttarakhand, middle-order batsman Dikshanshu Negi made an unbeaten 77 runs facing 57 deliveries. Another young batsman Kunal Chandela made 48 runs playing 26 deliveries. However, Uttarakhand fell short of five runs, putting 163/6 on the scoreboard. The Uttarakhand side was led by Iqbal Abdullah and former Indian batsman Wasim Jaffer coached the team. Uttarakhand will play its next match in Vadodara against Gujarat on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-lose-against-baroda-in-first-domestic-game-of-season/articleshow/80202216.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Rung community observes Runglwo language day||Pithoragarh: The Rung tribe of Dharchula in Uttarakhand observed Runglwo language day on Sunday. On the day, the members of the community from Nepal also came to Dharchula to attend the event held to mark the day. To facilitate border movements, the Dharchula suspension bridge on the Indo-Nepal border was kept open for the day. During the occasion, Krishana Garvyal, president of Runglwo language committee, said that an effort is being made to develop the script of the language. Meanwhile, Yasoda Tinkari, social worker from Nepal, highlighted the work being done to preserve the language in Nepal. Last year, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had praised the community's efforts to protect their language in his monthly radio address ‘Mann Ki Baat’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rung-community-observes-runglwo-language-day/articleshow/80202222.cms||Prem Punetha
January 11, 2021||Goa||GCZMA tells WRD to seek forest dept nod to cut down mangroves||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has found that the water resources department (WRD) has not taken an NOC from the forest department before planning a project in River Khandepar, which will require cutting down of mangroves. The WRD has sought permission from GCZMA for construction of a barrage in the Khandepar, as part of the works to improve water supply to Savoi Verem, Querim and Priol areas of Ponda taluka. Based on the WRD’s request for permission, GCZMA decided to carry out an inspection of the site. GCZMA expert members found that the no development zone of CRZ was applicable in the area where the work was proposed. It was also found that the structures to be constructed included use of concrete. “For the proposed cutting of mangroves in the area at site, the applicant (WRD) has not obtained any permission from the forest department, for which the applicant should be directed to do so,” GCZMA expert members have stated in their report. The members noted that the project is a necessity to meet drinking water requirements ‘for a number of people in Ponda taluka located within 7 to 10km distance’. The experts have recommended to the GCZMA that in principle approval can be granted for the works. But a number of deficiencies were found in the proposal. “However, this requires a raw water pumping station to be constructed on the bank of the river, which is falling within no development zone. The applicant (WRD) has carried out a rapid environment impact assessment study and has submitted the report for the construction of the bhandara. Whereas, no risk assessment study has been carried out,” the GCZMA experts have said. The GCZMA has therefore asked the WRD to make a detailed presentation of the project for the authority. “On the south western side of the river bank, the riverine soil has drifted more towards the river bank and mangrove trees have grown in the area. These mangrove trees are falling in the area where excavation of mud is required to be done. So, these mangrove trees would require removal from site and re-plantation in other suitable areas,” the GCZMA expert members said in their report. The panel concluded that the construction of barrage has been proposed in the CRZ IV area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gczma-tells-wrd-to-seek-forest-dept-nod-to-cut-down-mangroves/articleshow/80205019.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Central Railway to run special one-way train to Delhi tonight||The Central Railway (CR) has decided to run a one-way special train from Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) to New Delhi to clear the extra rush. Train number 02177 will leave CSMT at 11.30pm on Monday and reach New Delhi at 3.30am on the third day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cr-to-run-spl-one-way-train-to-delhi-tonight/articleshow/80205016.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Tax from Telangana diverted to UP, Bihar: Palla Rajeshwar Reddy||HYDERABAD: Rythu Bandhu Samithi chairman and MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy on Sunday alleged the BJP government at the Centre was diverting tax collected from Telangana for development of other states. “Is it not true that the Central government is using taxes collected from our state for the development of other states, including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar?” he asked. He was addressing preparatory meeting as part of the Graduates MLC poll campaign in Narasampet Assembly constituency on Sunday, and reiterated that chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government was committed to continue its welfare schemes for all sections of people.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tax-from-t-diverted-to-up-bihar-palla/articleshow/80204039.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Close shave for tractor driver in Madhira||HYDERABAD: A tractor driver had a miraculous escape after a speeding truck ploughed through his vehicle at Madhira town in Khammam district on Saturday night. The accident video went viral on social media and police found out that the truck driver was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the mishap.  The victim, B Vankata Ram Narsaiah, is from Aatkur village near Madhira town. On Saturday, Narsaiah’s aunt passed away in the village and as her funeral was planned for Sunday. At 10.24 pm on Saturday, Narsaiah drove his tractor to Madhira town to take a tent and other items to the village. Narsaiah abruptly stopped the tractor on the road to reverse the vehicle into a plot next to the tent supplying shop. “While he was trying to reverse the tractor, a truck coming from behind ploughed through the vehicle. The tractor trolley and engine were separated and Narsaiah was thrown off the vehicle and fell on the road. He was shifted to a hospital in Khammam for treatment. He is talking and his condition is out of danger,” Madhira Town sub-inspector (SI) Uday Kumar said. Police arrested the driver of the truck, carrying a load of subabul tree stumps to a paper mill in Bhadrachalam. “The truck driver, Lal Pasha of Khammam, was under the influence of alcohol. His blood alcohol content was 135 ml/100 mg,” the SI said. A case was registered against the truck driver under Section 337 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/close-shave-for-tractor-driver-in-madhira/articleshow/80204044.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Highway robbery: Six people held in Tamil Nadu||COIMBATORE: The rural police on Sunday arrested six men who were involved in the Rs 27-lakh highway robbery near Navakkarai on December 25. The arrested were identified as K Unnikumar alias Raju, 44, from Pillaiyarpuram in Podanur, C Srijith, 27, M Subin, 29 from Thrissur, C Santhosh, 36, S Sandeep, 32 and C Radhakrishnan, 47, who hailed from Palakkad district in Kerala. Police recovered Rs 5 lakh from them. On December 25 around 4.05am, a gang waylaid a car at Navakkarai and attacked the car driver Samsudin, and Abdul Salam, 50, a realtor, both hailed from Malappuram and drove away the car.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/highway-robbery-six-people-held/articleshow/80204042.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Homeopathy doctor arrested for sexually assaulting minor girl in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: The Kangeyam all women police arrested a homeopathy doctor for sexually assaulting a Class IX girl over the last four months. The 14-year-old girl was working as an attender at the 50-year-old man’s clinic after her school was closed due to the pandemic, police sources said. “He sexually assaulted the minor girl several times at the clinic and threatened her of dire consequences if she disclosed the matter to anyone. Unable to bear the torture, the girl told her mother about the sexual assault on Saturday. The mother lodged a complaint,” a police officer said. Police registered a case under Section 5 (e), 5 (l), read with 6 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and Section 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/homeopathy-doc-arrested-for-sexually-assaulting-minor-girl/articleshow/80204043.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||No more time-consuming process of turning wet wastes into compost||The process of turning wet wastes into compost will no longer be laborious and time-consuming. For, the city corporation along with engineers has created a prototype to quicken the process of turning west wastes into compost within a day without foul odour and flies menace. The civic body has set up the equipment at Bharathi Park and is running it on a pilot basis. For over a year now, we wanted to formulate an idea to automate and simplify the compost process, a corporation source said. In order to overcome the difficulties that are being faced in the existing process, we had started designing a prototype during the lockdown period, the source said. Unlike the previous method in which wet wastes would be allowed to undergo anaerobic decomposition for weeks together, we have designed a machine on trial-and-error basis to quicken the process, the source said. A private company – Shree Bommu industries – has come forward to manufacture it. The equipment has been put to test for the past two months. "As soon as the waste is unloaded, it will be sent to a shredder using a conveyor belt where it will be shredded into small pieces. The shredded pieces will be sent to a dewatering machine where 50% of the liquid will be filtered and sent through a pipe to the biogas plant. The sludge would be sent to the dryer where 40% of the remaining moisture would be evaporated and the dried waste will be sent into a pulverizer to powder it," he explained. In the traditional method, it would take at least 40 days to get the compost. But in the new method, the compost will be obtained within a day. Similarly, in the place of 15 workers, just two or three could take care of the centre, he said. "As the process is quickened, the centre will have no foul odour or menace of flies. Human intervention could be eliminated to a larger extent," he added. In the place of 150X50 feet of land, all we required is just 25x25 feet to set up the equipment, he said. For every five tonnes of wet waste, 500kg of compost is obtained. "Now, we are working on to improvise the equipment by analyzing its shortfall. In the improvised version, we have decided to pulverize the waste in the beginning instead of shredding it in the beginning and grinding in the end of the process," he explained. The source said the corporation is planning to set up the equipment at 10 of its micro-composting centres within a few months in the next stage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-more-time-consuming-process-of-turning-wet-wastes-into-compost/articleshow/80204037.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Nirmal Nagar cops nab man who robbed Ola cab driver||MUMBAI: The Nirmal Nagar police arrested a man for robbing an Ola driver of cash, gold and mobile, amounting to Rs 20,000. The accused Sufiyan Khan had booked a radio cab at night for Colaba from Santacruz (East) on January 3. The victim, Imran Shaikh, stated in his complaint that he picked him up from Vakola. As soon as the cab started moving, Khan asked the driver to stop to buy a liquor bottle, directed the cab to an isolated lane in Bandra (East) and robbed him of his valuables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-nab-man-who-robbed-ola-cab-driver/articleshow/80205022.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Rs 5-lakh cheque in hand, but kin don’t have bank account||BHANDARA: The news and preparation in the run up to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray’s visit on Sunday afternoon had the sonzari (gold scavengers) tribal community of Bhojapur village in Bhandara district in awe and amusement. The Behre family from the community had lost their two-month daughter in the Bhandara district hospital fire on Saturday. The fire had claimed lives of 10 premature babies kept in the outborn section of the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on the first floor of the hospital. Their mothers were on the floor exactly above the SNCU when the fire broke out. Residents of the village, which is just 4km from the Bhandara hospital, waited outside their homes since early morning. The tribals were spectators to the heavy police deployment and drills in the narrow lanes leading to Vishwanath and Geeta Behre’s two-room small home. The community, mainly inhabited by petty labourers and scavengers who filter gold residuals from ashes near ghats, is getting national attention for the first time. “The chief minister asked us if we received the compensation amount. I told him we got the cheque but we don’t have a bank account. Since the government is reaching out to us, some of us handed him a list of demands for jobs and caste status for the sonzari tribe to remove our backwardness,” Vishwanath told TOI, a couple of hours after Thackeray left. Until the visit, officials and cops stood guard, preventing entry of anyone wanting to meet or talk to the family. Some cops went atop concrete homes in the neighbourhood to keep vigil. “The grieving family needs to been left alone for a while. They are not looking fearful because of cops inside their home but because of repeated media queries,” said a top cop when TOI pointed out the worried faces of family members. Vishwanath’s uncle Nakal Behre said his nephew earns only Rs6,000 a month as a sanitary helper. “Rs5lakh is a big amount. But our youth need government jobs for a better life,” said Nakal. Vishwanath said he was ready to work even as a sanitary worker if the government replaced the compensation with a job. The CM also visited Sitekasa village where Kavita Barelal Kumre lost her daughter born on December 7. Thackeray asked district officials to take care of the affected families. “It is an irreparable loss to the families,” he said, assuring that such incidents will not happen again. On the other hand, some parents of the babies rescued from the fire said they were not given a fair chance to speak to the chief minister, who had especially flown in from Mumbai to interact with them. Umesh Kumar Chachere, whose four-day-old son was saved, said activists and officials repeatedly interjected them when the CM asked them to share their problems. “I wanted to complain about the facilities at the hospital. I wanted to ask how would the state guarantee a bright future for our children,” said Chachere. Dinesh Khandàte, the lucky father of twin daughters who were rescued, said they were told to let only one of the six parents speak. “I told the CM that the hospital staff doesn’t give us updates about our babies, they don’t let the father see the child and allow only moms,” he said. The CM reached the hospital at around 1.45pm and directly went to the family welfare department’s ward where the seven rescued babies were shifted after the fire. Thackeray also inspected the affected ward on the first floor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs5l-cheque-in-hand-but-kin-dont-have-bank-account/articleshow/80204051.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Siruvani hills identified as butterfly super-hotspot||COIMBATORE: A study conducted by The Nature and Butterfly Society (TNBS) has identified the Siruvani hills, which falls within the limits of Boluvampatti forest range of the Coimbatore forest division, as a butterfly super-hotspot. The study, conducted between March 2015 and December 2020, documented 240 species of butterflies including 17 in the swallowtail family, 28 whites and yellows, 72 brush-footed, 69 blues, one metalmark and 53 in skipper family. District forest officer (DFO) D Venkatesh, who released the study report on Saturday, recommended the forest department to declare Siruvani hills as a butterfly super-hotspot. If 75 butterfly species and above is found in an area, it can be defined as a hotspot, TNBS sources said. As many as 325 butterfly species are found in Tamil Nadu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/siruvani-hills-identified-as-butterfly-super-hotspot/articleshow/80204046.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Frontline BEST drivers, conductors yet to receive 6 months’ Covid allowance||MUMBAI: BEST drivers and conductors who have been risking their lives to ferry lakhs of commuters every day are yet to receive their ‘Covid allowance’ of Rs 300 daily for the past six months—July to December. This has left workers, union leaders and BEST panel members fuming. They have demanded the administration pay the pending sum at the earliest. According to an estimate, over Rs 60 crore is pending as ‘Covid allowance’ to be paid to staffers who reported for duties during the pandemic. “It is shocking that on one hand, departmental chargesheets are issued to hundreds of staffers for absenteeism during Covid and cut pay for it, and on the other, the incentive is not paid to those who have worked,” said BEST committee member Sunil Ganacharya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/frontline-best-drivers-conductors-yet-to-receive-6-months-covid-allowance/articleshow/80204054.cms||Somit Sen
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Only 12 out of 25 composting centres functioning at present||It has been over two years since the city corporation decided to decentralize the handling and decomposition of organic wastes and proposed to construct 65 micro composting centres (MCCs). As on Sunday, the corporation has constructed 25 centres. But only 12 centres are functioning at present. Due to lack of space, the corporation has decided to set up the centres in open reserved space (OSR) sites but has witnessed huge resistance from the public. While some of them staged protests opposing the corporation’s move, some others had moved the court and obtained a stay order.While the residents claimed that composting centres in the middle of residential areas would create health hazards because of flies and foul odour, activists said that the purpose of the reserved sites should not be diverted as per the high court directions. "We have been witnessing public resistance from all the remaining places that were identified to construct MCCs. So, we have decided to go slow," a corporation source said. Residents of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar near Vadavalli had moved the court seeking its intervention to stop the construction work in their area in 2019 and the corporation is planning to take its next step based on the judgment, according to the source. A city-based activist J Daniel Jesudass said that the corporation should set up such centres in the government land instead of setting up in the OSR sites of residential areas. "There are several pieces of revenue land or its own land in each zone and the corporation should request the revenue department to use their land. As it would be time consuming and the corporation had to show some progress to the National Green Tribunal (NGT), they had decided to use the OSR sites," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/only-12-out-of-25-composting-centres-functioning-at-present/articleshow/80204040.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Erode||Rs 2 lakh stolen from Tasmac shop salesman||ERODE: Three unidentified persons robbed a Tasmac outlet salesman of Rs 2 lakh near Gobichettipalayam in Erode district on Saturday night. Salesman E Arumugam, 40, of Elathur village near Nambiyur, along with his friend P Selvakumar, 38, was returning home on a bike with the money collected from the sale of liquor bottles from the Tasmac shop at Kumarapalayam near Gobichettipalayam, a police officer said. “When they neared Kedarai village, three masked persons waylaid the bike and threw chilli powder on Arumugam and Selvakumar’s face. The duo fell off bike. At that moment, the robbers snatched the cash bag from Arumugam and disappeared into the dark,” the police officer said. Arumugam later lodged a complaint with the Nambiyur police, who registered a case. The police have alerted officers at checkposts across Gobichettipalayam and initiated an inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/erode/rs-2-lakh-stolen-from-tasmac-shop-salesman/articleshow/80204052.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||DMDK’s Premalatha defends Kanimozhi’s right to protest||TIRUPUR: Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) leader Premalatha came out in defence of DMK MP Kanimozhi, who was stopped by police in a bid to prevent her from reaching Pollachi on Sunday to lead a protest against AIADMK. Demanding strict action against the accused in Pollachi sexual assault case, Premalatha told reporters here that democratic protests should not be stifled, in response to a query on Kanimozhi being stopped by police. “Each and everyone has the right to protest. No one has the right to stop anyone from protesting or to prevent people from visiting a place,” Premalatha said after chairing an event where members of other parties joined DMDK. “All the culprits involved in Pollachi sexual assault case should be punished irrespective of who they are,” she said. Premalatha was non-committal on the question of chief ministerial candidate of AIADMK alliance that DMDK was part of. “AIADMK has announced Edappadi K Palaniswami as the chief ministerial candidate. Meanwhile, BJP said they would announce the NDA’s chief ministerial candidate for TN. So, we are waiting,’’ she said. She, however, reiterated that DMDK continues to be in the AIADMK alliance. “After convening the general council and executive council meetings soon, a concrete decision will be announced by the Captain (Vijayakanth) based on the likes and preference of cadres,” she said. Premalatha said that Vijayakanth would campaign for the party in the assembly election. “Captain will come in the climax,” she said. Her son Vijaya Prabhakaran said that DMDK would achieve its goal whether the party is in the alliance or not. “DMDK flag will be hoisted at Fort St George,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dmdks-premalatha-defends-kanimozhis-right-to-protest/articleshow/80204045.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Girl, 8, woman die in wall collapse in Krishnagiri district||KRISHNAGIRI: An eight-year-old girl and a 62-year-old woman died after a wall of a house collapsed and fell on them at Nerlagiri village near Veppanahalli in Krishnagiri district on Sunday. About 20 people were injured in the incident and admitted to a hospital. The deceased were identified as Mega Sri, 8, and Munibala. Police said the incident happened when a bull running event was organized in the village. “About 40 people were sitting on a wall on the terrace of a house and another 30 people were sitting below them in front of the house. They were watching the event. Suddenly the terrace wall collapsed and people sitting on it fell, along with debris, on the people sitting below,” said Bandi Gangadhar, superintendent of police, Krishnagiri district. The girl and woman died on the spot, the officer added. The injured were admitted to the Krishnagiri government hospital. The Veppanahalli police said the event was organized without permission and registered a case. The injured include Geetha, 35, Lavanya, 24, Shoba, 40, Ramamurthy, 20, Nagammal, 35, Akshaya, 7, Arun, 24, Nandhini, 10, Yokesh, 10, Aswathama, 60, Siva, 6, Narayana Rao, 21, Kalaivani, 12, Shila, 25, Ramarathinam, 39, Latha, 35, Nathiya, 8, Nakshatra, 5, and Kumari, 5. Veppanahalli MLA P Murugan also reached the spot and consoled family members of the deceased.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/girl-8-woman-die-in-wall-collapse-in-krishnagiri-dist/articleshow/80204055.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu: Hyderabad zoological park on guard||HYDERABAD: With the central government issuing a status report on avian influenza in the country, saying the disease has been confirmed in seven states, Nehru Zoological Park has once again reiterated that its rapid action force team is taking all necessary measures to prevent bird flu. “Though Telangana and Hyderabad have not registered any case of bird flu so far, we are on alert and taking all precautions. We have stopped supply of raw chicken for all carnivores and replaced it with minced meat,” zoo curator N Kshitija said. The zoo staff has taken up disinfection of all aviary areas and movement of visitors has also been restricted in the area. On Sunday, after over 1,200 birds were found dead in the country, the Centre directed zoo managements to submit daily report to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) till their area is declared free from the disease. The CZA also issued an office memorandum directing managements of all zoos to strengthen surveillance and aviary management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-zoological-park-on-guard/articleshow/80204059.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Over 160 crows found dead in Dehradun, forest dept on alert||DEHRADUN: At least 161 crows were found dead in Dehradun district on Sunday. Forest department has sent a few dead crows to a lab to ascertain the cause of death, which they suspect is avian influenza. Maximum 121 crows were found dead in Dehradun’s Bhandari Bagh area. “A team from the district forest department was sent to visit the area,” said district forest officer (DFO) Rajeev Dhiman. The residents of the locality have been warned by the forest department team against touching the dead birds. Chief wildlife warden JS Suhag said that another 40 crows were found dead near Rishikesh, and on the outskirts of Dehradun. “We have sent the dead birds to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly to know the exact cause of death,” said Suhag.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/over-160-crows-found-dead-in-dehradun-forest-dept-on-alert/articleshow/80202241.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 11, 2021||Goa||Form committee to fine tune municipal amendment: GCCI||Panaji: Questioning the need for an ordinance to amend the Goa Municipalities Act, Goa Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI) has requested the government to discuss the proposed changes with traders and shop owners before introducing any changes. GCCI has also recommended that a committee should be formed of municipal officers headed by the director of municipal administration or the urban development minister to take stakeholders on board. “A prior consultation or discussion with the stakeholders would have helped in understanding the issues currently being faced by the shop holders and would have resulted in a more humane and progressive legislation,” GCCI president Manoj Caculo said. While GCCI supports the move to tackle “certain irregularities” in transfer and renewal of shop leases and the need to increase municipal revenues, Caculo said the notified ordinance did not address the concerns and apprehensions of the existing shop holders. The state notified the Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Ordinance on December 22 but the move came in for strong criticism, prompting the state government to keep it in abeyance. GCCI has suggested that the government should take into account ground realities before bringing in an ordinance or a new law. The current ordinance, Caculo said, attempts to cover all municipalities and treats all traders and shopkeepers operating within municipal markets with the same yardstick. “Restricting future leases or renewal of existing leases only for a further period of 10 years and auctioning thereafter is something that will hurt the traders who have been carrying on their business activity for generations,” Caculo said. GCCI has recommended that unless there are grave irregularities, all leases should be automatically renewed with a 5% annual increase in rent. The ordinance proposes a 10% increase in rental payment. In the letter to the chief minister, GCCI said that the rule regarding termination of the leases if not renewed or if rent is delayed, is harsh. GCCI has suggested that at least two months’ notice should be given for renewal and six months for paying delayed dues. GCCI has also suggested that those who illegally sublet or transfer their shops should be allowed to regularise the transfer by paying the prescribed fees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/form-committee-to-fine-tune-municipal-amendment-gcci/articleshow/80205028.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Kamal Haasan hits out at govt for removing MNM flags, hoardings in Coimbatore||COIMBATORE: Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan hit out at the state government for removing flags and display boards of the party in Coimbatore. “They have torn MNM posters and removed flags. I thank the respectful people who ordered for removal of those posters and the corporation officials for doing that,’’ he said after landing at Coimbatore airport on Sunday for the fifth phase of his campaign. Kamal said he was a saddened by the fact that police personnel were made to tear the posters. “I was not upset to see my posters torn, but was sad to see that our policemen were made to do that. They have other important work. Allow them to discharge their duties rather than making them do such work as removing posters,” Kamal said. Taking a dig at AIADMK, Kamal said that if someone had assumed that Coimbatore was their fort, then it was nothing but their assumption and not fact. Campaigning from atop his van at various places in Coimbatore, Kamal called upon people to ‘join his mission to revive Tamil Nadu.’ “You should give as an opportunity to execute our plans for a better TN,” he said. Kamal said that he has drafted several good plans for TN, for each sections of the society like housewives, students, farmers. “People laughed when we recommended salary for housewives. Now Supreme Court has made a similar remark. The critics are now silent,’’ he said. MNM has a skill set development scheme, to make unemployed people into entrepreneurs. “Work has begun in Paramakudi. Similar effort is on in Salem,” he said, adding that MNM had plans to provide one computer to each household. “If your wish, those plans can be executed,’’ Kamal said. Earlier, addressing a gathering of `influencers’ comprising several key people of Coimbatore, he said the city was place with diverse population of industrialists, entrepreneurs and farmers. “Many of them are my friends. Time has now for them to extend their support, not to me, but for a better TN,’’ he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kamal-hits-out-at-govt-for-removing-mnm-flags-hoardings/articleshow/80204047.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Coimbatore||Coimbatore: Village panchayat VP, brother arrested for killing 25-year-old man||COIMBATORE: Vellamadai village panchayat vice-president R Ganeshan and his younger brother R Muruganandam were arrested on Sunday for murdering a 25-year-old man last Monday. The Periyanaickenpalayam police identified the victim as P Sureshkumar of Netaji Nagar at Samanickenpalayam. Forty-two-year-old Ganeshan is a DMK functionary and Muruganandam is a lawyer. Ganeshan owns a rice shop and a chicken shop at Samanaickenpalayam. Sureshkumar was working in the chicken shop. “As Ganeshan used to spend time with his friends and was not focusing on the business, his wife Thulasimani, 38, had instructed Sureshkumar to keep an eye on her husband and inform her of his whereabouts. Ganeshan came to know about the arrangement and had a fight with Thulasimani, who left for her parents’ house at Periyamathampalayam, two weeks ago. An angry Ganeshan sacked Sureshkumar,” a police officer said. Though Sureshkumar sought Thulasimani’s help, she ignored him. “On Monday night, an inebriated Sureshkumar met Thulasimani and her father Nagaraj, 62 and blamed them for his plight. An argument broke out and in the ensuing fight, Sureshkumar stabbed Thulasimani and Nagaraj using a knife,” the officer said. A police team arrived at the place to find Sureshkumar dead. “Initially, Thulasimani and Nagaraj said that they had killed the man. However, an ambulance driver who took Thulasimani to hospital told us that he had seen Ganeshan at the crime scene. Sureshkumar was injured, but alive when he reached there,” superintendent of police Ara Arularasu said. Police questioned Ganeshan and Muruganandam, who confessed to killing Sureshkumar. The brothers were booked under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/village-panchayat-vp-brother-arrested-for-killing-25-yr-old-man/articleshow/80204056.cms||A Subburaj
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||‘Create space for Marathas in OBC quota’||MUMBAI: The Maratha Kranti Morcha in a meeting on Sunday demanded that the community should be provided quota within OBC reservation if the government failed to protect the Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) reservation in the Supreme Court on January 25. The community threatened a statewide protest if the state was unable to lift the stay on Maratha quota implementation. A resolution was also passed in the morcha meeting saying Aurangabad should be renamed Chhatrapati Sambhaji Nagar. A three-judge bench of the SC had in an interim order on September 9 stayed the 12% SEBC reservation in education and 13% in government jobs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/create-space-for-marathas-in-obc-quota/articleshow/80205025.cms||---
January 11, 2021||India||Don’t vote for Owaisi’s party: Bengal imams||KOLKATA: The head of Bengal Imam Association, Mohammad Yahya has made a public appeal to voters in poll-bound West Bengal not to exercise their francise in favour of any outfit backed by Asaduddin Owaisi, chief of AIMIM. “Every vote to them is a vote for BJP. Why does a Hyderabadi politician become active in states only where BJP faces tough opposition in winning elections?” he said last week. Several senior clerics, civil society groups and youth forums have started cautioning people that radical minority political formations have no place in West Bengal. Last week, clerics met under the leadership of Qari Fazlur Rahman, who said, “People are free to vote for anybody they want and we don’t want to influence that decision. But do remember, this time the vote will not only decide the future of the state but of millions of people staying here. There are forces that want to disturb the peace and drive a wedge among people, sowing seeds of hatred. Many people may be targeted for their religious beliefs. We must arrive at a consensus and vote responsibly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-vote-for-owaisis-party-bengal-imams/articleshow/80205526.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 11, 2021||Patna||10-year-old girl gang-raped in Rohtas, 1 held||SASARAM: Police on Sunday arrested one of the three accused in connection with the alleged gang-rape of a 10-year-old girl near NH-2 under the Darigawn police station area in Rohtas district late on Friday night. “One Golu Kumar (25) has been arrested in connection with the case. The process to conduct girl’s medical examination has been initiated,” SHO of Darigawn police station Umesh Yadav said, adding the police swung into action soon after the girl’s family members lodged an FIR against three people on Sunday. The girl’s father, however, alleged that the local police mounted pressure on the family to settle the matter amicably as the accused were from influential families of nearby villages. “The three youths took my daughter to a nearby field on Friday night and took turns to rape her,” he alleged. The girl reportedly fell unconscious after the incident. She was found in the field lying in a pool of blood the next morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/10-yr-old-girl-gang-raped-in-rohtas-1-held/articleshow/80202818.cms||Alok Chamaria
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals pay Kerala nurses for quarantine||City hospitals have paid nurses for the days they were on leave after they tested positive for Covid-19. The hospitals decided to pay them after the state government intervened. The nurses were denied salary during the quarantine period since hospitals claimed that they were not regular employees but were on contract. These nurses are the part of the medical team that had come to Mumbai from Kerala to helping hospitals here. “We have received cheques for the time period salaries were not paid. Two weeks’ salary was cut as we were in quarantine. This is big relief for us and will also motivate nurses willing to work during the pandemic,” said Rohit Krishnan, who works with a Covid centre in Bandra. The Kerala medical team has been helping city hospitals since May. During their stint at Covid centres, a few were infected and had gone on medical leave.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-hosps-pay-kerala-nurses-for-quarantine/articleshow/80204073.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hospital lacked fire systems for 5 years, sought funds in May 2020: RTI||NAGPUR: Information obtained under the RTI Act has revealed Bhandara district general hospital, including its Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU), where ten babies died in a fire on Saturday, does not have any fire detection, prevention or extinguishing systems. Funds had been sought for the works five years after bringing SNCU into use for admission and treatment of neonatals. The officials of Bhandara Municipal Council (BMC) and state’s Public Works Department (PWD) confirmed SNCU also did not have occupancy certificate, which was mandatory for bringing the structure into use. As per information provided by PWD officials, the administration of district general hospital had proposed to construct G+2 floor building comprising SNCU, as an extension to existing old building of the hospital. Funds for fire systems were not sought in the plan submitted with the state government in 2012-13, when the state sanctioned Rs1.92 crore under National Rural Health Mission (NRHM). Accordingly, PWD constructed the building and handed it over to District General Hospital in August 2015. In September 2015, the then public health minister Deepak Sawant, who was also Bhandara district guardian minister, inaugurated the building in the presence of the then MP Nana Patole, who is now speaker. As per Maharashtra Fire Prevention and Life Safety Measures Act 2006, and National Accreditation Board for Hospitals and Healthcare Providers (NABH), the hospital should have all types of systems to automatically detect smoke, and fire, and spray water automatically in case of fire. All these works are mandatory along with civil works and fire compliance certificate before bringing the structure into use. Social activist from Bhandara Vikas Madankar told TOI, “I first sought information related to fire systems in entire hospital, including new building housing SNCU on October 12, 2018. District civil surgeon on October 24, 2018, informed me under RTI Act that hospital lacked smoke, and fire alarms, which are mandatory for automatic detection and alert. Also, there were no fire sprinklers to pour water automatically for dousing fire.” Similarly, the hospital lacked other systems like fire hydrant, hose reel etc, which is useful in pouring water to douse fire. Even fire escape ladder, staircase, exits are not there in hospital which play crucial role in evacuating people during fire, he said. Madankar added, “Again, I asked for information under RTI on June 23, 2020, to know whether fire systems were installed and any initiatives taken by hospital administration. I was informed the situation was as it is. I was provided copy of a letter dated May 12, 2020, which was sent by district civil surgeon (CS) to directorate of health services, Mumbai. CS had sought Rs1.52 crore for fire systems in the letter. It is unfortunate that CS proposed works and sought funds after bringing building housing SNCU into use five years ago. The incident would not have happened, and babies saved if CS had got works done after my first RTI in 2018.” MLC Parinay Fuke also said the incident which claimed lives of 10 babies could have been averted were fire systems in place. “Hospital never obtained fire NOC and installed systems, so fire compliance and occupancy certificates are a distant dream. Action including FIR should be registered against concerned officials who brought the building into use without fire systems and these certificates. Government is also responsible as it did not sanction funds for last 10 months. Timely release of funds and completion of works could have prevented the incident,” he said. CS Dr Pramod Khandate assured to call back but later did not respond to TOI’s calls and messages. PWD officials said, “We do not issue occupancy certificate and it was responsibility of hospital administration to obtain it from local authority.” Chief officer of BMC said, “The hospital did not obtain either occupancy certificate or fire NOC. We issued notice to all hospitals in the town including general hospital in 2018. A registered agency was also sent to the hospital to explain importance of fire systems. Till date, we have not received any application for certification.” BMC also did not take any coercive action against hospital administration for non-compliance with its notice in last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hosp-lacked-fire-systems-for-5-years-sought-funds-in-may-2020-rti/articleshow/80204071.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||Bird flu advisory issued to CMOs of all 13 districts||DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government on Sunday issued an advisory related to bird flu. The advisory, issued by the director general (health), came after the Centre released guidelines in this regard. According to the order, the veterinary doctors across the state have been asked to be on alert. In a communication issued to the chief medical officers of all 13 districts, DG health said that meetings should be organised with animal husbandry, forest and panchayati raj department officials to ensure coordination between the agencies concerned. “The authorities must keep close vigilance of bird flu and all steps should be taken in case a bird flu case surfaces in the state. The chances of virus jumping into humans should be minimised,” said Dr Amita Upreti, DG health. He added that the districts must stock up antiviral medicine, masks, and PPE kits. She also said that surveillance must be conducted around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos, poultry farms, and others. In case of any suspicious death of a bird, district IDSP officials must be informed, she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bird-flu-advisory-issued-to-cmos-of-all-13-districts/articleshow/80202247.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 11, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man held for temple theft||MUMBAI: The L T Marg police on Saturday arrested a 19-year-old man from Zaveri Bazar area with gold and cash, in a theft case at Pune’s 127-year-old Akhil Mandai Ganesh Mandal temple that took place on Friday. Ajay Bhutkar, has been handed over to the Pune police. The CCTV footage had captured a man stealing gold and cash from the donation box of the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-for-temple-theft/articleshow/80205029.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Will ensure relief for kin of electrocution victims: Minister||HYDERABAD: Tribal, Women and Child Welfare minister Satyavathi Rathod on said she will ensure the kin of the people who died of electrocution get compensation from TSTransco and under Rythu Bima scheme. She said the three families will get Rs 25 lakh each as compensation frm TSTransco. As the deceased were farmers, the state government too provide financial assistance of Rs 5 lakh per family under Rythu Bima. The minister directed the Transco officials to be more vigilant and take all measures to prevent such accidents. Five people were electrocuted to death in Mahbubabad district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/will-ensure-relief-for-kin-of-electrocution-victims-minister/articleshow/80204080.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Man killed, body stuffed in suitcase in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The body of an autorickshaw driver, who went missing on Friday, was found stuffed inside a suitcase and dumped on the roadside at Rajendranagar. He was allegedly bludgeoned to death with a boulder by his friends. Cyberabad police said the victim, Mohammed Ilyaz alias Riyaz,24, left his residence at Chandrayangutta on Friday. As he did not return home and became inaccessible, his mother lodged a missing complaint with the Chandrayangutta police station on Saturday. As Riyaz, who had a criminal past, was an accused in a murder case, Task Force police along with local police started investigation. Meanwhile, Riyaz’s family, who were searching for him, found his auto abandoned in Rajendranagar limits. When CCTV footage was verified, police found two persons were in the company of Riyaz on Friday night. They were identified as Syed and Feroz by the victim’s family members. These two suspects were taken into custody by Task Force sleuths. Initially they tried to evade, but on sustained interrogation they wiltted and confessed that Riyaz was murdered and his body was packed in a suitcase, which was abandoned on the roadside in Rajendranagar. When police went to the spot, they found the suitcase near pillar number 223 of PVNR Expressway. When they opened it, they found the body in a foetal position. Police said the victim was killed with a boulder. When asked about the motive for the murder, the two, who were from the same neighbourhood in Chandrayangutta and were auto drivers, claimed Riyaz was teasing Syed’s sister and they had financial disputes. On Friday, the three consumed alcohol at different wine shops. Later, while they were on the move in the auto, an argument broke out between them. Syed and Feroz hit Riyaz with a boulder and killed him. Later, they put the body in the auto and drove around from Chandrayangutta till Rajendranagar. They reportedly came across an abandoned suitcase, which they used to pack the body. The accused were previously involved in picking pockets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-killed-body-stuffed-in-suitcase/articleshow/80204079.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Dehradun||After JEE and NEET, edu dept mulls giving free coaching for CLAT, NDA entrance too||Dehradun: After JEE and NEET, the state education department is planning to also provide free coaching for other competitive exams to the students. These include Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) and National Defence Academy (NDA) entrance exams as well, officials said. The State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT), which undertakes the responsibility of providing free coaching, is assessing the feasibility of extending its service (to other exams) and then they will send a proposal to the state government. The coaching facility is exclusive to class XII students of the state government schools only. Meanwhile, the SCERT is planning to give extra one-month coaching for JEE and NEET to meritorious students. According to the officials, the department will conduct mock tests in the coming weeks and students, who perform well, will be shortlisted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/after-jee-and-neet-edu-dept-mulls-giving-free-coaching-for-clat-nda-entrance-too/articleshow/80202252.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad woman ends life over harassment by husband and in-laws||HYDERABAD: A 38-year-old housewife committed suicide due to alleged harassment by her husband and in-laws over the issue of infertility at Saroornagar on Saturday night. The victim was, Udaya Sri, from Gowtam Nagar in Saroornagar. In 2009, Udaya Sri married Suresh, a marketing executive. “As the couple did not have children, Udaya Sri was harassed by Suresh and his family members, including his parents, Savitri and Tirumala Goud. Unable to bear the harassment, the victim committed suicide by hanging herself from the ceiling fan at their house on Saturday night,” Saroornagar inspector K Seetharam said. Two days ago, Suresh went alone to Medchal to attend a family function as Udaya Sri refused to join him. On Saturday, Uday Sri did not answer his phone calls throughout the day and later her phone was switched off. Suresh returned home in the night and when Udaya Sri did not open the door for a long time, he called police. “Suresh along with neighbours forcibly opened the door after calling police and they found her hanging from the ceiling fan,” the inspector said. There was no suicide note. Based on the complaint of Udaya Sri’s family members, a case was registered against Suresh and his parents under Sections 498-A and 306 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/woman-ends-life-because-of-harassment/articleshow/80204083.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Store in Hyderabad charges Rs 6 for carry bag, told to deposit Rs 1.5 lakh towards damages||HYDERABAD: Charging Rs 6 for a plastic carry bag, which contained logo and trademark, has cost a supermarket chain dear as it was directed to deposit Rs 1.5 lakh towards punitive damages before the commission and pay Rs 15,000 to the complainant. Of the Rs 1.5 lakh collected, the commission said that Rs 1 lakh will be remitted to the CM relief fund towards the ‘Haritha Haram’ scheme and Rs 50,000 will be deposited in the consumer welfare fund for the upliftment of consumer education in Telangana. Y Sanjay, the complainant, said that he purchased food items on May 31, 2019, at Star Bazar –Trent Hypermarket, Road No.12, Banjara Hills. He said that he was charged Rs 6 for providing a plastic carry bag, which had the logo and trademark of the supermarket. Sanjay said he raised an objection with the store manager and cashier by saying the collection of the amount for carry bag is unfair. He was issued a legal notice and had approached the forum against the MD of the supermarket and Trent Hypermarket, on ground of unfair trade practice. The opposite parties, in their written version, contended that the complainant filed the complaint to extort money. They said that in order to discourage plastic use as per the government order they have collected the amount. They prayed for dismissal of the complaint on the grounds of misjoinder and non-joinder of necessary parties. The bench noticed that the opposite parties did not file any proof to show they are registered with the local body and paid the requisite amount for registration and for selling plastic carry bags. “The opposite parties and other merchants collecting huge amounts under the guise of avoiding plastic and protection of environment are using the amount for their own benefit, but not for protection of environment. In order to utilise such amounts collected from the consumers for the benefit of the environment, we are inclined to award punitive damages,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/store-charges-rs-6-for-carry-bag-told-to-deposit-rs-1-5l-towards-damages/articleshow/80204088.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 11, 2021||Agra||14 fresh Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 10,372||Agra: At least 14 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Sunday evening, taking the district tally to 10,372. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College. A total of 10 people were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 17 Covid patients were discharged on Sunday. Out of the 10,372 cases reported in the district, 97% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid cases reduced from 135 on Saturday to 132 on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 1.6%. So far, 10,069 people have recovered."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/14-fresh-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10372/articleshow/80202251.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 9 lakh beneficiaries to get free water supply up to 20 KL||HYDERABAD: The state government’s Free Water Supply Scheme is applicable to nearly nine lakh consumers. According to the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) records, a total of 10.6 lakh consumers are receiving potable water, and of them, nearly nine lakh consumers are eligible for the scheme. Under the scheme, water consumption of up to 20 kilolitres (KL) is free, and around 35,000 to 40,000 residential complexes get 20 kilolitres of water on alternate days. The municipal administration and urban development’s recent guidelines state that fixing water meters is mandatory for all beneficiaries in order to avail the free water supply scheme. “The consumption as per meter readings up to 20 KL per month will be free and consumption above 20 KL will be charged as applicable tariff with effect from December 2020. The deadline to fix the meters to claim the free water supply benefit from April 1 is March 31,” state the guidelines. With almost all earmarked bungalows and residential complexes having water meters, the water board has swung into action to check their status in order to issue water bills in case the consumption is above 20 KL. “From April, a new billing system for consumers consuming water over 20 KL will be applicable after certain modifications are carried out in the water board’s software,” a senior HMWS&SB official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/9-lakh-beneficiaries-to-get-free-water-supply-up-to-20-kl/articleshow/80204102.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||University of Hyderabad VC meets governor over land issue||HYDERABAD: Days after the University of Hyderabad (UoH) witnessed threat from alleged land-grabbers, vice-chancellor Professor Appa Rao Podile met Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan and apprised her about the campus land issue on Sunday. “Professor Appa Rao, vice-chancellor, University of Hyderabad, met honourable governor at Rajbhavan on January 9 and submitted a memorandum on land issues in UoH,” tweeted the governor. In the last few years, several attempts have been made by a housing society to demolish university compound walls in order to build a connecting road that goes through the university. Several students and administration members have opposed the encroachment attempts. While the university students have apprised the National Green Tribunal (NGT) about the issue, the university is contemplating moving court in order to resolve the issue. “We request you to please look into the issue and take necessary steps to ensure that the University of Hyderabad land is not encroached or occupied illegally. This will not only affect the future prospects of the development of the university but will also cause an irreversible damage to the ecology and biology inside the University of Hyderabad forest,” read the letter submitted by UoH students’ union to NGT.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/uoh-vc-meets-guv-over-land-issue/articleshow/80204097.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Agra||Covid-19 jab: Final dry run today, vaccination to kick start on Jan 16||Agra: The last leg of dry run for Covid-19 vaccine will be conducted in Agra on Monday at its 68 centers. The health department has called over 1,000 individuals to participate in the rehearsals. In the first phase, 18,901 doctors and health care workers are likely to be vaccinated in the district, a drive which will start on January 16. “The people who will take the shot will be kept under observation of doctors for at least 30 minutes. Each vaccination team will have six members including a doctor, nurse, supporting staff and volunteers. Police will ensure strict security arrangements at the vaccination centres,” chief medical officer (CMO) Dr RC Pandey said Besides, deep freezers for storage, arrangement of around 3.6lakh syringes has been made to administer the vaccine. Earlier, the dry run was conducted at 8 centers on January 9. A total of 150 individuals participated in the exercise. CMO Pandey said, “All required arrangements have been made for the second and final dry run of Covid-19 vaccination drive on Monday. In this regard, doctors and heath staffers have been assigned duties at 68 centres. Except administering the actual vaccine, the entire process of vaccination will be rehearsed. The exercise is aimed to ensure the actual vaccination process scheduled to start on January 16 is smoothly conducted.” The dry run of Covid-19 vaccine will take place at SN Medical College, district hospital, Pushpanjali hospital, and at all the primary health and community health centers. According to the health department, supply of the vaccine is likely to start within the next five days. For this, a storage facility has been developed at the CMO office. Four deep freezers have been installed. Around 25,000 doses can be stored in each one of them. Spot registration for vaccination will not be done. After medical staff, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidity will be vaccinated. State government will be issuing detailed orders regarding vaccination, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-jab-final-dry-run-today-vaccination-to-kick-start-on-jan-16/articleshow/80202255.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Agra||18 child beggars rescued in Agra, await help from govt||Agra: Eighteen child beggars have been rescued in two phases by a joint team of police and labour department in Agra city. But none of these children or their family members has benefited from any government scheme, said child rights activist Naresh Paras, who had identified 45 children begging on MG road in Agra. He had requested the State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (SCPCR) to take steps for their rehabilitation. No action has been taken against people forcing children to beg, he added. Taking cognizance of the issue, the SCPCR has directed district magistrates across UP to connect parents of children rescued from street begging with government schemes and admit such children to schools. The commission has also directed DMs to ensure legal action against people forcing children to beg. It has sought action taken report in compliance with the orders from district magistrates within one week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/18-child-beggars-rescued-in-agra-await-help-from-govt/articleshow/80202254.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 11, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Rescued flamingo released in Uran coastal area after treatment||NAVI MUMBAI: A greater flamingo which was rescued earlier this week from Uran after it was attacked by local kites, has now been successfully released back in the coastal region of Dongri. “Uran-based forest officials including Milind Bhoir, and animal activists Parag Gharat and Anand Madavi had safely taken the rescued flamingo back to the Dongri coast and released it close to a flock of other flamingos,” informed an Uran activist. The director of NatConnect Foundation, B N Kumar, said, “Gharat had rushed to the spot earlier this week when the locals told him that a flamingo was lying wounded after being attacked by kites. The activists along with a local veterinarian had nursed the bird so that it becomes fit again to fly.” Kumar added that the destruction of wetlands in Uran had led to the congestion of many birds in smaller coastal areas, which resulted in the conflict between the predator kites and flamingos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/rescued-flamingo-released-in-uran-coastal-area-after-treatment/articleshow/80205031.cms||Vijay Singh
January 11, 2021||Agra||Second year AMU student 'shot dead' on way home||Agra: A student of Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) was allegedly shot dead by unidentified assailants on Saturday night, while he was returning home with his friend. The deceased, Atif Khan, was a second year student of Bachelor of Arts, said police. The assailants opened fire at Atif who was on a two-wheeler. While he fell down, his friend managed to escape from the spot. Atif was taken to the hospital, where doctors declared him brought dead. After the news of his demise spread on the campus, students gathered at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and created a ruckus in protest against the incident. Atif was the only son of his parents. His father works as a contractual employee in the university. SP (city) Kuldeep Singh Gunawat told TOI that Atif was recently released on bail in connection with murder of one Shahbaz in Jamalpur area, in 2018. He said an FIR of murder has been registered on a complaint filed by the deceased’s parents. However, they have not named anyone in the FIR. Preliminary investigation revealed that it could be a "revenge" murder, but all angles are being looked into, he said, adding that further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/second-year-amu-student-shot-dead-on-way-home/articleshow/80202264.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man found dead in abandoned autorickshaw||HYDERABAD: A 65-year-old unidentified man was found dead in an abandoned autorickshaw at Mailardevpally on Sunday. Police suspect that the victim might have died due to cold weather and ill health. At around 8.30 am, Mailardevpally police received an alert about the body of an unidentified man in an abandoned auto near Uddamgadda bus stop in Mailardevpally. “We found the man lying dead in an old abandoned autorickshaw. We suspect that he might have died due to cold weather and ill health. An empty liquor bottle was also found next to him,” Mailardevpally inspector K Narsimha said. After examining the clothes of the victim and his body, police said that they suspect that he was a homeless beggar who took shelter in the parked auto for the night. A suspicious death case was registered under Section 174 of CrPC and the body was sent to Osmania General Hospital for postmortem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-found-dead-in-abandoned-autorickshaw/articleshow/80204115.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Hyderabad||Manuu to hold webinars to eradicate gender violence||HYDERABAD: Centre for Women Studies (CWS) of Maulana Azad National Urdu University in collaboration with Centre for Development Policy and Practice Hyderabad is organizing series of webinars and other activities as per the advisory from the ministry of women and child development to leverage 16 days period to eradicate gender based violence on January 12, 15, 19, 27 and 29. According to professor Shahida Murtaza, director, CWS, an inaugural session of the webinar “awareness campaign for eliminating gender based violence” will be live streamed at 11.30 am on January 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manuu-to-hold-webinars-to-eradicate-gender-violence/articleshow/80204135.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Goa||Salvador do Mundo ryots irate as faulty bundh inundates fields||Panaji: Salvador do Mundo witnessed protests from farmers after their fields were inundated due to the breaching of the Char Manas bundh while repairing the sluice gates. Following this, the Serula Shetkari Association which maintains the bundhs, has promised to compensate farmers of Donwaddo, Quitla and Bhatmoda who have suffered losses in the last two days. Chairman of the association Vilas Naik appealed to farmers to apply to the association with details along with Form I & XIV by January 16. The issue caused much consternation as there were charges and counter allegations over the cause of flooding. Porvorim MLA Rohan Khaunte who rushed to the spot alleged that the incident happened due to the repair of the bandh and illegalities in the auctioning. Denying the charge, Naik attributed “human error” on part of the workmen who were fixing the base plank as the reason behind the faulty work carried out in January leading to the fields getting flooded  “The fixing of the base plank has to be done when the tide is still. As the plank could not be fixed within time the high tide set in and the situation went out of control because of which the fields got flooded. The said incident was purely accidental and was very unfortunate and the managing committee regrets the same,” Naik said The sluice gate is fully operational now and the water from the fields has started receding, he said. On Saturday, farmers and Salvador do Mundo sarpanch held a dharna outside the Porovirm police station demanding justice for the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/salvador-do-mundo-ryots-irate-as-faulty-bundh-inundates-fields/articleshow/80205033.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Bird flu scare: Buyers shun poultry chicken despite price going down to Rs120/kg in a week||Ranchi/Jamshedpur/Bokaro: The demand for poultry chicken in Ranchi started plunging after cases of avian influenza were reported from seven states. Denizens, who usually savour chicken dishes at home, eateries and street food carts, are giving them a miss fearing bird flu. Last week, chicken was sold in Ranchi at Rs 150 a kilogram but with the number of customers dwindling, many traders have begun slashing prices to exhaust their stock. Sarwar Qureshi, who runs a shop in Kokar, slashed the price of his poultry chicken to Rs 120 per kilogram. “I had to reduce the price as my customers dwindled. The sale is plummeting despite the low price,” Qureshi said. Most of Ranchi’s poultry chicken stock are shipped from hatcheries in Gumla and Khunti. Like Qureshi, Bablu Munda, a seller on Purulia Road, slashed prices by Rs 20 per kilogram. While customers are giving his stall a miss, Munda’s mainstay – local eateries and food carts – have also pruned their orders. “Just in the first week of January, the business was brisk because of the picnic season. But suddenly, the buyers are beginning to avoid poultry,” Munda said. On Sunday, mutton shops and fish sellers did brisk business while chicken sellers had a dismal outing. However, the price of mutton hovered around Rs 700 a kilogram and did not rise much. Sharbari Dutta, a resident of Burdwan Compound, said, “Although there has not been a single bird flu case in Jharkhand so far, we cannot take chances.” As per estimates, approximately 75,000 kilograms of poultry chicken are sold in Ranchi daily. “If the bird flu cases do not subside in other states, there will be panic here as well and the business will take a hit,” Sourav Mukherjee of the Ranchi poultry farmers’ association said. Meanwhile, a dip in sales was also spotted in Jamshedpur with at least a 60% decline in the sale of broiler chicken in the last three days. “In the picnic season, chicken is the most sought after meat and we do a good business during this period, but the flu scare has spoilt our business,” said Rajesh Parmanik, who owns a chicken shop at the Kadma market. Another retailer, Amit Mahato said, “Eight months ago, Covid-19 had impacted our sales and now it is bird flu.” Wholesale trader, Mohamed Arshad, said, “There’s a possibility that demand for chicken will further decline in the next few days.” Currently, retail broiler chicken is being sold at Rs 100 to Rs 110 per kg, but the cost per kg is likely to touch Rs 70 in the next few days, said traders. East Singhbhum district animal husbandry official S K Sinha said they are awaiting reports of the death of four crows from the virology laboratory in Bhopal to confirm the cause. “In about four days, we will get the report from Bhopal,” Sinha said. Sinha also said surveillance has been increased at the borders of the district that connects Odisha and West Bengal for necessary medical examination of broiler chickens that come in from the neighbouring states. The state functionary of the Ornithology Society of India, K K Sharma, urged denizens not to panic. “Precaution is the best way to keep away from bird flu,” said Sharma. Meanwhile, in Bokaro too, sales of chickens dipped. Chicken seller Imtiaz said, “The sales have decreased in the past few days and we fear further losses.” Bokaro district animal husbandry officer Manoj Mani said though they are receiving random calls from the public about spotting dead birds, they have got no confirmed case of the flu so far. “We are on high alert,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bird-flu-scare-buyers-shun-poultry-chicken-despite-price-going-down-to-rs120/kg-in-a-week/articleshow/80203189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Cong to hold mega rallies on Jan 15 against farm laws||Ranchi: Congress, a part of the ruling disposition, will once again hit the streets against the new farm laws implemented by the Centre as a part of its move to counter BJP’s ongoing stirs against the alleged law and order problems in Jharkhand. Mega rallies and demonstrations will be held in Ranchi on January 15, informed Congress leaders. For the last one week after a female was beheaded in Ranchi’s Ormanjhi, BJP upped its ante against the state government by holding demonstrations and protests at different places in Ranchi and elsewhere across different districts almost daily. Even on Sunday, BJP’s leader of legislative party Babulal Marandi addressed a sit-in organised by the party’s Ranchi unit outside Raj Bhavan while on Saturday, former chief minister Raghubar Das led the charge against the incumbent government by demanding a CBI probe into the Ormanjhi incident. To counter the saffron camp’s growing tempo, the state unit of Congress said it will hold rallies against the new farm laws and uncontrolled rise of petrol and diesel prices in the last one month. State Congress president and state finance minister Rameshwar Oraon said, “To begin with, the party has decided to organise a massive protest in Ranchi on January 15.” Snubbing the Union government, party spokesperson Alok Dubey said, “Hundreds of farmers are on a warpath at the Delhi border for the last 40 days even amid a biting cold to fight for existence, but the Modi-government is unconcerned. All that the government is doing is duping the country in the name of negotiations with the protesting farmers. Even after seven rounds of talks, nothing has come out. We support farmers’ demand to repeal the new laws. Government must listen to our farmers to save corporatisation of farm lands,” he said. Lal Kishorenath Shahdeo, another spokesperson of the party, said Congress has started preparations for the January 15 stir. “All lawmakers and senior party workers will be present in Ranchi to stage protests in favour of repealing the farm laws. We had been fighting for our farmers for a long time,” he said, boasting how the state government on the contrary introduced farm loan waivers to help scores of farmers, many of whom are hit by the pandemic. The Grand Old Party has also decided to resume its membership drive from January 12, which was suspended in March last year after the outbreak of the pandemic. Dubey said, “This year, we have set a target of 15 lakh new members.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-to-hold-mega-rallies-on-jan-15-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80203558.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||State races ahead to keep vax date||Ranchi: The state health department stepped up its preparedness for the Covid-19 vaccination after the Union government announced its formal rollout from January 16. On Sunday, several trucks carrying fresh stock of walking coolers and ice-lined refrigerators arrived at the RCH campus at Namkum, said officials. Officials of the state wing of the National Health Mission (NHM) said the training session for AEFI management, transportation facilities, storage and proper handling of the vaccines are being done on a regular basis. The health department has also organised several training sessions for its staff in accordance with the Union government’s guidelines for the Covid-19 vaccine. State health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “Our experts, including doctors from medical colleges, officials from various cells from NHM and district officials have been provided technical training in the last week as per SOPs of the Union government. Senior officials have been asked to disseminate the same to people who will be engaged in vaccination drives at the district and block levels to ensure proper implementation.” For a safe vaccination drive, the state head of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Program Dr Praveen Karn said that there are three important parts and that includes proper transportation, storage and administration of the drug. “In case of Covid-19 vaccines, it will be done without any kind of breach in continuity of temperature. That means the vaccine has to be kept in desired temperature from the time it is manufactured till it is administered to the beneficiary in a session site,” he said. On their preparations for storage and transportation of vaccines from the state to the block level, he said, “We already have infrastructure for storing vaccines at our zonal vaccine storage centres across the state which are capable of distributing it to each and every district. We have ensured that cold chain points are working at all districts and walking coolers as well as ice lined refrigerators are being arranged at all centres which need to store the vaccines.” He added that they have also been trained on the procedure of mobility and handling of the vaccines by a technical committee of the Union health ministry and the same is being passed on to junior officials at the district and block levels. On being asked whether the healthcare staff are nervous about the process and the vaccines with the hype and curiosity about it, Dr Ajit Prasad, nodal and head of reproductive and child health program at the state NHM said, “People are curious and we have been a part of Universal Immunization Programme and have been administering lakhs of vaccines every year so healthcare staff are all ready to handle the challenges and are being trained as per the SOPs too.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/state-races-ahead-to-keep-vax-date/articleshow/80203574.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Rural students suffered due to poor net connectivity: Jharkhand Governor||Dumka: Governor Droupadi Murmu on Sunday congratulated the faculty members of Sido Kanhu Murmu University (SKMU) here for their continued efforts in imparting quality education to the students despite going through a pandemic. Addressing the varisty’s 30th foundation day online from Ranchi, Murmu said, “Students across the world suffered a lot due to the ongoing pandemic and yet, the SKMU teachers, under the guidance of vice chancellor (VC) Sona Jharia Minj, continued with their work and as a chancellor of the university, that gives me immense pride.” She, however, acknowledged that owing to poor or lack of internet connectivity in rural pockets, many students suffered a lot as they could not attend online classes. She added that the the state has great expectations from the university as it has been named after freedom fighters Sido and Kanho. She urged the faculty members and other SKMU stakeholders to reflect on their respective contribution towards the betterment of the institute since its establishment and asked them to prepare a road map for the future course of action regarding improving the university’s standard. VC Minj said that several plans are being worked out in this connection. “I am hopeful that all those plans will materialise soon with the support of all our stakeholders,” she added. Meanwhile, students from different colleges performed at the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rural-students-suffered-due-to-poor-net-connectivity-jharkhand-governor/articleshow/80203537.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Chatra gang-rape survivor to get Rs 2L||Chatra: The 50-year-old widow, who was gang raped by three men on Thursday night at Kobna village in Huntergunj block of the district, will receive Rs 2 lakh as compensation, deputy commissioner Divyanshu Jha said on Sunday. “We are also taking care of her security and the block development officer of Huntergunj has been asked to take care of her family and provide them with whatever help they need,” Jha said. The woman is currently undergoing treatment at Chatra sadar hospital after the trio inserted a steel tumbler in her private parts. “Her entire treatment cost is being borne by the state government,” Jha said. The doctors, who are examining her every two hours, said due to excessive bleeding she is feeling weak. “She is complaining of dizziness and stomach pain. It will take another five to six days for her to recover,” a doctor said. Meanwhile, police said they will soon file a chargesheet for the speedy trial of the two accused who have been arrested till now. Meanwhile, Chatra MP Sunil Singh met Jha in his office in the afternoon to take stock of the situation and demanded speedy trial of the case. In her statement to the police, the woman said she was raped for demanding compensation for her goat which was hit by one of accused’s bike on Thursday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-gang-rape-survivor-to-get-rs-2l/articleshow/80203463.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||145 fresh Cov cases, 2 deaths in Jharkhand||Ranchi: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases dipped after a spike for the last three days on Sunday as 145 fresh cases and 169 recoveries were reported from the state on Saturday. Meanwhile, two casualties, one each from Dhanbad and Palamu, were reported on Sunday. The number of active cases in Jharkhand was 1,468. Even as the difference between fresh infections and recoveries narrowed on Sunday, the state capital of Ranchi continued to report the highest number of cases at 86 followed by East Singhbhum with 23 cases. Apart from these two, none of the districts reported figures in double digits. As many as 14 districts reported fresh infections in single digits on Sunday, while eight, including Chatra, Godda, Hazaribag, Khunti, Lohardaga, Pakur, Sahibganj and Seraikela, reported zero cases. As per government data, as many as 1,16,817 people have been infected by the virus till date and 1,14,302 have recovered, taking the recovery rate up at 97.84%. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.14% against the national average of 0.15%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 500.05 days against the national figure of 458.34 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/145-fresh-cov-cases-2-deaths-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80203641.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Leopard falls in trap set for wild boars in Giridih, dies||Bokaro: A leopard died after it fell on a trap of iron wires laid by villagers to catch wild boars at Bhimtari village under Gawan Block of Giridih on Sunday morning. Divisional forest officer (DFO), eastern circle, Prabesh Aggarwal said a person has been arrested in connection with the incident. The leopard had come to the river at night when it fell into the trap. However, it died because of the delay in rescuing on the part of the forest department. Villagers informed Gawan forest ranger Anil Kumar in the morning, but the rescue operation was not conducted on time, which lead to its death. The DFO said the leopard had reportedly died of suffocation after it was stuck in between the iron wires. The forest department said it was planning to rescue the leopard and set it free in the jungle and the process to arrange a cage was initiated, but before that could happen, the animal died. Aggarwal said, “The exact cause of death can be ascertained after receiving the autopsy report. We are trying to identify the people who had set up the trap.” Around two-and-a-half-month ago, a solitary male tusker had died in the same area after falling into a trap set up to catch pigs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/leopard-falls-in-trap-set-for-wild-boars-in-giridih-dies/articleshow/80203285.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||30 pigeons, three peacocks found dead||Vadodara: As many as 30 pigeons were found dead in Karjan taluka while three peacocks died a private township in the city on Sunday. The sprawling township located on the northern end of the city is home to several peacocks and other bird species. “There were no injury marks on the peacocks that were found dead in different locations in the township. We will send their samples to a veterinary doctor on Monday for post-mortem following which we will be able to confirm if they died of bird flu,” said Nidhi Dave, range forest officer (RFO), Vadodara. A village in Karjan taluka too witnessed the death of over 30 pigeons on Sunday morning. “We got a call from Kiya village that several pigeons were lying dead in the fields. Our teams reached there and collected the bodies that will now be sent for the post-mortem,” said Jayesh Rathod, range forest officer, Karjan. Two days ago, about 30 crows were found dead in Vasantpur village of Savli taluka. Locals had said that the crows started falling down from the trees and died instantly. The forest officials reached the spot and began investigations into the deaths. Locals panicked due to the bird flu that is causing death of birds across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/30-pigeons-three-peacocks-found-dead/articleshow/80202121.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Ranchi||Govt asks forest dept to remain vigilant, look for any dead birds around wetlands||Ranchi: With avian influenza being detected in seven states, the Jharkhand government has asked its forest department to remain vigilant in and around the state's prominent water bodies. Principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) Rajiv Ranjan said, "Our guards and officers have been directed to remain alert and look for any dead bird around the wetlands. They have been instructed to dispose of any dead bird by following the laid down protocols to prevent contamination among other species." While cases of avian influenza have been detected in Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, Jharkhand has not reported any. Forest officials of the state said bird flu can be spread by migratory birds arrive at various wetlands of Jharkhand during winter. As many as 25 prominent wetlands host nearly 50,000 migratory birds each year. Most of these areas are prominent tourist destinations and draw thousands of picnickers during the winter season, which increases the risk of transmission to humans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/govt-asks-forest-dept-to-remain-vigilant-look-for-any-dead-birds-around-wetlands/articleshow/80203585.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 11, 2021||Business||After months, job demand under MGNREGS on the upswing again||NEW DELHI: MGNREGS in December generated three crore more persondays than in November 2020, putting the job scheme back on an upward graph after few months of relatively stable numbers and suggesting that it may once again test the government with the demand. The flagship scheme widely credited with rescuing the rural poor during the massive job loss in the pandemic year notched 25.1 crore persondays in December as against around 22.2 crore in November. The spike in the last month of 2020 is significant because the job scheme appeared to be defying the trends of past decade when November marked a dip in work done from earlier months. It was in sharp contrast to earlier years when work has shown to peak till May before starting to fall till October and then reviving again in November, with the rise lasting till March. The annual post-October spike is because of the end of farm season which diverts job hands from fields to MGNREGS work sites. The December results appear to suggest that post-farm season has set in MGNREGS, albeit a month later, sending the rural poor back to the job scheme in search of work. The fall in work done in November 2020, against the historical trend of expected rise, led many to wonder if the job scheme had the further capacity for upward movement after touching record highs over previous years during the pandemic. Contrary to past, there was hardly any fall in work generation during the August-October phase. Even when the work generated dipped from 26.2 crore persondays in October to 22.2 crore in November, it was 5.2 crore persondays higher than what was logged in November 2019. The Union rural development ministry believes that the sharp dip in work has been on account of the return of migrant workers back to cities after the reverse migration post-lockdown. That the agriculture season is over and workers are back to MGNREGS — as evidenced from December numbers — would be watched for its intensity in the first months of 2021. If January too shows a spike, and that too a sharp one, then the government and the budget may be in for a testing time. As per figures, 1.9 crore households were provided work during December while the number was 1.8 crore households in November. In contrast, as many as 2.6 crore households sought work in December as against 2.3 crore households in November — the figures showing a conclusive trend towards greater demand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/after-months-job-demand-under-mgnregs-on-the-upswing-again/articleshow/80205548.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 11, 2021||India||India’s daily Covid toll dips below 200 after 227 days||India recorded 161 deaths from Covid-19 on Sunday, the first time in nearly seven-and-a-half months (227 days) that the daily toll from the pandemic had fallen below 200, even as fatalities during the week declined by 14% as compared with the previous seven days. The last time the countrywide daily death toll was recorded below 200 was on May 28 last year. Fatalities reported on Sunday were the lowest since 151 deaths officially recorded on May 25. Fresh Covid cases too dipped on Sunday, when just 16,513 infections were detected in the country, as compared with more than 18,000 on each of the last three days. New cases of the virus continued to decline in the country for the ninth straight week. However, the fall appears to be slowing down both in numbers and percentages. India reported 126,043 fresh cases in the current week (January 4-10), some 6,700 less than the count in the previous week translating to a 5% drop in cases week on week. This was the narrowest decline in cases in six weeks. By comparison, the previous week (December 28-January 3) had seen a 13% fall, with fresh cases nearly 20,000 less than in the week before. The weekly death toll, however, fell 14% with 1,509 fatalities reported in the last seven days, some 240 less than the previous week's count of 1,748. The sharp drop in deaths on Sunday was mainly on account of Maharashtra reporting 34 fatalities, down from 57 recorded in the state on the previous day. Southern states such as Karnataka (2), Andhra Pradesh (1), Tamil Nadu (7) and Telangana (2) reported daily tolls in single digits on Sunday, with only Kerala continuing to report a high number of deaths at 23. There were 19 deaths in Bengal and 13 in Uttar Pradesh. For the first time in over seven months, Bengaluru reported zero deaths due to Covid-19 on Sunday. The last time the city had reported nil deaths was on June 7. Only Mysuru and Tumakuru among the state’s 30 districts reported a death each. Delhi reported 399 new cases of the virus, lower than the count in Mumbai (657). However, Mumbai reported five fatalities as compared with 12 in the national capital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/indias-daily-covid-toll-dips-below-200-after-227-days/articleshow/80205560.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||Mining dept clerk caught with Rs 5 lakh||Vadodara: After anti-corruption bureau sleuths caught a clerk of mines and minerals department in Godhra on on Godhra-Ahmedabad highway carrying Rs 5.1 lakh unexplained cash, he was booked on Sunday for the crime. According to ACB officials, accused Shailesh Patel was nabbed after ACB was tipped off that a government official was on his way to Gandhinagar in a private car with bribe money. Patel was stopped while crossing the toll plaza at Vavdi Buzarg outside Godhra, and his car was searched. Cops also found a revolver from his car along with the bag of cash. Patel told the cops that he had revolver’s licence, but did not reveal the source of the cash. “We questioned him for more than two days, but maintained a stiff upperlip on the money. Since prima facie it seemed that the cash was received through illegal means, an offence was registered,” said an ACB official. ACB has also announced that if any person had given Patel the cash amount in the last seven days, they should inform the agency and file a complaint against Patel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/mining-dept-clerk-caught-with-rs-5-lakh/articleshow/80202141.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Bengaluru||From masks to colours, mothers make it all better||BENGALURU: Shirley Nesamani designs masks for children, who want their favourite character on almost everything. The Indiranagar resident came up with the idea after her four-year-old son, Ethan, made a specific request: a fire truck-themed mask. She couldn’t find one in stores, so she created it herself. A number of parents are developing products and services for kids, deriving inspiration from personal experience and the amusing demands of fussy tykes. Safety and suitability are among their primary concerns. “You get many types of masks in the market, but finding the right fit for your little one can be a task sometimes. Plus, children have unique tastes and preferences, and may not always like something that’s widely available,” says Shirley. “After my son’s request, I thought about creating more options and gave it a try.” She posted a picture of Ethan trying out his new mask in WhatsApp and got enquiries from friends and relatives. “I started getting orders from my friends. On their prodding, I put a picture of my designs on Instagram and my work started travelling outside my circle,” says Shirley, who has a degree in computer application. “Good things usually gain acceptance.” Shirley, who promotes her work on the Instagram handle @yaazh.masque, uses pure cotton and soft silk with felt cutouts, khadi cotton and lace to make face coverings. She gets ideas from her son and kids’ channels. During Christmas, she received orders for themed masks with wishes embroidered on them. “The designs have become so popular that many people now order theme-based masks in bulk for their children’s birthday parties,” she adds. Karen Saldanha and Neha Bajaj are founders of Dabble Playart, which makes toxin-free crayons and finger paint. They had faced difficulty in finding safe art materials for their children and this gave them the idea of starting the venture in March 2019. Their training in expressive arts helped them envision a product range that could appeal to parents who wanted to minimise their toddlers’ exposure to chemicals. They believe art can serve as a channel to communicate with children and help decipher their emotions. Dabble was incubated at NSRCEL, IIM Bangalore, and it won an award from the IT&BT department within a year of formation. What began as a two-member startup has grown into a circle of mothers. Most of them were its early customers. Shital Joshi worked as a cabin crew member on Air India’s international flights for more than 10 years. She quit the job to see the world through the eyes of her two kids. “I didn’t want a full-time gig, so I joined Dabble as a digital marketing trainee. As a mother of two, I love toxin-free products. When mothers cook up a recipe, it is always going to be special,” she says. Nithya Sekar is the firm’s operations manager and also handles product research. “I love developing new products. Neha, who is my neighbour, introduced art materials to my children, who instantly liked them. I asked Neha if I could be a part of her team and she agreed,” says Nithya. Debashree Pal is an architect and designer with a degree in sustainability. She runs a studio with her husband and teaches part-time at an architecture college. She also supports Dabble’s marketing initiatives. “I was concerned about my child’s exposure to chemicals, so I avoided many products. Later, I learned about safer options and started supporting the firm,” she says. Anuja Gupta, Davneva Phira and Nithya David run Hullabaloo BLR, an online platform that curates activities for children, from painting, storytelling with props, craft and dancing to origami and STEM-based engagements. The three met at a playschool and bonded over a search for creative and informational sessions for their children, who are aged below 4. Most of the programmes were designed for older kids, so Anuja framed the idea of Hullabaloo, where professionals and experts could conduct workshops. “As mothers from nuclear families, we were always looking for events for our kids, something they could enjoy with other toddlers. Different activities can help them find their passion later on,” says Anuja, a spatial designer. Nithya, an advertising and recruitment professional, also believes varied experiences in the early age can contribute to all-round development. Hullabaloo was launched in January 2020. “It was not meant to be an online platform, but the pandemic affected our plans. We adapted as parents and entrepreneurs,” says Davneva, a marketing professional. The team conducted surveys to test the concept. “We spoke to many parents on how they wanted to engage kids. We connected with artists, educators and other professionals, building a community,” says Anuja. Over 70 sessions have been held on the platform. Hullabaloo has also started webinars for parents. “As a company, we kept in mind other entrepreneurs and their struggles, and we want to support them. This is why we tie up with partners every month,” says Nithya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/from-masks-to-colours-mothers-make-it-all-better/articleshow/80205537.cms||Harigovind
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Delhi vaccination will start with 89 booths at govt & private hospitals||NEW DELHI: Vaccination against Covid-19 will start in the capital on January 16 at only 89 booths located in 40 government and 49 private hospitals. Among the 51 lakh shortlisted people, healthcare workers will be the first to get the shots. Among the government hospitals where the first booths have been set up are AIIMS, Safdarjung, Lok Nayak and Hindu Rao, and among the private ones are Max, Fortis, Apollo and Sir Ganga Ram. The dry run conducted on Friday had involved 150 booths and officials say the plan is to eventually have around 1,000 vaccination points sacross the capital. The reason behind starting the drive vaccination at a limited number of booths is to ensure that the government is able to effectively handle adverse situations, if any are reported, post vaccination. Robust storage system in place for Covid-19 vaccines, says JainThe authorities have enrolled all health workers of the capital from the government and private sectors, about 2.25 lakh in all, for receiving the inoculation. The Delhi government will supply the vaccines to all centres and the shots will be given for free to the targeted population of 51 lakh. “For the first phase of vaccination, the Delhi government has finalised 89 hospitals. Along with 2,25,000 healthcare workers who will get the shots, Delhi government will also include teachers who have worked as frontline workers during the Covid pandemic,” said health minister Satyendar Jain, adding that the vaccines will start arriving between January 12 and 14. The health minister said Delhi government has prepared a robust storage system for the vaccines. At the Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital, one of the largest Delhi government hospitals at in Dilshad Garden in northeast Delhi, the vaccination storage is located in an area spread over 4,700 square feet and is divided into eight large rooms, where all the work related to laying the cold storage infrastructure was completed last week with the installation of all equipment required to ensure optimum safety of the vaccines. It has already been handed over to the health and family welfare department. The Delhi government has earmarked an additional vaccine storage facility in Civil Lines, but officials handling the vaccination exercise said the RGSSH facility was adequate for the number of vaccines required in the capital. The Civil Lines facility will not be required, they said. The vaccines will be transported to 603 cold chain points created across 11 districts in special vans. From the cold chain points, the vaccines will be taken to the vaccination booths in vaccine carriers. “The central government has finalised around 5,000 sites across the country. As per the Centre’s instructions, Delhi government has prepared these 89 sites. At every centre, there will be eight-nine handling the drive,” Jain said. “The whole system is ready, and we are fully prepared to start the drive. Right now, we are only waiting for the arrival of the vaccines. As soon as these arrive, the drive will start,” said Jain. After a few days, the number of booths will be increased and frontline workers and people above 50 (part of 51 lakh targeted population in phase one) will also start receiving Covid shots. Before the vaccination drive starts, one more dry run is likely to be conducted. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has requested the central government to provide free vaccines to everyone in the city. Watch Delhi: Covid-19 vaccination will start with 89 booths at govt & private hospitals on Jan 16||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-vaccination-will-start-with-89-booths-at-govt-private-hospitals/articleshow/80205572.cms||Alok K N Mishra
January 11, 2021||Delhi||Basement of mall in Dwarka collapses, 1 dead||DELHI: A daily-wage worker was killed after a portion of an under-construction basement of a shopping mall in Dwarka Sector 12 collapsed at 5.30pm on Sunday. A group of labourers, who were working with Shek Angar (34), said he was trapped under the debris. A team of firefighters, police and Delhi Disaster Management Authority swung into action and pulled Angar out after a struggle of more than an hour. He was sent to hospital where he was declared dead. His body was sent for autopsy. A case has been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/basement-of-mall-in-dwarka-collapses-1-dead/articleshow/80205576.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||Vid sees 21 Covid deaths in a day, highest in 30 days||Nagpur: Daily Covid casualties had come down for almost a month, which was a relieving factor. But, the number of casualties has seen constant rise since the beginning of year 2021. On January 10, total 21 deaths were reported in Vidarbha, highest in the last 30 days. Deaths were reported from Nagpur 9, Bhandara 4, Wardha 3, Yavatmal 3, Akola 1, and Amravati 1. Thus Vidarbha’s Covid toll has reached 6,716 on Sunday. Day’s 845 new cases came from Nagpur 431, Yavatmal 74, Bhandara 64, Amravati 58, Wardha 48, Akola 48, Buldhana 44, Chandrapur 31, Gondia 17, Washim 16, Gadchiroli 14, which took the total Covid-19 cases in the region to 2,60,218. Total 814 patients recovered in the day on Sunday. The recoveries are Nagpur 419, Bhandara 91, Amravati 48, Yavatmal 48, Buldhana 46, Wardha 44, Gadchiroli 42, Gondia 25, Chandrapur 23, Akola 19, and Washim 9. Now, total 2,45,631 patients have recovered. This means, the recovery rate of the region is 94.39%. However, it’s still less than the state and national average. Wardha: The district recorded three more deaths due to coronavirus on Sunday, taking the toll to 283. Also, 48 new patients were detected in the day and 44 discharged. The caseload thus increased to 9,517 and recoveries to 8,866. Sunday’s Covid casualties include two from Wardha tehsil (80 and 4-year-old) and a 57-year-old man from Hinganghat. Of the 537 test reports received in the day, 48 were positive for Covid infection. These include Wardha 37, Hinganghat 9, Selu and Deoli 1 each. As on date, 368 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Death of a 67-year-old male from Vilasnagar locality here took the toll to 402, even as 58 new patients took the caseload to 20,331 on Sunday. Forty-eight patients got discharge today that took the total number of recoveries to 19,598 for a rate of 96.39%. As on January 10, 331 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: The district reported three Covid deaths on Sunday — a 58-year-old man from the city and 60 & 73 year old men from Pandharkawda. The district’s Covid toll has gone up to 413. Total 480 reports were received on Sunday of which 74 were found positive. Currently, 449 patients are under treatment in the district. Out of total 13,201 patients treated so far in the district, 12,342, including today’s 48, have recovered. Chandrapur: No Covid death was witnessed in the district on Sunday, thus keeping the toll at 377. While 31 new patients were detected in the day, 23 were discharged. Cumulative Covid patient count has now climbed to 22,683, while total recoveries stand at 21,959. There are now 377 patients under treatment. Akola: The district received 521 reports of RT-PCR tests and 48 reports of Rapid Antigen Tests in last 24 hours. Out of them, 48 tested positive. On the other hand, 19 patients recovered. Now, the district has 10,914 total cases, 9,973 recoveries, and 324 deaths due to Covid-19. Total 617 patients are under treatment. Bhandara: The district reported 64 new cases, 91 recoveries and four deaths in the last 2 days. Now, Bhandara has 12,773 total cases, 12,057 recoveries and 305 deaths. The number of deaths had come down in the last week of December after a mega plasma donation camp was held in Bhandara. However, thereafter, 14 deaths have been reported in the district in the first 10 days of January. Still, 411 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 17 new cases while 25 patients recovered on Sunday. No death was reported. Total caseload of Gondia is 13,891, including 13,454 recoveries and 179 deaths. Now, 258 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: Sunday witnessed 14 new cases and 42 recoveries in the district. Total cases reached 9,177, while recoveries climbed to 8,957. Recovery rate of Gadchiroli is 98%, which is highest in Vidarbha. No death was reported on Sunday, keeping the total casualties at 104. The district has 116 patients under treatment, second lowest after Washim. Washim: The district reported 11 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday and 9 recoveries. No death was reported. Now, Washim has 6,772 total cases, lowest in Vidarbha. Death toll is 151. Total 6,514 patients have recovered in the district, for 95%-plus recovery rate. The district has only 106 patients under treatment, which is once again, lowest in the region. Buldhana: Out of more than 450 reports received in the last 24 hours, the district saw 44 positive cases and 46 recoveries on Sunday. Now, the district has 12,958 total cases, 12,486 recoveries and 157 deaths. Buldhana is one of the districts in Vidarbha having lowest death rate despite reporting over 12,000 Covid-19 cases. Total 315 patients are under treatment here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vid-sees-21-covid-deaths-in-a-day-highest-in-30-days/articleshow/80203559.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 11, 2021||Vadodara||Railways starts inspection of 50km line to Kevadiya||Vadodara: Inspection of the railway line connecting Vishwamitri railway station to Chandod section of Vadodara railway division began on Saturday. Commissioner of railway safety (western circle) R K Sharma on Saturday began the inspection of the nearly 50km long railway line. Sharma carried out trolley inspection of speed rising and electrification work from Vishwamitri railway station to Dabhoi till Saturday evening. He was expected to carry out further inspection till Chandod later. After the trolley inspection till Chandod, train speed trials at the speed of 10 per hour through electric engine will be done on Chandod-Dabhoi-Vishwamitri section. The section has undergone inspection last month as well. The 18.66 km long Dabhoi to Chandod section is newly converted into broad gauge tracks.The entire project is part of the plan to provide rail connectivity from Vadodara to Statue of Unity (SoU) up to Kevadiya railway station, which is located at a distance of around five km from SoU. The foundation stone for Kevadiya railway station was laid in December 2018 by President Ram Nath Kovind. Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani has already announced that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually inaugurate Kevadiya railway station on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/railways-starts-inspection-of-50km-line-to-kevadiya/articleshow/80202152.cms||---
January 11, 2021||Nagpur||High drama over felling of full-grown trees near Bapu Kuti||Nagpur: The truce between Wardha Vruksha Bachao Samiti (WVBS) and the public works department was broken after two months when a JCB machine was deployed by the contractor to fell over 30 years old neem and shirish trees near Bapu Kuti on Wardha-Sevagram road on Sunday.The WVBS alleged the trees were felled at the behest of former sarpanch of Sevagram Vijay Aaglawe. Also, video clips of Aaglawe engaged in a wordy duel with the samiti members went viral on social media. Aaglawe was unavailable for comments.There are at least 1,500 big trees in the 12km stretch between Dattapur and Sevagram. Of these, PWD plans to fell 200 trees and 78 trees have already been felled. Most of these trees were planted during the freedom struggle when Mahatma Gandhi stayed in the Bapu Kuti.“Two days ago, the former sarpanch had dropped a hint that trees on the said road will be felled and it came to be true when the contractor felled two big trees,” said WVBS member and ecologist Alok Bang.High drama prevailed as there were heated arguments between the ex-sarpanch and green activists. On Sunday, many youths, including teachers and students, staged protests and sat on a dharna near the felled trees. The protesters included Adwait Deshpande, Shuchi Sinha, Praful Nagose, Prashant Nagose, Manoj Bhoyar and several others.The green activists called PWD superintending engineer Sushma Sakharwade, who asked her deputy Mahesh Mathurkar to lodge an FIR about the tree felling. Sevagram police formally registered FIR against an unidentified person, despite knowing well who felled the trees, said the activists.“We lodged a complaint with the police, but they refused to register our FIR saying two FIRs cannot be lodged for the same offence. The cops also asked us to call off the protest as model code of conduct was in force for gram panchayat elections,” said Bang.Pedagogist Suchi Sinha says, “The claim of felling 200 trees is an eyewash. During an extensive tree survey conducted by WVBS on the 12km stretch for the road widening, we documented 1,220 trees. Of these, 168 trees have suffered critical root damage, 154 trees had to endure regular cutting of branches due to unplanned development, 60 trees stand completely dried, presumably due to trauma suffered during or after the construction of the road. In the case of 327 trees, digging was done by machines within the critical root zone, severely impacting its survival and 189 trees have been harmed due to lack of precaution.”WILL PWD PROTECT MAHATMA’S LEGACY?PWD is implementing road-widening project between Wardha-Sevagram-Samudrapur-Girad-Umred (SH-326) up to Shedgaon, including Hamdapur junction to Wardha-Hinganghat (SH-328), and improvement of roads connecting tourist destination Bordharan under hybrid annuity mode State’s high-powered committee headed by Ulhas Debadwar, PWD principal secretary, during a site visit on September 20, agreed to suggestions by WVBS to save trees on 12km Wardha-Sevagram roadThe committee has not yet come out with a concrete plan to save trees, which are clandestinely being felledMost of the trees planted during the freedom struggle when Mahatma Gandhi stayed in Bapu Kuti at Sevagram face the axe||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/high-drama-over-felling-of-full-grown-trees-near-bapu-kuti/articleshow/80203551.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
