January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Yuvaraj factor may have tilted scales in BS Yediyurappa’s favour||BENGALURU: Netas, including a few well-known faces in the state BJP, are a worried lot after the arrest of conman and power broker Sevalal Swamy alias Yuvaraj. There is speculation this helped chief minister BS Yediyurappa in his talks with the central leadership about getting permission for cabinet expansion. According to several senior BJP functionaries in the state, Yuvaraj has been a noted power broker in BJP circles for the past 12-13 years and was hobnobbing with many senior party leaders and present cabinet ministers. His pictures with the chief minister, ministers and BJP MLAs posing for photographs with Yuvaraj had gone viral. Yediyurappa had issued a clarification, saying merely posing for pictures was not a crime and an investigation is going on against Yuvaraj and the truth will come out soon. On Sunday, when Yediyurappa went to Delhi, sources close to the CM camp claimed the Yuvaraj case figured in discussions with the central leadership. “The leadership was in fact very unhappy and expressed concern in no uncertain terms that names of state leaders and those of the national BJP used by the conman may create a lot of embarrassment,” said a BJP member. It’s said the central leadership directed Yediyurappa to clean up the mess created by the state BJP unit and ensure their image remains untarnished. The scandal has supposedly given an upper hand to the CM as it discredits the opposing camp in the state and gives much-needed stability for his continuance, at least for now. According to a BJP legislator, Yuvaraj had brokered deals and siphoned off money from ministerial aspirants. Yet another legislator, once a confidant of Yediyurappa, said Yuvaraj had even tried to reach out to the Delhi brass in certain power-brokering deals but failed to get an audience. According to BJP sources, the names of key political leaders from the state and central BJP units have cropped up in the FIR filed by complainants alleging the conman had used their names to convince people of his ability to get the job done.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/yuvaraj-factor-may-have-tilted-scales-in-bsys-favour/articleshow/80220108.cms||Sandeep Moudgal
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Lingayats divided over seeking 2A category for Panchamasalis||BENGALURU: The Lingayat community is divided over the demand that the Panchamasali subsect be included in the 2A category of backward classes. The concern is that this could affect unity in the community at a time when they are looking to revive the movement to achieve the minority religion tag. Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami, pontiff of Kudalasangama Panchamasali Peeta, announced that he would lead a padayatra (walkathon) from Kudalasangama to Bengaluru on Thursday (January 14), demanding 2A category that provides 15% reservation in education and jobs. Panchamasali is now categorised under 3B, which provides 5% reservation. “Tuesday is the final deadline for the state government to announce 2A category status for Panchamasalis. Minister CC Patil (who is also a Panchamasali) has called a meeting, where we expect a definite statement, failing which we will take out a padayatra,” said Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami. Among some 102 subcastes of the Lingayat-Veerashaiva community, Panchamasali accounts for an estimated 70% of the population. Its presence along with other subsects had powered the separate Lingayat religion movement that peaked ahead of the 2018 assembly polls and faded thereafter. Now that the movement is being revived, community leaders fear the Panchamasali’s demand for 2A category status may prove to be a deterrent. “It is not the time to think about the benefits for individual subsects. We should stand united to achieve the minority religion status for the entire Lingayat-Veerashaiva community, which is in larger interest. We urge Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami to back out from the 2A category demand and drop the padayatra,” said Mate Gangadevi, pontiff of Kudalasangama Basava Dharma Peeta. A community with a minority religion tag is allowed to set up its own educational institutions, where students from the community are entitled to 50% reservation. There will be no government interference in the institutions and trusts of the community and entrepreneurs will be eligible for special subsidies and economic sops. In fact, there is a difference of opinion even among Panchamasali leaders over the issue. Many think that the 2A category will not fetch much as the community will have to share the 15% reservation with 150 castes belonging to backward classes. “Let us not narrow down our opportunities. Achieving a separate religion status is the best thing we can do,” said BG Patil, a Panchamasali leader and general secretary of Jagatik Lingayat Mahasabha. However, the likes of Congress MLA Laxmi Hebbalkar beg to differ. “The 2A category demand for Panchamasalis is a separate issue. It will never come in the way of a separate religion movement,” she said. Meanwhile, Veerashaiva leaders, who oppose the separate religion movement, offer a different solution. “Let us try and get the OBC status for the entire Lingayat-Veerashaiva community from the Centre. That will be more beneficial,” said BS Paramashivaiah, chairman of newly formed Karnataka Veerashaiva-Lingayat Development Corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/lingayats-divided-over-seeking-2a-category-for-panchamasalis/articleshow/80220118.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||HC seeks NHAI response on ‘foreign powers’ reference||BENGALURU: The high court has said the National Highways Authority of India’s statement that “the Environmental Protection Act has been passed by the Parliament at the instance of foreign powers” is shocking. The court on Monday directed the NHAI chairman to nominate a senior officer to inquire and come clean on the matter. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a PIL filed by United Conservation Movement and Charitable Trust (Bengaluru), which had challenged the exemption granted by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change on expanding national highways (up to 100km) from the requirement of environmental impact assessment (EIA). In the statement of objections filed by NHAI deputy general manager (technical) RB Pekam, there were references to “foreign powers” behind the Environment Protection Act. The bench pointed out it has been stated that there are many organisations in India such as Amnesty International which are actively involved in challenging government policies/ notifications and are indulging in anti-national activities. The NHAI official said “there are many NGOs receiving money from foreign sources and church funds in contravention of laws”. The official said “it is not known whether the petitioner, being an NGO, is receiving any such funds from abroad in contravention of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act-2010, and whether they are cleared by the ministry of home affairs.” Though counsel urged the court to allow the statement to be withdrawn, the bench declined saying NHAI is an instrument of the central government and a constitutional court like the high court cannot take such things lightly. The petitioner-trust was asked to disclose whether it is receiving any foreign funds. The PIL was initially filed in 2019, challenging the chopping of trees along NH-4A, connecting Khanapur with Londa and passing through Dandeli forest area. But, NHAI cited the EIA exemption granted as per the August 28, 2013 memorandum issued by the environment ministry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-seeks-nhai-response-on-foreign-powers-reference/articleshow/80220123.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Two land at KIA in first flight from SFO, return after 11 hours||BENGALURU: The all-women crew on Air India’s longest direct flight from San Francisco to Bengaluru was welcomed by an elated crowd at Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) in the early hours of Monday. Two passengers who arrived in flight AI 176 in the morning grabbed eyeballs as they returned in the connecting flight — the first linking South India directly to the United States — 11 hours after landing here. The return flight departed at 2.30pm with a different crew and 220 passengers who embarked on a 17-hour direct journey to the US. In the afternoon, KIA’s gate number 44 was buzzing with activity as the excited passengers and crew of the first flight from Bengaluru to San Francisco gathered for a felicitation. Businessmen Karunakar Abbireddy and Gopal Srinivasan boarded the flight to Silicon Valley after attending the event along with other flyers. “Abbireddy had travelled to and fro in first-class. Srinivasan had flown in economy class to Bengaluru and returned in business class on AI 175. These passengers are businessmen who came to Bengaluru for their work and returned to San Francisco after spending 11 hours here,” said an Air India official. The return flight was sent off with much fanfare after a cake-cutting ceremony attended by the four pilots and cabin crew. A total of 220 passengers with 179 in economy class, 33 in business and eight in first-class were part of the Bengaluru flight which also carried garments and computer hardware to the US, officials added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-land-at-kia-in-first-flight-from-sfo-return-after-11-hrs/articleshow/80220137.cms||Petlee Peter
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Courts should act as societal parents to ensure fair trial, says HC||BENGALURU: Courts should act as “societal parents” and ensure fair trial is provided before convicting/sentencing any accused, the high court observed while dealing with an appeal filed by a 22-year-old Bengalurean sentenced to life imprisonment for rape as well as under the Pocso Act. The HC set aside the conviction and remanded the matter back to the trial court as effectively, there was no cross-examination of prosecution witnesses. A direction was issued to the sessions judge to provide an opportunity to the accused to cross-examine all prosecution witnesses and dispose of the matter in three months after providing fair trial. A division bench headed by Justice B Veerappa said it has noticed that in several cases, trial courts close cross-examination of the defence as nil when the accused’s counsel remains absent and proceed to pass the judgment of conviction. “It is against the fundamental rights guaranteed to the accused under Articles 21, 22 and 39A of the Constitution as well as provisions of sections 303 and 304 of CrPC”, the bench said.  In the case on hand, the Banaswadi youth was accused of showering attention on a class 8 girl who was his neighbour during 2016... The prosecution claimed the accused subjected the girl to forcible sexual intercourse several times in her house. When she became pregnant, her parents lodged a police complaint and he was booked for trespass and rape. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/courts-should-act-as-societal-parents-to-ensure-fair-trial-hc/articleshow/80220142.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Family moves SC against quashing of FIR in MK Ganapati case||BENGALURU: The family members of former deputy superintendent of police MK Ganapati moved the Supreme Court, challenging the quashing of the FIR registered by Central Bureau of Investigation in connection with his allged suicide. The high court had quashed the FIR in November 2020. A three-judge bench of the SC on Monday issued notices to the respondents — CBI, Congress minister KJ George and IPS officers AM Prasad (who retired last December) and Pronab Mohanty — and posted the matter to February 15. Seeking the quashing of the FIR, George had approached the HC, claiming he and two other officials were falsely implicated in the case. Ganapati, posted in Mangaluru at that time, was found hanging inside a hotel room on Madikeri on July 7, 2016. Hours earlier, Ganapati had in an interview to a local TV channel, accused George, Prasad and Pronab Mohanty of harassing him. “If something happens to me hereafter, these three should be held responsible,” he had said. Family members of Ganapati told TOI : “The investigating agencies tried to portray Ganapati as a patient of depression and cited that as the reason for his alleged suicide. That’s not right. Ganapati was being treated for memory loss caused due to stress at workplace and he was never depressed. Moreover, Ganapati was portrayed as an officer facing cases. One such case was immediately closed a day after his death and CBI has not mentioned this in its report. We are hopeful of getting justice,” they said. Pavan Chandra Shetty, advocate appearing for the family, said: “The HC relied on the transcript of the interview produced by the petitioner though its video was available. The transcript was not produced along with the petition. Further, the observation that he was suffering from mental disorder had been made the main ground for quashing proceedings.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/family-moves-sc-against-quashing-of-fir-in-ganapati-case/articleshow/80220148.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||Ladakh reopens Pangong for tourists amid China standoff||NEW DELHI: There’s good news for adrenaline junkies and mountain lovers. The Ladakh administration has opened up for tourists the iconic Pangong-Tso lake, about six hours drive in summer from capital Leh and currently one of the main theatres of the military face-off with China. The Ladakh tourism department has started issuing inner line permits online (lahdcpermit.in) from Sunday, even though the drive across the 17,590-ft-high Chang La is risky due to snow and prospect of an avalanche. But visitors will have to be satisfied with a panoramic view of the 135-km-long lake from its western end. And if they are lucky, they can also see Indian patrol boats in action from here and try to figure out the ‘fingers’ -- the spurs on the north bank that are at the centre of the border dispute. “Visitors will be allowed to travel up to Lukung for now,” Leh deputy commissioner Sachin Kumar Vaishya told TOI. The reasons are obvious. Lukung is 138 kms from Leh but the trail beyond this point runs along the lake towards Chushul, from where it traces the LAC (line of actual control) towards Loma, Koyul, and Demchok. These are areas where India has deployed troops, armour, artillery, and air defence units. Pangong-Tso was declared out of bounds for non-locals after the deadly Galwan clashes between the two militaries in May and outsiders were restricted within a 40-km radius of Leh. The decision to reopen Pangong is being interpreted as a tourism offensive against China, which reportedly had continued to allow visitors to its side of the lake. In July, at the height of the stand-off with China, the Army had said it was willing to issue permits for mountaineering expeditions in the Siachen area, another prickly issue for China. The decision to reopen Pangong was taken after L-G R K Mathur’s recent meeting with stakeholders on reviving tourism, the main source of livelihood for a majority of the population. Phunchok, who operates a budget guest house and runs a taxi in Leh, is hoping to reopen Pangong will result in a bumper tourist arrival in the coming summer season beginning April. Leh had nearly 3 lakh visitors in the short summer tourist season in 2018. But tourist arrivals tanked in 2019 due to general polls, Jet Airways filure and bandh in Kashmir following the abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution and splitting of J&K. Covid-19 pandemic completely shut down tourism last year. The Pangong-Chushul-Tsaga-Loma-Nyoma route officially opened up in December 2018 and is considered one of the last bastions of outback travel by thrill-seeking motorists and bikers. Before that, if was an off-and-on affair, with the administration and the security setup giving selective permissions to interested travellers. Pangong too was open in a limited way during the ’80s and the 90’s when tourists were allowed in till Lukung at 5 a.m. and had to check out by 5 pm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ladakh-reopens-pangong-for-tourists-amid-china-standoff/articleshow/80220261.cms||Sanjay Dutta
January 12, 2021||Business||BSES disoms in Delhi pay up after NTPC notice||NEW DELHI: ADAG group discoms in Delhi paid up Rs 400 crore dues and 'resolved' the matter of pending dues with Aravali Power Corporation Private Limited (APCPL), a subsidiary of state-run generation company NTPC, the company said on Monday. Two power distribution companies of the Delhi government and Reliance Infrastructure Ltd -- BRPL and BYPL -- were asked to pay Rs 1,864 crore of overdue electricity payments or face corporate insolvency proceedings, according to payment notices issued earlier this month by NTPC subsidiaries, first reported by TOI on January 7. "BRPL and BYPL have resolved the matter with Aravali Power Corporation Private Limited (APCPL) and have paid Rs 352.27 crore and Rs 47.34 crore, respectively, today, as per the demand,' the BSES spokesperson said. BSES discoms are committed to supplying reliable and uninterrupted power to around 46 lakh consumers in Delhi, he said. The APCPL, a joint venture of state-owned NPTC, Haryana Power Generation Corp Ltd (HPGCL) and Indraprastha Power Generation Corp Ltd (IPGCL), had slapped separate payment notices on BRPL and BYPL for defaulting on payments for the electricity they buy from its Jhajjar plant. It had sought Rs 999 crore from BRPL and another Rs 865 crore from BYPL, according to January 2 notices reviewed by PTI. These dues accumulated for the electricity they bought up to March 2020. The dues after that are not being pressed as the period has been classified as pandemic-hit era. The BRPL and BYPL are power distribution companies and joint ventures between Reliance Infrastructure Limited and Delhi government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bses-disoms-in-delhi-pay-up-after-ntpc-notice/articleshow/80221461.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||India loses stalwart astronomer as S M Chitre passes away||MUMBAI: Eminent astronomer and space scientist, S M Chitre (84), who provided the first commentary during the inauguration of Nehru Planetarium in Worli, on March 3, 1977, passed away on Monday afternoon after a prolonged illness. He died at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital. Nehru Planetarium director, Arvind Paranjpye, recalled Chitre telling him that actor Dilip Kumar had trained him to face the microphone. Chitre gave the commentary to a show called “Tryst With Destiny”. Paranjpye said that Chitre had encouraged setting up a science lab at the planetarium to inspire school students to study science. That Chitre was keen on encouraging students was amply evident from a remark made by a Mumbai University physics student, Ruchira Sawant, who remembered that on August 24, 2015, after a programme at the Nehru Planetarium, he pointed to her and inquired whether she understood what the main speaker had presented about atomic energy. She said she had. “I remember him telling me that young minds should understand what is happening,” Ruchira said, pointing out that he had advised her to “have a conversation with a mind which has something to say”. A graduate from Elphinstone College and Peterhouse College, Cambridge, Chitre played a major role in the development of India’s first space observatory Astrosat, which was launched by ISRO in 2015. Chintamani Pai, part of Mumbai University’s physics department, said: “He inspired us to research cosmic rays flux variation during the annular solar eclipse of 2010.” Chitre was the driving force behind establishing University of Mumbai’s atomic energy department and centre for excellence, located at the Kalina campus. He was a stalwart of the Indian astronomy community, particularly solar physics. A recipient of Padma Bhushan, he retired as a senior professor from TIFR in 2001. He served on the boards of Nehru Centre trust and J N Tata trust for several years. He was a former president of the Astronomical Society of India, and a member of multiple committees in recent decades that shaped India’s science policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-loses-stalwart-astronomer-as-s-m-chitre-passes-away/articleshow/80221530.cms||Srinivas Laxman
January 12, 2021||India||UK judge turns down Mallya's request for cash from sale of French mansion to fund legal fees||LONDON: A UK judge has rejected a request by Vijay Mallya for €136,000 (Rs 1.21 crore), acquired from the sale of his French mansion, to pay for further legal fees in his bankruptcy case as the businessman has not given full and clear disclosure from where his the legal fees may be met. Mallya is seeking €2.8 million (Rs 24 crore) from the realisation of the €2.9million (Rs 25 crore) sale of his mansion -- Le Grand Jardin on the Isle St Marguerite in France -- to pay for his legal fees fighting the banks in the UK and in India. The funds from the sale of the mansion are currently being kept in the UK court funds office whilst Mallya fights a petition brought by the banks to declare him bankrupt. Philip Marshall, Mallya’s barrister, told the High Court on Monday that Mallya had no UK assets from which to meet his ongoing legal expenses apart other than £250,000 (Rs 2.47 crore) in a UK bank account which was subject to a third party debt order and the realisation of the sale of the French estate. “What has happened to all the cars which include Ferraris?” Insolvency and Companies Court Judge Sebastian Prentis asked. “They are subject to controlled goods orders,” said Marshall, adding Mallya had no income as his consultancy work had been terminated. Prentis rejected an urgent application by Mallya – which cost him £48,000 (Rs 47 lakh) in legal fees to bring -- for €136,000 (Rs 1.21 crore) from the UK court funds office, to pay for his next two hearings. Prentis said a decision on £90,000 (Rs 89 lakh) would be made at a hearing on January 22 when his €2.8 million claim would be heard. He granted permission for “Mallya’s reasonable costs of preparation for and attendance at a hearing on Wednesday" when Mallya is seeking permission to appeal certain decisions made to date in the bankruptcy proceedings but said he would not order payment out from the court yet as there was a lack of evidence about Mallya’s financial position and assets. Tony Beswetherick, representing the Indian banks to whom Mallya owes £1.05 billion, demanded scrutiny of the money being sought. “The preservation of assets and preventing dissipation of assets should guide your judgment,” he said. Prentis also ordered Mallya to pay the banks’ legal costs for Monday's hearing. The cases Mallya says he needs cash to pay for his legal fees in India are his legal challenge over the interest accrued on the principal debt and his case in the Supreme Court of India whereby he is offering to pay off his debts using shares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-judge-turns-down-mallyas-request-for-cash-from-sale-of-french-mansion-to-fund-legal-fees/articleshow/80221651.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 12, 2021||India||14yr-old injured in Pak shelling along LoC in Poonch||JAMMU: A 14-year-old boy was injured when Pakistan violated the ceasefire twice along the Line of Control (LoC) in Shahpur sector in J&K’s Poonch district on Monday, police said. The first breach of truce was made around 11.30am with Pakistan resorting to unprovoked firing and heavy mortar shelling along the LoC, targeting forward Indian posts and civilian areas in Shahpur. The Army retaliated effectively and the initial exchange of fire continued till 12.50pm. Around 4pm, Pakistan again violated the ceasefire and took to indiscriminate firing and intense shelling along the LoC. “Jahangir Ahmed, a resident of Shahpur’s Mendhar area, was hit by splinters when a mortar shell exploded near his house. He was hospitalised,” Poonch SSP Ramesh Angral said. The cross-border exchange of fire continued intermittently till the time this report went to press. Earlier in the day, IGP (Jammu Zone) Mukesh Singh visited Mendhar to review the security situation along the LoC after numerous terror hideouts were busted in the area recently. He was accompanied by DIG (Poonch-Rajouri Range) Vivek Gupta and Poonch SSP Ramesh Angral. The trio visited KG Brigade headquarters and interacted with the brigade commander and other officers about the spate in ceasefire violations along the LoC. “Discussions were also held on the terror module of J&K Ghaznavi Force busted in the past few weeks, and guidelines were provided regarding the investigation of the case,” said a source. IGP Singh also inspected the recoveries of arms and ammunition made by security forces in Mendhar and discussed the information revealed by terrorist associates during interrogation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/14yr-old-injured-in-pak-shelling-along-loc-in-poonch/articleshow/80221832.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 12, 2021||India||J&K notifies reservation rules for women, SC/ST DDC chairpersons||SRINAGAR: The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Monday announced rules for reservation of DDC chairpersons’ posts for women, Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe candidates. As per a notification issued by the Department of Rural Development & Panchayati Raj, one-third of total seats will be reserved for women chairpersons. The seat allocation shall be based on a three-point roster system after alphabetically arranging the chairpersons’ names. While the first and second shall be open, the third seat shall be reserved for women. The offices of DDC chairpersons belonging to SC/ST communities shall bear, as nearly as may be, the same proportion to the total number of DDC offices as the population of the community in the Union Territory bears to the total population of the UT by applying the mathematical round-off principle, with the part fraction of 0.5 and above rounded off to 1 and part fraction below 0.5 ignored for each DDC, as per the rules. The number of seats to be reserved for SC/ST chairpersons shall be allotted to different DDCs based on the community’s population in such DDCs in descending order, i.e. among all DDCs in the UT, the DDC having the largest SC population shall be allotted to the SC category while the DDC with the largest ST population will be allotted to the ST category, the notification stated. The State Election Commission will soon issue an order for the reservation of offices of DDC chairpersons in accordance with the aforementioned rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jk-notifies-reservation-rules-for-women-sc/st-ddc-chairpersons/articleshow/80221972.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 12, 2021||India||PAGD constituents finding ways to get rid of each other: JKAP chief||JAMMU: J&K Apni Party (JKAP) president Syed Mohammed Altaf Bukhari said on Monday that following the District Development Council (DDC) elections, constituents of the seven-party Peoples’ Alliance of Gupkar Declaration (PAGD), have been finding ways to get rid of each other. Welcoming new entrants in the party fold at the JKAP office here on Monday, Bukhari said: “PAGD leaders had created a smokescreen for the public to mislead them. They are now exposed.” Former deputy director, Indian System Medicine, Rohit Gupta was among those who joined JKAP on Monday. “They have misled the people and are not being able to fulfil their promises now. To avoid embarrassing situations, they are hiding from the people,” he added. “On the contrary, JKAP had contested elections promising development, restoration of statehood, employment, protection of land and jobs for locals in J&K. We never played divisive politics. We want unity in J&K and brotherhood among communities for a prosperous society,” said Bukhari.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pagd-constituents-finding-ways-to-get-rid-of-each-other-jkap-chief/articleshow/80222142.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 12, 2021||India||Have no system of cash rewards for killing terrorists: Army||SRINAGAR: The Army on Monday said it has no scheme of rewarding personnel with Rs 10 lakh for killing a terrorist, as was mentioned in media reports on the Amshipora “fake encounter” case. The reports had quoted the 300-page chargesheet filed by the special investigation team (SIT) of the J&K, submitted before the chief judicial magistrate of Shopian district on December 28. “It is clarified that the Army has no system of cash awards for its personnel for any acts of combat situations or otherwise in the line of duty. The report is mala fide (misleading) and not based on facts of the processes internal to Army,” Colonel Kalia said. The news reports said that, as per the J&K Police SIT’s chargesheet, Captain Bhoopendra Singh of 62 RR regiment, aided by two civilian informers, had “staged” the encounter in Amshipora on July 8, 2020, and killed three daily wage labourers working in local orchards, allegedly to claim a cash bounty of Rs 20 lakh granted by the Army as a reward for killing terrorists. The chargesheet also mentioned that Singh’s informers Tabish Nazir, a resident of Shopian, and Bilal Ahmad Lone, who lives in Pulwama, were given a “few thousand” rupees, for assisting in organizing the ‘fake’ encounter. Lone has turned an approver and recorded his confession statement before a magistrate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-no-system-of-cash-rewards-for-killing-terrorists-army/articleshow/80222396.cms||M Saleem Pandit
January 12, 2021||India||PDP youth chief Para jailed soon after release from NIA custody||SRINAGAR: PDP youth wing president Waheed Para, who was granted bail by an NIA court and released on Saturday, was on Monday re-arrested by the J&K Police under the provisions of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) in another case related to an alleged nexus involving politicians, terrorists and secessionists. After being lodged in NIA’s custody since November 25 last year for his alleged links with Hijbul Mujaheedin terrorists, Para was on produced before a court in Jammu on Monday which remanded him in police custody till January 18, officials said. He has now been put up in Jammu central jail and will be brought to Srinagar for questioning, they added. Former J&K chief minister and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti severely criticized the move and alleged that Para was arrested on fabricated charges. She tweeted: “Despite NIA Court granting bail to @parawahid after thorough court proceedings, he has now been detained by CIK [Counter Intelligence Kashmir] in Jammu. Under what law and for what crime has he been arrested? This is brazen contempt of court. Request @manojsinha ji [Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha] to intervene so that justice is served.” “This is purely political vendetta against PDP for raising our voice against Delhi’s onslaught,” she further tweeted. On November 25 last year, the NIA had arrested Para for allegedly supporting Hizbul terrorists and providing them funds (Rs 10 lakhs) to buy weapons. The agency had said that Parra’s arrest was related to the case registered against suspended J&K police officer Davinder Singh, who was apprehended with a Hizbul militant Syed Naveed Mushtaq alias Naveed Babu on January 11 last year. The PDP youth leader, who recently won the District Development Council from his hometown in Pulwama in south Kashmir, was granted relief on a surety bond of Rs 1 lakh and a personal bond of the same amount, officials said. The CIK personnel are now conducting raids at various locations across Kashmir to find “more proofs to verify his links with terrorists”. ( With inputs from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pdp-youth-chief-para-jailed-soon-after-release-from-nia-custody/articleshow/80222424.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||SII gets order for 11 million vaccine doses, trucks ready for transportation||PUNE: The process of transporting Covishield vaccine began on Monday after the Serum Institute of India (SII) received the Centre’s initial purchase order for 11 million doses at Rs 200 per dose. This makes the Oxford University-AstraZeneca vaccine, which is being manufactured by SII, the first Covid-19 vaccine to be used for India’s mass immunization programme. NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul told a television channel that both Covishield and Covaxin would be used in the initial phase itself. On Monday evening, six refrigerated trucks reached SII to begin transportation of the Covishield vaccine amid tight police security. The trucks containing vials of the vaccine were set to leave the institute early Tuesday for dispatch across the country. The vaccine doses will be administered to priority groups, including 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers, for free from January 16. The vaccine, likely to be available in the market by June, is expected to cost Rs 1,000 per dose then. A cold chain logistics service provider, Kool-Ex Cold Chain Ltd, has been assigned the responsibility of moving the vaccine from SII’s manufacturing plant in Pune to 48 government depots in the first leg. On Monday, police vans escorted the trucks to the SII premises, where policemen were deployed throughout the day. Police have said that four vans, each with four policemen, will be escorting the trucks from SII to the airport. Sources said that of the six trucks, two were expected to go to Gujarat and one to Karnal. Some shipments are expected by the first flights out of Pune airport on Tuesday morning. Pune deputy commissioner of police Namrata Patil said that one of the six vans carrying the vaccines would be leaving the SII premises on Monday night for Naidu Hospital in the city. The hospital is a dedicated centre for treating infectious diseases. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Police will also provide bandobast to SII trucks carrying the vaccine to different parts of the state and to the state borders, if the trucks are going to other states.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sii-gets-order-for-11-million-vaccine-doses-trucks-ready-for-transportation/articleshow/80222511.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 12, 2021||Business||WhatsApp group links were visible on Google: Report||NEW DELHI: At least 1,700 private WhatsApp group links were visible on Google through a simple web search, according to a recent research. Published by internet security researcher Rajshekhar Rajaharia, the research claimed that the groups’ links available on the web posed a threat to WhatsApp users’ privacy. Rajaharia had shared screenshots of the WhatsApp group links on his Twitter profile on Sunday afternoon. “Anyone who had access to these links could join these private groups, see the participants there and also have access to the group members’ phone numbers and profile photos,” he told TOI on Sunday. On Monday, WhatsApp fixed the issue, and the links were no longer visible on Google. “Since March 2020, WhatsApp has included the “noindex” tag on all deep link pages which, according to Google, will exclude them from indexing. We have given our feedback to Google to not index these chats. As a reminder, whenever someone joins a group, everyone in that group receives a notice and the admin can revoke or change the group invite link at any time,” a WhatsApp spokesperson said in a statement. According to Rajaharia, the issue arose because “WhatsApp allows users to generate rich preview links of group chat invites that eventually may allow search engine crawlers to identify the links and then index them for future searches”. An index is another name for the database used by a search engine. This is the second time that WhatsApp has faced this issue. The Facebook-owned instant messaging platform had said in 2020 that it had fixed an issue that was causing phone numbers to show up on Google. WhatsApp added that invite links are searchable only when they are posted publicly on the internet. “Links that users wish to share privately with people they know and trust should not be posted on a publicly accessible website,” the spokesperson added. However, according to Rajaharia, a “noindex” tag is not enough to stop crawlers from indexing a website page. “There has been carelessness from WhatsApp’s end. They need to use robots.txt files to prevent indexing completely. But that would probably mean they have to reconfigure their domains, which is a long process,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/whatsapp-group-links-were-visible-on-google-report/articleshow/80222682.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 12, 2021||India||Four more vaccines on the way; netas mustn’t jump queue: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Calling for efforts to ensure that politicians don’t jump the queue for the Covid-19 vaccine, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday cautioned chief ministers of states and administrators of Union Territories against a possible attempt by “mischievous elements” to sabotage the inoculation through rumour mongering and spreading misinformation. In a virtual interaction with CMs and administrators of UTs ahead of the formal launch of the vaccination on January 16, the PM said 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers would receive free vaccine on priority, while asking states to ensure that politicians and elected representatives do not get the vaccine before their turn. He assured that soon, there would be more options as four more vaccines were in progress and were likely to be available as the vaccination programme advanced to cover the next two priority groups. Modi said the priority of vaccination had been decided after consultation with states. Health workers, from both the government and private sector, will be the first ones to receive the vaccine. Along with them, safai karmacharis, other frontline workers such as police and paramilitary personnel, home guards, disaster management volunteers and other jawans in civil defence, and revenue officials associated with containment and surveillance will also receive the vaccine in the first stage. The second round of immunisation will aim to cover priority population groups of those above 50 years and those below 50 years but with pre-existing diseases. The interaction also brought out the gathering worry in the government about rumours leading to fear about the vaccines. “We have to pay serious attention to the threat and ensure that rumour-mongering and misinformation about vaccine are nipped. We should not be ambiguous about it as mischievous elements, within the country as well as outside, might try to thwart the campaign. Corporate competition could also come into play. Pride of nations could be another factor,” PM Modi said. The warning against misinformation about the vaccines came against the backdrop of worry in certain quarters about the efficacy of the two vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin. The PM, however, emphasised that the “made in India” vaccines were granted emergency use authorisation on the determination of scientists and experts. “Questions had been raised about the delay in the launch of the two vaccines. There was even screaming and shouting when other countries launched vaccination. However, we decided to go by the opinion of experts and scientists who, for us, are the last word on the issue,” he added. “We have to frustrate all such machinations by reaching out to each individual through religious and social organisations, professional bodies,” he said. The PM said that while 2.5 crore people had been vaccinated across the world despite an early start by certain countries, India would have vaccinated 30 crore people in the next few months. “Both our vaccines are more cost effective than other vaccines in the world. If India was to depend on foreign vaccines, it would have been very difficult for us. These vaccines have been manufactured with Indian conditions and reality in mind,” he said. He appeared to lay great store by India’s experience in conducting the world’s largest immunisation programme and biggest polls. “We have approached the task with the same rigour with which we reach each booth during polls,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/four-more-vaccines-on-the-way-netas-mustnt-jump-queue-pm/articleshow/80222954.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 12, 2021||Business||Sensex races past 49K mark as IT, financials rally||MUMBAI: Another day, another lifetime peak. The sensex continued its dizzying surge to race past the 49,000 milestone for the first time in its history on Monday before closing at 49,269 points, its all-time closing high. As foreign portfolio investors made net infusions of over Rs 3,100 crore, the 30-scrip index gained 487 points on the day, led by software and financial stocks. On the NSE, the Nifty closed at 14,485 points, up 138 points. Metals and PSU banks, however, witnessed some selling pressure. The day’s rally was also supported by expectations of bold moves by the government in the Budget that could boost the economic revival process, market players said. Monday’s gains on Dalal Street came despite weakness in the European markets in early trades and also in US stock futures that indicated a lower opening on Wall Street. As expected, Wall Street opened lower as technology stocks witnessed selling pressure. At the end of the opening hour on Monday, Nasdaq was down 0.7% while the Dow Jones Index was down 0.5% and S&P500 0.6%. Although there were spurts of selling during the day, the day’s session also discounted the recent rise in dollar index and crude oil prices, market players said. The market’s surge also made investors richer by Rs 70,000 crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at an all-time peak of Rs 196.3 lakh crore, BSE data showed. In dollar terms, this took India’s market capitalisation to $2.7 trillion. Other than some signs of weakness in the global markets, on Dalal Street, more stocks closing lower compared to the ones closing higher is also pushing brokers to be cautious. “Positive newsflow, including results, are pushing indices and stocks higher. A negative advance decline ratio, however, is a sign of caution after such a steep rise. Typically distribution happens in such times of euphoria, which gets noticed a few days later,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. Technically too, the market is in an ‘indecisive’ zone. According to Shrikant Chouhan, EVP-Equity Technical Research, Kotak Securities at Monday’s closing, the market is showing an “indecisive candlestick pattern at the top of the current movement and traders should take some profit at current levels.” The resumption of the upward movement could resume if Nifty crosses 14,520 level while for Sensex, the corresponding level is at the 49,370 level, Chouhan wrote in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-races-past-49k-mark-as-it-financials-rally/articleshow/80223074.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||TRP scam: BARC ex-CEO named in 2nd chargesheet||MUMBAI: The ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council, Partho Dasgupta, misused his official position, connived with other accused, including Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, and thus manipulated TRP ratings, bringing Republic TV to the number 1 position, a supplementary chargesheet submitted by Mumbai police in the TRP scam said. The chargesheet, which runs into 3,600 pages, has shown Republic TV’s COO Priya Mukherjee, its chief financial officer Shiva Sundaram and employees Shivendu Mulherkar and Ranjit Walter, among others, as wanted accused. Apart from this, Amit Dave, Sanjeev Verma and other officials of Mahamovies channel are also shown as wanted accused. The city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Monday submitted the supplementary chargesheet in the case against Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani, former BARC COO Romil Ramgarhia and Partho Dasgupta. The Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) measures viewership of TV channels, which is critical for broadcasters as the ratings have a direct bearing on the business they get from advertisers. Partho Dasgupta appears to be the kingpin of the manipulation racket, assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who is the investigating officer, said. The chargesheet stated that Dasgupta was CEO of BARC between June 2013 and November 2019 and manipulated TRPs of other channels too. Khanchandani is accused of using illegal means to manipulate and bring TRPs of Republic TV to the top, the chargesheet said. He is in the WhatsApp group in which there are “conspiracy messages with Priya Mukherjee and other accused (Multi System Operators) on use of dual promotional LCN to promote their channel on monetary consideration,” the chargesheet said. The chargesheet further stated that Ramgarhia was BARC COO from July 2014 to July 2020, and during his tenure, he misused his position and used illegal means to manipulate TRPs and helped Republic TV. There is a system in place to measure TRPs, and Ramgarhia connived with other accused and manipulated ratings, the chargesheet stated. Dasgupta bought expensive items, gold and silver jewellery from the ill-gotten money he got from the manipulation scam, the chargesheet said. Dasgupta has moved the sessions court seeking bail. His plea will be heard on Friday when the prosecution is likely to submit its reply. The court refused an oral request made by his defence for interim bail. Earlier in November, police had filed a 1,400-page chargesheet. There are 59 witnesses and 12 reports from experts including forensic audits and other technical reports, Waze said. The crime branch is probing the role of Republic TV, Fakt Marathi, Box Cinema, News Nation, Mahamovies and Wow music channel for inflating viewership figures. The channels are accused of paying money to households (where barometers were installed) for keeping the channels on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/trp-scam-barc-ex-ceo-named-in-2nd-chargesheet/articleshow/80223078.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||India||Who will be responsible for loss of lives at protest venue, asks SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday said it did not mind farmers continuing peaceful protests even after it stays implementation of the farm laws but wanted to know from the union leaders who would be responsible for loss of lives at the protest venue and who would give guarantee that it would not turn violent. "The most serious questions facing us as the constitutional court, being the custodian of right to life, is the possible loss of lives at the protest venue. We do not mind the protests going on but who is going to take responsibility for loss of lives. If they can, then let them go on with it," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Appearing for the farmers' unions, senior advocate Dushaynt Dave said, "nobody can (take responsibility)". The bench said, "God forbid, if anything goes wrong. We do not want anyone’s blood on our hands. Responsibility is heavy on all of us. There is no bloodshed till now. But it can happen due to even a stray incident. We know how quickly things can go wrong." Indicating that it would stay implementation of the laws and set up a committee to hear farmers' grievances against the laws, the bench said, "We will make the atmosphere conducive for negotiations. Who will be responsible for bloodshed, if it happens? We as the highest constitutional court are bound to protect people's lives. Who will take responsibility for sabre rattling leading to some violence?" Attorney general K K Venugopal cited the incident of violence by farmers in Haryana where they damaged the venue where the chief minister was to meet farmers. "The protests should be peaceful and in accordance with law. Now, they are going to hold a 2,000-strong tractor rally on Rajpath on Republic Day," he said. Dave immediately said "we are not going to do that". The bench said it was glad to hear that. But when Venugopal said Dave's statement should be recorded, the counsel backed out and said he would take instruction from the unions and get back to the court. Dave said the farmers' unions wanted to make Ramlila Maidan, the historic venue where Atal Bihari Vajpayee, Jaiprakash Narain and other leaders have addressed mass gatherings and held rallies, the protest venue and sought the court's direction to the government to allow them to gather there. But the SC said law and order fell within the domain of the police, which alone should decide the venue of the protest. CJI Bobde said, "Everyone is welcome to come to Delhi for Republic Day. But people in Delhi fear that it (tractor rally) may create a law and order situation. Decision to handle the protests and law and order is for the police and not the SC." The CJI further said, "Women, children and senior citizens among the protesting farmers need not be associated with the agitation (after implementation of the laws are kept in abeyance and a committee formed to hear their grievances)." Finding that none of the four counsel for farmers' unions — Dave, H S Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves and Prashant Bhushan — was ready to make any statement on this issue, the CJI said, "I want to take a risk. You (the four counsel) tell them that the CJI wants them to go back to their homes." When a large number of farmers’ unions, including Bharatiya Kisan Union which claims to be the largest among the farmers' bodies, sought implementation of the farm laws and called them beneficial for tillers, the bench said, "But you are not in a position to persuade farmers from Punjab to end their agitation." Senior advocate Harish Salve said, "There are reports about Vancouver-based Sikhs For Justice offering Rs 10,000 to each participant in the farmers' protest. Someone should weed out these elements from the protest." Phoolka countered by saying that many people who were not farmers were roaming at the protest venue, may be at the government's behest. “Old people are there on their own volition as their livelihood is at stake. They are not going to go back," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/who-will-be-responsible-for-loss-of-lives-at-protest-venue-asks-sc/articleshow/80223203.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 12, 2021||India||SC slams govt over farmers stir, wants laws kept on hold||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday severely criticised the Centre for inept handling of the farm protests and said it would like to keep in abeyance implementation of the contentious farm laws to enable protesting farmers vent their grievances before an SC-constituted expert committee headed by a former CJI. But the court has to await the formal answer to whether the representatives of protesting farmers, who have hardened their opposition demanding nothing except repeal of the laws, will appear before the expert panel to discuss the pros and cons of the laws. Late on Monday evening, the unions opposed to the new farm laws said they would not meet the proposed committee. The court has listed the petitions for passing orders on Tuesday. The farmers have refused to discuss the laws clause by clause with the Centre even as several farm bodies have sought implementation of the new legislations. In court, senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for eight farm unions protesting at the Singhu border, said he would have to consult the unions about their willingness to go before the committee. CJI Bobde said, “If you (farmers) have been going to the negotiating table with the government, why won’t you go to the committee set up by the SC? Don’t create this odd argument.” Appearing for the eight unions, senior advocates Dave, H S Phoolka, Colin Gonsalves and advocate Prashant Bhushan welcomed the suggestion to keep implementation of the laws in abeyance, though the Centre said this should not be done without any legal infirmity being established. SG Tushar Mehta said the court’s observations on the government’s handling of the protests were harsh. The bench clarified that its observations were “the most innocuous that could have been made in the fact situation”. The lawyers for the unions informed a bench of CJI S A Bobde, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that they would consult the farmers and get back to the court on Tuesday with their views on participating in the proceedings before the committee and whether or not the farmers would hold a tractor rally on January 26. When the Centre sought a restraint order on the tractor rally, the court said it must file an application. The SC asked the parties to suggest names of former CJIs, one of whom could head the committee. Dave suggested the name of Justice R M Lodha, who was earlier assigned by the SC to reform BCCI. The SC asked Dave to take the consent of Lodha and said it had requested ex-CJI P Sathasivam, but he refused because of his limitations with Hindi. The Centre, through attorney general K K Venugopal and Mehta, said the government had done its best to negotiate with the unions, but their representatives were adamant on repeal of laws and refused to spell out what their specific grievances were. The AG said not a single petitioner or farmers’ union had shown anything wrong with the farm laws and that it would be unfair if the SC stayed operation of the laws without anyone expressing any legal infirmity about it. The CJI-led bench was caustic about the manner in which the government had handled the protests. “We are extremely disappointed with the way the government is handling the situation. The whole thing is going on for months. We do not believe you are handling the situation correctly or your negotiations are effective,” it said. “Our initiative is to see whether there can be an amicable solution. Why can't the laws be put on hold? If you (government) do not insist on implementation of the farm laws, we will constitute a committee comprising experts drawn from Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR),” it said. When the AG said the farmers should go before the committee to discuss their grievances against the farm laws and not demand repeal, the CJI-led bench said, “We are not creating an alternative forum in the committee to protest but for negotiation and resolution of the issue. Whether the law is in public interest or not, the committee will tell us. The committee’s doors will be open to all protesting farmers and pro-farm law groups. All will give their views and grievances. The committee will consider them and give a report. We will accept the report and deal with the farm laws.” When the AG said the committee could go about its work without the court hurrying to stay implementation of the laws, the bench said, "We have given the government a long rope (to sort out the issue). Now, we do not want a lecture on exercising patience (about staying implementation of the laws)." The SG said the government did its best to resolve the situation by earnestly holding talks with the protesting farmers. "Suppose a vast majority of farmers who support the farm laws come on the streets seeking implementation of the laws, what will happen?" he asked. The bench said all sections of farmers would have a chance to put forth their views before the committee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-wants-to-keep-farm-laws-in-abeyance-form-expert-panel/articleshow/80223242.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 12, 2021||India||Vax populi: ‘Z+ security’ for pandemic era’s vials of gold||MUMBAI: In a pandemic-stricken world, an antidote is worth its weight in gold. And like gold, a Covid vaccine is presumably a precious thing that needs protecting. Think rifle-wielding escorts for vehicles transporting vaccines, just like a cash-dispensing van on an ATM sortie. Companies, logistics firms, governments and hospitals are already ramping up infrastructure to safeguard vials of Covid vaccine against the looming risk of theft, burglary and pilferage. That’s not all — both vaccine makers and governments need to be alert to the possibility of counterfeiting and a potential grey market. Vaccine makers and supply chain and logistics providers admit to being wary of “weak links” such as distribution centres, warehouses, truck stops and hospitals with lax security. Logistics and transportation companies are working towards secured solutions at a frantic pace to ensure that these holes are plugged. “With the high demand and limited availability of Covid-19 vaccines, the system should be geared up to prevent any attempts of theft, pilferage or misuse. A representative from the office of the drugs controller should be included in the state, district and block-level task force,” states the Centre’s operational guidelines. The massive rollout plan for AstraZeneca-Oxford’s Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin includes putting in place an end-to-end traceability mechanism with RFID and bar coding to secure and monitor the supply chain, transportation and distribution — right from the manufacturing facility to the patient. Besides physical controls in terms of CCTV, manual search and fingerprinting for access at warehouses where the vaccines are stored, the plan is to deploy automated data loggers that monitor storage temperature and transfer messages every three seconds to a central unit under tight surveillance 24/7. “We have most of these structures in place as we transport high-value goods regularly, using vans which have GPS, data loggers and track-and-trace,” Rampraveen Swaminathan, CEO of Mahindra Logistics, told TOI. “We are also repurposing the logistics infrastructure to provide an end-to-end solution from the start to the last mile. Since the immunisation exercise will be huge and spread over the next couple of years, the challenge could be to scale up, and with speed.” One of the options is transporting vaccines in high-speed vehicles, with the highly-secure IoT-enabled (internet of things) locking system that allows users to access locks/doors remotely. The CoWIN app has been designed for end-to-end tracking of Covid-19 shots, besides linking every dose to the individual getting a jab. Every mismatch in available physical stock is to be reported. “Any instance of broken or damaged vaccine vials needs to be immediately reported to the medical officer/store in-charge. This should then be physically examined, counted, photographed and certified,” an official said. The onus of making adequate arrangements for 24x7 security of cold chain points at all locations and during transportation of vaccines is on the state or district administration. Vehicles carrying Covid-19 vials will have to be sealed before leaving the cold chain point and opened only in front of the facility in-charge, the official said. The possibility of theft and counterfeiting is stronger than what many might think. “Over the past five years, worldwide incidents such as theft and counterfeiting of pharmaceutical products rose nearly 69%, according to the Pharmaceutical Security Institute, a trade group,” said Nakul Pasricha, president of the Authentication Solution Providers’ Association that fights fakes. “In the Indian scenario, as per our study, pharma and other health care products are among the top 10 sectors that reported the highest incidence of counterfeiting in the last two years.” GS1 India is working with six vaccine manufacturers, right from the manufacturing origin to the point of inoculation by using simple bar code scans, said the company’s COO S Swaminathan. Since the supply chain is a complex one, involving multiple vendors, things will get clearer over months. Rituraj Sinha, chairman of the Ficci committee on private security services and head of SIS Prosegur, said cash logistics and security services firms were ready to help out. “Should the need arise, we have the necessary capabilities and willingness to work with the government for a national cause.” Ketan Kulkarni, CMO & head of business development at Blue Dart, said, “For all high-value and critical shipments that travel in the Blue Dart system, which currently includes vaccines, there is a robust digital security footprint from pickup till the point of delivery.” The mega immunisation drive may see high-speed vehicles transporting the vaccines, secured by rifle-wielding escorts on the outside and highly secure IoT-enabled locking system from the inside. Watch Covid-19: Authorities provide 'Z+ security' for precious vaccines||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vax-populi-z-security-for-pandemic-eras-vials-of-gold/articleshow/80223276.cms||Rupali Mukherjee
January 12, 2021||India||Covid shots for Bitcoins? It’s a scam, warn doctors||BENGALURU: Even before the Centre has started supply of Covid shots to states, there have been instances of multiple ‘vaccines’ being allegedly offered or administered to high-profile individuals in exchange for Bitcoins, according to several doctors. Requesting anonymity, the doctors said they have been getting calls from VIP patients wanting to know whether these vaccines offered by certain dealers are genuine and can be taken. The doctors said they could not ascertain the source, make, price, brand and authenticity of the vaccine doing the rounds in the black market. Consumption of any drug not allowed for sale in the country is illegal, a doctor said. “Accessing Covid vaccine through non-governmental agencies is unethical in India. We are urging patients to not fall for such traps, as the drug’s safety and efficacy can never be known,” said a doctor in Bengaluru. The Private Hospitals’ and Nursing Homes’ Association confirmed the trend and advised people against accessing the vaccine via black markets. Doctors have raised concerns that the content of products sold in the name of Covid vaccines may have nothing to do with Covid at all.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-shots-for-bitcoins-its-a-scam-warn-doctors/articleshow/80223281.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 12, 2021||India||PM seeks real-time upload of vaccination data on Co-WIN||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday urged chief ministers to ensure that real-time data related to Covid-19 vaccination is uploaded on Co-WIN — the IT platform that has emerged as the backbone of the massive vaccination programme set to be rolled out across the country on January 16. Modi said any lapse in feeding information on Co-WIN could result in loss in the mission. “The most important factor in this vaccination drive is identification and monitoring of those who need to be vaccinated. For this, Co-WIN digital platform has been created. With the help of Aadhaar, beneficiaries will be identified as well as timely second dosage will be ensured,” he said while addressing a meeting of CMs to review preparedness for launch of the vaccination drive. In a high-level meeting with state representatives on Sunday, the Centre had shared an overall view of the Co-WIN software and the principles that shall underpin the technology back-up for the vaccination exercise. Underscoring the importance of capturing the vaccination data in real-time, the Centre told states that “this was non-negotiable”. Underlining the significance of the vaccination drive in India, Modi said, “Several other countries are going to follow us. Vaccination for Covid-19 has been going on in about 50 countries since the past 3-4 weeks, and till now, only about 2.5 crore people have received vaccination. India aims to achieve vaccination for 30 crore people in the next few months.” Highlighting the utility of the Co-WIN platform, the PM said after a person received the first dose of vaccination, Co-WIN will immediately generate a digital vaccination certificate. This certificate will also act as a reminder for the second dose, after which, a final certificate will be given. He further said proper mechanisms had been put in place for monitoring of any adverse event following immunisation. He said India already had a mechanism in place for universal immunisation programme, and this was further strengthened for this vaccination drive. The PM emphasised on following Covid-related protocols throughout this endeavour, adding that even those receiving the vaccine should continue to follow these precautions to prevent spread of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-seeks-real-time-upload-of-vaccination-data-on-co-win/articleshow/80223286.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||QR-coded ‘vaccine pass’ may help in foreign travel||PUNE: A ‘vaccination certificate’ with a QR code, which acts as a digital pass or a ‘facilitating tool’, can work not just within the country but abroad too, a top public health official said in Pune on Monday. “Every vaccinated individual should preserve this QR code as it declares that the person has completed vaccination in India,” Maharashtra immunisation officer Dileep Patil told TOI. “Since a QR code — linked to the person’s mobile number and identity proof — will be offered by the Centre through the CoWIN system, it will have a wide range of applications. It is a well-authenticated proof of inoculation against Covid,” he said. Also, a QR code declaring vaccination can be shown to authorities without revealing sensitive health information. “The recipient only needs to click on the QR code to show the certificate each time authorities, anywhere, ask. It’s a sort of digital pass,” he added. Some countries, especially those that have started mass inoculation drives, are mulling ‘vaccine passports’ that will allow their citizens to travel abroad amid pandemic restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/qr-coded-vaccine-pass-may-help-in-foreign-travel/articleshow/80223361.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 12, 2021||India||IMA urges members to get vaccinated voluntarily as proof of safety of vaccines||NEW DELHI: Ahead of rollout of the mega vaccination drive in the country on January 16, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) has urged its 3.5 lakh members in 1,800 local branches to voluntarily get vaccinated first to show that the vaccines are safe and efficacious. "IMA believes that vaccination is not only to protect individuals but also to bring herd immunity and thereby raising the hope to control the coronavirus pandemic," the medical body said in a statement. The statement from IMA assumes significance as it not only supports the credibility of the vaccine amid various concerns about safety and efficacy but also urges more number of people to come forward for immunisation, which is crucial to achieve vaccination. "We stand with the scientists to ensure the safety and efficacy of both these vaccines... However, we appeal to the public that even after vaccination, to adhere to the Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks, maintaining physical distancing, hand hygiene etc,” it said in a letter to its members. The government plans to inoculate three crore healthcare and front-line workers in the first round of the massive vaccination drive that aims to cover a total of 30 crore ‘priority’ population by July. After healthcare and front-line workers, the second priority will be given to people above 50 years age and those younger but with severe co-morbidities. India has granted emergency use authorisation to two vaccines – Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s Covishield being manufactured by Serum Institute in India and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ima-urges-members-to-get-vaccinated-voluntarily-as-proof-of-safety-of-vaccines/articleshow/80223386.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||‘Gallants of Galwan’ to be posthumously honoured on R-Day||NEW DELHI: Colonel B Santosh Babu and at least four other soldiers who died while bravely fighting the numerically superior Chinese troops in the violent skirmish at Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh on June 15 are set to be posthumously honoured with gallantry medals on Republic Day. Defence sources on Monday said the “citations” for the medals to the “gallants of Galwan”, who inflicted “heavy casualties” on the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) during “Operation Snow Leopard”, have been sent to the President but cannot be officially announced before the final approval. The Army has already built a memorial in eastern Ladakh for Colonel Babu, the commanding officer of 16 Bihar, and the 19 other soldiers who laid down their lives during the skirmish on June 15. The PLA has so far refused to disclose the number of its casualties, but has admitted that a battalion commanding officer was among the dead. The skirmish, which continued through the night, had begun after the PLA reneged on the agreement to dismantle an observation post on Indian territory near the ‘Y-junction’ (Y-Nala) of the Shyok and Galwan rivers in the Galwan Valley. Col Babu and his team were attacked by Chinese troops armed with nail-studded rods and stones in a premeditated manner when they moved further to patrolling point 14. “Col Babu led from the front and his troops fought gallantly in hand-to-hand combat, causing heavy casualties to the PLA. In the ensuing fight, the 20 Gallants of Galwan achieved martyrdom,” says the memorial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/gallants-of-galwan-to-be-posthumously-honoured-on-r-day/articleshow/80223487.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||Govt in SC to stop R-Day rally, says it could be embarrassing||NEW DELHI: The home ministry moved the Supreme Court on Monday seeking to restrain protesting farmers from taking out a tractor rally on Republic Day and said it would be a huge embarrassment to the nation if the constitutional ceremony was disrupted in any manner or a law and order situation arose. The application, filed through joint commissioner of Delhi Police Jaspal Singh, said activities relating to Republic Day started with the rehearsal of parade by the armed forces a few days before January 26, ending with the Beating the Retreat ceremony on January 29 and Martyrs’ Day on January 30. “Any disruption or obstruction to the said functions would not only be against law and order, public order, public interest but would also be a huge embarrassment for the nation,” it said. The SC is likely to hear the application on Tuesday. “It has come to the knowledge of the security agencies through various sources that a small group of protesting individuals has planned to carry out a tractor/trolley/ march on Republic Day. The proposed march is slated to disturb and disrupt the august celebrations of the nation on Republic Day and would be bound to create a massive law and order situation,” the ministry said. “The security apparatus is on high alert during such national celebrations due to the very vital significance of this occasion. It is submitted that the said proposed march/protest seeks to disrupt and disturb such celebrations which is bound to create a serious law and order situation and will cause an embarrassment to the nation,” it said while attaching photographs of earlier tractor rallies organised by farmers. The government said the right to protest was always subject to public order and public interest. Requesting the SC to restrain farmers’ unions from holding tractor rallies on Republic Day, the Centre said, “as the SC is seized of the issues, it is constitutionally imperative that the court pass an appropriate prohibitory order."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-in-sc-to-stop-r-day-rally-says-it-could-be-embarrassing/articleshow/80223493.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 12, 2021||Business||‘Coal demand-supply balance a challenge’||UditPrasanna.Mukherjee@timesgroup.com The head of the world’s biggest coal producer is at work to restore the demand-supply equilibrium hit hard by the pandemic. Pramod Agrawal, CMD of Coal India (CIL), is optimistic that things will return to normal next fiscal… Is business back to normal? Overall, business is looking up. But return to pre-Covid normalcy hinges on demand, which we’re primed to meet. What challenges has the new normal posed? A big challenge is retrieving the demand-supply equilibrium, which was destabilised. We had to redraft growth plans for production and supplies. Disruption in supply chains across industries set back our mining-related works and delivery schedule of equipment by a few months. While we meet obligatory expenses like wages, capex, and cost of procurement of machinery backed by astute financial planning, the increase in outstanding receivables is an unwelcome situation. How are you dealing with your employees? Welfare of employees is a paramount concern. During the pandemic, we set up more than 2,000 additional beds, of which 549 were quarantine beds. We have also made provision for flexible working days where possible. We did not implement any salary reduction or downsizing. In fact, we disbursed the annual performance-linked reward of Rs 68,500 per employee to 2.6 lakh non-executive employees, on time, at an estimated total of Rs 1,700 crore. And work-life balance? I try to plot some personal time in the mornings and evenings. Yoga and walking are my stress busters. I enjoy reading books on economics, history and biographies. Any learnings from business amid the pandemic? It has shown the need for adaptability and resilience. Tradition and convention made way for innovation. The measures we extended led to much-needed sales expansion during weak demand, and broadened vendor base. Internal operational flow changes helped shorten decision-making cycles. Companies more digitised & automated may have dealt with the pandemic better… Certainly. Digitisation and automation is not a choice but a need to compete, increase transparency, and cut operational costs. We look at digitisation across three verticals — capital equipment, supply chain, and operations. Mechanisation of mines and machines has been ongoing for the past few years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/coal-demand-supply-balance-a-challenge/articleshow/80210628.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Darbhanga airport adds daily flight to Ahmedabad||Patna: Budget carrier SpiceJet flagged off its maiden daily flight to Ahmedabad on Monday from Darbhanga airport under the Centre’s RCS-Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme. The direct flight landed at 1.20pm and departed for Ahmedabad at 1.55pm. The airline will operate Boeing 737-700 aircraft between Darbhanga and Ahmedabad. The airline staff welcomed the passengers at the airport, but the ceremonial water salute could not be given to the maiden flight when it landed due to technical reasons. “Had it not been for the personal interest and push by CM Nitish Kumar, Mithila’s aspirations of air connectivity with rest of the world would have remained a dream. Today, so heartening to see Darbhanga Airport bustling with activities, and adding new feathers (sic),” JD(U) general secretary and MLC Sanjay Kumar Jha tweeted on Monday. The number of flights at Darbhanga airport has now increased to four. Darbhanga airport was already operating three flights each on Delhi, Mumbai and Bengaluru routes. Two more flights each to Pune and Hyderabad will start from January 18. The Hyderabad- Darbhanga- Hyderabad (SG- 113/ 116) flight would land here at 9.40 am and leave for Hyderabad at 4.40 pm. The flight Darbhanga-Pune-Darbhanga (SG- 114/ 115) will take off for Pune at 10.20 am and return at 4 pm. The Airports Authority of India has floated a bid for installation of approach lights to address the poor visibility problem at Darbhanga airport. Due to bad weather in December and January, the flight operations got disrupted inconveniencing passengers. Darbhanga airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal said approach lights up to 300m would be installed along the runway for aircraft to operate even in foggy conditions. “The bidding has been initiated, and the installation work will commence soon,” he said. Altogether 56,698 passengers have travelled on 328 incoming and outgoing flights operated by the SpiceJet since November 8. Commercial flight operations from Darbhanga airport is a boon for 22 districts of North Bihar, including Muzaffarpur, Madhubani, Samastipur, Sitamarhi, Champaran, Saharsa and Purnia among others and also to bordering Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/darbhanga-airport-adds-daily-flight-to-ahmedabad/articleshow/80219075.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 12, 2021||Business||Agri value chain enabler Samunnati raises Rs 90 crore debt||Chennai: City-based Samunnati, a financial solutions provider for the agri sector, has announced that it raised Rs 89.6 crore via debt from two financial inclusion funds — one managed by Triodos Investment Management — the Dutch Entrepreneurial Development Bank and Triodos Investment Management — each committing Rs 44.8 crore.The raised funds will be used to expand financing to Agribusinesses and Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) contributing to financial inclusion, increased productivity, earnings, and market reach for smallholder farmers. CEO Anilkumar SG said, “The loan will allow us to expand the reach as well as deepen the engagement with FPOs & Agri Enterprises.”The agri value chain solutions provider offers customized financial, co-financial and non-financial solutions to low-income farmers, farmer producer organizations and agricultural enterprises across the value chain. Besides, offering market linkages as well as institution building support to FPOs. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/agri-value-chain-enabler-samunnati-raises-rs-90-crore-debt/articleshow/80220510.cms||Mamtha Asokan
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||In a tribute to maestros, South End Park to be called Sangeet Sarani from today||KOLKATA: Just a week after R D Burman’s 27th death anniversary, the lane which houses the grand building where Pancham grew up in Kolkata is going to be renamed Sangeet Sarani. West Bengal Heritage Commission chairperson Shuvaprasanna, along with Kolkata Municipal Corporation Board of Administrators chairperson Firhad Hakim, will be present during the renaming ceremony on Tuesday afternoon. This news comes after years of campaign for renaming the lane housing the iconic building at 36/1, South End Park where the Dev Burmans used to live during their stay in Kolkata. Pancham’s uncle, Abhijit Dasgupta, has fond memories of the legend having spent his initial 15 years in this house. His father and SD Burman were friends. The veteran composer had married Dasgupta’s cousin, Mira, in 1938. The Dev Burmans had moved into the house from a rented property at Hindusthan Park where Pancham was born in 1939. “In 1945, my father and SD Burman had bought two adjacent plots. It took two years for the buildings with similar architectural styles to be completed. During those days, the Dhakuria railway crossing marked the south end of Kolkata. That’s how South End Park got its name. This locality was like a four-cornered park. There was a sugarcane field next to our houses,” Dasgupta recalled. The Dev Burmans lived in that house till 1952 before shifting to Mumbai where his music direction in ‘Taxi Driver’, ‘Munimji’ and ‘Paying Guest’ were landmarks. Later, he scored for Guru Dutt’s classics — ‘Pyaasa’ and ‘Kaagaz Ke Phool’. “Guru Dutt would often come to this house whenever SD Burman was in Kolkata,” Dasgupta said. Tubloo, as Pancham was known in the para, lived there with his grandmother. “Initially, he used to study in Ballygunje Government High School. Then he shifted to Tirthapati Institution where he studied till Class X. However, he didn’t take his Madhyamik examinations,” Dasgupta said. After his grandmother’s death in the late 80s, Pancham sold the house, but would visit every time he was in Kolkata. Some of the Burman’s iconic songs were also composed and sung by the duo here. “‘Takdum takdum’ was composed in this house. I remember Pancham had gone to the HMV studio in Dum Dum for his first recording as a percussionist,” Dasgupta added. There are countless stories of stalwarts, like Ustad Allauddin Khan, Purna Das Baul, Salil Chowdhury, Hemanta Mukherjee and Asha Bhonsle, frequenting this house. “This renaming is our way of paying tribute to all the greatest musicians of India who lived and came down there,” Shuvaprasanna said. Dasgupta is thrilled with this initiative. “This place is associated with many musicians. Arati Mukherjee used to stay in this para. And, for a brief period, Satinath Mukhopadhyay also lived here,” he said. There are plans of approaching the present owner of the house so that a museum can be set up. “We will be putting up a blue plaque in front of the building where a brief history of the house will be displayed. It is our dream to set up a museum as well,” Shuvaprasanna said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/in-a-tribute-to-maestros-south-end-park-to-be-called-sangeet-sarani-from-today/articleshow/80219952.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Churches to turn to Swamiji’s teachings on his birth anniv||KOLKATA: On Tuesday, the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, heads of the two major Christian orders of the city — Roman Catholic and Church of North India — will send out messages on the spiritual guidance of Vivekananda, who “transcended the borders of religion to lead everyone to attain oneness through their commitment to serve mankind”. Vivekananda’s birth anniversary is also celebrated as Youth Day throughout the country. “In difficult times like these we need spiritual guidance to help us move forward and when we surrender completely to that guidance, miracles happen. One such guide who we can turn to in our daily lives is Swami Vivekananda,” the message will say. The member churches of these two orders will also have parish priests reminding everyone that Swamiji’s vision of a strong country should be the only path forward. Archbishop Thomas D Souza, head of the Roman Catholic Church in the city, is in retreat, but took time off to send a prayer message for the occasion. “He treated humanity like his brothers and sisters and the Chicago lecture remains a landmark to this day. Unity in diversity is the essence of Indian culture and Swamiji led us on this path. I urge the youth of the country to once again, arise and awake to the clarion call of Swamiji,” he said. Vicar general of the archdiocese of Kolkata, Dominic Gomes’s message will be available on YouTube. “Swami Vivekananda believed that youth are the strongest innovators and can drive social change through muscles of iron and nerves of steel. You can imagine the deep realization of this ascetic when you go through his saying, ‘you will be nearer to heaven through football than through the study of Gita’,” Gomes said. Urging the youth of the country to read more of Vivekananda’s writings and to emulate what he practised, Bishop Paritosh Canning drew attention to Vivekananda’s concept of “Advaita”. “The last word in religion and thought is ‘Advaita’, and so, in this country, we are able to accept people of all religions and communities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/churches-to-turn-to-swamijis-teachings-on-his-birth-anniv/articleshow/80219920.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 12, 2021||Patna||Patna accounts for 107 of 213 new Covid cases in Bihar||PATNA: Altogether 213 new Covid-19 cases, including 107 in Patna alone, were registered in state on Monday, taking the tally to 2,56,991. Officially, five more deaths were reported, taking the state toll to 1439. However, with 251,644 recoveries, there were 3906 active cases in Bihar. Patna’s tally reached 50,753. However, with 48,768 recoveries and 398 deaths, there were 1587 active cases in the district. Saran reported 20 new cases while other districts had less than 10 cases reported on Monday. As per the data shared by the health department, two deaths were reported from Siwan and one each from Patna, Saran and Bhojpur. State health minister Mangal Pandey said 378 people had recovered in the past 24 hours till Sunday and the state’s recovery rate was 97.92%. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths, including a 38-year-old Kankarbagh woman. Other deceased was a 65-year-old man from Dahiya in Saran district. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, said 11 patients were admitted and five were discharged on Monday. Three among those admitted are from Patna. NMCH reported the death of a 70-year-old man from Biharsharif. While two patients were admitted, one was discharged on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-accounts-for-107-of-213-new-covid-cases-in-bihar/articleshow/80219315.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Farmers in Katihar get training in beekeeping||KATIHAR: Steps are being taken to make Katihar a honey production hub in the state by promoting beekeeping among farmers in the district. In an effort to augment farmers’ income as well as making them self-reliant, the Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) and Katihar horticulture department provide training to farmers in beekeeping from time to time. Recently, ATMA provided training to 130 farmers in beekeeping and harvesting. Katihar horticulture department assistant director Rahul Kumar said: “Approximately 22-25 tonne honey is produced in the district with an annual turnover of Rs80 to 100 lakh.” To promote production of honey in the state, financial assistance is provided to farmers by district horticulture office as well as JEEViKA. “Subsidy is given to farmers for purchasing honey boxes and honey extractors. The OBC and general category farmers can get 75% subsidy, whereas honey producers under the SC/ST category receive 90% financial assistance by the government,” Kumar said. He said beekeeping and honey extraction is labour-intensive work. “Workers engaged in this job are required to move their honey boxes to different locations to boost honey production,” Kumar said. He added that during flowering season, boxes are shifted to other places. “Honey boxes kept in farmlands help in increasing the yield of crops. Bee helps in cross-pollination and upping the yield of the crop per acre. It is a win-win situation for farmers as well as honey producers,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/farmers-in-katihar-get-training-in-beekeeping/articleshow/80219209.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 4.7 lakh health workers enrolled on CoWin site||PATNA: Around 4.7 lakh healthcare workers, both private and government, have enrolled in Bihar on the digital platform CoWIN for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination to be rolled out in the state on January 16. On the inaugural day of the vaccination drive, every healthcare worker’s registration will be checked by deputed officers at the vaccination site along with the identification documents of those eligible for the vaccination, state health officials said. Crowd management measures will also be in place at these sites. Every vaccination site will have a team comprising a vaccinator, a data entry operator, a mobiliser, a guard and an observer, said Manoj Kumar, State Health Society executive director, adding the team will ensure a smooth inoculation process. “The vaccine will begin with the verification of the beneficiaries. The data entry operator will verify the documents on the CoWIN system after which the beneficiaries will get the vaccination, and they will be monitored for the next 30 minutes at a waiting room for any side-effects,” he said. The vaccination sites will have the Centre's list of beneficiaries. For the second dose of vaccine on the due date, the beneficiaries will get the SMS on their registered mobile number. After the second dose is administered, beneficiaries will get a link for a digital certificate on their registered mobile phones. Every detail, from the sites where vaccinations are to be carried out to the number of beneficiaries and even the batch number, doses per vial and schedule of the vaccine, is being uploaded on the CoWIN site. The registration of healthcare worker has been done through the bulk upload of data by district authorities, health facilities and centres. Self-registration will be done for the individual for the third phase. People, willing to get vaccinated can register themselves by uploading any one of the identification documents. As per sources, people will have to go through three authentication options to choose from — biometric, OTP-based and authentication using date of birth.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/4-7-lakh-health-workers-enrolled-on-cowin-site/articleshow/80219274.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 12, 2021||Business||RBI governor warns of high asset prices||MUMBAI: Reserve Bank of India (RBI) governor Shaktikanta Das on Monday warned that there is a growing disconnect between certain segments of financial markets and the real economy, and stretched valuations pose a risk to financial stability. The governor’s warnings on inflated valuations come at a time when equity prices are surging by the day and the sensex is inching towards the 50,000 mark, nearly double the closing low of 25,981 it had touched on March 23 in the wake of the Covid outbreak last year. The sensex’s rise has been despite grim forecasts of the economy shrinking by over 7.5% during the current fiscal. The governor’s warnings are part of the foreword to the Financial Stability Report released by the central bank on Monday. While the governor had made the same observation of a disconnect between some financial markets and the real manufacturing sector, this time he has highlighted the risk to financial stability. On the positive side, the governor said that digital technologies have been identified as a bright spot in India’s economic prospects. “A multi-speed recovery is struggling to gain traction, infusing hope, reinforced by positive news on vaccine development. Nonetheless, the second wave of infections and new mutations of the virus have spread heightened uncertainty, threatening to stall the fragile recovery,” Das said. Describing maintaining the health of banks a policy priority, Das said that stress in banks’ balance sheets has been hidden because of congenial liquidity and financing conditions, which have shored up their financial parameters. “But it is recognised that the available accounting numbers obscure a true recognition of stress,” Das said. He pointed out that the banking system had been hit by the crisis when it had improved in strength. Yet, the pandemic threatened to impair balance sheets and trigger capital shortfalls, especially as regulatory reliefs are rolled back, he said. “In addition, banks will be called to meet the funding requirements of the economy as it traces a revival from the pandemic. Consequently, maintaining the health of the banking sector remains a policy priority and preservation of the stability of the financial system is an overarching goal,” said Das. According to the governor, the government’s decision to borrow more in the wake of revenue shortfalls have added to the pressure on banks. The governor urged all stakeholders to make more investments for building robust IT platforms and technologies for operational purposes as well as for fortifying public confidence in digital banking. The governor’s comments on increasing IT investment comes in the wake of the central bank ban on HDFC Bank launching new digital products following regular outages on its online banking platform. Since then, a couple of other banks have faced disruptions in their online banking. The RBI has indicated that it will take serious note of such disruptions given that digital is becoming a primary channel for most customers to avail banking services. According to the governor, the government’s decision to borrow more in the wake of revenue shortfalls have added to the pressure on banks. The governor urged all stakeholders to make more investments for building robust IT platforms and technologies for operational purposes as well as for fortifying public confidence in digital banking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/rbi-guv-warns-of-high-asset-prices/articleshow/80222401.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Business||Bank bad loans may grow 2 times by September: RBI||MUMBAI: Bad loans of banks could nearly double from 7.5% in September 2020 to 14.8% by September this year under a severe stress scenario, according to stress tests conducted by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and other regulators. A report released on Monday said public sector banks will contribute the most to new non-performing assets (NPAs). The central bank did declare that the “worst is behind us” in terms of the pandemic. But even as it did that, the RBI indicated that the worst was yet to come in respect of bad loans. “The gross NPA (GNPA) projections are indicative of the impairment latent in the banks’ portfolio with implication for capital planning,” the Financial Stability Report (FSR), released by the RBI on Monday, said. The FSR is prepared by the Financial Stability Council, which includes the RBI and other financial sector regulators. Because of the stress on their balance sheets, the system-level capital adequacy ratio of banks is expected to drop from 15.6% in September 2020 to 12.5% under a severe stress situation and 14% under a baseline scenario. The stress tests indicate that the GNPA ratio of all scheduled commercial banks may increase from 7.5% in September 2020 to 13.5% by September 2021 under the baseline scenario. Even under the baseline scenario, bad loans are expected to push the capital adequacy of two banks below the statutory minimum requirements. Among the bank groups, the public sector banks’ GNPA ratio of 9.7% in September 2020 may increase to 16.2% by September 2021 under the baseline scenario, while the GNPA ratio of private banks and foreign banks may increase from 4.6% and 2.5% to 7.9% and 5.4%, respectively, over the same period. In the severe stress scenario, the GNPA ratios of public sector banks, private banks and foreign banks may rise to 17.6%, 8.8% and 6.5%, respectively, by September 2021. The baseline scenario is drawn if macro parameters move along an expected trajectory. According to the RBI, in the first half under the baseline scenario, the GDP is expected to grow 14.2%, the combined fiscal deficit will slip to 10.4%, inflation will be around 4.9% and the weighted average lending rate of banks would be 9.6%. The RBI increases the stress by worsening the forecast numbers and working out the impact on bank balance sheets. Tourism and hospitality, construction and real estate, aviation, automobiles and retail were the major sectors expected to be adversely affected by the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/bank-bad-loans-may-grow-2x-by-sept/articleshow/80222373.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Avian flu scare hits poultry sales in Patna||PATNA: Even though no bird flu case has so far been detected in the state, many in the city have stopped eating chicken and eggs following nationwide avian influenza scare. Chicken sales have dropped significantly in city markets over the last few days, much to the disappointment of poultry traders. “People have stopped consuming chicken and eggs though no bird flu case has so far been recorded here. Last year also, we had suffered a lot due to outbreak of Covid-19,” said Sumant Kumar, owner of a poultry shop at Kankarbagh. Animal husbandry department director Vinod Singh Gunjiyal said people should not panic. “Samples of dead birds from Muzaffarpur had tested negative for avian influenza. Results of the tests conducted on randomly selected chickens also came negative,” he said. Despite government’s assurance, people are not ready to take any risk. Saket Singh, a resident of Buddha Colony, said, “I have stopped consuming chicken and other poultry products. It’s better to be safe than sorry in such unprecedented times.” Doctors, however, said people should not worry as the chances of bird flu infecting human being are very remote. “Poultry consumption is 100% safe as viruses die at about 70 degrees C and Indian method of cooking ensures temperature above 100 degrees. Meat should be washed and cooked well. Runny eggs should not be consumed,” said Dr Talat Halim, regional director (east) of Paras HMRI Hospital. Dr Isra Halim, senior resident of AIIMS-P virology department, said, “The symptoms of avian influenza are like any other viral disease, but it’s rarely transmissible. Due to Covid-19, precautions for viral disease are already in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/avian-flu-scare-hits-poultry-sales-in-patna/articleshow/80219188.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Allahabad||Final dry run held smoothly at 46 sites in Prayagraj dist||Prayagraj: The third and final dry run for Covid-19 vaccination was conducted successfully at 46 sites in Prayagraj on Monday for seamless implementation of the actual inoculation programme set to rollout from January 16 onwards. The dry run was conducted in 91 sessions, including 55 in rural and 36 in city areas. All the 32 nodal officers, including 16 medical officers, additional district magistrates and sub-divisional magistrate rank officials monitored the dry run. Deputy chief medical officer and Covid 19 vaccination nodal officer, Dr Rahul Singh told TOI, “The final dry run was successfully conducted at all 46 sites, including 11 government hospitals and 15 private hospitals in the city and all 20 community health centres (CHCs) in the district on Monday.” A team of six members comprising medical and paramedical staff was on duty at every site for the final dry run. Every site had three rooms, including a sitting area or waiting lounge, vaccination room and observation room, he added. All the beneficiaries were sent an SMS a day before informing them to come at the vaccination site at the specified time. After the vaccine was administered, each beneficiary was given a Covid-19 vaccination record card, Dr. Singh said. The vaccination record card contains the name of beneficiary, mobile number, address, vaccination booth name, name of vaccine brand, date of first and second vaccination and phase. Health officials said the final dry run was like a dress rehearsal and helped authorities to check execution of the programme with special focus on possible problem areas, if any. In city areas, the final dry run was conducted in 36 sessions, including 14 at government and 22 at private hospitals. Moreover, users ids were created by the district administration and data of all beneficiaries was uploaded on the Co-WIN link. The objective of the final dry run was to conduct an error-free campaign. We were also able to assess the operational feasibility of using the Co-WIN application in the field environment, said Dr. Singh. Co-WIN (Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network) has been developed as an extension of the existing electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) module for it to be a comprehensive cloud-based IT solution for planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of Covid-19 vaccination across the country, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/final-dry-run-held-smoothly-at-46-sites-in-prayagraj-dist/articleshow/80218747.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||IRCTC to reopen food stalls at railway stations||PATNA: The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has decided to restart all its static food stalls, cell kitchens and refreshment rooms under five divisions of the East Central Railway – Danapur, Pt Deendayal Upadhaya, Sonepur, Samastipur and Dhanbad – from January 15. An IRCTC official said all Covid-19 health protocols would be strictly followed in the food stalls and refreshment rooms. IRCTC public relations officer (PRO) A K Jha said the food stalls and refreshment rooms were shut down following Covid-induced lockdown. “The railways is currently running about 80 pairs of special trains from different places under the ECR jurisdiction. However, catering service has been stopped in view of the pandemic. The reopening of food stalls and refreshment rooms at all major stations of the ECR will, therefore, come as a big relief for passengers,” Jha said. According to sources, IRCTC has planned to tie up with self-help groups (SHGs) run by women to improve its e-catering services. Passengers can choose meal or food items offered by SHGs and place their orders as per their choice. The proposed tie up with SHGs is also part of IRCTC’s plan to empower women in catering segment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/irctc-to-reopen-food-stalls-at-railway-stations/articleshow/80219163.cms||Kumod Verma
January 12, 2021||Patna||Gaya college to start new honours courses||GAYA: Honours degree courses in physics, mathematics, accounts (commerce) and library and information science are likely to be started at Gautam Buddha Mahila (GBM) College, the only constituent college of Magadh University in Gaya town established in 1953. The MU officials inspected the college on Sunday to assess availability of infrastructure. “The team has assured the college of assistance for purchase of books for library. Due to non-availability of honours course in physics and mathematics, girls had to face difficulties. Teachers of these subjects are available in the college. In arts stream, honours courses in 11 subjects are being run. In commerce stream, honours course in accounts was not available,” college principal Jawed Ashraf said. Among the officials who inspected the college included coordinator of college development council-cum-dean faculties of science Siddhanth Prasad Yadav Deen, dean student welfare Rudra Pratap Singh Chauhan, inspector of colleges (science) Brij Bihari Sharma, inspector of colleges (arts and commerce) Deepak Kumar and dean faculty of commerce Girish Nandan Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-college-to-start-new-honours-courses/articleshow/80219136.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||85 FIRs against violators, but no action by cops: Civic chief||NAGPUR: At the backdrop of the tragic Bhandara government hospital fire that claimed 10 infants, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) had lodged 85 FIRs with several city police stations against those ignoring firefighting systems but no action has been initiated by the cops yet. Radhakrishnan, who chaired a review meeting of the fire department, said, “The NMC will be writing a letter to the police commissioner Amitesh Kumar urging him to take the fire department’s complaints on priority without delay.” The civic chief has asked the fire department to take stringent action against property owners ignoring firefighting systems. Radhakrishnan told TOI he had instructed fire audits of all hospitals, educational institutions and places like malls where public come in large numbers be carried out. “NMC’s fire department has identified 1,600 properties where firefighting arrangements are not in place,” he said adding, “I have instructed the fire department to expedite the process of ensuring the property owners obtain fire compliances.” He also asked the police to file complaints against property owners not installing firefighting systems. Meanwhile, the Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur, has approached NMC chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake to conduct fire audit of its premises. In a letter to Uchake, GMCH mentioned it had received instructions from the director medical education and district collector Ravindra Thakare to carry out fire audit of the medical college, hospital and its residential premisesthere. Though entire premises are to be audited, it has urged the fire department to give priority to ICCU and accident department (emergency). Chief fire officer Uchake has formed teams in each fire station to inspect hospitals, educational institutions and public places like malls, cinema halls etc for firefighting systems and also whether they are in working condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-85-firs-against-violators-but-no-action-by-cops/articleshow/80219236.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 12, 2021||Varanasi||Varanasi: Administration imposes ban on feeding migratory birds||VARANASI: In view of the bird flu scare, the district administration, on Monday, imposed ban on feeding migratory birds by the people enjoying boat ride in the Ganga. Meanwhile, Sonbhadra administration heaved a sigh of relief after Bhopal lab cleared that crows found dead on January 6 did not suffer from avian influenza. In view of the advisory issued by the state government of closure of Kanpur zoo, the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma convened a meeting with the magistrates, officials of veterinary and forest departments at Rifle Club in afternoon. He asked to increase vigil to ensure that no migratory bird is fed by visitors. Apart from the river police, the Varanasi Municipal corporation authorities were also directed to ensure strict compliance of this ban. Officials in rural areas were also asked to keep sharp vigil on water bodies and canals, where the migratory birds stay. The chief veterinary officer was asked to send veterinary officials and staff in fields for intensifying the process of sample collection from all chicken and mutton outlets in city and rural areas. The VMC was asked to verify the stock at 400 chicken and 250 mutton shops under its limits and ensure proper sanitation. The officials were also directed to increase awareness among traders. The DM said that each police station will keep phone numbers of veterinary officials to contact in case of emergency. The block development officers were instructed to convene meeting with chicken and mutton sellers of their areas on Tuesday to make them aware about the guidelines and ask them to alert the veterinary officials immediately in case of deaths of birds or animals in mass. The divisional forest officer informed the DM that round the clock monitoring of bird cages at Sarnath zoo has been started by deploying officials and staff. The DM also asked the CVO to carry out health check up drive in each and every Goshala (cow shelters), where arrangement for ailing and injured animals and measures for immediate disposal of dead animals should be made. Officials were also asked to send all stray animals, venturing on highways or along railway tracks to the Goshalas. Earlier, the CVO Sonbhadra AK Srivastava told TOI, “The test report of samples of dead crows sent to Bhopal laboratory has been received. The reports cleared that crows found dead in different areas of Chopan did not suffer from avian influenza following which it is considered that they would have died due to cold.” He said that following the detection of death of many crows on January 6, the additional director (veterinary) Dr Rajiv Gupta had also visited Dala area while three panel of doctors were formed to conduct postmortem examination of dead crows. Patrolling was also carried out along Sone and other rivers. No bird was found dead there.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/admin-imposes-ban-on-feeding-migratory-birds/articleshow/80219990.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Business||Startups & corporate biggies Signal change||BENGALURU/MUMBAI: As the furore over changes in WhatsApp’s privacy policy grows, a wide range of companies have started mandating migration to messaging platform Signal. These include new-age tech startups, older corporates and their senior leadership teams who are now using Signal for day-to-day work chats and sharing of internal documents. Paytm and PhonePe, both of which are threatened by WhatsApp’s recent entry into payments, used the controversy to encourage their teams to shift out of WhatsApp. Naveen Jindal-led Jindal Steel & Power is moving out too. Anand Mahindra, chairman of Mahindra Group, has just installed Signal. Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekaran has been using Signal for some time with several of the group’s senior leadership also using the same platform. Paytm CEO Vijay Shekhar Sharma told TOI he has asked everyone in his team to move from WhatsApp for work communications. “It is clear that we will move off formally from WhatsApp,” Sharma told TOI. PhonePe co-founder Sameer Nigam has moved around half of his team to Signal, along with his office groups, according to a series of tweets from him on Monday. In response to a tweet from serial entrepreneur and Cred founder Kunal Shah that network effects are like religion and most people like to stay in what they were born in, Nigam tweeted, “This time is diff (different). Product wise, Signal has arrived! Moved 1000+ @PhonePe-rs to Signal. Recreated all my work groups. Moved my family groups. Seamlessly. Zero switching cost,” he said. @kunalb11 This time is diff. Product wise, Signal has arrived! Moved 1000+ @PhonePe-rs to Signal. Recreated all m… https://t.co/dqEjCGhAUy— Sameer.Nigam (@_sameernigam) 1610345798000Jindal Steel & Power’s chief HR officer Pankaj Lochan said, “The company is looking at the need of moving away from WhatsApp and considering shifting its day-to-day critical official communication from WhatsApp to the relatively safer messaging platforms like Signal, Telegram, or Google Chat/Meet. Since Gmail is the company’s official platform, there is a thought to make Google Chat/Meet the official channel for communication. The challenge at manufacturing units would be to integrate everyone at the level of frontline workers and those who may not have email accounts.” WhatsApp’s privacy changes, which include sharing of certain data sets with Facebook, will be effective from next month. The controversy comes at a time when WhatsApp’s daily downloads have touched its lowest since September 2020, according to data from app tracker Sensor Tower. Even in Silicon Valley, prominent voices have called for a shift out of WhatsApp. Investor and former senior Facebook employee Chamath Palihapitiya tweeted that WhatsApp had just killed its best feature — privacy. “Please no longer text me on WhatsApp. Download @signalapp,” his tweet said. Starting in Feb, WhatsApp will begin sharing all kinds of data with Facebook. They just killed their best feature -… https://t.co/RGOn0pYrfV— Chamath Palihapitiya (@chamath) 1610293989000Earlier, Tesla’s founder Elon Musk tweeted urging people to use Signal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/startups-corporate-biggies-signal-change/articleshow/80222005.cms||Digbijay Mishra
January 12, 2021||Business||More government borrowing may crowd out private companies||MUMBAI: The Financial Stability Report (FSR) has warned that excessive government borrowing could result in crowding out of private investment. The government is expected to borrow more in order to stimulate the economy even as revenues fall short of projections. The report has looked at business interruption insurance being extended to include pandemic risks, either directly or via reinsurance, where fiscal capacity acts as a limiting factor. If businesses are able to recover losses due to the lockdown from insurance, it will lower the need for the government to provide relief directly or through banks. The FSR has said that sovereign debt is growing to levels that have “intensified concerns relating to sustainability with crowding out fears in respect of the private sector in terms of both volume of financing and costs thereof”. What this means is that the oversized government borrowing would not only take away funds from corporates but would also push up overall interest rates in the system. While the central bank normally does not ease rates when government borrowing rises sharply, this year it has made an exception because of the pandemic by keeping liquidity easy, enabling corporates to borrow more. “While easier financial conditions do support growth prospects in the short run, the longer-term impact in terms of encouraging leverage and inflating asset prices may give rise to financial stability concerns,” said the report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/more-govt-borrowing-may-crowd-out-pvt-cos/articleshow/80222406.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Business||HC restrains Sebamed ads aimed at HUL||MUMBAI: A soap war landed in court on Monday, drawing acerbic lines. The Bombay high court on Monday passed urgent interim orders in favour of HUL against “disparaging” advertising by another soap manufacturer against its brands, including Dove, Pears and Lux. The HC passed the order ex parte against the USV-marketed Sebamed soap till January 14. Justice B P Colabawalla passed the restraining order in a plea by the plaintiff, Hindustan Unilever (HUL), against defendant USV. The HC order said HUL has “made a strong prima facie case” for grant of the relief, and directed, “pending hearing and final disposal of the present suit, the defendant, its parent company, group companies, subsidiaries, directors, servants, officers, employees, representatives, agents, advertising agencies and all other persons claiming under them or acting in concert with them or on their behalf or acting on their instructions” are restrained the defendant from using, publicly communicating its ad campaign under challenge on all platforms including TV commercials, hoardings, banners in any language or in any manner. HUL executive director (legal & corporate affairs) Dev Bajpai said, “HUL’s brands are time-tested and have always delivered on the promise they have made to their consumers”. He added that in the initial days of the pandemic, HUL, as a responsible advertiser, had communicated to the masses that one could wash their hands with any soap as handwashing with soap is the first line of defence against the coronavirus. “However, Sebamed’s advertisement in question is misleading consumers on soap efficacy during these difficult times, and further denigrating and disparaging well-known brands like Lux, Dove, Pears and Rin.” A spokesperson from Sebamed India said, “Our claims are based on solid science and we have robust information and data points to back it up. We have not been served any court order as yet. We are a responsible organisation and we abide by the law of the land.” Counsel for HUL Virag Tulzapurkar and Hiren Kamod submitted that while HUL is “amongst the most well known” manufacturers in the soap segment, USV — in its newly launched ad campaign — claims that its Sebamed soap has a pH level of 5.5 and seeks to give an impression to the consumers and the public at large that any product which has a pH level higher than that is not safe, is harmful and ought not to be used. The “wrongful, misleading and malicious marketing tactics, which are disparaging and denigrating” is with “a view to dent” the market shares of HUL by “targeting” its “popular soap products” which are “ market leaders”, the HUL submitted before the bench. After hearing HUL’s submissions, Justice Colabawalla observed in his order, “It is clear that in comparative advertisements, the defendant is entitled to claim that its product is better or best, provided he does it without denigrating the plaintiff’s product. Further, if the manner of the defendant’s advertisement is ridiculing or condemning the product of the plaintiff, then it amounts to disparagement. Prima facie, in my view, the manner, storyline, intent and message sought to be conveyed by the impugned campaign not only shows that the defendant’s product is better but also ridicules/derogates the products of the plaintiff’s. Prima facie, it does appear that by the impugned campaign, the defendant is trying to influence consumers not to buy the (HUL) products.” The HC sought a reply from USV but gave it liberty to apply for variation of this order with 48 hours prior notice to the HUL advocates, Khaitan & Co.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hc-restrains-sebamed-ads-aimed-at-hul/articleshow/80222413.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress to gherao Raj Bhavan on Saturday against farm laws||MUMBAI: Congress activists led by revenue minister and state president Balasaheb Thorat will gherao Raj Bhavan on January 16 to protest against the new farm laws and unprecedented hike in prices of petroleum products. Thorat said while farmers from more than a dozen states have launched an indefinite strike on the borders of the national capital, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had still refused to reconsider the anti-farmer laws enacted last year. “Farmers are on strike for 40 days, while 60 farmers died in the agitation. Despite such a crucial situation, Modi has not taken any steps for repealing the anti-farmer legislations. It is the most insensitive government at the Centre,’’ Thorat said. To support the agitating farmers in New Delhi, Congress workers in the state will reach Mumbai on January 16 and gherao Raj Bhavan. “The new laws are against farmers and have been enacted for the benefit of some leading industrialists. Congress will support the agitating farmers at any cost,’’ Thorat said. On one hand Modi is determined to destroy the farming community, while on the other hand, following a massive hike in prices of petroleum products the lives of common people had become miserable. “The hike in petroleum product prices is highest in 73 years. In May 2014, excise duty on petrol was Rs9.2, and in last six years, Modi has increased it to Rs 32.98, which comes to 258%, while for diesel, it has increased by 820%,’’ Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cong-to-gherao-raj-bhavan-on-sat-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80220380.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Health workers excited for Covid vaccine shots||PATNA: While the process of Covid vaccination is in the final stages of implementation, healthcare workers selected for the shots in the first phase have a mixed feeling of happiness, excitement, anticipation and curiosity. When asked how he was feeling to be among the first few to get the shots, AIIMS-Patna superintendent Dr CM Singh replied with a laugh, “Definitely we are happy. We have been treating Covid-19 patients for a very long time and there will be no fear after getting vaccinated.” Dr Singh said nearly 3500 healthcare workers of his institute will be vaccinated in the first phase. However, date wise segregation has not been done. Dr Veena Singh, head of the plastic surgery department and a nodal faculty for teaching and training (Covid-19) at AIIMS-Patna, said there was no more fear. She said there was also huge anticipation among the healthcare and sanitation workers as well, as technicians posted at the hospital. “They keep asking questions like the side-effects of the vaccine, how many doses have to be taken and at what interval, when will the vaccine arrive and when will their family members get the shots,” said Dr Veena, adding that there was some fear till December when a large number of daily cases continued. “Now, everyone is waiting for the arrival of vaccines,” he said. Since Dr Veena had registered herself for the third phase trial, she will be giving the shots. “Now, the feeling is like we are about to win the war. It is only a few days left and we will be the winners,” she said. PMCH superintendent Dr Bimal Karak also said there was a positive feeling among the healthcare workers and everyone was ready for the vaccine roll-out programme. Working as a nurse at IGIMS, Anupriya Sharma had dedicatedly served the patients during the initial days of Covid-19 epidemic, before going on maternity leave. “I will be resuming my duty on January 27. I am happy about the arrival of vaccines. Now after taking the shots, we will be on duty without any fear,” said Anupriya, whose husband is a health manager and two of her sisters are also working as a nurse and a nurse tutor. “However, certain negative news regarding vaccines do bring some anxiety,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/health-workers-excited-for-covid-vaccine-shots/articleshow/80219296.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 12, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccine launch: Two Patna hospitals selected||PATNA: Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (IGIMS-P) and Paras HMRI Hospital have been selected among other vaccine sites in the country for the launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive by Prime Minister Narendra Modi through a live telecast on January 16. A health department official said two-way video communication system would be installed at the two selected vaccination centres to facilitate live interaction between the PM and the beneficiaries. Simultaneously, the vaccination drive will also begin at 300 sites across the state. Manoj Kumar, special secretary-cum-executive director of State Health Society, said the two selected health facilities in Patna have been asked to make the required arrangements for live webcast. “Health workers who will receive vaccine dose at IGIMS-P and Paras HMRI would be able to interact with the central team during the live telecast. The other 298 vaccine sites in the state will also make arrangements for the webcast of launch of the vaccine drive,” Manoj said. He also visited the two sites in Patna to review preparations for launch of the vaccine drive. Paras HMRI regional director (east) Dr Talat Halim said arrangements have been made at the same place for vaccination where the dry run was conducted in the second phase. “The PM will interact with some healthcare workers who have been shortlisted for vaccination. Arrangements for two-way communication have been made in one of the conference rooms,” he said. Dr Halim added CM Nitish Kumar might also visit the hospital during the vaccine launch. “However, the CM’s visit is still not confirmed,” he said. IGIMS superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said all the arrangements have been made for the launch of the Covid-19 vaccine and live telecast of PM’s programme. “We are waiting to get the list of 100 beneficiaries who will be vaccinated on January 16,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vaccine-launch-2-patna-hospitals-selected/articleshow/80219228.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 12, 2021||Patna||Fugitive Motihari criminal arrested from Maharashtra||PATNA: It took the East Champaran police almost 18 years to arrest gangster Kamruddin, who had fled during his appearance in the Motihari civil court way back in 2002. Acting on a tip-off, a Motihari police team with the help of Maharashtra police’s crime branch, nabbed Kamruddin in Nashik where he had been dealing in second-hand vehicles for the last 16 years. According to the police records, as many as 21 cases related to murder, kidnapping, loot, dacoity, extortion and Arms Act were lodged against Kamruddin at different police stations in East Champaran district alone. In addition, a case was also pending against him at Bettiah town police station in West Champaran district. “We are in touch with our counterparts in other districts to gather more information about his antecedents,” East Champaran SP Naveen Chand Jha said. A native of Harsiddhi in East Champaran, Kamruddin was staying in New Delhi after his escape from judicial custody. Attempts to nab him earlier proved futile due to leak of the information about police operation. “We had to proceed very cautiously as any lapses on our part would have made him alert and he would have slipped from our clutches once again,” said Jha, who assumed charge as SP of the district last year. The police said no weapon was seized from his possession. He was brought to Motihari from Nasik on three-day transit remand and subsequently produced in a local court, which remanded him to 14-day judicial custody. Kamruddin’s name figured in the list of top 10 criminals of the district. A police officer, who was posted in Motihari, recalled, “His name spelt terror in the entire region. He used to hurl bombs to terrorize the businessmen for extortion.” Though the district police had recommended a cash reward of Rs50,000 on his head, the proposal was turned down on the plea that his name didn’t figure in any recent incident of crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fugitive-motihari-criminal-arrested-from-maharashtra/articleshow/80219146.cms||Ramashankar
January 12, 2021||Allahabad||App launched for onlinebooking of puja & yajna||Prayagraj: Using technology and offering a digital platform to devotees at a time when many are avoiding pilgrimage due to pandemic, an app ‘Bhagwaanji’ offering info about religious sites across the country and facilitating booking for puja and yajna. The app launched by a Mumbai-based entrepreneur Kishor Fogla at the Magh Mela premises on Monday will help devotees and pilgrims in performing religious and spiritual activities online and offline. Any app user can book puja, seva, prasad, VIP passes, guided tours, etc, in both online and offline modes. “I created the app for the convenience of devotees and pilgrims so that they can know about religious sites, puja methods, upcoming festivals, religious and spiritual activities taking place across the country,” Fogla said. “Bhagwaanji app gives a quick access to the larger reservoir of information on Hindu religion. The app will help devotees to know about dharma-karma, puja, vrat katha, bhoj (feast), gau seva. They can also book puja or bhoj online,” he added. “If a devotee from Mumbai wants to perform a special puja at Sangam or wants to hold Brahmin bhoj on Makar Sankranti, but is unable to come, then the person can book it online. The puja or bhoj will be organized after making required arrangements,” he added. The app also offers information about holy cities like Deoghar, Vrindavan, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Haridwar, Ujjain, Rishikesh, Ayodhya. Devotees usually search for priests for performing special prayers and jaap, and can book one through the app easily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/app-launched-for-onlinebooking-of-puja-yajna/articleshow/80218777.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Decentralise, boost party at booth level: Tejas to VPs||PATNA: Leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Monday held a meeting with his party’s state vice-presidents on various issues, including the booth-wise performance in the recently concluded assembly election. The meeting, which went on for nearly two hours at 10 Circular Road, was also attended by party’s national secretary-general Abdul Bari Siddiqui, state president Jagdanand Singh and state secretary-general Alok Mehta along with 22 vice-presidents. A source said the discussion focused on the setback RJD faced in booths where it has strong supporters, and a decision was taken to strengthen booth-level committees. "A decision was taken to properly decentralize and strengthen the party till the booth level and divide the responsibility among office bearers as per hierarchy. There was also discussion on plugging the communication gap, especially with the media," Mehta said. RJD state spokesperson Chitranjan Gagan said discussions on how to inform farmers and the masses about the negative effects of the new agricultural laws. “On January 30, we will form a human chain across the state, and we aim to make people in villages aware of the setback which these laws will have on the ground. We want people, especially those in the villages, to take in large numbers in the human chain,” Gagan said. This meeting with the state vice-presidents came ahead of the meeting with state general secretaries scheduled on January 16 in which about 150 members will participate. Gagan said after both the meetings, Tejashwi will kick start his 'Dhanyavad Yatra', and his schedule will be prepared keeping in mind the upcoming budget session. Gagan added, “Our party is preparing for a mid-term election which will be held this year, probably after the West Bengal election and these meetings are to keep us ready.” Tejashwi held a review meeting last month at the RJD office where he asked party workers to remain active and raise issues of public interest while predicting a mid-term election in 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decentralise-boost-party-at-booth-level-tejas-to-vps/articleshow/80219052.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 12, 2021||Patna||Bihar govt tightens vigil against bird flu, takes precautions||PATNA: With the outbreak of bird flu in at least 10 states, Bihar’s environment, forest and climate change department is taking all precautionary measures in and around the prominent water bodies where migratory birds arrive in winter season. The Centre has cautioned the zoos and asked them to send daily reports to the Central Zoo Authority (CZA). It has also directed all the states to look out for instances of unusual mortality of birds, as a precautionary measure. The state animal and fisheries resources department said bird flu will be dealt with as per the Action Plan for Prevention Control and Containment of Avian Influenza. However, no such case has been reported from any district so far. Joint director, animal husbandry (animal health), Sanjay Kumar Sinha told this newspaper that some carcasses of birds were found in three districts, but none of the reports was found positive. Last week, some birds and chickens were found dead in Patna, East Champaran and Muzaffarpur, raising suspicion about the avian influenza. But the serum samples report of the dead birds did not confirm it. Muzaffarpur animal husbandry officer Sunil Ranjan Singh said around 10 chickens were found dead in a field in Saraiya block on January 8. “It seems someone had killed those chickens as the feathers and some body parts of the birds were also lying scattered all over the place. We have sent the serum samples to the Institute of Animal Health and Production (IAHP) in Patna for test,” he said. Meanwhile, following the Centre’s guideline, the authorities at Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, popularly known as Patna zoo, are taking all precautionary measures to prevent bird flu. Outgoing zoo director Amit Kumar said they have stopped purchasing poultry products like eggs and chicken from outside Bihar. “All the poultry products for zoo inmates are being delivered by the department through local vendors. Besides, we have enough food in the storage,” he said. Amit said disinfectants like virkon and lime powder are being used on regular basis to sanitise the zoo premises. Aviary enclosures have been put up to prevent any contact with outside birds. The zookeepers have been asked to keep a tab on the birds’ behaviour. Special preventive gears have been provided to the zookeepers looking after the birds. The city zoo has 500 birds of 30 different species. Principal secretary of department of environment, forest and climate change, Dipak Kumar Singh, told this newspaper that the officials of all six bird sanctuaries in Katihar, Hajipur, Jamui, Begusarai, Bhagalpur and Darbhanga are keeping strict vigil on migratory birds. “So far, no death has been reported. If there is any death, we will report it to the animal husbandry department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-govt-tightens-vigil-against-bird-flu-takes-precautions/articleshow/80219160.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 12, 2021||Patna||Consensus on cabinet expansion soon: RCP||PATNA: Three days after CM Nitish Kumar said BJP has not submitted its list of candidates to be ministers, JD(U) national president RCP Singh on Monday said cabinet expansion would be done soon with consensus among all the NDA partners. “Nitish Babu is the leader of NDA in Bihar and all four parties in the alliance have resolved to make Bihar a developed state. All departments are distributed between the four allies — JD(U), BJP, HAM(S) and VIP. The cabinet expansion will happen on time,” RCP said. Indicating towards the unholy period of ‘kharmas’, considered inauspicious for doing anything new, as the reason behind the delay in cabinet expansion, Singh said: “You all (reporters) also know that there is great deal of belief about auspicious and inauspicious in Bihar.” Following the NDA victory in the assembly elections, Nitish was sworn in along with 14 other ministers on November 14 last year. However, Mewalal Choudhary had to resign three days later, leaving 13 ministers in the cabinet apart from CM Nitish. Seven of them are from BJP, four from JD(U) and one each from HAM(S) and VIP. According to sources, the cabinet expansion was likely to be held after the winter session of state legislature in the last week of November, but could not be done. Nitish said on Friday last that the BJP leaders, including their state incharge Bhupender Yadav, did not discuss the cabinet expansion issue during their meeting with him a day before. “Cabinet expansion will happen after they (BJP) submit their report,” Nitish had said. JD(U): RJD will merge with BJP: A day after BJP’s Bihar incharge Bhupendra Yadav claimed that RJD leaders had a big challenge to ‘save their party’, JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh alias Lallan Singh said on Monday that the party led by Lalu Prasad will merge with BJP as soon as Bhupendra decides. “There is a commotion in RJD. Bhupender ji is still not saying much. The day Bhupendra ji decides, RJD will be merged with BJP,” Lallan told reporters at the JD(U) headquarters here. Earlier on Sunday, Bhupendra had said at a press conference at Rajgir: “The RJD leaders keep giving different kinds of statements. I would only like to tell them that we are silent because of ‘kharmas’. After Makar Sankranti, they should focus on saving RJD, we will take care of the rest in Bihar.” RJD, on the other hand, rubbished such claims. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari said the NDA government will collapse after kharmas. “BJP is thus restless seeing the government’s fall,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/consensus-on-cabinet-expansion-soon-rcp/articleshow/80219044.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 12, 2021||Patna||VVIPs in Delhi to savour ‘Katarni chura’ of Bhagalpur||BHAGALPUR: As many as 200 gift packs containing Bhagalpur’s ‘Katarni chura’ (flattened rice), which is popular for its unique aroma and fine quality, have been sent to the President, Prime Minister and Union ministers in New Delhi ahead of Makar Sankranti. According to district agriculture officer Krishna Kant Jha, a ‘bhoj’ (feast) will be organized for VVIPs at the Bihar Bhavan in Delhi where ‘Katarni chura’, curd and tilkut will be served on January 14. “This is for the first time that ‘Katarni chura’ has been sent to VVIPs in Delhi. Its aroma and taste cannot be replicated anywhere else in the world,” Jha told this newspaper, adding that it had immense export potential if marketed properly. ‘Katarni chura’, exclusively grown in villages under Jagdishpur block of Bhagalpur district and Rajoun block of Banka district, had recently earned a geographical indication tag for its aromatic flavour and palatability. It is eaten in different forms. For instance, the ‘chura’ is consumed with curd, tilkut and jaggery or sugar in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh and parts of Nepal on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, a festival observed by people in the lunar month of ‘Magha’ to celebrate their harvest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vvips-in-delhi-to-savour-katarni-chura-of-bhagalpur/articleshow/80219175.cms||Kumar Rajesh
January 12, 2021||Patna||Work hard for revival of Congress in state: Bhakta||PATNA: Newly-appointed Bihar Congress incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Monday said the party would be strengthened in the state as per the wishes of its workers and people. He also asked the state Congress leaders to ghereo Raj Bhavan over the issue of farmers’ agitation. Bhakta, who is on a two-day visit to the state, held a six-hour-long meeting with party workers, present and former legislators and state committee members. Some Congress members expressed unhappiness over distribution of tickets during the recently held assembly elections in the state and demanded organizational changes in the party. Congress’s media cell president H K Verma said Bhakta asked the party members to work together and revive the past glory of Congress in Bihar. Bhakta lashed out at the Centre over the recently enacted three farm laws which have triggered a nationwide farmers’ protest. “Bihar is my karma bhoomi. It is the state from where several movements had been launched,” he said. State Congress president Madan Mohan Jha presented ‘Mithila Paag’ and bouquet to Bhakta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/work-hard-for-revival-of-congress-in-state-bhakta/articleshow/80219119.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 12, 2021||Patna||Police rescue 18-year-old boy from angry mob in Patna||PATNA: An 18-year-old boy was saved from the clutches of an irate mob here on Monday, thanks to the timely intervention of police. The victim, Abhishek Kumar, however, sustained injuries as the mob thrashed him. The incident took place at Patel Nagar under the Shastrinagar police station area here. Five people were seen forcing Abhishek to sit in a car. People mistook them as kidnappers and thrashed one of them. However, a police team rushed to the spot after. All occupants of the car were brought to the police station where they revealed that they all were friends and not kidnappers. The injured, Abhishek, a resident of Ara in Bhojpur, was released after first aid. SHO of Shastrinagar police station Vimlendu Kumar said the youth was released on personal bonds after interrogation. Lab technician’s body found: Police recovered the body of a 27-year-old man from Raja Bazar under Airport police station in Patna on Monday. No external injury mark was found on the body. The victim was later identified as Rakesh Kumar, a lab technician. SHO of Shastrinagar police station Vimlendu Kumar said the body was handed to the Airport police station. “The postmortem report will reveal the cause of Rakesh’s death,” he added. Family members of the victim, however, have accused Rakesh’s colleagues of plotting the murder. Two boys handed over to Nepal cops: The Jakkanpur police on Monday handed over two minor boys to a Nepal police team after completing legal formalities. The boys were reportedly kidnapped from Birgunj in Nepal when they were going to attend their coaching classes and brought to Patna in a goods vehicle. The victims somehow managed to dodge the kidnappers and reached the Jakkanpur police station on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/police-rescue-18-year-old-boy-from-angry-mob-in-patna/articleshow/80219092.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Despite SC order, BMC not evicting ‘land-grabbing’ dhobi?||sssMumbai: Almost a year after Supreme Court orders, Kalina residents have said BMC is not evicting an alleged land-grabbing dhobi, because of which work on a new road has hit a dead end. Local activist Abraham Mathai alleged that instead of taking action against Ram Kanojia (75), who allegedly usurped a building in Kalina, the land on which it stands and approach road to three housing societies, BMC officials are intimidating him. In a recent letter to Alka Sasane, assistant municipal commissioner, H-East ward, Mathai said Sasane intimated him after he complained against BMC’s inaction to the minister of state for urban development. “I am extremely shocked by your disrespectful and intimidating behaviour to me after meeting Prajakt Tanpure. Just because the minister expressed concern about your reluctance to clear impediments for the 22-ft road despite SC directions you cannot throw that anger on me,” Mathai said. Kanojia allegedly usurped the 10,000-sq ft approach road to Red Rose, Mini Rose and Park Bay housing societies Supreme Court had last year directed him to make way for BMC to build a storm water drain and approach road. Residents said that while the entire stretch of road was 22 feet wide, it was only eight feet wide near Kanojia’s bungalow, and work on the new road had stopped as the bungalow was not demolished. Lawyer Rajesh Kanojia, son of Ram, said their structure was not in the way of road work and was legal. “All allegations are baseless. In fact I want BMC to implement the SC order as per the chart mentioned in it. BMC had said in an affidavit to SC that the compound wall and gate of one society was blocking the road-widening. So our structure is not the real impediment,” Rajesh said. “I have challenged the minister’s order in HC along with BMC’s move to withdraw the demolition notice for the wall and gate issued to the society. BMC is not implementing the SC order. I have a clear title but they are trying to implicate us to grab our land,” Rajesh said. Mathai has urged BMC to demolish the structures. Sasane did not respond to calls and text messages from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-sc-order-bmc-not-evicting-land-grabbing-dhobi/articleshow/80220387.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Business||Cognizant acquires Servian and Linium||Chennai: Announcing two acquisitions in a single day, IT major Cognizant said on Monday it has acquired Sydney-based digital consultancy firm Servian and US-based cloud transformation company Linium specialising in the ServiceNow platform. The financial details of the deals were not disclosed, and both transactions are expected to close in the first quarter of 2021, subject to regulatory clearances. With these buys, Cognizant has made 11 acquisitions in the past 12 months at an aggregate investment of approximately $1.4 billion. All the acquisitions relate to its strategic focus areas of cloud, data and AI, digital engineering, and Internet of Things. Linium helps Fortune 100 clients and others leverage cloud technology to improve operational efficiency and user experience, and is Cognizant’s seventh cloud-related acquisition since January 2020.The acquisition of Servian significantly expands Cognizant’s end-to-end digital transformation capabilities in Australia and New Zealand (ANZ) to help clients move to the cloud, build digital products and services, unlock value from data, modernize enterprise applications, and achieve operational excellence. Servian’s 500+ technology and consulting professionals, based primarily in Australia and New Zealand, will join Cognizant, doubling the size of Cognizant’s cloud and data team in ANZ. Linium’s about 150 professionals will join Cognizant’s global ServiceNow practice. Headquartered in New York, Linium also has operations in Canada, India, and the UK. Founded in 2008, Servian has worked with over 190 major companies in ANZ in the banking, telecommunications, insurance, retail, and government sectors including eight of ANZ’s 15 largest companies. Cognizant has over 1,200 professionals in Australia serving more than 110 clients including Australian banks, insurers, retailers, and communications companies. Since 2004, Linium has delivered more than 3,500 successful engagements for digital platform development, customization, and management services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cognizant-acquires-servian-and-linium/articleshow/80220514.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Despite minor hiccups, citypasses vaccine dry run test||Lucknow: As the final dry run for Covid-19 vaccine rollout was conducted smoothly in the city on Monday, the district administration announced that the entire exercise at all the centres will be monitored through CCTV cameras from Integrated Command and Control Centre at Smart City building. Speaking about preparations for the vaccination campaign scheduled to be lauched on January 16, district magistrate Abhishek Prakash said while 61 centres, including some with multiple booths, had been set up. “On the first day of the campaing on January 16, vaccination will be carried out at 16 centres including KGMU, Era’s Lucknow Medical College and Hospital, SGPGIMS and community health centres of Maal and Mohanlalganj,” the district magistrate said. He also directed officials to complete necessary formalities by January 15. Earlier in the day, barring minor hiccups, the final dry run of the campaign was carried out at 61 centres on a satisfactory note. Mock vaccine vials were transferred from the nodal centre at urban community healthcare centre (CHC) in Aishbagh to different cold chains across the city, on Sunday. “This model will be replicated for actual vaccine run as well. From CHC Aishbagh vials will be sent to cold chains on January 15. The cold chains will then distribute the vaccine to its nearest hospitals and vaccination sites on January 16. This was also a part of Monday’s drill,” district immunisation officer Dr MK Singh said. Unlike the first and second dry runs where lower number of healthcare beneficiaries were engaged, all 61 centres of the city were tested on Monday for full capacity of phase one vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/despite-minor-hiccups-citypasses-vaccine-dry-run-test/articleshow/80222509.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Cable men clear wire mess on Bypass connector||Kolkata: Dead wires tangled around lamp posts are being snipped along Rashbehari Avenue-EM Bypass connector since last week. These include defunct TV cables, broadband and telecom wires. According to All Bengal Cable and Broadband Operators United Forum (ABCBOUF), which is pulling down the wires, 50km of dead cables have been removed so far. “We have managed to identify and remove the defunct wires that have been clogging the lampposts. The work has been completed till Acropolis mall, which is about a kilometre from Ruby crossing, from where it had begun. We will cover another 3.5km, till the Gariahat junction,” said Tapash Das of ABCBOUF. The effort has been undertaken by ABCBOUF with support from the Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) that has provided a hydraulic ladder for the job.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cable-men-clear-wire-mess-on-bypass-connector/articleshow/80219910.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccines to reach Bihar by Thursday: Bihar government||PATNA: State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar on Monday said Covid-19 vaccines would reach Patna on or before January 14 and the immunisation programme will begin on January 16. “We will get both Covishield and Covaxin vaccines,” he added. Manoj said while 20,000 doses of Covaxin will be provided to Bihar in the first lot, the quantity of Covishiled has not been declared by the Centre yet. “The vaccines will be transported to the state vaccine store at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital from the airport in a freezer van. From NMCH, the vaccines will be transported to 10 regional vaccine stores across the state,” Manoj added. He said the vaccines will be sent to district storages in cold boxes from the 10 regional stores. At district level, the vaccines will be stored in deep freezers. At various blocks, the vaccines will be stored in ice lines. Nearly 4.62 lakh healthcare workers have registered for Covid vaccination in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/govt-covid-vaccines-to-reach-bihar-by-thursday/articleshow/80219512.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 12, 2021||India||Repeal laws, apologise to farmers, Congress tells PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Flagging the Supreme Court’s “anguish” over the failure of government in finding a solution to the farmers’ protest, Congress Monday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should immediately repeal the three “black farm laws” and apologise to the “64 crore annadata”. AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala said, “Never in last 73 years has a government been exposed in this fashion for its arrogance, intemperate behaviour and insensitivity towards the farmers. PM Modi should realise that the only thing acceptable to farmers is the immediate repeal of the three black laws.” On the apex court’s suggestion of forming a committee on farm laws, the spokesman said, “We respect the SC and its concern for farmers. But the repeal of law lies at the doorsteps of the government and not the SC... the government has already made a committee headed by home minister Amit Shah. The issue is not of committee but of the insincerity of Modi government. The farmers are not fighting a legal issue but are fighting a struggle for livelihood and existence.” Jairam Ramesh picked on the court’s reference to the government’s “ego” to mock the PM, “It is about ME. My Ego”. Surjewala, Haryana state chief Kumari Selja and AICC state incharge Vivek Bansal told reporters that the SC should lodge a case against PM Modi, Shah as also chief minsters Yogi Adityanath and Manohar Lal Khattar for digging up roads to prevent the farmers from coming to the capital. When suggested that there were concerns about possible disturbance, Surjewala said if farmers had been allowed to sit on dharna at Jantar Mantar or Ramlila Maidan, there would have been no such fears. “If farmers want to come to the capital and protest in a Gandhian fashion, they have the democratic right to do so and the SC will support it,” Surjewala said. Selja lashed out at CM Khattar for blaming the Congress for protests. “I urge all MLAs supporting the Haryana government to withdraw support in public interest,” she said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/repeal-laws-apologise-to-farmers-congress-tells-pm-modi/articleshow/80223497.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Surat||Third offence under GujCTOC registered in city||Surat: Third offence under Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime Act (GujCTOC) was registered in city on Monday. Police charged Ashraf Nagori gang under GujCTOC in offence registered at Lalgate police station. However, cops are yet to declare details of the complaint since the key accused of the gang are yet to be arrested.Police booked Nagori and his four associates under the stringent act the track record of the gang members. The gang is allegedly involved in over 50 offences in the city. They have been booked for various crimes like possessing arms, smuggling of arms, assault, threatening and extortion. “Cops are working on some important lead in the case and once the preliminary investigation completes, the case details will be declared,” said a senior police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/third-offence-under-gujctoc-registered-in-city/articleshow/80219253.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||MLA Badnera Ravi Rana moves Bombay HC against MVA halting works in Amravati||NAGPUR: Three-time MLA from Badnera Ravi Rana has moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court alleging that Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has arbitrarily stopped development works worth Rs25 crore in the district without any reason. The newly constituted division comprising Justice Nitin Jamdar and Justice Anil Kilor on Monday issued notices to state urban development department secretary, Amravati collector and municipal commissioner, asking them to reply within two weeks. Rana is second legislator after BJP’s Govardhan Sharma from Akola, who has knocked the judiciary’s doors claiming stopping of development works in his constituency. The petitioner, through counsels Tushar Mandlekar and Rohan Malviya, pointed out that the government has cancelled sanctioned works by way of administrative decision on March 2 last year without assigning any reason. He quoted the government’s notification of March 17, 2020, through which blanket prohibitory orders were issued for stopping all works. Rana also mentioned another similar notification of October 29, by which works under the special scheme — Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Samajik Vikas Yojana — were also halted. According to Rana, he was trying hard to bring funds for Amravati district and had succeeded to a large extent. Rana submitted representations made by him to the previous government. Due to his efforts, the then BJP government had sanctioned Rs5 crore under municipal corporation basic amenities development fund scheme. Tenders were also floated, but work orders couldn’t be issued due to declaration of assembly elections, the petitioner said. Subsequently, the new government under chief minister Uddhav Thackeray cancelled the pending works, he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mla-rana-moves-hc-against-mva-halting-works-in-amravati/articleshow/80219250.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Drop the idea: Feeding pigeons in Delhi may spell trouble||NEW DELHI: Blue rock pigeons are fed at multiple spots across the city, including traffic islands. Despite reports of many unusual bird deaths in the city and safety warnings, the feeding continues unabated. Senior municipal public health officials have warned that with multiple bird flu cases in the capital, people should try to stay away from pigeon swarms and these feeding spots. “Pigeons have already been known to cause breathing and skin disorders. Under the current situation when avian flu has caused many bird deaths, people should avoid coming in close proximity with these birds or their excreta. The large sizes of swarms increase the risk of infection being passed,” an official advised. While New Delhi Municipal Council has decided to remove the vendors selling bird feed at busy intersections, the municipal corporations have still not taken any decision. The mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, Jai Prakash, said it was a good idea to regulate these feeding points and the civic body was also considering taking action in coming days. The east and south corporations, too, confirmed that no final decision had been taken. “Delhi Municipal Corporation Act empowers us to act in case the animal population starts to cause a public health crisis. With no check on them by other predatory birds like kites, the population of these pigeons are assuming the category of urban bird pests. If a public health emergency situation develops, we can take action under DMC Act,” an official said. Ornithologists say pigeon droppings and feathers — especially accumulating in an area — can increase the chances of respiratory disorders like histoplasmosis, candidiasis and salmonellosis. If the droppings somehow land in the water or food consumed by human beings, e-coli can cause nausea, fever and cramps. The birds are also carriers of ectoparasites, including bed bugs and yellow mealworms. Birders say constant feeding by people at these traffic islands creates food security that helps pigeons breed. They can breed five-six times a year. The dominance of pigeons has also pushed birds like sparrows and mynahs away from the urban setting. The bird excreta generated by the pigeons is also a cause of multiple diseases. Each pigeon is estimated to create 11.5 kilograms of excreta every year. Being acidic in nature, it also causes damage to buildings and monuments through acidic saltpetre, besides spreading salmonella germs. Managing the pigeon population is now the responsibility of the veterinary department. “Pigeons are covered under Wildlife Protection Act, 1972 and managing such wild animals and their habitat is mandated by forest departments, not local bodies,” said a senior official. A public health official said, “Several decades ago, control of animal causing diseases used to come under the public health department. Later, it was shifted to the veterinary department.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/drop-the-idea-feeding-pigeons-may-spell-trouble/articleshow/80221790.cms||Paras Singh
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Congress to take farm laws protest to guv’s doorstep||Mumbai: Congress activists led by revenue minister and state party president Balasaheb Thorat will gherao Raj Bhavan on January 16 to protest against the new farm laws and an “unprecedented” hike in fuel prices. Thorat criticized Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who he said was refusing to reconsider the “anti-farmer” laws enacted last year, despite protests launched by farmers from more than a dozen states. “Farmers have been on strike for 40 days, while as many as 60 farmers died during the agitation,” Thorat said. “Despite such a crucial situation, the Prime Minister has not taken any steps to repeal the anti-farmer legislations. It is the most insensitive government at the Centre,’’ Thorat added To support the agitating farmers in New Delhi, Maharashtra Congress party workers will head to state capital Mumbai on January 16 and gherao Raj Bhavan, he said. “The new laws are against farmers and have been enacted for the benefit of some leading industrialists. Congress will support the agitating farmers at any cost,’’ Thorat said. On the one hand, Prime Minister Modi is determined to destroy the farming community, while on the other, following a massive hike in prices of petroleum products the lives of common people have become miserable, Thorat said. “The hike in the prices of petroleum products is the highest in 73 years,’’ Thorat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-to-take-farm-laws-protest-to-guvs-doorstep/articleshow/80221777.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Anil Deshmukh chairs four-hour long marathon meeting on Maharashtra Shakti bill||NAGPUR: The 21-member joint select committee headed by the state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday met women’s and lawyers’ bodies at the Vidhan Bhavan to discuss suggestions on the proposed Shakti bill which has now been tabled before the state legislative assembly and is expected to be debated in both the houses in the coming session in March. The meeting, which kicked off at 3.15pm, lasted four hours. In the first meeting, the committee met women organizations from different parts of Vidarbha followed by a second round of discussions with legal practitioners. The proposed enactment in Maharashtra was designed on the lines of the Disha Act of Andhra Pradesh formulated after the gang rape and murder of a Hyderabad-based veterinarian. Deshmukh had led a team of senior police officials to Hyderabad to study the Disha Act. After Nagpur, similar meetings have been scheduled in Mumbai (January 19) and Aurangabad (January 29). According to an insider, activists Seema Sakhre, Rupa Kulkarni and Nutan Rewatkar, advocate Rekha Barhate, ex-mayor Archana Dehankar and others actively took part in the debate and strongly suggested stricter laws encompassing other aspects like the judiciary, health, women and child development apart from the police as the investigating agency for dealing more efficiently with any situation. The lawyers’ body comprising high court bar association (HCBA) president Gauri Venkataraman, district bar association president Kamal Satuja, Kailash Dodani and others spoke about various issues pertaining to the technical application of the law and enforcement policies. Sources stated that lawyers too strongly suggested provision for filing an offence in case of false complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/deshmukh-chairs-four-hour-long-marathon-meeting-on-shakti-bill/articleshow/80219271.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Workers’ strike hits garbage lifting service in 3 zones||NAGPUR: Door-to-door garbage lifting in Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth and Dhantoli remained affected after employees of AG Enviro, one of the garbage lifting companies, launched a strike to oppose removal of 140 colleagues. The agitating employees have also threatened to intensify their stir from January 12 if the firm does not reinstate the employees removed during Covid-19 crisis. “The stir would affect entire door-to-door garbage lifting of five zones; Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Dhantoli and Nehru Nagar,” said president of Nagpur Zilla NMC Contractual Workers Association Yugal Vidawat. The agitated employees of AG Enviro will sit on dharna at Vidhan Bhavan Square. In a memorandum submitted to the civic chief, the association has alleged the firm has terminated 140 employees without any prior intimation. Of these, 80 are cleaning staff. They should be rehired, it has demanded and also asked for minimum wage fixed by the government to be paid apart from payment of PF, ESI, leaves, uniforms and other material as per rules. They also demanded recovery should not be made from the driver in case of an accident, the memorandum stated. Vidawat said they will resort to an indefinite stir from January 12 as no demands were being met despite repeated hearings by the labour commissioner. It has also claimed that employees of BVG—another garbage lifting firm — will also participate in the strike. Deputy municipal commissioner (sanitation) Dr Pradip Dasarwar admitted lifting of garbage was affected in some zones in the morning, which was later restored by evening. He also said the firm has been asked to ensure daily garbage lifting service regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/workers-strike-hits-garbage-lifting-service-in-3-zones/articleshow/80219275.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Schools get nod to hold classes in one 5-hour shift||LUCKNOW: All the secondary schools recognized by CBSE, ICSE, and UP Board in the state can now run classes for Classes IX to XII on the campus in one shift of five hours, from 10am to 3pm, instead of two earlier. The order issued by special secretary, secondary education Aryaka Akhouri said the government has decided to allow all secondary schools recognised by different boards in the state to run classes in one shift, from 10am to 3pm. Before reopening secondary schools on October 19 last year, the government had directed to hold classes in two shifts. Classes for IX and X were held in the first shift from 8.50am to 11am, followed by Class XI and XII from 11.30am to 1.30pm in the second shift. Additional chief secretary (secondary education) Aradhana Shukla said, “Considering the weather, it has been decided by the government to allow schools to run in one shift.” With the change, now all four classes — IX, X, XI and XII can be run simultaneously while maintaining social distancing norms. The representatives of the Unaided Private schools association had met deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma on Monday requesting nod for conducting classes in a single shift of five hours and got the approval for the city schools as well. The representatives claimed that the deputy CM also gave a positive reply to their request of starting classes for VI to VIII in the offline mode with the consent of parents. “The deputy chief minister has given a positive response regarding reopening of schools for class VI onwards,” said Anil Agarwal, president of Uttar Pradesh Unaided Private School Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/schools-get-nod-to-holdclasses-in-one-5-hr-shift/articleshow/80222521.cms||Isha Jain
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Centre reply sought on Lutyens’ property plea||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday sought the response of Centre and Directorate of Estates (DoE) on a suit seeking damages over a property in Lutyens’ Delhi, that was taken over during the 1975 national Emergency. Its forfeiture during the Emergency was set aside and declared illegal in 2014. The suit has been filed by children of 94-year-old Veera Sarin, who recently approached the Supreme Court to declare as unconstitutional the national Emergency imposed by the Congress government in 1975. Justice Manoj Kumar Ohri issued summons to DoE, ministry of labour and employment and Competent Authority under Smugglers And Foreign Exchange Manipulators (forfeiture of property) Act (SAFEMA) in the suit and asked them to file written statements. The high court listed the suit before the joint registrar on February 26, for completion of pleadings, service of summons and admission/denial of documents in the suit that has sought from the central government damages of Rs 2.20 crore, Rs 9.89 lakh, Rs 43.5 lakh for loss of market rent, outstanding maintenance charges and outstanding property tax respectively in relation to illegal use and occupation of a property in Ansal Bhawan, Kasturba Gandhi Marg from May 1999 to July 2020. Plaintiffs Rajiv, Deepak and Radhika Sarin have filed the suit against DoE, the ministry and the competent authority, in relation to the property, which was taken over by the central government authorities. The suit says they are the owners of the property, which was forfeited by the authorities under (SAFEMA) in 1998 and it was leased out to DoE prior to forfeiture. The DoE stopped paying rent to the plaintiffs admittedly from May 1, 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/centre-reply-sought-on-lutyens-property-plea/articleshow/80221782.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NCB quizzes Muchhad Paanwala after drugs found in warehouse||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has claimed to have recovered contraband from the warehouse of the city’s famous Muchhad Paanwala at Kemps Corner. Officials were questioning Ramkumar Tiwari following the recovery of a substance that falls under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act. The contraband was supplied by Karan Sajnani, a British national who was arrested on Saturday after officials found ready-to-use ganja joints from his home. Officials said the contraband is not an ingredient in the paan. “We are questioning him to ascertain if the contraband is being sold through his shop,” an official said. “After questioning, we will decide the next course of the action.” The paan shop, which gets its name from the thick moustache sported by the founder and his sons and grandsons, is a hit among people from the affluent section and has seen many loyal customers, including top Bollywood actors. Possibly the only paan shop in the city to have a website, its wide variety of paans is available on food delivery apps. The website has a picture of Jaishankar Tiwari, father of Ramkumar who is being questioned. The website says they are originally from Tiwaripur village in Hadia district of Allahabad. Three generations of the Tiwari family have been managing the shop. On Saturday, the NCB had arrested Sajnani, Rahila Furniturewala and her sister Shaista Furniturewala. They have been booked for financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-quizzes-muchhad-paanwala-after-drugs-found-in-warehouse/articleshow/80221800.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||International schools in Mumbai seek to reopen for exams||MUMBAI: International schools in the city requested the BMC education department to allow reopening for classes IX to XII from January 18, as the Cambridge International is scheduled to begin their examinations from the end of the month. While schools in the rest of state reopened on November 23 for higher secondary, Mumbai and Thane districts have not allowed schools to do so. BMC has asked schools to remain shut till January 15. With Cambridge International expected to start the March series from January 23, the Members of International Schools’ Association (MISA) in a letter to the municipal commissioner, Iqbal Singh Chahal, requested they be allowed to reopen schools. “A few subjects are offered only in the February-March session and if a student misses these exams, they might lose a previous year. The students and their parents are extremely worried about this and are under a lot of stress regarding the conduct of the board exams in Mumbai due to the BMC’s present decision,” said the letter. The association assured that schools will follow all protocols listed by state and local authorities. Following the request, the BMC education department wrote to the commissioner recommending physical sessions be resumed for classes IX to XII across boards to prepare for board exams. A Cambridge International spokesperson said, “We work with schools in 160 countries and most said they want to run exams in March and June, in line with guidance from national and regional authorities.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/intl-schools-seek-to-reopen-for-exams/articleshow/80222888.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Covid death count falls in Nashik city in last 4 days||Nashik: The number of fatalities from Covid-19 infection has reduced in the city in the last four days. Compared to the 18 deaths reported between January 1 and 7, the city recorded only one death in the last four days between January 8 and 11. There were no Covid-related fatalities for three consecutive days from Friday to Sunday. One reportedly died of Covid on Monday. Bapusaheb Nagargoje, medical superintendent of NMC, said, “Both the number of patients contracting the infection and the number of serious patients have reduced at large. The number of recovered patients getting discharge per day is more than the number of new patients.” Of the 74,010 cases which have been registered in the city so far, 72,045 patients have recovered and 994 have succumbed to the infection. The Covid death rate has reduced to 1.34% and is hovering around the same range for the last few days. Moreover, the number of active patients has declined by 43% from 1,711 as on December 21 to 971 on Monday. Of the 4,572 Covid beds reserved in civic and private hospitals in the city, around 3,910 beds are lying vacant. While 662 patients are taking treatment in the Covid care centres and dedicated Covid hospitals in the city, 309 active patients are taking treatment from home.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/covid-death-count-falls-in-nashik-city-in-last-4-days/articleshow/80219266.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man jumps into sea, rescued by cops||MUMBAI: A team of Marine Drive police spotted a man jumping into the sea near Nariman Point on Monday morning. They called the police control room, but since no boat was available, Cuffe Parade police took help from a fisherman and used his boat to reach the man who had managed to swim close to Raj Bhavan in Malabar Hills. Police personnel rescued him and took him to GT Hospital. The man is 25 years old, and is a Borivli resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-jumps-into-sea-rescued/articleshow/80222884.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Residents near Sainik Farm to get regular water supply||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Monday ended the 50-year-long wait for war veterans, widows and decorated officers to get regular water supply in area near Sainik Farm. Given land in the 1970s by the Centre in what now constitutes the Defence Services Enclave in southwest Delhi, the original 54 allottees and their descendants have been waiting since then for regularisation and access to basic amenities, including potable water. Justice Jayant Nathtook note of their plight over the last 50 years as the area — being an unauthorised colony — was denied basic amenities like water and sewage connections. The court observed that the petitioners were all “retired defence personnel who have devoted the most productive period of their lives defending the nation’s borders and performing other dangerous and difficult tasks normally performed by defence service officers”, yet were still waiting for the Centre and Delhi government to take a call on regularisation. It directed Delhi Jal Board to immediately frame a scheme within nine months for providing drinking water to them, reminding the board that the “right to access to drinking water is fundamental to life.” The bench noted that “it is a settled position of law that an individual has a right to access to drinking water in quantum and quality equal to his basic needs... Further, the petitioners, in my opinion, cannot be deprived of the right to access to drinking water merely on the ground that it is an unauthorised colony.” In their plea the 54 residents said they meet water requirements via four tube wells as an interim arrangement and electricity was provided later. The court also asked the secretary, ministry of defence, to set up a committee having representatives of urban development ministry and Delhi chief secretary, to take a decision within four months on regularising the Defence Services Enclave, as was directed by the court earlier in another petition related to unauthorised constructions in south Delhi’s Sainik Farm. The high court underlined that the veterans were to be treated differently and cannot be termed as affluent persons to be equated with nearby Sainik Farm residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/residents-near-sainik-farm-to-get-regular-water-supply/articleshow/80221795.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Bird flu scare leads to spurt in mutton sales in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: With bird flu scare in parts of the country, the price of mutton (goat/sheep meat) in the city saw a sudden jump, with many vendors selling it for anywhere between Rs 750 and Rs 850 per kg — a marked Rs 100 to Rs 150 per kg rise. The average mutton price was Rs 650 per kg in the first week of January. But despite the price rise, vendors said that they were seeing a good demand. “On January 10 (Sunday), the demand was similar to the demand we see on Dasara and Bakrid,” Ahmed, who works at a meat shop in NBT Nagar, Banjara Hills Road number 12, said. Though online meat delivery stores did not change their mutton rates too much, they admitted to it selling more than chicken. In fact, some even offered ‘special offers’—discounts of Rs 40 to Rs 50 per kg—on chicken owing to reduced demand. “There is surplus sale of mutton in the last few days. Chicken, on the other hand, isn’t selling as usual,” the manager of a meat store in Panchavati Colony, Manikonda, said. When TOI spoke to customers they said that they did either shifted to mutton or other sources of protein, as they did not want to take a chance “I am not afraid of eating chicken. It’s just that I don’t want to take a chance. My family also insisted we switch to other forms of protein,” said Sameer Khan, a freelance photographer. The civic body meanwhile, has been conducting special drives, to check whether the meat is stamped or not. “We have penalised more than 50 people in six days. Cases have been booked under GHMC Act too,” Dr Abdul Wakil, GHMC chief veterinary officer, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bird-flu-scare-leads-to-spurt-in-mutton-sales-in-city/articleshow/80221796.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||65% Nagpur struggles with alternate day, low pressure water supply||NAGPUR: People living in 65% areas of the city are complaining of inadequate and low pressure water supply since Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) started alternate day water supply five days ago. From January 6, NMC had started alternate day water supply in areas coming under Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth, Hanuman Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Gandhibagh, Mangalwari and parts of Satranjipura and Ashi Nagar zones for 30 days. This was done to take up repair works at five leakages in 2,300mm diameter pipeline between Itgaon and Karambhad. The NMC supplies water to Nagpur city through two sources — Pench reservoir (480 MLD water per day) and Kanhan (200 MLD) river. The affected areas are receiving water from Pench. After the alternate day water supply was implemented, on the first couple of days citizens of these zones managed but now they have started complaining. NMC had said people will get adequate water supply and under good pressure after the introduction of alternate day water supply. But not only residents, even elected representatives now say this claim is proving to be false. Independent corporator from Central Nagpur Abha Pande said the civic body has actually not planned properly before taking up the work. The residents of Satranjipura zone, which too gets water from Pench reservoir, is badly hit due to alternate day water supply. Pande said on Sunday a morcha of residents from her prabhag in Itwari gheraoed her for low pressure water supply. “We received low pressure water supply on Saturday. So, we were not able to store sufficient water for Sunday. We will have to use the stored water sparingly, so that it suffices till Monday morning, when we will get water again,” aggrieved residents informed the corporator. Various other areas in west Nagpur too received inadequate and low water supply on Sunday. Some of the affected areas are Zingabai Takli, Dabha and Friends Colony. Asmita Bhatt, a resident of Govind City, pointed out that they are not against repair works or alternate day water supply. But the low pressure water and reduction in supply of water timing has increased the problem further. “There are 100 flats in our society. Earlier we used to get almost four hours of water, which was sufficient for the four towers in the society. But now we are getting water for only one and a half-hour, which is insufficient for such a large society, where no other water arrangements are possible,” she said. Rahul Sahare, resident of a flat scheme in Laxmi Nagar, too complained about low water pressure. “It has forced us to depend more on well water. As a result, the groundwater levels are expected to fall in a few days due to over-usage. This means in the future, we may have to depend on water tankers,” he pointed out. During the month-long period, NMC is not pumping water from Pench reservoir and instead supplying water to the city through a 48km canal from Navegaon Khairi to Mahadula. The condition of the canal is not satisfactory due to breaches at several places. NMC is lifting around 450 MLD water through the canal and leaks are leading to a lot of water going waste, admitted water works committee chairman Vijay Zalke. NMC kick-starts repair works Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation appointed private firm — SEW — for repair and maintenance works of 2,300mm diameter pipeline supplying 480 MLD water from Pench reservoir has started works of plugging leakages. “The firm has detected two leakages and started the work,” said a senior official from NMC’s water works department. Over a year ago, the civic body had detected the leakages, but NMC ignored it. These leakages were causing loss of almost 5 MLD water every day. “We have detected two huge leakages in the 2,300mm diameter pipeline at Itgaon, where repair works have already started,” said the official. “The work to dig and reach the pipeline at three other places has also started. Soon their works too will be done on war footing,” he said. Along with this, NMC has also undertaken work of installing flow meters at seven places. The flow meters will help NMC know exact losses of water. The cost of the project by NMC to install seven flow meters is Rs2.03 crore. Of which, three meters will be installed at Mahadula, one at Itgaon, two at Gorewada treatment plant and one at Navegaon Khairi. Of them, the work to install three flow meters — two at Gorewada treatment plant and one at Itgaon — has been completed. Rest too will be done soon, the official claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/65-nagpur-struggles-with-alternate-day-low-pressure-water-supply/articleshow/80222886.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: Complaints against land sharks flood home minister’s redressal camp||NAGPUR: State home minister Anil Deshmukh’s second complaint redressal camp at the Police Gymkhana on Monday witnessed a landslide of grievances against the land mafia who have grabbed land and property of gullible owners, mostly from the middle and lower class. Victims have been running from pillar to post to seek help but in vain. Most of the 75 officials complaints plus an additional 50 plus grievances put up before Deshmukh revolved around property grabbing, extortion and threatening by the land mafia. A stunned Deshmukh, accompanied by CP Amitesh Kumar and other senior police officials, issued instructions to file FIR against big fries in property grabbing rackets. The home minister called up a sub-registrar, who did not attended the camp, but sent a senior clerk, asking for an explanation in one of the land frauds following a complaint from one Salim Baig. Deshmukh repeatedly expressed his displeasure regarding the sub-registrar and land record offices as relentlessly victims voiced their grievances as to how their plots were sold more than once and ownership changed despite disputes. “Zamin inki, plan sanction dusre ki, Kaise? Karwai kara!” (The plot belonged to him but the sanction was given to someone else. How can such a thing take place? Take action,” said Deshmukh after one Gangadhar Nakate complained of land grabbing. DCP Vivek Masaal was instructed to include the issue in the minutes of the meeting and also for a review in the next. After hearing the emotional grievances of one of the victims (Nitin Gedam) about the modus operandi of the land mafia, zonal DCP Akshay Shinde was urged to tackle the problem in a robust manner. “Even if there is a civil suit pending in cases, tackle these land sharks with your style of tough policing,” said the home minister. Gedam brought to the fore the manner in which his newly-purchased house was usurped in 2015 by someone who is now harassing him. Kumar pointed out to the home minister that he has already written to MMRDA and NMC to lodge a complaint in significant cases where residential plots and apartments were sold even when there was no change from agricultural land to non-agricultural (NA). This issue was discussed after one of the complainants, Ishwar Girde, pointed out how 19 families were suffering as the ownership of the plots sold to them were not transferred. Following a complaint from one Mamta Gumgaonkar, Deshmukh asked Zonal DCP Shinde to initiate strict departmental action against constable Vilas Narad of Sakkardara police station who had been allegedly disputing with the victim over a property. “Our men should not indulge in such condemnable activities,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/complaints-against-land-sharks-flood-home-mins-redressal-camp/articleshow/80219280.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 12, 2021||Varanasi||On Maneka tip, police seize lorry carrying goats on e-way||Kanpur: On an information provided by Sultanpur BJP MP Maneka Gandhi, the police intercepted and seized a lorry overloaded with a consignment of livestock on Agra-Lucknow Expressway near Araul area under the limits of Bilhaur police station of the district on Monday. Four persons in the meat business have been booked in this connection and police have launched a probe. Inquiries revealed that the consignment of goats, belonging to Mohd Nafees, Mohd Shareef, Mohd Anees and Raju of Harimau area of Amethi district, were for butchering. Police said that the lorry was overloaded with nearly 56 goats and no fodder was available. “Also, the livestock was transported under inhuman conditions without adhering to the guidelines mentioned under Transportation of Animals Rules,” police added. Police said, “As many as 56 goats, of which 14 belong to Raju, 15 to Mohd Nafees, 16 to Mohd Anees and Mohd Shareef, were being transported under very pitiable condition from Kannauj to Amethi via Agra-Lucknow Expressway. However, MP Maneka Gandhi, who was passing that way on coming across the lorry overloaded with goats asked her security staff to approach Bilhaur police and lodged a complaint in this regard.” “Acting on a tip-off, a team of Bilhaur police station arrived at the spot and took the lorry overloaded with livestock into its custody and detained four of its owners,” police said. “We have registered a case against livestock owners Mohd Nafees, Mohd Shareef, Mohd Anees and Raju of Harimau area of Amethi under relevant sections, including The Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Further investigations are underway in this regard,” said Inspector Billhaur PN Bajpai. He said that the animals as of now were being kept at Bilhaur police station and the accused are said to be in the meat business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/on-maneka-tip-police-seize-lorry-carrying-goats-on-e-way/articleshow/80220174.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Meet Geeta Tiwari, UP's lady don||LUCKNOW: In a rare case, the history-sheet of woman don Geeta Tiwari, 40, has been opened by Gorakhpur police. In Deoria jail since November for an attempt to murder case, Tiwari has been booked under Gangster Act. She is named in eight cases, mostly of robbery and loot. Circle officer Kotwali Virendra Pratap Singh said that Tiwari is also into drug peddling. “She was shifted from Gorakhpur jail following complaints of misbehaviour and fights with other women inmates,” said the officer. Tiwari’s history sheet was opened in Tiwaripur police station, said SHO Sandeep Singh. “She is very hostile and picks up quarrels easily. She had got two youths killed last year at a birthday party of her relative in Gorakhpur last year,” said the SHO. Tiwari used to live in a shelter home until she got married to a social activist named Shivkumar Tiwari in 2009, police said. Thereafter, Tiwari started conducting the orchestra. She and Shivkumar lived in a rented house in Kotwali. “However, the couple began drug peddling. When their house was raided about 10 years ago, five criminals were arrested. That was the first time that Tiwari had gone to jail,” the SHO said. In 2016, when Shivkumar died, Tiwari took over all his business. She also went to jail in cases of theft. When criminals started coming to the house, police registered Gangster Act against her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lady-don-creates-trouble-in-jail-cops-open-crime-sheet/articleshow/80222543.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Delhi||SDMC to allow factory operations on all floors in conforming areas||NEW DELHI: Factories operating on industrial plots in South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) areas will soon be able to increase their operational space capacity. The standing committee of SDMC has decided to grant factory licence for operations on all floors in the units on industrial plots. “Currently, the licence is being issued only for the ground floor. Due to non-sanctioning of building plans for other floors, there is no optimum utilisation of industrial premises. Also, there are many instances where premise owners illegally start utilising the first and second floors for industrial activities. This amounts to violation on account of illegal use of premises beyond the existing norms,” a senior SDMC official explained. “There is no express provision debarring the municipal corporation from issuing the factory licence for other floors,” he added. Rajdutt Gahlot, the standing committee chairman, said that the move would help create employment opportunities and also, enhance the productivity of available resources to optimum level. After the SDMC House relaxes the licensing norm, in conforming areas like Mayapuri, Okhla, etc, certain medium, light and service industries would initially be allowed on the first and second floors of the industrial units where the building plan is already available for the ground floor. The list of permissible activities is likely to include 52 service industry trades, 136 light industry trades and 119 types of household trades. Heavy red category (Category F) industries, including acids and chemicals, steel casting, however, may not get to enjoy the benefit of the norm relaxation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sdmc-to-allow-factory-ops-on-all-floors-in-conforming-areas/articleshow/80221824.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Officials act to prevent flu from spreading wings||NEW DELHI: With the capital reporting confirmed bird flu cases, the key municipal bodies have started taking steps to prevent its spread. While New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) has directed the enforcement department to remove all vendors selling bird feed from busy intersections, the municipal corporations on Monday decided to set up monitoring committees and dedicated enforcement teams. “Our staff members are requesting the vendors to cooperate for the time being. In NDMC areas, there are many locations where people come to feed pigeons,” said an official. The areas from where vendors are being removed include Vijay Chowk and Satya Marg roundabouts, Sansad Marg, Gole Market, RK Ashram Marg, Shankar Road, near Talkatora Stadium, Vinay Marg T-Point, F-Block Connaught Place and Brig Hoshiyar Singh Road. In an advisory, the medical superintendent of the veterinary hospital at Moti Bagh has been directed to explore the need to buy screening kits and submit weekly reports of field inspections. NDMC has also formed a rapid response team under the supervision of the medical superintendent for coordination among all departments concerned. The health department has been asked to do surprise checks of restaurants and eateries regarding procurement of chicken. The director of medical services has been directed to make advance preparations to deal with any case of avian influenza. Any case of pneumonia coupled with respiratory distress with a recent history of contact with birds should be referred to major hospitals like RML, AIIMS, Safdarjung and Sucheta Kriplani, said an official. Shopkeepers dealing with chicken and its products have been told to use masks and gloves, and immediately contact the NDMC control room if they notice largescale/unusual deaths among their birds. Sanitary staffers have been directed to keep bird corners in parks and gardens and areas around waterbodies clean. On Monday afternoon, the death of a crow was reported from Chanakyapuri’s Rajdoot Marg. “The dead crow has been handed over to the veterinary department,” an official said. East Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Nirmal Jain said rapid response teams would monitor meat shops, poultry farms and parks for any unusual bird deaths or bird flu symptoms in its areas. “All gardeners and horticulture staffers are being sensitised.” The bird carcasses should be buried in 2-3ft-deep pits treated with lime and disinfectants, Jain added. The first series of crow deaths were reported from a municipal park in Mayur Vihar Phase III. Separate field teams are being set up to make meat shop owners aware about the symptoms and tell them to contact municipal helplines or the regional veterinary nodal officer in case of unusual deaths of chicken. A joint task force headed by north corporation mayor Jai Prakash will monitor the overall situation in its jurisdiction, with six zonal committees being in charge of respective areas. “We will soon issue an advisory for sell of only well cooked eggs and field teams will ensure that no chicken slaughter takes place,” he added. Advisories will be put up outside parks and meat shops and awareness campaigns will also be conducted. “Officials have been directed to create a helpline number for information on dead birds in open areas,” the mayor said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/officials-act-to-prevent-flu-from-spreading-wings/articleshow/80221839.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Anil Hirekhan as new registrar caught Nagpur University by surprise||NAGPUR: Anil Hirekhan’s appointment as Nagpur University’s new registrar on Friday came as a big surprise to NU officials. He was directly appointed by the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government after the post was left vacant for over two-and-a-half years due to NU administration’s apathy. On Monday, Hirekhan took over charge from incumbent Neeraj Khaty in the presence of VC Subhash Chaudhari and pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe, after having made many attempts to get appointed for the last two-and-a-half years, after Puran Meshram’s term ended on June 30, 2018. NU officials said despite Hirekhan’s repeated attempts, former VC SP Kane ruled him out citing “lack of experience” and preferred handing over additional charge to Khaty, who was also looking after duties as Board of Examination and Evaluation (BOEE) director. Chaudhari confirmed that the NU administration wasn’t consulted before Hirekhan’s appointment, but clarified that the government had special powers to make such appointments as per the new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, if the post remained vacant for a long time. “He would be on one year deputation as a registrar. We also wanted to fill up the post, as we had already interviewed the candidates. Due to Covid-19 pandemic, we couldn’t proceed further. Filling up the post is VC’s prerogative, but we need a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the government for which we had already applied. As soon as we get an NOC, we will restart the process to fill up the post on full-time basis,” Chaudhari told TOI. After being denied a chance by Kane, Hirekhan had moved the State SC/ST commission, where member CL Thool ruled in his favour and asked NU administration to hand over charge to him. However, Kane stuck to his stand that the new University Act accorded rights to VC to appoint a “suitable person” for the register’s post until the new incumbent was appointed. Earlier, NU had twice published advertisements and conducted interviews for the registrar’s post, but couldn’t fill it up owing to one or the other controversy and alleged pressure from political outfits to get their candidate on the post, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hirekhan-as-new-registrar-caught-varsity-by-surprise/articleshow/80222908.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 12, 2021||Kanpur||51 crows, 9 pigeons found dead in Kanpur amid bird flu scare||KANPUR: Two days after a lab report from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal confirmed bird flu or ‘avian influenza’ in two red jungle fowls that died recently at Kanpur zoo, as many as 51 crows and nine pigeons were found dead in the city on Monday, causing scare and panic. Local authorities, who have been taking all steps to contain the spread of bird flu, sent four carcasses — two each of crows and pigeons — to the Bhopal lab for ascertaining the cause of their death. Also, blood and swab samples collected from 81 chickens were sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly for tests. These samples were randomly collected from different localities. Chief veterinary officer, Dr RP Mishra, told TOI on Monday, “ Our teams came to know that some crows and pigeons were lying dead. They visited different spots and found out the reality. A total of 51 crows and nine pigeons were found dead and carcasses of two crows and two pigeons are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal to ascertain the cause of the death in view of the spread of bird flu .” He added that random sampling from 81 chicken was done and these samples were being sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly. “The samples include blood and swab samples collected from chicken on a random basis,” he added. “The situation is under control and there is nothing to worry about. All necessary steps are being followed. Our teams are keeping an eye over the entire situation,” Dr Mishra emphasised. He added that no bird was culled on Monday and the culling would be carried out only if there is a need. Earlier, the zoo was on Saturday closed after confirmation of bird flu or the dreaded avian influenza in two red jungle fowls that were found dead in the zoo hospital premises recently. Between January 2 and 7, four red jungle fowls had died while six had been culled at the zoo on suspicion of having the dreaded avian disease. The zoo administration had sent the swab samples of two of these birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal for confirmation regarding avian influenza. The lab report that came late on Saturday evening, confirmed bird flu in the dead birds following which the zoo campus was sealed and made out of bounds for the visitors with immediate effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/51-crows-9-pigeons-found-deadin-city-amid-bird-flu-scare/articleshow/80220095.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Holding breath near Covid patients ups infection risk||Chennai: If you thought holding your breath or breathing slower could protect you from Covid infection when you pass by an individual with or without a mask, think again. A study by IIT Madras has found holding your breath or breathing slower in front of a Covid positive person may only increase the risk of contracting the infection. A team from the department of applied mechanics modelled the breathing frequency in a laboratory and found that the slower and deeper a person breathes, the greater the chance of the virus depositing deep in the lung. When you breathe slower, the aerosol particles stay longer inside the lungs and the changes are greater that they will reach and deposit deep in the lung, said Prof Mahesh Panchagnula, who led the research team of Arnab Kumar Mallik and Soumalya Mukherjee. “The morphometry and bronchioles of lungs as well as breathing pattern varies with individuals. So, it is hard to control that. But it affects the deposition rates,” he added. Researchs globally found coronavirus spreads mostly through tiny droplets released when an infected person sneezes or coughs. The IITM team replicated the droplet dynamics in the lung by studying the movement of droplets in the small capillaries or blood vessels which were similar in size to bronchioles or air passages in the lungs. For the study, they mixed fluorescent particles in water and generated aerosols from it using a nebulizer. The aerosols were then tracked for movement and deposition in the capillaries with a diameter of 0.3mm to 2mm. The scientists found that when the aerosol movement is steady, the particles deposit in the lung by chance, but when movement is turbulent they deposit upon impact. In an earlier work, the group also studied the variability in aerosol uptake from individual to individual, suggesting a reason why some people are more susceptible to airborne diseases than others. “The core motivation of this work is to understand why some people are more susceptible to airborne disease than others. There’s a biological immunity aspect to it but there is also a lung morphometry which could be different in some people, causing one person to be slightly more susceptible to infection than others,” Prof Panchagnula said. “In some other related work, we found that the efficacy of wearing a mask is very good. If a Covid positive person wearing a mask coughs or sneezes, the aerosol production rate goes down by almost a factor of 1000. The mask also protects you from the large droplets produced when a person sneezes or coughs. It cuts both ways,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/holding-breath-near-covid-patients-ups-infection-risk/articleshow/80220268.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow Municipal Corporation cleans vacant plots, slaps notices on owners||LUCKNOW: Days after TOI highlighted how vacant plots are being used as open dumping sites in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension, the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) swung into action and started cleaning the piled up garbage. Notices have also been issued to the owners to construct boundary walls within 30 days to prevent plots from turning into garbage dumps again, failing which a penalty of Rs 1 lakh will be imposed under the Solid Waste Management Act, 2016. Times ViewGarbage dumps on vacant plots have become a menace which can be addressed only through joint efforts of LMC and residents. The civic body will have to clean the plots and penalise those who do not follow rules. Owners will also have to ensure that plots are not used for dumping waste. LMC should ensure that every household is covered in door-to-door garbage collection programme. Residents will have to ensure that they throw garbage at the designated place or give it to the collector.A recent survey by the Gomtinagar Jankalyan Mahasamiti had found that over 3,800 vacant plots in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension have been converted into garbage dumps. As garbage collection and cleaning in the two areas is inadequate, many residents dump household waste in vacant plots. TOI had, on January 8, highlighted how these garbage pile ups are posing a threat of disease outbreak. Following the report, the civic body started cleaning up vacant plots, not only in Gomtinagar and Gomtinagar Extension, but also in other parts of the city. It has cleaned more than 160 vacant plots so far in Gomtinagar, Jankipuram, Alambagh, Aishbagh, Aashiana, Aliganj, Mahanagar, Nishatganj, Vikasnagar and Indiranagar. Officials said five to six vacant plots were being cleaned daily. Municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Zonal officers have been asked to issue notices to plot owners and impose fine if they do not follow the directions.” Secretary, Gomtinagar Jankalyan Mahasamiti, Raghvendra Shukla said, “Garbage dumping in plots can only be stopped if strict action is taken against the owners. We hope the new decision can solve the long pending problem.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/lmc-cleans-vacant-plots-slaps-notices-on-owners/articleshow/80222537.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Horticulture varsity gets new VC||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao has decided to appoint B Neeraja Prabhakar as the vice-chancellor of Konda Laxman Bapuji Horticulture University. The CM also appointed Vangur Ravinder Reddy as the VC of PV Narasimha Rao Veterinary University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/horticulture-varsity-gets-new-vc/articleshow/80221801.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Sultanpur doctor who treated injured shooters held; 1 more nabbed in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: Lucknow police detained a doctor from Sultanpur and another person from a flat in Lucknow on Monday in connection with the murder of history-sheeter Ajit Singh. A crime branch official told TOI that accused Rehan, who was arrested on Sunday, had revealed the names of Dr AK Singh of Sultanpur and Vishal Singh. Police also traced WhatsApp chats between Vishal and an eastern UP don-turned-politician. Officials said that Vishal stayed in a flat in Gomtinagar extension registered in the name of the eastern UP don-turned-politician. As per the plan, Vishal was to take the shooters out of Uttar Pradesh. However, the plan got upset after the alleged shooters, Girdhari Sharma and Pradeep Singh Kabutra got injured, the police said. As a result, the shooters were first taken to the flat by Rehan and Vishal and a private doctor was called to treat them. Thereafter, the eastern UP don-turned-politician reportedly made arrangements for the duo at Sultanpur by informing Dr AK Singh, said the police. “On January 7 morning, the duo were taken to private facility of Dr AK Singh in the red-coloured SUV by Vishal,” said the police. The injured shooters were admitted under fake names to conceal their identities till the treatment on January 10, police said. Later, they were taken in a maroon-coloured car and dropped till Ujjain in Madhya Pradesh. “We have checked the entire conversation and also seized Vishal’s mobile phone,” said a police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sultanpur-doctor-who-treated-injured-shooters-held-1-more-nabbed-in-city/articleshow/80222529.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Surveillance must to curb Covid: CM Yogi Adityanath||LUCKNOW: Highlighting the importance of Covid-19 testing in bringing down coronavirus cases in the state, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials to carry out contact tracing and testing with full commitment. Reviewing situation with Team-11 in the state on Monday, the CM said: “A crucial role has been played by contact tracing and surveillance activities in weakening the chain of novel coronavirus infection. Therefore, the two activities must continue in full capacity.” He said that care should be taken at every level in view of Covid-19 and more people should be made aware of the ways to prevent corona infection. Meanwhile, the state recorded 516 new cases in the past 24 hours taking the total to 5,93,680. ACS, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that of the total 5,74,312 have recovered while 8,504 have died. “The state’s recovery rate has increased marginally. On Monday, it was reported to be 96.74%,” he said reiterating that though vaccine had arrived, it will be provided to the people in need in a phased manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/surveillance-must-to-curb-covid-yogi/articleshow/80222577.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 12, 2021||Allahabad||Allahabad HC seeks govt info on school fee waiver||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court on Monday sought information from the UP government counsel regarding a PIL alleging that certain private unaided schools of Gautam Budh Nagar are acting contrary to the policy declared by the state government on July 4, 2020. The policy provides that even if anyone fails to make the payment of fees, the student should not be stopped from online learning and on this basis, the name of such student cannot be removed from the school register. Hearing a PIL filed by one Praveen Antal and 22 others, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Saurabh Shyam Shamshery directed the state counsel to avail necessary instructions (information) from district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar with regard to the compliance of the state policy in question. The court has fixed January 21 as the next date of hearing of the matter. According to the petitioners, during the period of lockdown, declared due to Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had on July 4 declared a policy that provided that even if anyone fails to make the payment of fee, the student should not be stopped from online learning, and on this basis the name of such student cannot be removed from the school register. The petitioner alleged that some private unaided schools of Gautam Budh Nagar are acting contrary to the said policy. The petitioners have given certain references in this connection in the petition and requested the court to pass necessary directives in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-seeks-govt-info-on-school-fee-waiver/articleshow/80218786.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Aarogya Mela to be held at health centres every Sunday||Lucknow: The sought-after Mukhyamantri Jan Aarogya Mela will now be held every Sunday at rural and urban primary health centres. The move comes after the success of the mela held on Sunday, in which 2.6 lakh people were screened for diseases, deficiencies, disorders or defects. Informing that of those screened, 6,214 were referred to a higher centre, additional chief secretary health and family welfare Amit Mohan Prasad said: “The CM has instructed that the Mela should be organized at all urban and rural primary health centres every Sunday.” Almost 25,000 Ayushman Bharat Golden Cards were also made on the occasion. The Mela has made a comeback after nearly 10 months. The weekly exercise is a brainchild of CM Yogi Adityanath and aims to extend basic health services to every poor in rural and urban areas. The programme takes doctors, diagnostic facilities and drugs to the field. “The authorities had apprehensions about adherence to Covid-19 safety protocol but everything went off well. In fact more than 43,213 people were screened for Covid-19, too. Of these, 31 were found positive,” said an officer. The success of Aarogya Mela on seven dates in February and March last year was evident from the fact that 31 lakh people received health benefits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aarogya-mela-to-be-held-at-health-centres-every-sunday/articleshow/80222560.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Icy winds drag temperature down by 6°C||LUCKNOW: Cold conditions revived in the city on Monday with both day and night temperatures dropping by 4-6 degrees in the past 24 hours. Icy winds that started blowing on Sunday evening prevailed all day on Monday. The minimum temperature was 8.5 degrees Celsius, a drop of six degrees in comparison to Sunday. Similarly, maximum temperature dropped by four degrees from Sunday to 20.9 degrees Celsius on Monday. State Met director JP Gupta said that the chill factor created by the dry winds from snowfed mountains has revived cold conditions across UP. In Lucknow, he added, maximum and minimum temperatures are expected to drop by a degree or two on Tuesday and Wednesday. Shallow fog may also occur during morning hours on the two days. The city witnessed extreme cold conditions for the first three days of the month, but thereafter maximum and minimum temperatures were 4-7 degrees above normal. In rest of the state, weather is expected to remain dry with fog expected at a few places. Some areas in west UP and districts bordering Uttarakhand may witness cold day and cold wave conditions, with maximum and minimum temperatures dropping 5-6 degrees below normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/icy-winds-drag-temp-down-by-6c/articleshow/80222556.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Meet on tackling bird flu: Telangana CM to CS||HYDERABAD: Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday directed officials to be on high alert, as bird flu has spread across the country. The CM instructed chief secretary Somesh Kumar to hold a meeting on Tuesday on the precautionary measures to be taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/meet-on-tackling-bird-flu-cm-to-cs/articleshow/80221798.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Govt to invite bids for 20-storey twin towers||Chennai: The state government will soon float tenders to construct twin towers on Anna Salai at Nandanam. The buildings, which will serve as commercial hub, will have 20 floors each and be connected by a skybridge across Anna Salai. The government had, in 2017, planned to make the buildings the state’s tallest skyscrapers with 36 and 50 floors each, modelled on the Petronas Towers in Kuala Lumpur. However, the ambitious plan was cut short as the chosen site for the structures, approximately 10km from the city airport, is on the flight path. Three years on, the government has decided to move ahead with the project by reducing the storeys to 20. The buildings will serve as a commercial hub and be rented out mostly to finance companies. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, who holds housing and urban development portfolio, held discussions with senior officials from the finance and housing and urban development departments on Monday about the project. Official sources privy to the meeting details said the state government will be floating tender for construction soon. The multi-storeyed buildings will come up on land parcels of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) headquarters on one side of Anna Salai and that of Periyar Building located diagonally opposite to it. The two land parcels measure about nine acres. According to the TNHB sources, the Tamil Nadu Infrastructure Fund Management Corporation Limited, promoted by the state government, is handling all work related to construction of the commercial hub. “The Airports Authority of India (AAI) has been approached for obtaining a No Objection Certificate,” a TNHB official said, adding that the number of floors was decreased to avoid AAI denying a NOC. AAI’s NOC is essential to obtain planning permission from the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority for such highrises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/govt-to-invite-bids-for-20-storey-twin-towers/articleshow/80220303.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Chauri Chaura site to become heritage spot||LUCKNOW: To mark 100 years of the Chauri Chaura incident, a landmark event in the country’s fight for independence, the state government will be holding year long programmes and plans to develop the place as a heritage tourist spot. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said that events should start from February 4 and continue till February 4 next year. He said that along with beautification of the Chauri Chaura Shadeed Memorial in Gorakhpur, the area should also be developed as a heritage tourist spot on the lines of India Gate, Jallianwala Bagh and Cellular Jail in Andaman. A government spokesperson said that events to commemorate the Chauri Chaura incident will be held every day. This will include creating awareness about the incident among children. Candles and lamps will be lit at martys’ memorials and at statues of leaders of the independence movement. UP government has beautified the Chauri Chaura Shaheed Memorial at a cost of Rs 2.17 crore.  The memorials of Pandit Ram Prasad Bismil and the Dohria Kala Shaheed Memorial in Gorakhpur jail have also been beautified at a cost of Rs 1.88 crore and Rs 82 lakh, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chauri-chaura-site-to-become-heritage-spot/articleshow/80222636.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Suspicious death case filed by woman in Jagathgirigutta||HYDERABAD: A woman lodged a complaint in Jagathgirigutta on Monday claiming that a man, with whom she has been in a relationship, died after he suffered injuries under suspicious circumstances. She said that when he returned home, he was drunk and had injuries on his face. A case was registered under section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPc.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/suspicious-death-case-filed-by-woman/articleshow/80221830.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Co-morbid adults below 50 to get vaccine in 4th phase||LUCKNOW: As the country gears up to launch the much awaited Covid-19 vaccination programme, the UP government announced that adults with co-morbid conditions below 50 years will be given the vaccine shots in the fourth phase of the programme. Sources said that since the vaccine trial data on children was scarce, a call on this count will be taken later on. “While preparations for the first phase were tested once again in the final dry run held across the state, strategy for subsequent phases is being drawn. In the first health workers will be covered, while thereafter those engaged in essential services will be given the vaccine shots. In the third phase, 50 plus population would be covered. Adults below 50 years with any co-morbid conditions would be vaccinated in the fourth phase,” stated additional chief secretary, heath and family welfare. Sources revealed that UP has drawn a list of nine lakh health workers besides preparing an inventory of 18 lakh essential services personnel. Documentation for the third phase in which 50 plus population is to be covered is being made. As per estimates, around 3.25 crore persons would be covered. Insiders revealed that census data has been extrapolated to list out the 50 plus population. The basic information is being crossed checked with Aadhaar and election data to come to the final figure. Census data will also be used to finalise the primary age cohort and then trim it to obtain a list of those with co–morbid conditions. Data for this will be taken from national programme for prevention of non-communicable diseases, medical institutes. The government may also open registration for this phase particularly to facilitate those in the rural areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/co-morbid-adults-below-50to-get-vaccine-in-4th-phase/articleshow/80222600.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 12, 2021||Surat||Develop cyber Aashvast unit in Surat, NCW member says||Surat: Rajul Desai, member of National Commission for Women will push strengthening of the cyber crime police station in the city as well as developing the Cyber Aashvast unit considering the rise in cyber crime against women. Desai, who is set to send a missive in this regard to the state government, will also emphasize on the need to strengthen the Sakhi One Stop Centre (OSC) which is not utilised at its maximum capacity. In the city on Monday, Desai held meetings with district administration, police and officials of leading educational institutes including Veer Narmad South Gujarat University (VNSGU), Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology (SVNIT) and Uka Tarsadia University on Monday. She has come to the city was part of her visit to districts of south Gujarat and will visit Navsari, Tapi, Valsad and Dang during the week. “OSCs have the best facilities that are under utilised. A woman can get legal advice, police assistance, medical support, psycho social counselling, amonf many more. But due to lack of awareness women are not getting benefits from it. I have suggested the district administration to create maximum awareness,” Desai told TOI. “NCW receives a large number of cybercrime complaints from all states. Hence we need to focus on it on all cities,” Desai told the police officials.  “If the city police have good infrastructure to detect cybercrime cases they can play an important role in helping women to fight these crimes,” Desai added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/develop-cyber-aashvast-unit-in-surat-ncw-member-says/articleshow/80219244.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||AGEL to set up solar power unit in Chitrakoot||Lucknow: Adani Green Energy Limited (AGEL) on Monday announced commissioning of a 25 MW solar power plant in Chitrakoot. The plant will have a power purchase agreement (PPA) with Noida Power Company Limited (NPCL) at Rs. 3.08 per unit. With this commissioning AGEL’s total operational renewable capacity has grown to 2,975 MW across the country. The plant will be connected to state-of-the-art energy network operation centre (ENOC) that will continuously monitor and analyse performance of 80 plus solar and wind plants across diverse locations in India, the company said in a statement. Recently, AGEL has also commissioned and announced a 100 MW solar power plant, despite the pandemic backed by advanced resource planning. With the commissioning of this project AGEL total renewable capacity has grown to 14,795 MW including 11,820 MW awarded and under implementation projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/agel-to-set-up-solar-power-unit-in-chitrakoot/articleshow/80222668.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to get Covid vaccine stocks today, app can be fed data ‘offline’||MUMBAI: The state will receive the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine stocks on Tuesday, officials said. Senior state bureaucrats were in an online meeting with Central officials till late on Monday, where the details about allocation and logistics were being discussed. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, told TOI the vaccine stocks would arrive from Pune. Covishield (the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine) is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India. Principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas said the allocation by the Centre to states was still being finalized. The video conferencing with central officials is still on, he said late on Monday. Among other states, health officials from West Bengal said they were expecting 9.5 lakh doses to reach Kolkata by air on Tuesday. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Monday attended a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi ahead of the January 16 national vaccine roll-out. The PM confirmed in the meeting with all CMs that the state governments will not have to bear any cost towards vaccinating three crore priority population. “Centre will bear this cost,” Modi said. Thackeray said the state machinery was geared to implement the Covid vaccination drive in the state, while directing the administration to ensure coordination between agencies to make the drive a success. The CM also held a meeting with the state's health department and vaccine task force members to review preparations regarding transportation, storage and inoculation. Senior officials said the state indeed was likely to get Covishield. “We have requested the Centre to ensure that there is only one vaccine used in one state which will ensure better regulation and management,” said a top official. For the first phase of the vaccination drive, nearly eight lakh health care workers from Maharashtra will be covered, for which 511 centres have been set up across the state. State officials, meanwhile, have been told that the COVID Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWin) application will allow data to be uploaded in an offline mode for centres where internet connectivity is an issue. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said that the offline option was given after several states spoke of issues with online connectivity. “As far as possible all the data has to be uploaded on a real-time basis. But there will be some leeway where internet is a problem,” he said. State officials have said healthcare workers who may not have linked their mobile numbers to their Aadhaar may face an issue during the priority phase of vaccination. The Centre has retained Aadhaar-based authentication for Covid vaccination. But officials warned that insisting on the linkage could pose a problem and they may have to rely on driver's licence, PAN and other forms of photo IDs to verify beneficiary details. State health minister Rajesh Tope raised a concern with Union health authorities regarding the lack of a 'refusal' option in the CoWIN system. Tope said that during vaccine dry runs in the state on January 2 and January 8, state officials noted that the CoWIN system needs to record dropouts among beneficiaries. “Central officials had made a note of this concern. But they are yet to revert,” the health minister said. “There is now little clarity on how to update status on the app if someone doesn't want the vaccine or is unable to make it to a vaccination site. There needs to be a space where the beneficiary can cite reasons.” (With inputs from Pune)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-get-covid-vaccine-stocks-today-app-can-be-fed-data-offline/articleshow/80222953.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Solapur: Man arrested for raping 13-year-old girl||KOLHAPUR: Solapur city police have arrested a man for raping a 13-year-old girl. The suspect has been booked under relevant sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO) and the Schedued Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Assistant commissioner of police Vaishali Kadukar told the media that the accused was wanted in 26 other offences registered against him at different police stations in the Solapur city. Police said the suspect approached three girls who were playing in a ground and introduced himself to the victim as a friend of her father. He promised the girls chocolates and took all three of them on his motorcycle for a ride. He then asked the two other girls to wait at a particular spot and took the victim to a house that was under construction. However, the security guard there became suspicious and drove them away. The accused then took the girl to another property and raped her. He dropped the girls at the spot from where he had picked them. A family friend noticed the victim crying and immediately alerted her parents. The girl narrated her ordeal following which her father rushed to the police station and lodged a complaint. Police zeroed in on the suspect with the help of CCTV footages and the statement of some eye witnesses who had seen the suspect taking the girls on his bike. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/man-arrested-for-raping-13-yr-old-girl/articleshow/80219313.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Nursery admissions: Delhi govt to take call soon||NEW DELHI: The AAP government has assured the Delhi high court that in 2-3 weeks, it will frame guidelines or take a decision if nursery admissions will be conducted for the upcoming academic session of 2021-22. The government said this in response to a petition, which sought the court’s direction to postpone nursery admissions in view of the prevailing pandemic. Justice Prateek Jalan disposed of the plea by a lawyer while taking on record the stand of the AAP government and a direction that the petition be treated as a representation by the government. Appearing for the state government, standing counsel Ramesh Singh told the court that the information or opinion provided by the petitioner would be taken into account while framing guidelines or taking any decision with regard to nursery admissions. The high court made it clear it had not expressed any view on merits of the plea and disposed of the petition by lawyer Rajat Vats, which also sought direction to Delhi government to make some guidelines or pass resolution for postponement of nursery admissions for the protection of children in the age group of 3-4 years. During the hearing, Singh submitted that “no guidelines have yet been issued by the government for nursery or entry-level for the upcoming academic session and the plea by Vats is premature as there can be no nursery admissions till the guidelines are issued.” The petitioner told the court that “some private schools have already started the nursery admission process.” “Certain directions are required to be issued to protect the fundamental rights of children in the age group of 3 to 4 years regarding the nursery class admission (for) which the government of Delhi is likely to grant permission for physical or online courses just to give financial benefits to school managements without considering interest of children,” his plea argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nursery-admissions-govt-to-take-call-soon/articleshow/80221863.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kanpur||Poultry trade suffers loss in Kanpur||KANPUR: Following confirmation of bird flu presence in the city, the poultry trade has drastically come down. The city used to consume around one lakh chicken and 8 lakh eggs per day but the same has reduced to 10,000-15,000 birds and 7 lakh eggs per day. The precautionary steps taken by the district administration too has reduced the demand of chicken and eggs. According to a chicken trader T Iqbal, “Today, the sale of chicken was just 10-15% in comparison to normal days. Had we known about the restriction on sale of chicken, we would not have placed an order for their supply”. The district administration directed the wholesale markets and big chicken markets to close the shops. The cost of a carton of eggs (210 eggs) also came down. Abdul Mabood, vice- president of Chicken Retailers Association said that the news of bird flu had reduced the price of chicken. He said around 60 big traders are involved in the chicken business, and around one thousand small retailers are feeding chicken to the Kanpurites. The chicken is supplied from poultry farms of Sarsaul, Faizabad, Unnao, Farrukhabad, Kannauj, Fatehpur, Etawah, Auraiya and Rae Bareli districts, Abdul said. The chicken suppliers have been asked to cancel the supply for some time, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/poultry-trade-suffers-loss-in-city/articleshow/80220258.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
January 12, 2021||Kanpur||Dry run of Covid vaccination held at 36 booths in Jhansi||Jhansi: Days ahead of the commencement of the vaccination drive for Covid-19 protection, second dry run was conducted successfully in the district on Monday. The dry run started at 10am and continued till noon. The dry run was conducted at 36 booths in seventeen different points across the district. There were 8 booths at Paramedical College, 5 at Jhansi medical college, one each at district hospital, TB hospital and Mahila hospital. In total 20 in the urban area while 16 in rural areas with two booths each at eight different blocks. A total of 540 beneficiaries took part in the dry run, 15 at each booth. Talking to TOI, CMO Dr GK Nigam said, “During the first phase of vaccination of health workers the arrangements will be the same as were made on Monday. During the second phase we may double the present setup. We have ensured thoroughly that the cold chain is maintained”. He further said that the entire dry run was conducted successfully except minor hindrance in real time data entry due to network problem which was completed manually. Principal, Jhansi Medical College Dr NS Senger said that the college administration, working on even the smallest details, have setup a separate team of doctors for any reactions of the vaccine, the chances of which are extremely rare. They have even kept two separate ventilators especially for this purpose. “Government instructions and our enthusiasm both will work together to get positive results of vaccination”, Senger said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/dry-run-of-covid-vaccination-held-at-36-booths-in-jhansi/articleshow/80220264.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 12, 2021||Goa||CM announces formation of migration cell in Goa||Panaji: The state government has decided to form a Goa migrant workers cell to assist with maintaining data of migrants, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Chairing a meeting held at the secretariat in Porvorim on Monday, Sawant estimated that the number of migrants in the state ran in lakhs, but said that there is no specific data available with any department on them. “Absence of data, support and coordination among source states leads to lack of structured programmes to support these migrants. This leads to security issues and reduces the effective contribution of migrants to Goan economy,” he said, appealing to all the line departments, especially labour, health, fisheries and collectorate to give their suggestions. Details of the migration cell prepared by the Union ministry of tribal affairs were presented at the meeting. Goa is a work destination for those from different states due to the comparative high wage rates here. The large numbers of migrant workers are employed in hospitality, construction, fishery, domestic and other sectors. As per the 2011 census, 11,28,812 persons have migrated to the state. The dedicated cell is aimed at having comprehensive data of all the migrant workers and their families with an aim to provide them welfare facilities. Panaji: The state government has decided to form a Goa migrant workers cell to assist with maintaining data of migrants, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Chairing a meeting held at the secretariat in Porvorim on Monday, Sawant estimated that the number of migrants in the state ran in lakhs, but said that there is no specific data available with any department on them. “Absence of data, support and coordination among source states leads to lack of structured programmes to support these migrants. This leads to security issues and reduces the effective contribution of migrants to Goan economy,” he said, appealing to all the line departments, especially labour, health, fisheries and collectorate to give their suggestions. Details of the migration cell prepared by the Union ministry of tribal affairs were presented at the meeting. Goa is a work destination for those from different states, like Jharkhand, Odisha, Karnataka, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, North East states and Maharashtra, among others due to the comparative high wage rates here. The large numbers of migrant workers are employed in hospitality, construction, fishery, domestic and other sectors. As per the 2011 census, 11,28,812 persons have migrated to the state. The dedicated cell is aimed at having comprehensive data of all the migrant workers and their families with an aim to provide them welfare facilities, including addressing their issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-announces-formation-of-migration-cell-in-goa/articleshow/80221907.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||15 irrigation plans to help 2.3cr farmers||Lucknow: The UP government would be aiming to complete 15 irrigation projects in the new year, lending a boost to the agriculture sector. According to a state government spokesperson, the projects which are proposed to be completed include Saryu Canal project-two, Arjun Sahayak project, Madhya Ganga phase II project, Umarhat pump canal project phase II, Ratoli Weir project, Bhawani dam project and Lakheri dam project. The state government would be expediting the ambitious Kanhar irrigation project and Bandayu Irrigation project as well. “The government is working to brighten up the farmers’ destiny by integrating technology with agriculture. Efforts are on to ensure adequate water supply for irrigation,” he said, adding that be it loan waiver or devising ways to increase the farmers’ income through technology, the government for the past over three-and-a-half-year has been working in a sustained way for the farmers’ welfare. “Irrigation projects are being expedited for the benefit of 2.30 crore farmers of the state besides integrating technology for improving agricultural production,” he said. The spokesperson further said that in the last three years, 20 agricultural science centres have been established in collaboration with agriculture universities to impart technical information to the farmers. “Some of these centres are being made the centre of excellence where research work on techniques to increase agricultural production will be undertaken,” he said. The farmers, he said, will also be provided information about growing crop in a scientific manner. This will help in increasing the level of knowledge of farmers and their income.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/15-irrigation-plans-to-help-2-3cr-farmers/articleshow/80222693.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Three truckers held for Basti triple murder||Lucknow: The triple murder case of Basti was solved and three truck drivers were arrested after they broke down during questioning and revealed they killed the trio with the intent to loot cash. Basti police arrested three truck drivers Arun Kumar, Ajit Singh, and Sushil Singh on Sunday late night. The bodies of Raj Kumar, Sonu and Mohammed Aslam had been recovered from thickets and a truck was found parked on the roadside in Basti on Saturday night. The accused revealed they killed the victims and took away Rs 6.5 lakh cash. A country-made pistol and a screwdriver with bloodstains used in the crime were also recovered, police said. Basti SP, Hemraj Meena said, “During investigation, it was noticed that the truck was parked with expertise, hinting at the role of a truck driver in the crime. We zeroed in on trucks near Harraiya toll plaza and in CCTV footage noticed two trucks following the truck of the deceased,” said Meena. The two trucks were found to be of Unnao and had gone with the truck of the deceased to West Champaran in Bihar, said Meena. “We rounded up the three men who were seen sitting with the deceased. Later, their mobile locations were also matched. One of the assailants, Sushil broke down and confessed that they got to know that the trader Mohammed Aslam was carrying Rs 6.5 lakh in cash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/three-truckers-held-for-basti-triple-murder/articleshow/80222708.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Dead matron, retd nurse on hosp’s corona warriors’ list||Ayodhya: Health minister Jai Pratap Singh has on Monday ordered a probe after he found names of ‘dead’, ‘retired’ and ‘resigned’ health workers in the list of corona vaccine beneficiaries prepared by Ayodhya’s Dufferin Hospital.Singh, who visited Ayodhya on Monday, said, “I have asked the chief medical officer of Ayodhya to take action against those responsible for these anomalies”. Chief medical superintendent of Dufferin Hospital, SK Shukla said the list was prepared three months ago. “We are trying to update the list and make the corrections,” he added. Hospital sources said the list was prepared by clerk level functionaries and wasn’t verified by senior officers. The list of 15 beneficiaries prepared by the hospital included the names of matron Kusumlata Shrivastava (dead), sister Mewati Chaudhry (retired) and Dr Smrita (resigned).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dead-matron-retd-nurse-on-hosps-corona-warriors-list/articleshow/80222566.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||UP govt bans birds, poultry from other states till January 24||LUCKNOW: In view of the avian flu which had affected as many as 10 states till Monday, UP has prohibited the entry of any live bird, including poultry from other states. The government had notified all of UP as “controlled area” and will not allow poultry, related products and other live birds from other states till at least January 24. The decision, coming in light of avian flu having affected neighbouring states like Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana and Punjab, will then be reviewed to assess whether it needs to be extended. Till Monday night, Kanpur zoo was the only place in UP which had reported confirm cases of bird flu and officials said there was currently no prohibition on consumption of chickens and related products. The government has said that there is no danger in eating cooked chicken and eggs as the virus is destroyed at temperatures of 70 degrees Centigrade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-govt-bans-birds-poultry-from-other-states-till-jan-24/articleshow/80222789.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Former MLA Dugyala Srinivas Rao passes away||WARANGAL: Former Palakurthy MLA Dugyala Srinivas Rao (57) passed away at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Monday. Details about his illness are yet to be known. He contested on TRS ticket and won the Palakurthy Assembly seat in 2004 before changing loyalties to the Congress. Dugyala was an Ayurvedic doctor. He completed BAMS from Ananta Laxmi Ayurvedic Medical College in Warangal in 1986. He unsuccessfully contested on Congress ticket twice. On both occasions he lost to panchayat raj minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao (then in Telugu Desam) in 2009 and 2014.  Meanwhile, it’s learnt that Srinivas Rao’s last rites would be performed at the graveyard near the Padmakshi hillock on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/former-mla-passes-away/articleshow/80221862.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Ignou now first open university to get NAAC accreditation||NAGPUR: Indira Gandhi National Open University (Ignou) has become the first distance learning varsity in India to get a National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation. The ‘A++’ grade (highest) has been conferred upon Ignou after a rigorous evaluation process which lasted over a year. In 2019, NAAC issued guidelines for accreditation of distance learning institutes based on the recommendations of the University Grants Commission (UGC). Nageshwar Rao, vice chancellor of Ignou, said, “The accreditation comes from a team which had seven serving vice chancellors. That gives you an idea of how tough and in depth the entire evaluation process was. In fact, 70% of the evaluation is done by a neutral third party agency on factors which can be quantified.” He said this evaluation process also included student feedback, the size of which may never be matched by any other open and distance learning (OLD) varsity. “Around 30,000 learners’ feedback was taken. Our entire system was checked and evaluated to the fullest by professionals before the final decision,” said Rao. On January 8, NAAC issued a statement confirming that Ignou has been granted the A++ grade post the evaluation. For Rao, this is an reconfirmation of what the varsity has always claimed. “We always knew that our evaluation process, quality of courses, learning material etc were top class. The only thing we lacked was an official document certifying the same. In Nepal, the government said we require certification, else centres would have to close down. So, with all these things in mind, as soon as the guidelines were released by the NAAC, we applied for the accreditation,” said Rao. A few years ago, there were some issues related to PhD offered by Ignou, but Rao says that too has been sorted out. “Clarification has already come from the UGC and we can offer PhD through the regular mode. The notification is out and has the assent of the President as well. So now, there’s no scope of any confusion. Even the guides that are appointed are full time faculty of our varsity,” said Rao. While the NAAC evaluation team has given a thumbs up to Ignou, they have made some of the customary suggestions as well. Rao said, “These suggestions have been sent to us in a sealed envelope and that will be opened soon in our next meeting. We always maintain transparency and hence, shall share these suggestions with the media as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ignou-now-first-open-varsity-to-get-naac-accreditation/articleshow/80222951.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Baghpat tops UP in implementing schemes||Lucknow: The west UP district of Baghpat has bagged the top slot in implementation of government schemes, according to the ranking given to various districts by the programme implementation department of UP government. It’s a major leap for Baghpat as it was ranked 46th in 2016, a year before BJP came to power in UP. Ambedkarnagar and Lucknow have been ranked second and third, respectively, while Ayodhya bagged the eighth spot. Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of PM Narendra Modi, has been ranked 6th while Gorakhpur is ranked 14th. The rankings were announced recently. The state government assessed the districts on parameters such as distribution of ration under public distribution system; implementation of Antyodaya Anna Yojana (where foodgrains are given at highly subsidized rates); housing for poor in rural and urban areas; water supply in the rural areas; vaccination of children; cleanliness drive in villages; support to SC/STs, and implementation of integrated child developmental scheme. Baghpat’s BJP MP and former Union minister Satyapal Singh had written to PM Narendra Modi on January 8, saying that the top ranking for his constituency was a significant achievement. Singh, two-time MP from Baghpat, credited BJP leadership and Modi. He said that in the past six years he has worked hard to complete the long pending national highway project and to bring a Kendriya Vidyalaya to the district. “It was because of the leadership provided by you (PM Modi) that brought India out of dynastic, appeasement politics,” he said in the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/baghpat-tops-up-in-implementing-schemes/articleshow/80222681.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Niti Aayog’s V-C named Giri Institute chairman||Lucknow: The board of directors of the Giri Institute of Social Sciences has formally appointed Dr Rajiv Kumar, the vice-chairman of Niti Aayog, as its chairman and state information commissioner Rajiv Kapoor, a retired IAS officer of UP cadre, as the vice-chairman. On the instructions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the acting vice-chairman N C Bajpai and director Brijesh Kumar Bajpai had been removed in September 2020 and a high-level inquiry ordered to probe the allegations of financial irregularities. Additional chief secretary, agriculture, Devesh Chaturvedi, is conducting the inquiry into the allegations of irregularities at the intstitute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/niti-aayogs-v-c-named-giri-institute-chairman/articleshow/80222743.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||PM Narendra Modi must take first shot of Covid vaccine & vouch for its efficacy: NCP||Sharad Pawar-led NCP on Monday urged PM Narendra Modi to first get himself get vaccinated for Covid to clear doubts over its efficacy. NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said a nationwide Covid vaccination is on the cards, still there are doubts on people’s minds about the quality and efficacy of vaccine. “We are keen that the PM launch the initiative by getting vaccinated himself so that there will be no fear among the people and all doubts are done away with,” Malik told TOI. “I am sure, Modi will accept our proposal in the larger interest...”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pm-modi-must-take-1st-shot-of-covid-vaccine-vouch-for-its-efficacy-ncp/articleshow/80221902.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra: No kharra, Tadoba guides warned||NAGPUR: The Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) has warned Gypsy drivers and guides for chewing kharra, a mixture of nut extract called areca and tobacco, inside the tiger reserve and buffer zone during the safari. There have been several complaints from visitors about guides and drivers consuming kharra during safari. “It is not only a health hazard but also embarrassing for tourists who come from faraway places and are sick of guides and drivers spitting after chewing kharra and openly spitting inside the park,” said Jitendra Ramgaokar, conservator of forests (CF) & field director. “Last week, I held a meeting of Gypsy owners, drivers, and guides at Mohurli and issued a warning that guides will be suspended and registration of safari vehicles will be cancelled if they were found consuming kharra,” said Ramgaokar. Recently, Revati Sule, daughter of NCP MP Supriya Sule, who was on a visit to Tadoba, too had pointed out the bad habit of guides and drivers to Ramgaonkar. This is a serious issue as the kharra is packed in plastic and chances of it being mistakenly dropped inside the park cannot be ruled out. A section of tourists, who did not want to be quoted, said, “It is not only the guides and drivers alone consuming kharra inside the park but also many tourists. Due to Covid-19 restrictions, most of the visitors to Tadoba are from Vidarbha, which has got the dubious distinction of kharra capital of the country. Even tourists carry it and some fine should be imposed on them if caught carrying or chewing it.” A section of resort owners admits the plastic menace is a big issue in the buffer zone as the area is used by both wild animals and local villagers. Recently, there were a couple of pictures from Tadoba’s buffer zone going viral over the social media with a tiger holding a plastic bottle and a sambar deer with plastic carry bag in their mouth. Dr Kartikeya Chaturvedi, a regular tourist to Tadoba, welcomed the move. “The park management has raised a very valid issue. Other tiger reserves, sanctuaries and national parks in the state should also implement it. However, it is not only the guides and drivers, even forest staff and van majors carry kharra with them inside the park. They even share it with each other. Any action should be the same for all if found violating norms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-kharra-tadoba-guides-warned/articleshow/80222941.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||Shooter named in goon’s murder arrested from Delhi||LUCKNOW: Kanhaiya Vishwakarma alias Girdhari, who allegedly sprayed history-sheeter Ajit Singh with bullets in Gomtinagar last week, was arrested by a unit of Delhi police from North Delhi district late Monday night. Police also recovered a 9mm pistol that was used by Girdhari during the attack on Ajit Singh. Girdhari Sharma carries a cash reward of Rs 1 lakh announced by the Varanasi police, and has been named in more than 20 cases, including over half a dozen cases of murder. He is also said to be close to a mafia don-turned-politician from Eastern UP. On January 6, Ajit Singh (35) alias Ajit Langda of Mau, a history-sheeter with 19 cases and externed from his native district, was shot dead near Kathauta crossing in Gomtinagar. The next day, an FIR was lodged against six people, including Girdhari Sharma. Mohar Singh who was with Ajit on the fateful day had identified Girdhari as one of the shooters. Senior officials in the Lucknow police commissionerate confirmed about the arrest of Girdhari from Delhi and said that a team would be sent to take him on transit remand. Police sources in the Lucknow crime branch also claimed that once name of Girdhari got registered in the FIR for Ajit’s murder and Lucknow police teams started raiding his associates, out of fear of being shot Girdhari may have staged his arrest. The senior officers remained tight-lipped about this.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/shooter-named-in-goons-murder-arrested-from-delhi/articleshow/80222763.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 12, 2021||Pune||Pimpri Chinchwad: Parties pass the buck as housing lottery abruptly postponed||PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: What was meant to be a draw of lots to allot affordable housing units to the underprivileged rapidly turned into political theatre in Chinchwad on Monday. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had announced that the lottery would be held at 3pm at the Ramkrishna More Natyagruh. At 4pm, PCMC house leader Eknath Pawar of the BJP abruptly announced that the draw was being postponed, leaving in the lurch thousands of hopefuls. Many of them had missed work; all of them had lined up since early in the day. Almost immediately, functionaries of the BJP and the NCP staged separate agitations, each side lobbing criticism at the other. NCP party workers protested at the venue, while BJP staged a sit-in outside municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar’s office. While the BJP accused the NCP of looking to steal credit for the draw, which would have allotted homes to more than 3,000 people, the NCP protested what they alleged was a “breach of protocol”. Hardikar said the protocol of sending the invitation was not properly followed. “Deputy chief deputy chief minister and district guardian minister Ajit Pawar was not consulted about the programme,” Hardikar said, even though the deputy CM’s name was printed on the official invitation. “I apologize to the citizens as well as the people’s representatives for the cancellation, but we had to stick to the protocol. The new date will be announced soon,” he said. Eknath Pawar claimed the civic administration was pressured into rescheduling the programme by the deputy CM “so that NCP can take credit”. On the other hand, NCP functionaries alleged that the deputy CM was neither consulted nor invited to the programme. “The deputy CM should have been consulted first. This was a breach of protocol,” NCP’s Raju Misal said. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar could not be reached for comment. BJP state unit chief Chandrakant Patil was slated to attend, but mayor Usha Dhore said he decided to skip it to avoid “unnecessary conflict”. As the politicians squabbled, the dreams of thousands of underprivileged people were dashed. “I not only missed my day’s earnings, but also was left disappointed with the behaviour of the political parties and elected representatives,” Gomati Rajkumar, a vegetable vendor from Mohannagar, said. Manmath Nanaware, a daily-wage earner from Thergaon, said, “I skipped multiple meals and a full day’s work to be a part of this process. It was a very disappointing experience.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/parties-pass-the-buck-as-hsg-lottery-abruptly-postponed/articleshow/80221860.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Man found dead at Marina Beach, special team to probe case||CHENNAI: The body of a man, believed to be in his thirties, was found behind the Avvaiyar statue on Marina Beach on Monday. The identity of the deceased man is yet to be established. A few people out on their morning walk noticed the man lying unconscious and thought he had passed out after drinking. Since he lay motionless for long, they alerted police personnel. A police team that reached the spot confirmed him to be dead and sent the body to the Omandurar Government General Hospital for postmortem. A police officer said there were injuries on the body and signs that he bled from his nose, raising suspicion of a murder. “He could have been strangled to death, but we can’t be sure of the cause of death until we get the postmortem report,” said an investigating officer. The man was wearing a black shirt and grey trousers. There was no personal identification on him. Police have registered a case under Section 174 (unnatural death) and a special team has been set up to get started on the case. Police have begun skimming through the surveillance footage from CCTV cameras on the stretch of Kamarajar Salai between Vivekanandar House and DGP office for possible leads. There are 10 CCTV cameras installed at the DGP office and at least another two dozen cameras at Vivekanandar House, Light House, Queen Marys College, the commissionerate for people with disablities, slum clearance board office, University of Madras annexe office and Presidency College. On May 21, 2020, when beaches were closed to visitors due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the body of a 40-year-old was found behind the Veeramamunivar statue on the Marina coast.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/man-found-dead-at-marina-beach-spl-team-to-probe-case/articleshow/80220314.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||1k aspirants shortlisted for 1st women soldiers’ recruitment rally in Pune||Pune: Nearly 1,000 candidates from Maharashtra, Goa, Gujarat and the Union territories of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, and Daman and Diu have been shortlisted from 20,000 applicants for the maiden women soldiers’ recruitment rally to be held from January 12 to 14 at the Army Institute of Physical Training (AIPT) in Hadapsar. The Army has opened soldier recruitment for women for its Corps of Military Police (CMP) service. This time, the cut-off for the rally is 85% in the SSC (Std X) examination. Candidates would be biometrically verified and admit cards for the rally would be scanned before they are allowed entry for actual selection tests, which includes physical, medical and common entrance examination. Only those found physically and medically fit would undertake the entrance test. This is the first women recruitment rally to be held in the state. “The rally has been planned over three days because of the Covid-19 restrictions,” a senior Army officer who has been involved with the recruitment process told TOI.“On each day, around 300 candidates will appear for the physical tests. Medical tests of the selected candidates will be conducted at the end of each day,” the officer added.“Each candidate would have to submit a Covid-19 test report before appearing for the recruitment test at the venue. Besides, necessary infrastructure is in place to maintain social distancing norms as per the government guidelines. Adequate women staff, including police constables, would be available at the site to provide assistance to candidates. Our endeavour is to carry out the rally in a proper manner,” the officer added. The officer inspected the site on Monday morning to check the preparations. In 2019, the Pune district administration did not give permission to hold the women’s recruitment rally in the city because of administrative reasons. The Headquarters, Recruiting Zone of the Army Southern Command had to then conduct the rally in Jabalpur. Advisory for candidatesThe army authorities have advised all candidates to not fall prey to touts. Any tout approaching any candidates must apprise the military officials/police. For any further queries, candidates may drop their queries on dirrohqpune@gmail.com /or contact 020-26345005.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1k-aspirants-shortlisted-for-1st-women-soldiers-recruitment-rally-in-pune/articleshow/80221868.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 12, 2021||Lucknow||AIKS vows to intensify stir||Lucknow: The All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) is making preparations to adhere to the call given by All-India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) to intensify the farmers’ agitation against three farms laws. Terming the legislations as “anti-peasant and pro-corporate”, working president of AIKS Bhupinder Samber and general secretary Atul Kumar Anjaan, who is also the national secretary of CPI, said farmers, along with women and children, were staging protest on Delhi borders since November 25 in biting cold. They added that at least 70 farmers had sacrificed their lives during the struggle. “Farmers are demanding repeal of farm laws, statutory guarantee of MSP, withdrawal of electricity and stubble burning ordinances, writing off loans, and implementation of Swaminathan Committee recommendations regarding price of crops,” the AIKS statement said. “Eight rounds of dialogue between the Centre and farmers have been inconclusive due to obstinacy of the government and policy of exhausting the agitating farmers. They will not go back till the farm laws are repealed,” Anjaan said. Holding the Centre responsible for failure of talks, Anjaan and Samber said cabinet ministers conducting talks have refused to repeal the laws and ensure MSP on all crops. “Contrary to Centre’s promise of doubling farmers’ income, it has actually gone down due to increase in input price. The slogan of ‘One Nation, One Market’ is actually ‘Sab ki loot, corporate ko chhoot’ (Loot of all, profit of corporates),” they said. Terming the agitation as a national movement, AIKS leaders said farmers were staging dharna in 136 districts across the country. “Nationwide Kisan Martyr Day will be observed on Tuesday while remembering 24 farmers who were killed in police firing in Multai in Madhya Pradesh during a protest in 1998,” the statement said. “On Lohri and Makar Sankranti (January 13 and 14), copies of the three laws will be burnt across the country. On January 18, women will protest in solidarity with farmers. The birth anniversary of Subhas Chandra Bose on January 23 will be celebrated as the day of ‘Strengthen Unity, Win Rights’. On Republic Day, farmers with take out tractor parade,” the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aiks-vows-to-intensify-stir/articleshow/80222775.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||Farmer dies of heart attack; another of cold||Two farmers who had been camping at the Tikri border protest site between Delhi and Haryana died on Monday. Farmer Jagdish Singh (60) of Ludewala village in Punjab’s Muktsar district died of a cardiac arrest at Tikri border, while farmer Harpinder Singh (50) of Abul Khurana village, also in Muktsar, died at a Ludhiana hospital. Harpinder had caught a cold at the Tikri border and returned home. He was taken to a private hospital in Ludhiana, where he died.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmer-dies-of-heart-attack-another-of-cold/articleshow/80223591.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Delhi||BJP urges LG for reconstruction of temple in Old Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi BJP chief Adesh Gupta and Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri met lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Monday and sought his intervention for the reconstruction of a temple at Chandni Chowk that was recently removed following a high court order. They demanded that the idols of Hanuman and other deities removed from the old temple be placed in a new one. The LG has assured appropriate action, claimed Delhi BJP media head Naveen Kumar. “There is resentment among people of Chandni Chowk over demolition of Hanuman temple and the felling of an old peepal tree. Local residents, temple committees, religious organisations and all want to be allowed to rebuild the temple,” Gupta said, blaming the AAP government for the move. The temple, encroaching on the central verge of the road near Moti Bazaar, was removed over a week ago by the north corporation following the court order. Bidhuri said the move had hurt the sentiments of many Hindus. When the religious committee has the authority to resolve the matter, Gupta said, “it is unfortunate that in the name of beautification, the public works department of Delhi government demolished the ancient Hanuman temple. PWD complained about non-cooperation of municipal corporation and police” and went to court. Demanding establishment of the Hanuman temple, AAP functionary Durgesh Pathak said, “When asked by the court, BJP gave an affidavit in the court and demolished the Hanuman temple. Now they are shedding crocodile tears.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-urges-lg-for-reconstruction-of-temple-in-old-delhi/articleshow/80221913.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra HSC, SSC exam dates this week||PUNE: The board examination dates for secondary school certificate (SSC, std X) and higher secondary certificate (HSC, std XII) will be announced by the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education. The HSC exams are likely to be held after April 15, and SSC in May, board chairman Dinkar Patil told TOI on Monday. Primary education minister Varsha Gaikwad had announced that the exam would be conducted in April-May. Patil, who took additional charge of the state board after the previous chairman Shakuntala Kale retired, said they were getting ready to conduct the examinations. “We will announce the dates this week. Students, teachers and parents need to know about the exam dates well in advance and start preparing,” he said. The exams are usually conducted in February-March, but have been delayed due to the Covid pandemic. The exam was postponed by 40-45 days. The Central Board of Secondary Education will conduct its exam in May. Patil said, “The board recently conducted the supplementary exam smoothly for which over two lakh students appeared. The results were announced in two weeks and there were no issues faced by the students of the divisional board. We are confident that the regular exams will also be held in a similar manner with all safety precautions.” The state board has extended the deadline for filling the SSC exam forms with a late fee up to January 21. Earlier, the last day was fixed for Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/hsc-ssc-exam-dates-this-week/articleshow/80226421.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Heritage panel gives go-ahead to work on New Parliament building||NEW DELHI: The Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC), headed by the additional secretary of housing and urban affairs ministry, on Monday cleared the New Parliament Building project clearing the way for immediate start of construction. The panel found the project to be in order since the new building will come up on a new plot without affecting the existing Parliament, which is a heritage building. The panel has also held a meeting on the redevelopment of Rajpath and a second meeting is likely soon. The Central Public Works Department awarded the work to Shapoorji Pallonji and Company at Rs 470 crore on Friday. In this case, the agency had sought the HCC approval before awarding the work, unlike the New Parliament project. The HCC set up under the Delhi building bylaws has majority members from government agencies including, CPWD, DDA, NDMC and MCD. Conservation activists had earlier said it would be a cakewalk for the government to get the approval. “The committee is headed by the additional secretary in the ministry, there are different officers from other organisations and experts from outside. They are the ones who look into what is provided in our unified building bylaws for preserving the heritage. All these aspects are seen and based on that they accept, reject or suggest modifications. After a detailed discussion, the New Parliament Building project has been cleared,” said housing and urban affairs secretary, Durga Shankar Mishra in response to a question at the annual press meet. The heritage conservation panel doesn’t have a provision for public hearing. While giving the go-ahead to the project, the Supreme Court had directed the government to get the nod from the heritage conservation panel before starting work. A source said, “There has been no proposal for the common central secretariat buildings as of now. The office buildings, which would pave way for new ones, are not heritage buildings. North and South Blocks are not being touched. Still the government may seek the HCC approval considering that the entire Central Vista is treated as a conservation area and no building should be taller than India Gate.” The Centre aims to complete the entire redevelopment project by December, 2025.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/heritage-panel-gives-go-ahead-to-work-on-new-parliament-building/articleshow/80221936.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 12, 2021||Chennai||NGT takes note of ECR residents’ claim that GCC continued SWD work||CHENNAI: The National Green Tribunal on Monday took cognisance of complaints from resident associations that Greater Chennai Corporation was continuing work on stormwater drain project in areas adjoining the East Coast Road (ECR) despite a stop-work notice issued by the TN coastal zone management authority. The tribunal expanded the scope of a committee it had constituted to look into the project and directed it to inquire if GCC continued construction even after the notice was issued on December 23, 2020. In response, appearing for GCC, former advocate general and senior counsel Somayyaji said it had stopped work and was only pouring concrete in the ditches to avoid safety issues. GCC gave an undertaking that it won’t engage in any further construction. Next hearing has been adjourned to March 2. An official but unsigned note was released by GCC regarding Monday's proceedings in the tribunal. A five-member committee of experts formed by the NGT submitted their interim report on Monday, which GCC claimed to not have been served a copy of. A majority report of the committee has found that requisite environmental clearance was not obtained by GCC for the project. A minority dissenting report authored by the Metrowater engineer on the committee said an environmental clearance was not required. Counsel for the residents associations, V Suresh, said the NGT recorded these points. The city corporation’s release said the civic body would be filing its counter to the report after going through it. The committee will also give a final report, wherein they will superimpose the design of the SWD project on coastal zone management plan (CZMP) maps, to conclude if the project falls in the CRZ zone or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/ngt-takes-note-of-ecr-residents-claim-that-gcc-continued-swd-work/articleshow/80220342.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nashik||2,000 Covid tests to be conducted per day in rural areas||Nashik: Keeping in line with the directives of Deeepak Mhaisekar, who is the chief advisor to the chief minister’s task force on Covid-19, the district health office (DHO) has decided to increase the number of tests in the rural areas of Nashik district. Currently, the DHO is conducting 800 tests per day and is mostly testing immediate relatives or high-risk contacts of the patients who have tested positive for the viral infection. “Now, we are also going to test those people who come in contact with a large number of people on a daily basis like milkman, vegetable vendors, groceries, workers, maid servants, etc,” said district health officer Kapil Aher. Increasing the number of tests is also being stressed upon after many flyers tested positive for the mutant strain of Covid-19 traced in UK. Since the mutant strain has a higher rate of transmission as compared to the previous variant, it is likely to affect more people. “We will now target to conduct upto 2,000 tests per day,” said Aher. As per the ICMR guidelines, the positivity in the samples collected should be below 5% to indicate that the spread of the virus was under control. “The positivity rate is around 13% in the rural areas. Increasing the number of tests will help us detect positive cases early and bring down the positivity rate,” said Aher.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2000-covid-tests-to-be-conducted-per-day-in-rural-areas/articleshow/80219346.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||QR-coded ‘vaccine pass’ will facilitate domestic, international travel: Official||Travellers can be tested for Covid each time they pass through a border. But they cannot be vaccinated every time. A top public health official now says that a vaccination certificate with a QR code, which acts as a digital pass or a facilitating tool, can work not just within the country, but abroad too. State immunization officer Dileep Patil told TOI on Monday, “Every vaccinated individual should preserve this QR code as it declares that the person has completed vaccination in India. Since a QR code — linked to the person’s mobile number and identity proof — will be offered by the Union government through the CoWIN system, it will have a wide range of applications. It is a well-authenticated proof of inoculation against Covid.” The QR code can be shown to authorities without revealing more sensitive health information. “The recipient only needs to click on the code to show the certificate each time authorities, anywhere, ask. It’s a sort of a digital pass,” Patil said. Some countries are already mulling ‘vaccine passports’ that will allow their citizens to travel abroad amid pandemic restrictions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/qr-coded-vaccine-pass-will-facilitate-domestic-international-travel-official/articleshow/80222982.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 12, 2021||Delhi||People want an honest party in corporations: AAP||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party on Monday said its ground-level campaign launched to expose “corruption” in the BJP-led municipal corporations was drawing more and more people. More than 25,000 locals participated in the mohalla sabhas held at about 245 locations in 65 assembly constituencies on Monday, the party said. “The locals who came to mohalla sabhas said that the municipal corporations have completely turned into a hub of corruption. No work is done in any department without giving bribes,” AAP claimed adding that people want an honest party to govern the corporations and are supporting it. AAP has started a series of discussions on corruption in the corporations through neighbourhood meetings in different areas of Delhi since January 7. The local people are invited to join the mohalla sabhas. Around 45,000 people had participated in 450 mohalla sabhas held in 65 assemblies on Sunday, the party said. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said people of the capital would never forgive the AAP government for holding up municipal funds that has forced the sanitation workers to go on strike.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/people-want-an-honest-party-in-corpns-aap/articleshow/80221965.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Maharashtra govt may implement crop insurance scheme: MP||YAVATMAL: Lok Sabha member from Yavatmal-Washim constituency Bhavana Gawali on Monday said Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has agreed to forward her proposal for implementation of the ‘Pantha Pradhan Fasal Vima Yojana’. The crop insurance scheme is presently being implemented through private companies. In Yavatmal, it is via IFFCO Tokyo insurance and in Washim, it’s Reliance Insurance. Both companies are allegedly cheating poor farmers. Their crops are either damaged by the excessive rains or drought. Insurance companies collect premium from the farmers, state and central governments. Whenever it’s time to pay the compensation, companies offer lame excuses to beneficiaries. Farmers are deprived of compensation after suffering losses. “As farmers approach public representatives for help, we have to fight for their rights,” said Gawali, adding, she had led a protest on December 28 to draw the attention of the companies. “A discussion with the general manager of IFFCO Tokyo Insurance didn’t yield the desired result. Finally, I met CM Uddhav Thackeray in Mumbai and briefed him about the hardships faced by the farmers and the adamant attitude of insurance companies. Uddhav ji declared that farmers would not be allowed to become victims of insurance companies. He said a proposal would be sent to the central government. The CM summoned agriculture secretary Eknath Dhawale and instructed him to send the proposal to the centre with a request that either the state government or the National Agriculture Insurance company be given the nod to implement the PM crop insurance scheme aimed to help farmers,” said Gawli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/state-govt-may-implement-crop-insurance-scheme-mp/articleshow/80221950.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||BMC not evicting Kalina dhobi despite Supreme Court order?||MUMBAI: Almost a year after Supreme Court orders, Kalina residents said BMC is not evicting an alleged land-grabbing dhobi, due to which work on a new road had hit a dead end. Activist Abraham Mathai alleged that instead of taking action against Ram Kanojia (75), who allegedly usurped a building in Kalina, the land on which it stands and approach road to three housing societies, BMC officials were intimidating him. In a recent letter to Alka Sasane, assistant municipal commissioner, H-East ward, Mathai said Sasane intimidated him after he complained against BMC’s inaction to the minister of state for urban development. “I am extremely shocked by your disrespectful and intimidating behaviour to me after meeting Prajakt Tanpure. Just because the minister expressed concern about your reluctance to clear impediments for the 22-ft road despite SC directions you cannot throw that anger on me,” Mathai said and urged BMC to demolish the structure. TimesViewOn a number of occasions, in recent times, the Bombay high court has dispprovingly told the BMC that it is lax in implementing its orders, whether it is about demolition of unauthorized structures or enforcing of certain rules. In this case, the order has been given by the Supreme Court. In any case, the courts are forced to give a directive because the civic body has not done its duty, and if, even after getting court orders, work is not done, accountability must be fixed.Kanojia allegedly usurped the 10,000-sq ft approach road to Red Rose, Mini Rose and Park Bay housing societies Supreme Court had last year directed him to make way for BMC to build a storm water drain and approach road. Residents said that while the entire stretch of road was 22 feet wide, it was only eight feet wide near Kanojia’s bungalow, and work on the new road had stopped as the bungalow was not demolished. Lawyer Rajesh Kanojia, son of Ram, said their structure was not in the way of road work and was legal. “All allegations are baseless. In fact I want BMC to implement the SC order as per the chart mentioned in it. BMC had said in an affidavit to SC that the compound wall and gate of one society was blocking the road-widening. So our structure is not the real impediment,” Rajesh said. “I have challenged the minister’s order in HC along with BMC’s move to withdraw the demolition notice for the wall and gate issued to the society. BMC is not implementing the SC order. I have a clear title but they are trying to implicate us to grab our land,” Rajesh said. “We have taken action. We intimated SRA in September 2020 that repair permission given to Ram’s structure was withdrawn by BMC and SRA must demolish the structure,” Sasane said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-not-evicting-kalina-dhobi-despite-sc-order/articleshow/80222017.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Varanasi||Covid vaccination dry run held at two health centres||Kanpur: Gearing up for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the country, the district health department on Monday conducted the second dry run of vaccination at Bidhnoo Community Health Centre and Kalyanpur Community Health Centre in the district. As per chief medical officer Dr Anil Mishra, this was the final mock drill to test all preparations for the vaccination drive in the district. Earlier, the first dry runs was conducted at six centres in the district on January 5. On Monday, the second mock drill on vaccination was held at Bidhnoo Community Health Centre and Kalyanpur Community Health Centre across the district. According to CMO, "Nearly, 29 health workers underwent vaccination at Bidhnoo Community Health Centre, while 75 health workers underwent vaccination at Kalyanpur Community Health Centre, the objective of the mock drill on Covid-19 vaccination is to simulate the actual vaccine administration event." The dry run is aimed at testing the laid out mechanisms for Covid-19 vaccination roll-out in the health system. In industrial city, 20,000 health workers would be vaccinated against coronavirus. The data feeding of 18,500 health workers has been done. The data feeding of remaining health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-vaccination-dry-run-held-at-two-health-centres/articleshow/80220127.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka colleges to open fully from January 15||BENGALURU: The Karnataka government has decided to reopen offline classes for all semesters — under-graduate, post-graduate, engineering, and diploma — from January 15. While students have the option of attending classes online or offline, attendance is compulsory. Campuses will also come back to life as the government plans to reopen libraries and canteens and resume cultural and sports activities, besides the National Cadet Corps (NCC) and National Service Scheme (NSS). Minister for higher education CN Ashwath Narayan announced the date after a high-level meeting on Monday. Separate standard operating procedures (SOPs) are being prepared for libraries, canteens, hostels, sports, cultural and academic activities, officials said. “Offline classes for final-year students of the above course commenced on November 17, and have been running successfully. There was a demand to restart classes from students of remaining grades also. By considering this demand and in the best interest of the students, the decision has been taken,” explained the minister. Dept to prepare separate SOP for reopening of hostelsClasses for the first, second, and third year of engineering will also start the same day. “NCC exams need to be conducted and to enable this, it has been decided to organise short-term camps. A three-day camp for the B-Certificate exam and a 5-day camp for C-Certificate exam has been allowed,” he added. The department of social welfare and backward classes has been asked to prepare a separate SOP for the reopening of hostels. Paper-and-pen mode of examination (offline exam) will be held on a common date after consultations with all the vice chancellors of state-run and private universities. The date of examination will be announced shortly, he said. Over the past few months, engineering students have been demanding online exams. Colleges buses have been restarted following Covid protocol. Arrangements have been made to enable speedy disbursal of student bus passes as well. Colleges have to contact officials of the bus depot in their limits and coordinate with regard to providing bus passes, officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-colleges-to-open-fully-from-january-15/articleshow/80226333.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Scrapping of ambulance tender shocking: Karnataka HC||BENGALURU: Calling the cancellation of tender process for purchase of ambulances ‘shocking’, the Karnataka high court on Monday directed the state government to produce before it the order concerning cancellation and one on appointment of a high-powered committee to look into the matter. The order pertains to the Rs 1,800-crore Command Control Room project for ambulances. The high court said the latest development goes against the state government’s assurance. A division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka directed the government advocate to produce the relevant file for the court’s perusal. Tender process cancelled, high court toldEarlier, the government advocate informed the court the tender process has been cancelled and a high-powered committee would look into it. Last September, the government told the court that at least five months’ time is required for completing the tender process. The court is hearing a PIL filed by Bharat Punarutthana Trust, a Bengaluru-based cultural organisation. The petitioner sought the setting up of an ambulance control room in the state. Citing severe traffic congestion in Bengaluru, the trust sought issuing orders to owners of ambulances to install GPS devices and share their details with the control room for traffic clearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-scrapping-of-ambulance-tender-shocking/articleshow/80223639.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: No rejig, BS Yediyurappa cabinet to add 7 ministers||BENGALURU/MYSURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa is most likely to undertake a cabinet expansion and not a reshuffle, with the party leadership reportedly having asked him to fill all seven vacancies in his cabinet by inducting turncoat legislators N Munirathna, MTB Nagaraj and R Shankar, and four party loyalists. A day after he said the expansion will take place on Jan 13 (Wednesday), the CM said on Monday that it may take place on Wednesday or Thursday. “We are inviting our national chief JP Nadda and general secretary in charge of state Arun Singh for the oath-taking ceremony. According to their convenience, we will decide on either day.” Nadda & Singh to visit, may hold talks with CMSources said Nadda and Singh are scheduled to arrive in Bengaluru on Wednesday for the conclusion of the party’s ‘Janasevaka Samavesha’ in the state and might hold consultations with Yediyurappa before taking a final call on the expansion. Some party sources said Wednesday may be skipped as it is a nomoon day (Amavasya)and not considered auspicious. The wait is proving particularly trying for the long list of aspirants as sources said the names were yet to be approved by the central leadership. Late Monday night, Nagaraj and Umesh Katti told TOI they had not received any communication from the CM about their possible inclusion in the cabinet. “I am waiting for a call and if I don’t get it by Tuesday morning, I will personally meet the CM,” said Nagaraj. “As of now, I have not got any intimation. If I am given a chance, I will do justice to the post. If not, I will continue to serve my constituency,” said Katti. Sources said the high command spiked Yediyurappa’s plan to reshuffle his cabinet by dropping a few ministers as it felt such a move would trigger unnecessary problems at this point of time. Moreover, the incumbent ministers have not even completed two years in office, a source added. The party had said the reconstitution of cabinet can be carried out after the Maski bypolls, likely to be held in February, as the party may be forced to induct Pratap Gouda Patil, another turncoat, if he wins. Asked about the berths, Yediyurappa said: “Wait for two days you will come to know if it will be just an expansion or a rejig.” Besides the three turncoats, the names doing the rounds for induction include Katti, CP Yogeshwar, Aravind Limbavali, SA Ramdas, Sunil Kumar and Halappa Acharya. Sources indicated that Katti and Yogeshwar were in the clear and a decision was to be taken by the leadership only on two remaining slots. Sunil Kumar is being considered from the coastal region, a strong belt of the BJP, which is not represented in the cabinet now, sources said, while Acharya could be the face of Kalyana Karnataka. Limbavali’s name is being pushed by the party, the sources added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/no-rejig-bsy-cabinet-to-add-7-ministers/articleshow/80223644.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||VIPs in Karnataka offered vaccine for bitcoins: Doctors||BENGALURU: Even before the Centre has started Covid-19 vaccine supply to state governments, there have been instances of multiple ‘vaccines’ being allegedly offered or administered to high-profile individuals in exchange for bitcoins, several doctors told TOI. Requesting anonymity, the doctors said they have been getting calls from VIP patients, wanting to know whether these Covid-19 vaccines offered by certain dealers are genuine and can be taken. The doctors said they could not ascertain the source, make, price, brand and authenticity of the vaccine doing the rounds in the black market. Consumption of any drug which is not allowed for sale in the country is illegal, a doctor said. ‘Govt must act against vax black marketeers’The Private Hospitals’ and Nursing Homes’ Association (Phana) confirmed the trend and advised people against accessing the vaccine through the black market. “I received a few calls and have met people who claim they have either taken or have been offered Covid-19 vaccine by some individuals. This is scary since no Covid-19 vaccine has been approved for sale in India yet. It’s unethical to sell a drug that’s not approved for sale in the country,” a veteran doctor from Bengaluru said. Phana president Dr HM Prasanna said he has heard that the vaccines are offered against bitcoins. “One must exercise caution (in such cases) and follow the government’s guidelines in this regard,” he added. Doctors have raised concerns that the content of products sold in the name of Covid-19 vaccine may have nothing to do with Covid at all. “Even if one of the Covid vaccine candidates is approved abroad, Indian citizens must wait for the government to roll out the product through the Drug Controller General of India. Those who are keen on taking the vaccine at the earliest must exercise caution, besides taking precautionary measures like using masks, maintaining physical distance and avoiding crowds which have effectively worked against Covid,” said another doctor. Dr R Giridhara Babu, epidemiologist and member of Technical Advisory Committee for Covid-19 management in Karnataka, said he hasn’t come across any instances of black-marketing of the vaccine. “The government should track down black marketeers. It worsens the inequities since only those with money and power can gain access. Those taking such vaccines might be under the impression that it’s an immunity booster, but they may end up taking a useless product.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vips-in-ktaka-offered-vax-for-bitcoins-docs/articleshow/80223667.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Up to speed: Work starts on Delhi portion of RRTS||NEW DELHI: The construction work of the 82km high-speed Delhi-Meerut Regional Rapid Transit System (RRTS) corridor has now gathered momentum in the capital. The foundation work for the viaduct near Dharamshila Marg in New Ashok Nagar by National Capital Region Transport Corporation (NCRTC), which is executing the project, was started recently. NCRTC spokesperson Puneet Vats said, “In this 4.3km elevated section of the Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, a viaduct will be constructed from Sarai Kale Khan station to New Ashok Nagar down ramp, including Jangpura entry ramp and the stabling yard. Apart from the Sarai Kale Khan and New Ashok Nagar elevated stations, a bridge will be constructed over the Yamuna.” The Sarai Kale Khan RRTS station has been planned as a mega transit hub where all the three prioritised corridors — Delhi-Meerut, Delhi-Panipat and Delhi-Alwar — will converge and be seamlessly integrated with Hazrat Nizamuddin Indian Railways and Delhi Metro stations and Sarai Kale Khan Interstate Bus Terminus. “Similarly, New Ashok Nagar RRTS station will be seamlessly integrated with New Ashok Nagar Metro Station, thereby providing a hassle-free travel experience to commuters. Through such efficient multimodal integration, the public transport systems will complement each other,” said Vats. The Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut RRTS corridor, which originates from Sarai Kale Khan and ends at Modipuram in Meerut, has a total of 24 stations. About 68km of the corridor falls in Uttar Pradesh, while about 14km will come up in Delhi. A 17km priority section between Sahibabad and Duhai is scheduled to be commissioned by 2023. The full corridor from Delhi to Meerut is expected to start by 2025. “In Delhi, NCRTC is continuing its good practices with regard to safety, environment, etc. Construction areas will be suitably barricaded to ensure the safety of citizens. The construction sequence has been planned carefully to minimise inconvenience to pedestrians, residents and commuters. There will be regular monitoring through CCTV cameras and traffic marshals will be deployed to maintain a smooth flow of traffic. NCRTC is also taking precautionary measures at its construction sites to mitigate dust emissions,” said the spokesperson.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/up-to-speed-work-starts-on-delhi-portion-of-rrts/articleshow/80221984.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 12, 2021||India||Will not appear before any committee that SC may appoint, declare farmers||NEW DELHI: Farm unions opposed to the new central farm Acts on Monday welcomed the Supreme Court's suggestion to stay implementation of the laws, but said the "laws must be repealed forthwith" and made it clear that they will not participate either collectively or individually in any proceedings before a committee that may be appointed by the apex court. "We met our lawyers this (Monday) evening at length and after deliberation on pros and cons of the suggestions of the committee, we informed them that we are unanimously not agreeable to go before any committee," said the 'Samyukta Kisan Morcha' - a platform which represents all 40 unions, including 32 from Punjab, which have been in discussions with government. The Morcha in a joint statement said, "All the farmer organizations who are spearheading the fight against the farm laws are unanimous in their decision that laws must be repealed forthwith." The concern of the unions, as evident from the views of individual leaders, is about options in case the committee concluded the laws were constitutionally valid or that there was merit in them. Any conclusion that the laws are not altogether bad for farmers would put the repeal demand in jeopardy. They also expressed fears that the stir will lose momeuntum if suspended. In a late development, the government filed an affidavit in the apex court saying the farm laws received wide acceptance across the country. The government is against repeal of the laws and has claimed that the legislations took shape after two decades of intense deliberations and consultations with the stakeholders. The stand of farm unions reflect their unease with suggestions of setting up a committee to discuss various clauses of the laws as they believe that the move would eventually end up suggesting amendments to Acts which they have already rejected. They also argue that the government repeatedly told the Court that it won't discuss "repeal" issue before the panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/will-not-appear-before-any-committee-that-sc-may-appoint-declare-farmers/articleshow/80223688.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Polio drive put on hold in Maharashtra upon Centre’s order||The National Polio Immunisation drive has been put on hold in the state following the Centre’s direction to defer it as the health machinery is gearing for the launch of Covid vaccination. An estimated 1.2 crore children aged up to five years were to be vaccinated in the drive, scheduled to start on January 17. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said, “Immunisation teams are currently busy with the Covid vaccine launch. Children are administered polio drops during national and sub-national immunization rounds (in high risk areas such as Mumbai and Thane) every year. The last polio case in the country was reported from West Bengal in January 2011.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/polio-drive-put-on-hold-upon-centres-order/articleshow/80223019.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Chandrapur: BRTC contractors to get clean chit in graft case||CHANDRAPUR: Contractors of the under construction mega project of the Bamboo Research and Training Center (BRTC) are all set to get a clean chit in the wake of allegations regarding poor quality of construction and use of substandard material. Officials of the public works department (PWD) have completed their probe and will submit a report to their higher ups. Founder president of Sanjivani Prayawaran Samajik Sanstha Rajesh Bele had filed a complaint with he superintending engineer of PWD, Chandrapur, stating that construction of BRTC being carried out by the contractors, DV Patel and Company of Nagpur and JANS NKKC (JV), is of poor quality and sub-standard material is being used. Bele also pointed out that the newly-constructed roof of the building is leaking and bamboo used for construction is breaking at some places. He alleged corruption and demanded an inquiry. Copies of the complaint were forwarded to the chief minister, guardian minister, chief secretary, former finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar and TATA trusts. Superintending engineer Sushma Sakarwade had ordered probe into the allegation and had shouldered the responsibility of EE, PWD-II, Anant Bhaskarwar in the last week of December 2020. “We completed our inquiry and found no irregularities in the work. The material used by the contractors are of good quality and the entire construction is being supervised by third party observers,” said Bhaskarwar. He claimed that BRTC is the first of its kind bamboo made structure coming up in the country. Renowned JANS NKKC (JV), the only company with expertise, is carrying out the construction. Tata Trusts itself had appointed a consultant to ensure unique and quality work of BRTC. Moreover, third party observers too are keeping a watch on the progress of the work, he added, denying any corruption. Bhaskarwar claimed that last week superintending engineer Sushma Sakarwade had carried out inspection of under construction buildings and found no irregularities. “The investigation has found no substance in the allegations made by the complainant. The report will be submitted in the next few days,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/brtc-contractors-to-get-clean-chit-in-graft-case/articleshow/80222013.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||After flak, MSRTC ‘deep cleans’ buses||Mumbai: MSRTC, facing flak from commuters for unclean buses, on Monday began ‘deep cleaning’ 17,000 buses in view of Covid. TOI recently highlighted complaints of unclean buses and those in bad condition following which MSRTC decided on a “four-step process” to clean interiors and exteriors of its buses. A senior official said the buses had to be kept spic and span and in good condition to ensure ‘healthy and safe’ travel of commuters. Around 1,000 state buses have been taken by BEST on lease in Mumbai for ferrying office-goers and essential staff daily. BEST committee recently witnessed a hue and cry as members complained of the bad quality of state buses operating in the city. Sources said MSRTC will take up the process in four steps. It will dust buses, shampoo and wet-clean them, remove stains (like paan) and them and remove bad odour. “The deep cleaning will involve every part roof, seats, windows/panes, floor and doors. Passengers should not complaint about cleanliness any more,” an official said. “The move is good and will benefit scores of commuters,” said a committee member. “We have been raising a voice over the buses, which have been introduced in large numbers for Mumbaikars, but basic cleanliness was missing in most buses,” he said. BEST has taken 1000 buses from MSRTC, the state-run transport corporation, on lease. It is a temporary arrangement during Covid crisis and may be taken off once things normalise. BEST said the drivers were well-trained and buses were roadworthy. It has ferried 4-5 lakh commuters daily and reduced the wait time for citizens at bus-stops. The buses were procured from MSRTC depots in Nashik, Manmad, Sinnar and Igatpuri. “We are getting more from other depots. Many were lying idle during Covid,” an MSRTC official said. The buses have been given on lease for Rs75/km and each bus may make trips of 150-200km daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-flak-msrtc-deep-cleans-buses/articleshow/80220383.cms||Somit Sen
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||At 23 degrees Celsius, Monday’s minimum temperature in Mumbai highest for January in 10 years||MUMBAI: The city woke up on Monday morning to its highest minimum temperature for January in at least a decade. The Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory recorded a night temperature of 23 degree Celsius—5.7 degrees above normal. High temperature, during the day too, resulted in an improved air quality index (AQI) of 266 on Monday compared with over 300 in the past few days. An AQI of 266 is still considered poor though. Track the pollution level in your cityBefore Monday, the highest minimum temperature for the month since 2010 (IMD has records from that year) was observed this January 2 as well. The Santacruz observatory had recorded 22.7 degrees and Colaba 23.5 degrees, which was 4.1 degrees above normal. Skies were clear on Monday and day temperatures too stayed high. Santacruz recorded a maximum temperature of 34.5 degrees, which was 3.6 degrees above normal. This equalled the highest January temperature last year. The all-time high January temperature of 37.4 degrees was in 2006. On the other hand, Colaba’s maximum temperature of 31.4 degrees was only 1.6 degrees above normal. K S Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD, said, “The cloud cover that was on the city over the past few days has gone and clear skies along with warm easterly winds have caused the maximum temperature to rise. Over the next 10 days, maximum and minimum temperature in the city will reduce only gradually and remain around 20 and 32 degrees, respectively.” He added though it is winter, the city sees high temperatures in January as it is a coastal city. “Marine influence brings a lot of variation in the weather,” said Hosalikar. According to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), an AQI between 201 and 300 is considered poor and puts elderly at health risk and causes slight discomfort to healthy individuals. On January 8, the city had recorded an AQI of 319, the worst since the Deonar dumping ground fire of 2016. Among the 10 locations monitored by SAFAR, Bhandup was the least polluted with an AQI of 93 and Colaba the most with 337 on Monday. “Winter conditions and low ventilation prevail and will keep Mumbai’s AQI on the brink of poor to very poor for the next two days,” said SAFAR’s forecast. It has predicted an overall AQI of 256 for Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-23-c-mondays-minimum-temp-highest-for-jan-in-10-yrs/articleshow/80219750.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Case against forest officer for outraging woman’s modesty||CHANDRAPUR: Ramnagar police here have registered an offence against divisional forest officer of social forestry department Sharad Kare for outraging the modesty of a female colleague. In her complaint, the woman has claimed that Kare used force with intention of outraging her modesty and threatened her of dire consequences if she reveals the incident to others. Ramnagar police have registered offence under section 354, 354 (a), 354(b) and 506 of IPC against the accused. Sources in the forest department claimed that CCF, Chandrapur, has not received any complaint in this regard. But Kare is likely to face departmental inquiry if the complaint arrives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/case-against-forest-officer-for-outraging-womans-modesty/articleshow/80222090.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 12, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Relief in accident case as ‘fast driving isn’t always rash’||NEW DELHI: In a unique judgment, a man, who was awarded six months in jail for hitting a cyclist with his crane truck, has been acquitted by a Delhi court. It observed that the man could have applied the brakes but the cyclist came out of nowhere. Santosh Kumar had appealed against his conviction and the jail term after being found guilty under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of IPC after he had allegedly run over a man in 2011. Principal district and sessions judge Dharmesh Sharma found his conviction to be “erroneous” and observed that it was difficult to discern that Kumar was driving the vehicle in a rash and negligent manner. “Merely because he was allegedly driving at fast speed is no substantial indicator of rash driving. Indeed, he could have applied brakes but it appears that the cyclist came from nowhere and the accident happened due to error of judgment on the part of the appellant/convict as also the cyclist,” the judge pointed out. The court also pulled up the investigating officer of the case, stating, “The investigation was completely lackadaisical and the investigating officer, ASI Raj Kapoor, did not do any worthwhile investigation.” Kumar had faced the trial for allegedly hitting 22-year-old Subhash Kumar with a crane truck and causing him grievous injuries that ultimately resulted in his death on May 15, 2011 in Mayapuri. There were 11 witnesses examined by the prosecution to prove its case against Kumar, who, an eyewitness claimed, was driving the vehicle rashly and at a fast speed. However, according to the court, the witness testimony did not inspire confidence. “It is in the testimony of the witness that it was a Sunday and there is nothing to discern in his evidence that there was heavy traffic on the road early morning in the month of May that year.” Further, the court opined that the evidence showed that the road was about 60-feet wide. Records also didn’t show any skid marks of the truck that could indicate that it was being driven in an “uncontrolled, rash or reckless” manner, it said. However, there was no dispute over the driver’s identity, the court added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-in-accident-case-as-fast-driving-isnt-always-rash/articleshow/80222024.cms||Aamir Khan
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Former MLA, Sena union leader Suryakant Mahadik dies||MUMBAI: Former Shiv Sena MLA and president of the Sena-affiliated Bhartiya Kamgar Sena, Suryakant Mahadik (74) died on Monday after prolonged illness. Mahadik was known to be a loyal Shiv Sainik, and was attached to the employees’ union, which has over five lakh members in various establishments such as MTNL, five-star hotels, hospitals, airports, and private companies. As an MLA, he had represented the Nehru Nagar (Kurla) assembly constituency. He had leading the union for the last 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-mla-sena-union-leader-dies/articleshow/80223024.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra CM Jagan Mohan Reddy nominates Pothula Suneetha for MLC post||VIJAYAWADA: Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy on Monday cleared the candidature of Pothula Suneetha for the MLC by-election. The Election Commission had issued the notification for the by-election to the vacant post on Monday and the election would be held on January 28, if required. The post fell vacant following Suneetha’s resignation on November 1, 2020, as she quit TDP and joined YSRC. She would be the second MLC from TDP to quit the party and post and nominated again to complete the remaining period. It was former minister Dokka Manikyavara Prasada Rao, who quit the post and TDP and later elected to the post on YSRC ticket. Suneetha would be elected to the post in the legislative assembly quota where YSRC has absolute majority and TDP runs short of the numbers. Suneetha met Jagan at his Tadepalli camp office on Monday and thanked him for the nomination. Both Manikyavara Prasada Rao and Suneetha left TDP following the party’s opposition to the decision to decentralise the capitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-jagan-nominates-suneetha-for-mlc-post/articleshow/80219395.cms||Gopi Dara
January 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: SEC suspends official for breach of conduct||VIJAYAWADA: State election commissioner N Ramesh Kumar on Monday issued orders suspending joint director G V Sai Prasad, for breach of code of conduct. The SEC further said the suspended official “will not be entitled for any terminal benefits and is barred from entering any other government service.” Ramesh Kumar said Sai Prasad had gone on leave for 30 days even though the SEC had issued the notification for gram panchayat elections. He further alleged that the joint director had encouraged several of the commission’s employees to go on leave with an intention to derail the election schedule. The leave “was part of a larger design to adversely affect the functioning of the commission in the backdrop of some developments already taking place,” Kumar said in the proceedings. He said the SEC had conducted an inquiry and found that Sai Prasad had “actively tried to influence all the employees, misusing his authority to similarly apply for 30 days leave en masse and desert the office of the commission with a view to paralyse the functioning of the commission.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/sec-suspends-official-for-breach-of-conduct/articleshow/80219422.cms||Gopi Dara
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Banned bull bars remain on official cars||CHENNAI: Two weeks after an intense crackdown, following a Madras High Court direction, bull bars and crash guards are back on official vehicles. Violators include vehicles in chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s convoy and those allotted to top officials of central government agencies like the income tax department and Goods and Services Tax (GST) Council. A few days ago, when a car that was part of the chief minister’s convoy’s car met with a road accident near Tuticorin, a political party’s flag was seen fixed to the bull bar. The court had earlier directed chief secretary K Shanmugam to take adequate steps to remove such extra fittings from cars of VIPs/VVIPs. Shanmugham wrote to all ministers, MLAs, secretaries and top officials to strictly follow the order, but violations continue unabated. On Monday, TOI tried to cross-check the implementation status at BSNL Building on Greams Road in Nungambakkam, which accommodates several central government offices. Four of the 10 cars parked in the lobby had extra bumpers in the front. They included vehicles used by the director general of GST Intelligence, Chennai Zonal Office and deputy commissioner of the income tax department. A senior central government official said they were government-contracted vehicles and not owned by the officials concerned. “The cab firm owners had been instructed to remove such bull bars and bumpers 15 days ago. They will now be removed in a day or two,” he said. T Sadagopan, an activist involved with the transport sector, said politicians and government officials who should act as role models in this aspect are violating the rules over and over again. “First they should correct themselves. Moreover, these are not their personal vehicles. They have no right to fix such illegal fittings on cars which were procured and are maintained using taxpayers’ money,” he added. Transport department sources said such bars are installed to fix flags so that they can seek exemption from paying toll fees or skipping queues in public places. The Union transport ministry had in 2017 barred such extra fittings as they prevent inflation of airbags during accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/banned-bull-bars-remain-on-official-cars/articleshow/80220462.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Three tuskers damage standing crops on Pilibhit-Sitarganj border||PILIBHIT: Three elephants, suspected to have got separated from their herd, wreaked havoc on the agricultural fields of Haldua village on Pilibhit-Sitarganj border near Bareilly-Haridwar NH-74 on Sunday afternoon. It is feared that they could also disrupt traffic on the highway. On Monday, villagers at Haldua said the elephants had caused great damage to standing wheat, mustard and sugarcane crops. The tuskers were first spotted in Barakoli forest range of East Terai forest division a week ago. The forests have never had any elephant population. It is believed that the trio traversed 40 km from Dolly forest range to reach Haldua village in Uttarakhand bordering Pilibhit district. While one of the elephants is about 20 years old, the other two are estimated to be aged eight-nine years. Their presence has revived horrific memories of two jumbos from Nepal’s Shukla Phanta wildlife sanctuary that entered Pilibhit in the last week of June, 2019 and travelled through Pilibhit, Bareilly, Rudrapur and Rampur in a span of 20 days, leaving behind a trail of destruction and killing five people. “Wild elephants turn aggressive after coming in contact with humans who normally assemble as spectators near them and make loud noises to drive them away,” said Pinaki Prasad Singh, chief conservator of forest in Jhansi who was posted in Bareilly in 2019. Foresters are now engaged in facilitating safe passage to the jumbos so that they return to their natural habitat without being disturbed by humans.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/three-tuskers-damage-standing-crops-on-pilibhit-sitarganj-border/articleshow/80219424.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Arjun Rampal's sister quizzed again by NCB||MUMBAI: The NCB on Monday recorded the statement of actor Arjun Rampal’s sister, Komal, for the second time in connection with the seizure of opiate painkillers Clonazepam and Tramadol from her brother’s home last month. Komal was questioned at the Ballard Estate office of the NCB till evening. NCB officials said Rampal had submitted two doctors’ prescriptions. “There is some discrepancy in a prescription submitted to us from a doctor in Delhi,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/arjun-rampal-sister-quizzed-again-by-ncb/articleshow/80222085.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Directors of Mumbai firm used Korean bank for IPL bets||MUMBAI: The South Korea-based Shinhan Bank has lodged a complaint of cheating and forgery against two private firms under the scanner for IPL betting racket for fraudulent transactions of Rs 68 crore involving entities based in the US and Singapore.These transactions were in the guise of import and export business, involving transfer and remittance. The bank lodged an FIR with the EOW against six directors of the two companies having offices at Lower Parel and in Delhi. Joint commissioner of police (EOW) Niket Kaushik said the probe has begun. The bank lodged the FIR after the Odisha cyber police registered an offence under Prize Chits and Money circulation scheme (Banning) Act last November. The police alerted the bank that they had identified two bank accounts suspiciously involved in facilitating IPL cricket betting and illegal criminal syndicate. The Odisha police said two account numbers suspected to be part of a criminal syndicate were under the scanner. The bank started an internal investigation into the activities of the account and informed its head office in Mumbai for further probe and reporting it to the Financial Intelligence Unit, Government of India. The internal inquiry found high-volume and high-value domestic transactions done through the account. The value and volume of the transactions were inconsistent with the account holder’s profile. It was noticed that there was high value outward foreign remittances from the bank accounts, the FIR said. “Movement of funds in the account seemed suspicious and suspicion arose due to receipt of domestic inward remittance into the account and subsequent transfers of an equivalent amount in foreign currency either the same day or within 2 or 3 days to foreign bank account. The outward remittances were mainly to Singapore and the United States,” the inquiry report stated. It added that during scrutiny of details given to open the account last October, photos of signatories of these two companies were identical.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/directors-of-city-firm-used-korean-bank-for-ipl-bets/articleshow/80222079.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Woman accuses Roorkee mayor of sexual harassment||Roorkee: A 40-year-old woman from Roorkee has accused city mayor Gaurav Goel of sexual harassment, a charge he denied. The woman approached the Gangnahar police station on January 8 regarding the alleged crime. However, the police did not register a case in the matter citing ‘certain technicalities’. The officials say that they need some concrete proof before lodging a case in the matter. According to the complainant, BJP leader Goel hired her husband as an office attendant a few years ago but the mayor had not been releasing his salary for 15 months. When the husband of the complainant asked for his dues, Goel’s henchmen allegedly thrashed him. The complainant adds that her husband was subsequently arrested by the police on the command of the mayor. According to the complainant, when she paid a visit to Goel for reconciliation on December 25, 2020, the mayor asked for sexual favours to ensure early release of her husband. “He also touched me inappropriately,” added the woman. On the other hand, Goel says that he never held back the salary of his employee and that all allegations are baseless. “I have committed no crime. My opponents are using cheap tricks to throw mud at my name. If I am found guilty, throw me behind the bars but if the probe finds me innocent, legal action must be taken against the women and those behind her,” said Goel. Meanwhile, legal experts have said that the delay in lodging the case is unwarranted. “According to the Criminal Law Amendment Act of 2013, any woman can report sexual harassment and the cops must “immediately” register her complaint and then, start investigation,” said Zubair Ahmed, a senior lawyer from Roorkee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-accuses-roorkee-mayor-of-sexual-harassment/articleshow/80219450.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 12, 2021||Vijayawada||Noted historian Turlapaty Kutumba Rao no more||VIJAYAWADA: Journalist and Padma Shri awardee Turlapaty Kutumba Rao passed away while receiving treatment at a private hospital in the city on Monday. He was 88. According to his family, Kutumba Rao had been suffering from a number of ailments over the past few months and was rushed to a private hospital at around 10 pm on Sunday. Born on August 10, 1933, Kutumba Rao entered journalism at the age of 14 and went on to become an expert in politics, history and governance. He worked with 18 chief ministers of Andhra Pradesh, from the first chief minister Tanguturi Prakasam to N Chandrababu Naidu. With over 4,000 biographies and 16,000 public speeches to his credit, Kutumba Rao started his career as a sub-editor for the vernacular magazine Vahini and later became editor of Prathibha magazine. Rao was an assistant editor in Prajapathrika by Tanguturi Prakasam and simultaneously worked as his secretary during the latter’s tenure as chief minister. Kutumba Rao is credited with interviews of historical figures like Jawaharlal Nehru, BR Ambedkar and C Rajagopalachari and was known to display an autograph of Mahatma Gandhi that he got at the age of 14 when Bapu had visited Vijayawada. Apart from being the first Telugu journalist to receive the Padma Shri, Kutumba Rao was also nominated for the Padma Bhushan in 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/noted-historian-kutumba-rao-no-more/articleshow/80219441.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Yes Bank case: Dheeraj Wadhawan cites ill health for bail||MUMBAI: Days after a magistrate rejected his bail plea on merits in the Yes Bank case, Dheeraj Wadhawan on Monday sought interim bail on health grounds in the money laundering case. The special PMLA judge will hear the plea on January 22 when the ED will also be heard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wadhawan-cites-ill-health-for-bail/articleshow/80223045.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand to set up varsity for women, Centre’s nod sought||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand higher education department is planning to set up a university specifically for female students. The department has also sent a proposal for the same to the Union ministry of education and is currently awaiting its response. The state government plans to convert a campus of the Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Garhwal Central University (HNBGCU) into an institution for female students. The HNBGCU runs one campus each in Pauri, Srinagar, and Tehri districts and the higher education department aims to use one of them for their flagship project. Uttarakhand higher education minister Dhan Singh Rawat has made it clear that work on the project will start once the department gets the nod from the Centre. Previously, the department had planned to establish the women’s university entirely on its own but it could not happen due to lack of funds. Notably, if the project is completed, then, it will be the first university in the state, exclusively for female students. Meanwhile, on the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary on January 12, the government degree colleges and the universities across the state will conduct several competitions for students. Also, government degree colleges across the state will start holding blood camps too from Tuesday onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-to-set-up-varsity-for-women-centres-nod-sought/articleshow/80219459.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat to make Dang an organic farming district||GANDHINAGAR: The state government has chalked out a plan to adopt the Sikkim model of organic farming and has decided to make the tribal-dominated Dang a 100% organic agriculture district. The plan is to convert the entire cultivable land in the district into organic farming areas and promote agricultural products of Dang as certified organic products. The tribals of the district earlier depended on organic methods of farming, but the use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides has increased in farming over the years. Sources in the state government said that Sikkim state has been declared as the first 100% organic farming-based state in the country. “A formal project has been approved. Sikkim and Dang have similar geographical conditions,” sources said. Over the next five years, around 53,000 hectares of Dang district will be converted into an organic farming district. “Government will prohibit use of any kind of synthetic external inputs and genetically modified organisms in farming. All shops selling chemical fertilizers and pesticides will be shut in Dang soon. Government will promote organic farming groups in the district,” officials said. The agricultural practices of farmers of the district will be promoted by the state government, looking to the demand of products in the national and international market. “Large scale third party certification of products is also proposed under NPOP (National Programme for Organic Production) for total conversion of Dang into an organic farming district,” sources said. At present, Dang produces paddy, nagali, varaj, groundnut, black urad and toor, gram, wheat, mango, cashew and various vegetables. Local farmers will be given special incentives. Along with farming, organic practices will be introduced in animal husbandry activities as well. The government will extent major support in selling and marketing organic products of farmers who adopt organic farming in the district. “On the basis of the Dang model, the government plans to extend organic farming into other districts,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/dang-to-adopt-sikkim-model/articleshow/80222092.cms||Kapil Dave
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Man steals hearse, says it was to escape attackers||AHMEDABAD: A 25-year-old man stole a hearse (van used to transport dead bodies) from Prahladnagar allegedly to prevent four men from turning him into a dead body. Now, he has been booked as accused in what is probably the city’s first-ever theft of a dead body van.  The police identifed the accused as Rudra Gurjar, a resident of Satellite Centre in Vastrapur. Anandnagar police said, “Gurjar had been walking back home from his workplace, a foreign placement agency in Prahladnagar, around 11 pm on Sunday when four men began chasing him. They probably wanted to loot him. In a desperate bid to evade the attempt on his life, Gurjar jumped into the hearse that was parked near Prahladnagar fire station.” After staying inside for a couple of hours, he spotted the keys to the vehicle. “He then drove the vehicle to Mansi Circle in Vastrapur where he parked it on one side of the road and walked home,” said police. Meanwhile, the fire brigade personnel, on realising that their new Rs 30-lakh hearse had been stolen, approached Anandnagar police. Cops checked CCTV footage and found that it had been stolen by Gurjar and parked near Mansi Circle. The footage helped cops in identifying Gurjar. They arrested him from his house in Vastrapur. Police lodged a complaint of theft and are collecting CCTV footage from Prahladnagar to know if he was really fleeing attackers or had cooked up the story.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-steals-hearse-says-it-was-to-escape-attackers/articleshow/80222150.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||MSME secy Arvind Sharma takes VRS amid buzz about his next assignment||NEW DELHI: MSME secretary Arvind Kumar Sharma, an officer who has worked closely with Prime Minister Narendra Modi since the leader was Gujarat CM, has taken voluntary retirement amid a buzz that the IAS officer is set to bag a prized assignment. Sharma, who was until last year additional secretary in the PMO, was scheduled to retire in July 2022. An order issued by the ministry of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME) said the 1988-batch IAS officer’s request for VRS was accepted on Monday. His sudden departure, days after he was assigned the additional charge of textiles ministry, has set off speculation about his next assignment. With Sharma’s departure, there are at least half-a-dozen ministries that are without a full-time secretary, including the two he was in-charge of. On promotion as secretary, he had moved to the MSME ministry last April, in what was seen as a major surprise. He is credited with working closely with the PMO and the finance ministry in rolling out a package for the sector, including a much-delayed change of investment caps. He has been part of Modi’s core team and was part of the CM’s office in Gujarat. He moved into PMO along with Modi and is seen to have been an efficient and effective officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/msme-secy-arvind-sharma-takes-vrs-amid-buzz-about-his-next-assignment/articleshow/80223791.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP internet penetration lower than national average||VISAKHAPATNAM: Internet penetration in Andhra Pradesh stands at 31%, which is below the country average of 36%, reveals a study conducted by Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI). The lower penetration rate, according to experts, is a result of the slow progress made by the state government in its project to provide internet services to every household at affordable prices. As per the government’s website — Andhra Pradesh State FiberNet Ltd (APSFL) — 9.71 lakh households across the 13 districts are currently connected with FiberNet services. The total number of households in state stands at 1.3 crore. Information Technology Association of Andhra Pradesh (iTAAP) president, Sreedhar Kosaraju, said that majority in rural AP do not have internet access. “The government must make digital services mandatory at every grass-roots level. Over the course of the pandemic, people used internet-based services as a mandatory option. This indicates that people are ready for it if the situation demands,” Kosaraju told TOI. Joint director and officer-in-charge of Software Technology Parks of India (STPI), MP Dubey, pointed out that for better internet penetration, infrastructure needs to developed all across rural India. He noted that most people in rural areas are still dependent on 2G-level telecommunication services. “Internet penetration will improve when 4G and 5G services cover rural pockets. Apart from this, the government’s communication and digital services must be conducted in the local or regional language. This will be one of the best methods to improve internet penetration,” Dubey told TOI. An official source from the APSFL said that they are now coming with triple-play packages to reach more households. Under this, a home premium package will be available for Rs 599 while the home essential package will be given for Rs 449. These packages will provide internet, phone calls and television channels through a single connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ap-internet-penetration-lower-than-natl-average/articleshow/80219473.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Avian influenza surfaces in Uttarakhand; alert sounded||DEHRADUN: An alert has been sounded in Uttarakhand after the samples of two dead crows sent for testing avian influenza returned positive. The samples were tested at the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal. With this, Uttarakhand joined nine other states — Delhi, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh — where confirmed cases of avian influenza have surfaced so far. On Monday, Dehradun divisional forest office officials spotted 127 dead birds in different locations. What remained alarming was the sighting of one spotted dove in Rajaji Tiger Reserve, six Mynas (Acridotheres tristis) in Chidarwala, Rishikesh and four pigeons in AIIMS Rishikesh. While Bhandari Bagh in Dehradun witnessed mass mortality of crows with as many as 85 dead crows, forest departmentt staff were kept busy in picking up the carcasses and safely burying them. Similarly, two dead crows were found in a school. Besides, one dead crow each was spotted in Vikasnagar, Mohini Road, Race Course, Danda Dharampur, Laxmi Road, Laxman Chowk, and Masandawala areas. According to sources, some cranes were also found dead in Dehradun on Monday. Rajiv Bhartari, head of forest force, told TOI, “The virus found in birds is H5N8 (influenza). This is different from the virulent strain found in Himachal Pradesh and is not zoonotic (transmissible from animals or insects to humans). We have sounded an alert across the state. We urge the people to not touch or discard any dead bird on their own.” Meanwhile, the authorities at Dehradun Zoo have started sanitising the zoo to keep the deadly pathogenic infection at bay. Despite several efforts, officials of the animal husbandry department remained unavailable to disclose whether any samples from state-based poultry farms have been sent for testing so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/avian-influenza-surfaces-in-uttarakhand-alert-sounded/articleshow/80219487.cms||Shivani Azad
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||India’s stalwart astronomer SM Chitre passes away at 84||Eminent astronomer and space scientist, S M Chitre (84), who provided the first commentary during the inauguration of Nehru Planetarium in Worli, on March 3, 1977, passed away on Monday afternoon after prolonged illness. He died at the Kokilaben Dhirubhai Ambani hospital. Nehru Planetarium director, Arvind Paranjpye, recalled Chitre telling him that actor Dilip Kumar had trained him to face the microphone. Chitre gave the commentary to a show called “Tyrst With Destiny”. Paranjpye said that Chitre had encouraged setting up a science lab at the planetarium to inspire school students to study science. That Chitre was keen on encouraging students was amply evident from a remark made by a Mumbai University physics student, Ruchira Sawant, who remembered that on August 24, 2015, after a programme at the Nehru Planetarium, he pointed to her and inquired whether she understood what the main speaker had presented about atomic energy. She said she had. “I remember him telling me that young minds should understand what is happening,” Ruchira said, pointing out that he had advised her to “have a conversation with a mind which has something to say”. A graduate from Elphinstone College and Peterhouse College, Cambridge, Chitre played a major role in the development of India’s first space observatory Astrosat, which was launched by ISRO in 2015. Chintamani Pai, part of Mumbai University’s physics department, said: “He inspired us to research cosmic rays flux variation during the annular solar eclipse of 2010.” Chitre was the driving force behind establishing University of Mumbai’s atomic energy department and centre for excellence, located at the Kalina campus. He was a stalwart of Indian astronomy community, particularly solar physics. A recipient of Padma Bhushan, he retired as a senior professor from TIFR in 2001. He served on the boards of Nehru Centre trust and J N Tata trust for several years. He was a former president of the Astronomical Society of India, and a member of multiple committees in recent decades that shaped India’s science policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indias-stalwart-astronomer-chitre-passes-away-at-84/articleshow/80223081.cms||Srinivas Laxman
January 12, 2021||Chennai||NEET booster shot: Cut-offs keep rising as students shine||CHENNAI: For four years, almost all parties in the state have been protesting National Eligibility and Entrance Test (NEET) as the sole eligibility for admissions to medical and dental colleges. But with every passing year since 2017 — when the state first adopted NEET — students have been raising the bar. On Monday, data released by the state selection committee, a day after it closed MBBS admissions under the state quota, showed that the last student to enter medical college this year under the state quota scored 281 in NEET compared to 140 in 2017. The committee allots students the college of choice based on merit in NEET and 69% rule of reservation. “It is not just cut-offs that have gone up in the past four years. The top scores in NEET have also increased,” said director of medical education Dr R Narayanababu. This year, seven students had marks above 700 compared to none last year. There were 205 students who scored more than 650 compared to 12 students last year. “Many students attempt NEET more than once so they get better colleges. In fact, most of the toppers are students who have repeated the exam for the second or third time,” he said. This crowding at the top has made entrance to top city colleges such as Madras Medical College or Stanley Medical Colleges for the state tougher. For instance, the cut-off for open category students to join the Madras Medical College was 660 and the last student who entered the college had scored 511 marks. Meritorious students opt for seats in government colleges, where annual tuition fee is Rs 13,600. Up to 50% of seats in self-financing medical colleges are categorised as state quota seats. The annual tuition fee for students admitted under the state quota is between Rs 3.85 lakh and Rs 4.15 lakh compared to Rs 12.5 lakh for students under the management quota and Rs 23.5 lakh for NRI. Eligible students, who don’t make it under the state quota, apply for management quota seats in self-financing colleges. Experts say more students in TN may make it to state quota if toppers make “smarter” choices. Many toppers in the state are still apprehensive about applying for the online counselling held by the medical counselling committee (MCC) of the directorate general of health services. The MCC conducts counselling for the central government institutions and the 15% of seats surrendered by states from government colleges for admission under the all-India quota, besides deemed universities. While some toppers apply to Jipmer in Puducherry, not many students try for intuitions such as AIIMS or Armed Forces Medical College. Many students with score about 600 told TOI that they were not aware of the centralised counselling, while some others said they decided to stay in TN. “Earlier, students did not apply because they had to write separate tests. But this year, the process for admissions to all colleges was similar,” said R Sathish Kumar, student counsellor. “We hope that their impression towards studying in colleges outside the state will change,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/neet-booster-shot-cut-offs-keep-rising-as-students-shine/articleshow/80220509.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Gravity-based irrigation system waters tribal village in Visakhapatnam||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a novel initiative, a gravity-based irrigation system has been set up in the tribal parts of Dumbriguda mandal in Visakhapatnam district. The pilot project, now at the testing stage, has water being drawn through pipes from an elevated perennial stream to irrigate farms in the area. A 31-acre cluster belonging to 51 tribal families at Logili village are expected to benefit from this project. Until now, the area was solely dependent on rain for irrigation. But with this system in place, tribal farmers have access to water round the year. The technology, which has existed for a while, was earlier used only for the purpose of obtaining drinking water. But the adoption of this irrigation method is slated to earn farms between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh a year per acre, a very significant jump from Rs 8,000–12,000 per acre earlier. As per plan, the area will be promoted as an organic vegetable cluster. The project costs around Rs 18 lakh. It is primarily financed by ‘Bred for the World’ — a German organisation, apart from local organisations such as Vikasa, Birds, Lotus Wireless Company Ltd and community members. Explaining the irrigation method, Kiran Sakkhari, executive director of Vikasa said, “Gravity-based drinking water facility already existed to meet the drinking water requirements of the village. This project was recently taken up to partially channel the stream flowing alongside the village by constructing a check dam across the flow on a sheet rock to a 31-acre cluster.” “Currently farmers here grow only one crop, millets or groundnut, as rain-fed crops. If all these fields are networked through pipelines, water coming from the check dam could be useful in growing at least two crops, thereby making the best use of the land by crop rotation,” Sakkhari added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/gravity-based-irrigation-system-waters-tribal-village/articleshow/80219492.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Ensure order of 50% occupancy in theatres is not breached: HC||Madurai: Closing a batch of petition challenging the state government’s order to permit 100% occupancy at theatres and multiplexes, the Madras high court on Monday asked the state to ensure that the order of 50% occupancy is not breached. The court also refused to express anything to increase the ticket fares as sought by a petitioner.The court was hearing a batch of three public interest litigations (PILs) challenging a GO permitting 100% occupancy in theatres and multiplexes in the state.Advocate general Vijay Narayan submitted that on January 8, the revenue and disaster management department passed a GO withdrawing the earlier order dated January 4 permitting 100% occupancy at theatres and multiplexes. He submitted that the new GO also permits theatres to screen additional shows based on the recommendations given by the court.The counsel for Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association submitted that though permission has been granted for increasing the number of shows, it could alone not revive the industry. Citing the higher ticket fares collected at theatres and multiplexes at New Delhi and Noida, he sought to increase the ticket fares in the state by considering the present position of the industry and the expenses towards sanitation work.A division bench of justice M M Sundresh and justice S Ananthi appreciated the government for rightly recalling the earlier GO. With regard to the plea to increase ticket fares, the judges observed that they are not inclined to express anything asked the association to approach the government for consideration.The judges further made it clear that the state should ensure that there is no breach in the order of 50% occupancy. Since the petitioners contended that online sale of tickets for 100% occupancy were over, the judges said that in such cases people should be accommodated in subsequent shows.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/ensure-order-of-50-occupancy-in-theatres-is-not-breached-hc/articleshow/80222181.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC has ‘serious reservations’ over sedition charge against Kangana Ranaut||MUMBAI: Observing that it has “serious reservations” over invoking the penal section of sedition against actor Kangana Ranaut, the Bombay high court on Monday continued its interim protection till January 25 from any coercive action in the case over her tweets. A division bench of Justice S S Shinde and Manish Pitale was hearing Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel’s plea against the case. They sought that it be quashed and the order of a magistrate directing police to register the FIR be quashed, and that pending final disposal of their petition, the entire prosecution and investigation be stayed and no coercive steps taken against them. The HC had in November granted protection to the sisters from any coercive action and arrest. The court on Monday also directed Mumbai police not to summon the sisters for questioning till the next hearing. At the last hearing, the HC had observed, “It has become routine that IPC 124-A (sedition) is added in complaint. For what? Are we treating citizens of the country like this?” On Monday, the HC said, “We anyway have serious reservations about invoking 124A of IPC.” Both sisters had appeared before Bandra police on January 8 to record their statements following their assurance given to the HC last November. Ranaut’s advocate Rizwan Siddiquee challenged the October 2020 Bandra magistrate’s order that had directed police to register an FIR on a private complaint. He challenged the summons issued to them to appear before police. Munawwar Ali Sayyed, a Bollywood casting director, had filed the complaint before the magistrate. Advocate Rizwan Merchant, who appeared for Ali, sought time to file a reply to their petition. The court gave time till January 25. “The police shall not call the petitioners till that day,” the bench said. On Monday, public prosecutor Deepak Thakare informed the bench the sisters appeared before police on January 8 from 1 pm to 3 pm. “The interrogation is incomplete... We will call her again for interrogation. What is wrong in cooperating.” Justice Shinde said, “Whenever anyone appears before the police, they have to complete the interrogation.” She was there for two hours which should be enough, said the bench. “How many more hours” do police require, asked the bench. “How many hours do you need of their cooperation?” Thakare replied police would like to interrogate Ranaut for three more days. Justice Shinde suggested to the police, “You can utilise this time for some other cases. Police have other matters to investigate too. Till that time, do not call her (Ranaut) again.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-has-serious-reservations-over-sedition-charge-against-kangana/articleshow/80222311.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Barring eggs, rates of chicken products witness surge in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: In a big breather for the poultry industry and chicken traders of Ludhiana, who had been witnessing a steep fall in the demand of poultry products, the rates of dressed chicken and broiler have started limping back towards normal as demand has started picking up again. Barring wholesale rates of eggs, the rates of other products have increased. The rate of dressed chicken which fell to Rs 120 per kg from Rs 200 touched Rs 150 on Monday. Meanwhile, the rate of chick, which fell to Rs 50 per piece from Rs 90 too corrected on Monday and reached Rs 63. Businessmen are jubilant over the development and they are of the view that surge in demand was mainly due to zero cases of bird flu in state and state government’s constant monitoring of the situation and checks. Bhupinder Singh, president of Punjab Wholesale Poultry Association, said, “After a week of witnessing huge fall in the demand and rates of the poultry and allied products we have heaved a sigh of relief as the rates of broiler and dressed chicken have started stabilising. The rate of dressed chicken has now come back in the range of Rs 140-150 per kg after it crashed to Rs 120 per kg. This has happened due to surge in demand as residents have again started consuming non-vegetarian products after briefly halting the consumption as panic spread in Punjab due to bird flu cases in other states. We are also thankful to the state government for taking steps like constant monitoring and sampling in the state to check bird flu cases and also spreading message to the public widely that there was no danger of bird flu in Punjab.” According to Ramandeep Singh, a poultry trader from city, “There has been bounce back in the rates of raw chicken and chick, but the current situation has failed to bring about any change in the demand of eggs and the rate of 100 pieces of eggs as on date has fallen to Rs 472, which was Rs 572 per 100 pieces a week back. But I think by Wednesday, we will see a correction in the rates of eggs as demand is picking up, but due to huge supply already available the rate has not seen any correction.” Dilbagh Singh, a non-vegetarian products trader and retailer, said, “For one week there was a huge drop in our business and our sales plummeted by 90%. But thankfully, ever since Saturday customers have again started coming back and our sales have picked up. Though it will still take a few days for our business to get back to the earlier level, but we are happy with the development. As of now, in the segment of raw chicken, maximum demand is for frozen products in the market as people consider it a more safe option.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/barring-eggs-rates-of-chicken-products-witness-surge/articleshow/80220512.cms||Mohit Behl
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||WII creating first genetic database of Indian Star Tortoise to protect species||In India, Star Tortoises are found in six states — Gujarat, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and parts of OdishaDehradun: Exotic pets, good luck charms and of “medicinal” value — the Indian Star Tortoise has been declining globally, though no one knows how fast and how much. In an attempt to map the surviving members of the species, where they are from and, then, use that information to counter poaching, India has started creating a genetic database of the Indian Star Tortoise. “The Indian Star Tortoise is smuggled across the globe. Its demand is high in south Asia because of the belief that it brings good fortune and for its perceived medicinal value,” Dr Sandeep Kumar Gupta, nodal officer and scientist at the Wildlife Forensic and Conservation Genetics Cells, Wildlife Institute of India (WII), told TOI. Prior to this, similar genetic databases have been created and effectively used to protect tigers and rhinos in India. Star Tortoises, with their distinct star-like markings on the shell, are found in dry lowlands of India, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. In India, they are found in six states — Gujarat, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and parts of Odisha. They can survive up to 80 years in their own habitat. But while there are no population estimates, WII scientists said the numbers are going down. According to the IUCN Red List, the Indian Star Tortoise is a vulnerable species. And in 2019, CITES (Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora) bumped it up from Appendix II, under which it had been placed in 1975, to Appendix I, the list of most endangered species. A genetic database is, essentially, a repository of biological data — blood samples, tissue, faeces, anything that holds DNA. “The genetic profile of each tortoise will then be maintained at WII,” Gupta said. So if, for instance, a tortoise part is retrieved, wildlife scientists can say exactly where the tortoise came from. “The database will help us alert enforcement authorities and forest officials. They can then increase security, trace the poachers, and so on,” Gupta added. Poaching has been the biggest threat the tortoises face. In 2015, for instance, some 55,000 had been seized from 16 villages in Andhra Pradesh. "They are trafficked alive, their limbs tied with sellotape so they remain still. Within India, most cases have been found in Mumbai and Chennai, from where they are then exported," HV Girish, deputy director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau in the northern region, told TOI. A study in September last year had noted that Thailand, Indonesia and Malaysia are the biggest markets for the illegal trade, most of which has moved online over the years, and facilitated through airports. A large Star Tortoise can fetch up to $390 in the illegal market, the study had found. Creating the database would also, for the first time, provide an estimate of the population and exact geographical spread. Knowing that would ensure safe rehabilitation of rescued tortoises. “The terrestrial release of the tortoise is often not in its original environment. It can kill them or, in the long run, cause genetic deformity. In a different habitat, they would mate with different sub-species of tortoise, which would dilute their genetic material,” Gupta said. “After this, we also plan to start DNA profiling of all 12 Gangetic turtles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wii-creating-first-genetic-database-of-indian-star-tortoise-to-protect-species/articleshow/80219509.cms||Shivani Azad
January 12, 2021||India||SC asks ex-Andhra HC judge to file affidavit regarding leaked conversation||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Monday asked former judge of Andhra Pradesh High Court Justice V Eswaraiah to file an affidavit certifying authenticity of the his leaked private telephonic conversation pertaining to a sitting SC judge for which the high court has ordered a probe. Justice Eswaraiah approached the apex court challenging the HC order for an investigation into his private telephonic conversation. A division bench of the high court had ordered the inquiry in August, under the supervision of former SC judge Justice R V Raveendran. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the judge, pleaded before a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that the HC erred in ordering the probe as it was a private conversation. "How can a private conversation be a matter of inquiry. What is the crime in having private conversation even when it pertains to a sitting judge," he said. Justice Eswaraiah in his petition termed the HC order illegal since it was issued without hearing him and was based on an application of a suspended district munsif magistrate, the other party in the telephonic conversation. The magistrate had annexed the transcript of the conversation with an application that was filed in an unrelated PIL. Opposing Bhushan's arguments, senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for the magistrate, alleged that there was nothing private about the conversation and it was part of a motivated attack on the system which had to be probed. . With Bhushan questioning the accuracy of the transcripts of the conversation, the bench asked him to file an affidavit to accept that he was part of the telephonic conversation and also the correct version of the transcripts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-asks-ex-andhra-hc-judge-to-file-affidavit-regarding-leaked-conversation/articleshow/80223797.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Online education in musical purity||Ahmedabad: Pandit Rajan Mishra sang a few notes over the phone during an interview with TOI on Monday — it was as though the call was being answered by the very Geist of the Banaras Gharana. “Geist”, a beautiful German word for “spirit”, is often evoked to hail the power of an individual to alter the currents of history.In the dialectic of Pandit Mishra, the Banaras Gharana divinity, artistic originality meets ragas’ steadfast integrity. The resulting synthesis produces the momentum for Indian classical music’s evolving ambitions.Speaking to TOI, Pandit Mishra laid out two set of notes to explain the sanctity of the raga structure. “We presented Rageshree and Jhinjoti at e-Saptak on Monday,” Pandit Mishra said. His accompanist was Pandit Sajan Mishra. “As for Rageshree, audiences will hear a presentation which is different from what is usually rendered. We were taught that Rageshree belongs to the Khamaj thaat,” Pandit Rajan Mishra said. In simple terms, “thaat” is a parent scale. Pandit Mishra commands the concentration of millions of purists. Yet, he sang briefly into the phone to educate the even larger population of apprentice rasikas. He demonstrated how an infinitesimal slip can make a singer fall off the “thaat”.After unravelling the nuance, Pandit Mishra said: “So, that is the authentic way of singing Rageshree.” Saptak has gone online, but it remains wired to the core of Hindustani norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/online-education-in-musical-purity/articleshow/80220619.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Two-wheeler registrations down 36%||AHMEDABAD: Thanks to a weakened consumer sentiment post-pandemic, income shortfall faced by customers coupled with rise in vehicle prices, two-wheeler demand declined 36% in 2020. Merely 6.38 lakh two-wheelers were registered against 10.73 lakh in 2019. Car sales on the other hand, recovered faster compared to two-wheelers, with a decline of 18% as 1.9 lakh cars were registered in 2020 against 2.4 lakh in 2019. Industry players also said that lack of easy availability of finance was a reason behind the drop in vehicle sales.  Explaining the downturn in two-wheeler sales, Pranav Shah, chairman – Gujarat region, Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Association (FADA), said, “Income shortfall faced by buyers was a key reason for sales going down. The segment of buyers who purchase two-wheelers were worst affected by job cuts and the impact was visible on sales. Moreover, finance availability was another issue as a majority of finance companies have made their norms much more stringent in approving loans, and the rejection rate of vehicle loan applications has increased.” Shah also said that at least 15% of two-wheeler sales came from student buyers who were absent throughout 2020 due to the pandemic and adoption of online education reduced the need to commute to campuses, which also caused a decline in sale. Interestingly, car sales recovered fairly well in the second half of 2020. “When the lockdown started easing, preference for personal cars increased, fuelling demand for four-wheelers. That apart, in the rural areas, particularly tier-III and tier-IV markets, a few buyers chose two-wheelers due to more disposable incomes due to better agriculture revenues,” said Jayesh Nanda, director, Nanda Automobiles Pvt Ltd The demand for entry-level and mid-segment cars was significantly good, according to dealers. “For our dealerships, mid-segment cars typically priced between Rs 5 lakh to Rs 8 lakh are in maximum demand. That apart, in urban areas, sales are largely driven by newly launched models, particularly SUVs,” Nanda further added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/2-wheeler-registrations-down-36/articleshow/80222208.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: District judge allows physical hearing in cases||LUDHIANA: As the Punjab and Haryana high court had asked the district judges to consider starting of physical hearing of cases, physical hearing has been allowed in all cases, except criminal ones, where evidence is to be recorded and in certain civil cases. This was decided after the District Bar Association (DBA) had discussions with the district judge on the matter on Monday. The high court had given discretion to the district judges to decide depending on Covid-19 scenario in the respective districts. DBA president advocate Gurkirpal Singh Gill said that their meeting with the district judge was held on Monday and it had been decided that physical hearing would be allowed in all cases but evidence would not be recorded in criminal cases, except those cases where accused is in custody. He added that it had been decided that in case of civil cases, examination-in-chief can be tendered but cross examination of the witnesses is not allowed. DBA president said that the arguments, reply and written statement had been allowed, which meant that 80% working of the courts had been started. He added that there would not be much rush as court gathering would be considerably reduced as compared to normal days. He added that, “It is because of financial problems faced by advocates that we are doing it. Apart from that, high pendency was already there.” “Those coming to the court will follow norms related to Covid-19, including wearing of masks, maintaining social distancing and hand hygiene,” said advocate Gautam Reshi, finance secretary of the DBA. He added that during routine days the footfall was more than 50,000 as there were 65-70 courts, but with the present system it would come down to 15-20%. “The system will streamline in 15 days because of increased awareness,” said the DBA office-bearer. Meanwhile, many advocates are happy with the start of physical hearing of cases. “Such a system was much needed as majority of advocates are facing severe financial problems as they have been literally without work for about 10 months now. As working of courts will start and physical hearing will be there, lawyers will start earning their livelihoods. As far as Covid-19 norms are concerned, there is awareness among majority of lawyers to follow such norms, which is for our own good,” said advocate Amit Tandon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/district-judge-allows-physical-hearing-in-cases/articleshow/80220517.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers’ agitation casts shadow on Lohri celebrations||LUDHIANA: Lohri, which is to be celebrated on Wednesday, is likely to be a low-key affair across the district, especially in villages, in view of the ongoing farmers’ agitation. Lohri marks the end of winter, a time when the sun heads to the north and shines stronger to prepare the climate for the new crops, which are to be sown soon. On this day, families gather in the evening, lit bonfires, celebrate the festival by singing and dancing around the fire. “During past years we used to celebrate Lohri with pomp and show and would even dance, but this year is different. There is not much scare of Covid-19 in the villages, but we have decided not to celebrate the festival as we are agitating against the farming laws. So, there is not much to celebrate as our brothers are there agitating in cold, away from homes,” said Manjeet Singh, a prominent villager of Nathowal village. “A number of farmers have died during the agitation. In our villages half of villagers move here and there due to the ongoing agitation. A festival is celebrated with happiness but as farmers are fighting against the farming laws, so we cannot celebrate. Instead, villagers will burn copies of these laws on the day,” said Lakhvir Singh, sarpanch of Aitiana village. Even as in the villages not many villagers seem to be in a mood to celebrate Lohri, but some people in urban areas will celebrate the festival. However, in the urban areas as well the farmers’ agitation finds support from a sizeable population. “Lohri is a festival which is related with the state, so we will be celebrating it. However, celebration will be subdued as compared to previous years mainly because of ongoing farmers’ agitation,” said a Ludhiana resident asking not to be named. Meanwhile, many farmers organisations have decided to burn copies of farming laws on Lohri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-agitation-casts-shadow-on-lohri-celebrations/articleshow/80220513.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Atam Nagar woman dies, 15 test Covid positive||LUDHIANA: A 57-year-old woman of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 15 residents and 14 outsiders tested positive here on Monday. The day’s positive case count is the lowest in about six months. As per the local media bulletin, the deceased was a resident of Atam Nagar. She had diabetes, coronary artery disease and hypertension and died at DMCH. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally has risen to 973 and that of outsiders stood at 460. To date, 5,60,659 persons have been tested. Of the 15 new cases, four were from flu corner, one contact of a positive patient, four from OPD, three through tracing process, one interstate traveller and two severe acute respiratory infection cases. The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,117 and that of outsiders 3,774. So far, 23,847 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.94% of the total cases. There are 204 active cases. Two patients, including a Ludhianvi, are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/atam-nagar-woman-dies-15-test-positive/articleshow/80219522.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Customs tortured assistant protocol officer, says KSEA||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala Secretariat Employees Association (KSEA), the pro-CPM association of secretariat employees, has petitioned the state police chief and the chief secretary against customs, alleging that the officers of the agency had physically tortured the state assistant protocol officer. The petition stated that the customs officers had verbally abused and physically tortured assistant protocol officer MS Harikrishnan when he was summoned for interrogation in connection with the gold smuggling case. In the petition, association president P Honey and general secretary KN Ashok Kumar said that customs interrogated him continuously from 10am till 9.15pm on Jan 5. It said that this was unlike National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths, who behaved with civility when they had interrogated him in the same matter earlier, sleuths from customs misbehaved with Harikrishnan. Customs assistant commissioner Lalu used abusive words and at one point even tried to manhandle assistant protocol officer. The petition said that customs also threatened him that he would be sent to prison for no reason. The association requested the government to undertake a probe against the customs officer. Later, KSEA also issued a strongly-worded public notice against customs. The pamphlet issued by KSEA general secretary, said that ‘the employees’ association is powerful enough to deal with such hands raising illegally against KSEA members and any action that is intended to destroy the self-esteem of the secretariat employee will be countered’. The pamphlet said that even an organization like NIA that probed the matter could not find anything against secretariat employees. Naming customs assistant commissioner Lalu, KSEA’S notice said that customs tried to threaten Harikrishnan and trap an innocent officer. It further claimed that the move by customs is to topple the democratic government that abides by the constitution and hand over the reins to Sangh Parivar forces. There is a calculated attempt to torture secretariat employees and use them against the LDF government, it claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/customs-tortured-assistant-protocol-officer-says-ksea/articleshow/80219533.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM did not disclose 19 homes he got in Alibaug: Kirit Somaiya||MUMBAI: BJP leader Kirit Somaiya on Monday submitted a complaint against chief minister Uddhav Thackeray for allegedly not disclosing purchase of 19 houses in Alibaug. Somaiya’s complaint to the state chief election officer Baldev Singh states that the houses, at Korlai village along the seafront on Alibaug, were bought by CM’s wife Rashmi jointly with MLA Ravindra Waikar’s wife Manisha from Anvay Naik, whose family has accused journalist Arnab Goswami and two others of abetting his (Naik’s) suicide. “Government records show that the purchase was done in March 2014, but the transfer was done in Thackeray’s name only in November 2020,” said Somaiya. “The 19 houses are totally valued at Rs 5.29 crore.” He alleged that Thackeray knowingly concealed ownership in the election affidavit. Somaiya had earlier alleged non-disclosure of purchase of 9.35 acres land from the Naik family. The allegations were raised after the government reopened Naik’s suicide case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kirit-cm-did-not-disclose-19-homes/articleshow/80222258.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Terai farmers to burn copies of agri reform laws on Lohri||Rudrapur: Several farmers from the Uttarakhand’s Terai region — known as rice bowl of the state — have decided to burn the copies of the three contentious farm laws on the harvest festival of Lohri on January 13. The farmers will also be conducting a march — from Grain Market to Gandhi Park — on this day to protest against the central government. They have also urged locals from all walks of life to hold protests against what they refer to as ‘black laws’. Talking to TOI over phone from Ghazipur border, Tejender Singh Virk, president of the Terai Kisan Sabha, said, “We will celebrate the Lohri festival on January 13 by burning copies of the farm laws. Today (January 11) is the 47th day of our protest. The government should shun its stubbornness. Braving biting cold conditions, the farmers, their kids, women, and even senior citizens are staging a sit-in protest but the government is hardly concerned.” “It’s disappointing that farmers are losing their lives but we won’t go back till the three laws are revoked,” said Singh. Singh appealed to the people to participate in the farmers’ movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-to-burn-copies-of-agri-reform-laws-on-lohri/articleshow/80219525.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 12, 2021||India||You want to resign or not, SC asks Nagaland Lokayukta||NEW DELHI: Nagaland's exasperation with the “unjust and arbitrary” demands of state Lokayukta, Justice Uma Nath Singh, found an echo in the Supreme Court, which on Monday gave him a week to consider resigning from the post. Justice Singh had retired as the Meghalaya High Court chief justice. "We do not think you have been or can function properly (as Lokayukta) with this kind of relation with the government. We want to tell you, we do not agree with you at all. You cannot sit somewhere and dictate terms (Justice Singh wants to function as Nagaland Lokayukta while staying in Delhi). Everyone would then sit at home, say in Tamil Nadu, and function as Lokayukta of Jammu and Kashmir," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Nagaland advocate general K N Balgopal briefly narrated the manner in which Justice Singh, who is not new to courting controversies, was making “unjust” demands before making the unprecedented request of divesting the Lokayukta of all powers and entrusting all pending cases to Upa-Lokayukta Mayang Lima. Appearing for Justice Singh, senior advocate Vikas Singh suggested mediation by the governor to solve the discord between the Lokayukta and the government. The counsel said even the advocate general seldom stayed in the state. The bench said, "We do not think you (Justice Singh) should get combative like this. The advocate general's office is very different from that of Lokayukta. We have never seen pleadings like this. You are demeaning yourself." It gave the counsel one week to find out from Justice Singh whether he would resign or not. Trouble started almost immediately after Justice Singh was appointed Lokayukta in February 2019 as he sought permission to take up arbitration work in Synergy Ispat Pvt Ltd vs Barbara Elizabeth Simoes case despite clear prohibition for Lokayukta to take up any work other than those related to the statutory position. In May 2019, Justice Singh wrote a letter to the government saying he would function “online” from his Delhi residence and even "engineered" a letter from the state chief secretary's office, without the incumbent's knowledge, to that effect. As the chief secretary withdrew the purported letter and ordered an inquiry as to how the permission letter came into existence, the Lokayukta wreaked vengeance by starting to harass "honest officers" by issuing indiscriminate notices, the state alleged. He then demanded that the Kohima commissioner of police be present to receive and see him off at the airport for his arrival and departure every time. He also sought deployment of Army personnel for his protection. Both requests were declined by the government, further infuriating the Lokayukta, the Nagaland government said. Balgopal said after the Lokayukta's official residence was renovated at a huge cost to the exchequer, Justice Singh demanded allocation of the chief minister's old bungalow for his residence. He also asked a senior police official to purchase shoes for him and conducted himself in a manner to demean the socio-cultural ethos of Naga people. He then demanded that his photograph be displayed on government websites along with the governor and the CM. He also sought a recommendation from the state for his appointment as chairman of Uttar Pradesh Human Rights Commission, the advocate general said. Justice Singh has courted many controversies in the past. In January 2016, on the last day of his tenure as Meghalaya HC CJ, Justice Singh passed an order directing the state to provide Z category security wherever he travelled after retirement and treatment as state guest. He was in the news when the Arvind Kejriwal government recommended his name as head of Delhi Human Rights Commission, a non-existent body. During his tenure as Meghalaya CJ, a few advocates from Delhi were designated as senior advocates by the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/you-want-to-resign-or-not-sc-asks-nagaland-lokayukta/articleshow/80223800.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 12, 2021||Kohima||You want to resign or not, SC asks Nagaland Lokayukta||NEW DELHI: Nagaland's exasperation with the “unjust and arbitrary” demands of state Lokayukta, Justice Uma Nath Singh, found an echo in the Supreme Court, which on Monday gave him a week to consider resigning from the post. Justice Singh had retired as the Meghalaya High Court chief justice. "We do not think you have been or can function properly (as Lokayukta) with this kind of relation with the government. We want to tell you, we do not agree with you at all. You cannot sit somewhere and dictate terms (Justice Singh wants to function as Nagaland Lokayukta while staying in Delhi). Everyone would then sit at home, say in Tamil Nadu, and function as Lokayukta of Jammu and Kashmir," a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde, A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said. Nagaland advocate general K N Balgopal briefly narrated the manner in which Justice Singh, who is not new to courting controversies, was making “unjust” demands before making the unprecedented request of divesting the Lokayukta of all powers and entrusting all pending cases to Upa-Lokayukta Mayang Lima. Appearing for Justice Singh, senior advocate Vikas Singh suggested mediation by the governor to solve the discord between the Lokayukta and the government. The counsel said even the advocate general seldom stayed in the state. The bench said, "We do not think you (Justice Singh) should get combative like this. The advocate general's office is very different from that of Lokayukta. We have never seen pleadings like this. You are demeaning yourself." It gave the counsel one week to find out from Justice Singh whether he would resign or not. Trouble started almost immediately after Justice Singh was appointed Lokayukta in February 2019 as he sought permission to take up arbitration work in Synergy Ispat Pvt Ltd vs Barbara Elizabeth Simoes case despite clear prohibition for Lokayukta to take up any work other than those related to the statutory position. In May 2019, Justice Singh wrote a letter to the government saying he would function “online” from his Delhi residence and even "engineered" a letter from the state chief secretary's office, without the incumbent's knowledge, to that effect. As the chief secretary withdrew the purported letter and ordered an inquiry as to how the permission letter came into existence, the Lokayukta wreaked vengeance by starting to harass "honest officers" by issuing indiscriminate notices, the state alleged. He then demanded that the Kohima commissioner of police be present to receive and see him off at the airport for his arrival and departure every time. He also sought deployment of Army personnel for his protection. Both requests were declined by the government, further infuriating the Lokayukta, the Nagaland government said. Balgopal said after the Lokayukta's official residence was renovated at a huge cost to the exchequer, Justice Singh demanded allocation of the chief minister's old bungalow for his residence. He also asked a senior police official to purchase shoes for him and conducted himself in a manner to demean the socio-cultural ethos of Naga people. He then demanded that his photograph be displayed on government websites along with the governor and the CM. He also sought a recommendation from the state for his appointment as chairman of Uttar Pradesh Human Rights Commission, the advocate general said. Justice Singh has courted many controversies in the past. In January 2016, on the last day of his tenure as Meghalaya HC CJ, Justice Singh passed an order directing the state to provide Z category security wherever he travelled after retirement and treatment as state guest. He was in the news when the Arvind Kejriwal government recommended his name as head of Delhi Human Rights Commission, a non-existent body. During his tenure as Meghalaya CJ, a few advocates from Delhi were designated as senior advocates by the HC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kohima/you-want-to-resign-or-not-sc-asks-nagaland-lokayukta/articleshow/80224516.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Maneka Gandhi writes to U’khand CM demanding action against officials of animal husbandry department for misappropriating money borrowed from World Bank; equates scandal to Bofors, coal scam||Dehradun: BJP leader and MP Maneka Gandhi has written to CM Trivendra Rawat alleging misuse of funds by the state animal husbandry department from a loan of Rs 3000 crore provided by the World Bank. The misappropriation, Gandhi alleged, was “equivalent to the Bofors and Coal scams.” “To steal money from a loan is the worst kind of theft since the whole country has to pay back what one man has stolen,” Gandhi wrote in her 2-page letter, copies of which were also sent to PM Modi, cabinet secretary Rajiv Gauba and principal secretary to the PM, PK Mishra. In the letter, Gandhi made several allegations against the CEO of Uttarakhand Sheep and Wool Development Board (USWDB), Avinash Anand, alleging his involvement in “misappropriation of crores of rupees from the loan obtained by the government of Uttarakhand from the World Bank.” In point by point allegations, Gandhi alleged that the CEO “bought luxury cars of more than Rs 13 lakh per car, purchased residences in Noida with disproportionate assets and used district budget plans to purchase fodder from Punjab at twice the cost without having any authority to do so and beyond the prescribed rates of the state government.” She added that the CEO has also taken a large number of officers on deputation in the sheep board without creating any posts thereby causing veterinary hospitals in districts to shut down. “These officers have no work but get salaries. This has clearly been done after monetary gratification,” the letter adds. Further, Gandhi alleged that the CEO has kept a consultant whose monthly salary is Rs 2.5 lakh a month “which is more than the salary of the chief secretary and is far more than what is allowed for consultants.” She also raised questions on the Australian sheep brought to India for upping employment in the state. Uttarakhand had imported Australian Merino sheep to breed in the state under the National Livestock Mission. Gandhi alleged in her letter that the CEO was commissioned to buy young sheep for breeding from Australia. “He has brought very old sheep much beyond the breeding age who were destined for slaughter, again with personal gratification from the seller. This can be ascertained by a team of vets.” Also, allegations were levelled against Anand for starting the BACKRAW mutton scheme, launched some months ago which entails home delivery of mutton obtained from Himalayan goats. This, Gandhi said, has turned the directorate into a ‘meat shop’. “The programme has caused huge losses to the exchequer because of the extravagance of the infrastructure put in and the large number of personnel employed for no reason,”she wrote in the letter. When queried about the allegations, Avinash Anand said, “The allegations are totally baseless. I have purchased just one car for USWDB. As regards property, I have bought a flat jointly with my son after taking loan and it is in Ghaziabad, not Noida.” Regarding the hirings made by him, Anand said, “The job vacancies were approved at the chief secretarial level and consultant is hired under the aegis of ministry and after several rounds of interviews by the experts. The Merino sheep have proved super successful in the state, and we have wonderful results in the form of so many newly- birthed lambs in Uttarakhand.” The secretary of animal husbandry department, R Meenakshi Sundaram, who Gandhi has also accused in the letter of complicity, when asked about his reaction, said, “There is no such World Bank project of Rs 3000 crore in Uttarakhand. Every single word in the letter is factually incorrect. The letter is addressed to the chief minister. Therefore, whenever called for response, I shall present all the correct facts before him.” Meanwhile, Doon-based animal rights activist Gauri Maulekhi who has filed RTIs regarding the issue, told TOI, “The Uttarakhand Sheep and Wool Development Board has been a cesspool of corruption for several years now. From purchase of vehicles to fodder and most importantly purchase of sheep from Australia worth lakhs without meeting the required standards, the matter has been brought to the notice of the relevant authorities but no action whatsoever has been initiated, probably because of complicity of the entire animal husbandry department. We will take the issue before the high court now if the government fails to act soon.” When TOI contacted animal husbandry minister Rekha Arya, she said, “I have not received any such letter so far written by Mrs Maneka Gandhi. If there is any such communication from her, then it would be investigated and appropriate action would be taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/maneka-gandhi-writes-to-ukhand-cm-demanding-action-against-officials-of-animal-husbandry-department-for-misappropriating-money-borrowed-from-world-bank-equates-scandal-to-bofors-coal-scam/articleshow/80219559.cms||Shivani Azad
January 12, 2021||Madurai||HC directs to follow previous year’s orders at Avaniyapuram jallikattu||Madurai: Mainatining status quo on its last year’s order not to perform any first rights to people, the Madras high court on Monday directed the authorities to inform the same to the jallikattu organising committee at Avaniyapuram in Madurai district, and also to open a bank account to manage the funds.Last year, a division bench passed several directions including that there should not be any kind of first right (mudal mariyathai) to anyone. The court said that no party flags or materials projecting any leaders should be exhibited at the events. Organising committee shall open bank accounts for all the jallikattu events for deposit of donation or contribution for conducting jallikattu and proper accounts should be maintained.A division bench of Justice M M Sundresh and Justice S Ananthi, which was hearing two petitions challenging the constitution of the jallikattu organising committees at Avaniyapuram, directed the authorities to follow the previous year’s directions.Refusing to grant relief as the petitioners approached the court at the last moment, the judges observed that the petitioners’ common grievance is the manner in which the event is conducted since their group did not find place in the committee. In order to resolve the issue, both petitioners are included as members.Similarly, another petition was filed challenging the constitution of the committee for the Palamedu jallikattu. The judges observed that it has been brought to the notice of the court, that the same petitioner filed a petition with a similar prayer last year and the same was dismissed. Since he had suppressed the fact, the judges dismissed the petition. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-directs-to-follow-previous-years-orders-at-avaniyapuram-jallikattu/articleshow/80222255.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Calcutta University PG labs may open after 10-month Covid break||KOLKATA: Worried about the continuous suspension of practical classes and the laboratories remaining closed, both the science and technology faculties of Calcutta University have decided to throw open their state-of-the-art laboratories to students to conduct experiments while maintaining social distancing and other Covid protocols. A communiqué, though, is yet to be sent to the departments about holding the practical classes. CU has already announced to organize the semester examinations for the odd-semester students from March 8 to March 26 — the reason the faculties are taking the decision. To bring back PG students to attend laboratory classes has been approved by several departmental committees in both the Ballygunge Science College and Rajabazar Science College campuses of CU. Majority of teachers has upheld the views in support of conducting practical classes for lab-based subjects. “Practical classes are essential for many courses; especially in science and technology faculties. It will be an injustice to students to go ahead with the teaching-learning process without holding any practical class. In view of this, we urged the CU authorities to allow conducting practical classes in willing departments by maintaining covid protocol. For the forthcoming ongoing odd-semester examinations, too, the practical examinations will be taken offline maintaining safety rules,” said a CU professor on the Ballygunge Science College campus. Another professor added, “Prolonged lockdown has seriously affected the laboratory-based research activities. A formal notification may be issued allowing willing faculties to use their laboratories along with their research fellows maintaining all prescribed norms. A circular is not yet issued by the university. But, we will be pushing for the same again.” “Without practical classes, which are integral to the science and technology program, the syllabus and learning will remain incomplete. Since many students pursue either research or bag a job after completing the Masters, such skills cannot be negotiated. Many PG students will miss the opportunity to find a lucrative job if practical classes remain suspended. In the Undergraduate programs, we may take the liberty of teaching enrolled students through virtual platforms and explaining the methods of conducting experiments online, but, in the PG classes, it is not possible,” explained a PG faculty member. In zoology, the departmental committee, at its last meeting, decided to bring back students and conduct practical classes in small batches for all the ongoing odd-semesters cohort who will appear in the upcoming examinations. “CUTA had approached CU authorities and requested them to allow offline practical classes by opening the laboratories in early January,” said president Parthiba Basu. “We can’t issue an official circular till the state permits us to hold face-to-face interactions. But, we do understand that PG students in the science programs can be called to attend the practical classes by maintaining all the Covid norms. Hence, the departments have been given the unofficial permission,” said a CU official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cu-pg-labs-may-open-after-10-month-covid-break/articleshow/80220557.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 12, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara registers 80 new nCov cases||Vadodara: The number of fresh Covid-19 cases registered in the city and district in the 24 hours ending on Monday evening stood at 80. The number of new cases in a 24-hour cycle was equal to that on July 22.The Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) also confirmed one more Covid-19 death taking the death toll to 240. Covid-19 deaths counted by the civic body include only those cases where the viral infection is the primary cause of death.The number of discharged Covid-19 patients in the city and district has remained consistently over the new cases reported in a day reducing the number of active cases. As many as 81 persons were discharged from hospitals or home isolation on Monday. With the fresh round of discharges, the number of active cases in the city and district stood at 1,055.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-registers-80-new-ncov-cases/articleshow/80218699.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur zoo shut after death of four birds||JAIPUR: The city zoo at Ramniwas Bagh has been shut for visitors until further orders after four birds — three common ducks and a black stork — died on Monday allegedly due to avian influenza. The zoo administration has sent the swab samples of the birds to the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease in Bhopal for confirmation. A zoo official said, “The zoo has been closed for visitors till further orders. An exercise to disinfect the area has been started. We are also medicating the birds to increase their immunity. Ponds of water birds are been cleaned.” Chief wildlife warden M L Meena said, “Primarily, it appears that the bird deaths did not occur due to the flu, but we are taking all precautionary measures and sent the samples for testing. There are 377 birds of different species at the zoo.” Out of 33 districts, bird flu has spread in 15 after samples of dead birds in Tonk and Karauli were found positive. On Monday, 371 bird deaths were reported taking the overall toll to 3,321. Samples from districts such as Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Pali, Sirohi, Pratapgarh and Jaisalmer have already tested positive. An official said, H5N8 subtype of Influenza-A virus has been reported in samples of dead birds collected from the districts. A senior official of the animal husbandry department said the test report from Jhalawar poultry was negative. In addition, samples of dead birds sent from Sikar, Bhilwara and Churu have also tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-zoo-shut-after-death-of-four-birds/articleshow/80222282.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||School teacher found murdered at house in Jaipur, 19-year-old held||JAIPUR: A 55-year-old woman, who lived at Thadi market locality in Mansarovar’s Shipra Path, was strangulated to death by a 19-year-old youth on Monday morning after she scolded him for taking his dog for a walk. The deceased, Vigya Devi, was a school teacher and lived alone at her house. She was the sister of RAS officer Yugantar Sharma who is posted here. The youth, who was arrested a few hours after the crime, was identified as Krishna Kant Sharma. Police said the accused tied Devi with the railing of her house after killing her to deceive the cops and make it look like dacoity. Cops have ruled out the possibility of rape or attempt to rape in the case. According to Shipra Path circle inspector Mahaveer Singh Rathore, one of her school colleagues had called her around 9am, but got no response. “This colleague called up Rajesh Jain, Devi’s neighbour, to know why she was not responding to the call. Jain’s son went up to Devi’s terrace and saw her tied up with the railing of her first floor flat and informed police,” Rathore said. Soon, a team of senior police officers including ACP (crime) Ajay Pal Lamba reached the spot. “After reaching the spot, we became sure that it was not the handiwork of any organised gang for dacoity and that the crime was committed by someone in the neighbourhood,” Lamba added. In order to make it look like dacoity and mislead the police, the accused had tied the hands and legs of the woman, Lamba said. “We arrested Krishna Kant Sharma for the murder. He lives with his family next to victim’s house. His family is into dog training. Primary investigation suggested that a minor scuffle over the accused taking a dog for walk was the trigger behind the crime,” Lamba added. Police said recently the accused had attempted to steal the mobile phone of the woman which led to a minor altercation between the teen’s family and the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/school-teacher-found-murdered-at-house-in-city-19-year-old-held/articleshow/80222306.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Chinese kite string: Sellers in Ludhiana find ways to dodge police||LUDHIANA: With the police tightening the noose around those selling and purchasing plastic kite strings, also known as Chinese strings, the sellers have started delivering them home. Besides, they keep the strings hidden in godowns, vehicles or their houses instead of their shops, which can be raided. Every year around Lohri, cops crack down on the sale of the strings. This time, too, they have started checking shops and establishing checkposts. In December 2020, commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal had issued orders banning the sale of plastic kite strings. Surprise checks were conducted as part of a drive that kick-started on December 24 last. From December 24, 2020, to January 11, the police have lodged 57 FIRs, arrested 66 people and seized 2,125 rolls of plastic string. Agarwal said, “Directions have been issued to all ADCPs and SHOs to conduct regular checks on the sale and purchase of plastic kite strings in their jurisdictions. Every day, FIRs are being lodged and the strings recovered. The accused are booked under sections 188 (disobedience to the orders duly promulgated by the public servant), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC, the Wildlife Act and the Environment Act. A resident of Haibowal said, “Earlier, the sellers used to keep plastic strings at their shops, but not anymore. Now, when a customer goes to a shop to buy kites, the plastic string rate and the place of its delivery are fixed verbally. At times, an advance payment is made for home delivery. These days, the strings are supplied at night to avoid police.” Another city resident said, “People have started using fishing lines as kite string, which is dangerous. Fishing lines are easily available online. Their price ranges from Rs 300 to Rs 1,000.” On Sunday evening, the police had established checkposts in different areas, especially in Old City that has more sellers of kites and strings. Police action FIRs lodged: 57 Arrests: 66 Plastic kite strings seized: 2,125 *From December 24, 2020, to January 11||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chinese-kite-string-sellers-find-ways-to-dodge-police/articleshow/80219588.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Assembly to discuss resolution against speaker on Jan 21||Thiruvananthapuram: Kerala assembly will discuss the resolution seeking removal of speaker P Sreeramakrishnan on January 21. The business advisory committee of the assembly decided to take up the notice served by Muslim League MLA M Ummer seeking the removal of Sreeramakrishnan for a two-hour debate on January 21. The house will adjourn sine die on January 22. Deputy speaker V Sasi will chair the assembly when the resolution will be debated. Sreeramakrishnan will get time to make a personal explanation at the end of the debate. The resolution was moved by the UDF after central agencies, including customs and NIA, began probe into the alleged role of the speaker and his office in the dollar-smuggling case connected with the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel case. K Ayyappan, the assistant private secretary of the speaker, was interrogated by the customs last week in connection with the case. There are reports that customs will summon Sreeramakrishnan for interrogation once the ongoing assembly session is over. The notice served by Ummer said continuation of an individual who is facing probe by central agencies in the post is a dishonour to the office of the speaker. Though Ummer had served a similar notice earlier, that was not considered by the previous session as the notice didn’t satisfy the condition of 15-day cooling period before filing the notice and discussion. This will be the third notice seeking the removal of the speaker that will be debated in the assembly. In 1982, a similar resolution was moved by LDF against then speaker A C Jose and in 2004, the LDF moved a resolution against then speaker Vakkom Purushothaman. With the LDF enjoying clear majority, it is certain that the assembly would reject the resolution to be moved by Ummer by voting. On Monday, the state assembly adjourned after paying tribute to former president Pranab Mukherjee and former minister and sitting MLA C F Thomas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/assembly-to-discuss-resolution-against-speaker-on-jan-21/articleshow/80219597.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Colleges, Class 9 & above to reopen in Telangana from February 1||HYDERABAD: After closing down educational institutions for 10 months during the pandemic, the state government has decided to reopen schools, junior colleges and degree colleges in the private and government sectors from February 1. Classroom teaching will resume for students of Class 9 and above in 20 days from now. In all likelihood, students of class 10 and above will be appearing for the board exams for the current academic year 2020-21. In the last academic year, SSC exams were annulled following high court’s intervention and students were promoted to the next class. The CM directed the officials to make all arrangements for reopening schools, colleges and institutions offering vocational and professional courses. Addressing a conference of district collectors at Pragathi Bhavan here on Monday, the CM also directed the collectors to ensure that all Covid-related precautionary measures are taken at schools, colleges and hostels before January 25. He said toilets must be sanitised for the safety of the students. “By January 25, keep educational institutions ready to conduct classes. Ministers should visit SC, ST and BC hostels and ensure that Covid-19 safety meaures are in place,” the CM said. Four lakh class 9 students, three lakh degree and engineering students and 50,000 to 70,000 postgraduate students will be going back to classrooms from February 1, officials said. The CM said that measures should be taken to properly store rice, pulses, foodgrains and cooking material of the mid-day meal scheme and also see if the grains that were stored in schools since March are consumable or not. Sanitisation of schools orderedSocial welfare minister Koppula Eshwar has directed the officials to take up sanitisation of SC, ST, BC hostels and minority residential schools and colleges. “A special meeting will be convened at the earliest to implement the orders of the CM on the reopening of educational institutions,” Eshwar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-schools-colleges-to-reopen-from-feb-1/articleshow/80222303.cms||Roushan Ali
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Jadavpur University gets possession of New Town plot to develop fourth campus||KOLKATA: The New Town campus of Jadavpur University, that was allotted by the state government and handed over to the university last week, will be developed as the fourth campus following the main campus at Jadavpur, the second campus at Salt Lake and the one being developed inside the buildings of the erstwhile National Instruments Limited (NIL). The five-acre land is likely to house several state-of-the-art facilities along with laboratories and a convention centre. A committee set up to develop a plan for the campus will soon meet to decide on the areas to focus. A date for the campus’s inauguration is yet to be fixed. “Most popular and prominent departments which have a presence on the main campus and in Salt Lake have refused to move out despite an acute space crunch which has restricted the university’s further expansion and intake of students. Initially, we had plans to set up a biotechnology hub. But JU has some elaborate proposals which will be sent to the state for approval. Funds will be released thereafter,” said a senior JU official. The university wants to look into the possibilities of constructing faculties which will likely to have a huge demand in the future and are interdisciplinary in nature. “JU attracts huge number of foreign and national industries during the placement season. Guests from corporate sector visit the existing campuses for holding special sessions. All such facilities can be brought under a single roof for convenience,” added another JU teacher, privy to the plans. He pointed out that a guesthouse is also on the anvil. Among the emerging departments, as per the initial discussions in the committee’s meeting, a centre of excellence for bio-sciences, management science and law could be housed on the fourth campus. “JU wants to expand the departments which are yet not reputed as other programs but have a huge potential,” explained the teacher. He added that there will be alterations in the plan because it is at a nascent state. Another area of interest for JU authorities in new campus will be strong outreach activities. Investing in projects and developing products which have potential to benefit the society shall be given importance. “The laboratory to life concept requires additional space and may be expanded on New Town campus. Some selected areas which are useful for the development of the society in Bengal and even the north-east, innovating technology support for society are key areas which may be set up,” explained a JU official. VC Suranjan Das said, “We have got possession of the land. JU is grateful to the state for allotting it. We are waiting for funds, which JU is set to receive after being shortlisted as the Centre of Excellence by the Centre. We will submit plans to the state which has allocated Rs 100 crore for the university,” Das said. The government had sanctioned two plots in New Town for JU and Calcutta University in 2018. “CM Mamata Banerjee wants an education hub in New Town-Rajarhat,” said a senior higher education department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-gets-possession-of-new-town-plot-to-develop-fourth-campus/articleshow/80220572.cms||Somdatta Basu
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Scholarship scam: HC terms SIT's affidavit 'vague in content', directs it to file fresh report||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday termed the affidavit filed by the Special Investigation Team (SIT) -- probing the SC/ST scholarship scam in Dehradun and Haridwar -- as “vague in content”, and directed it to file a fresh report. The court said the report should mention in detail about how much time the SIT would take to complete the investigation, as well as the status of the investigation in each case, and the steps taken to probe the allegations against government officials accused of siphoning off scholarship money meant for underprivileged students belonging to the SC/ST community. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari also directed the SIT probing the scam in rest of the 11 districts to file a fresh report, and listed the matter for further hearing on March 4. The two SITs had filed affidavits in the court saying that while the investigation in Dehradun and Haridwar is 90% complete, the probe in the rest of the district is 85% complete. The affidavits further said that, so far, a total of 51 FIRs have been registered against 78 colleges in Haridwar and 32 FIRs filed against 57 colleges in Dehradun. As reported by TOI earlier, two SITs are investigating the cases related to the scholarship scam across the state. While one SIT is probing the scam in Dehradun and Haridwar districts, the other is investigating the cases in 11 other districts. It was alleged that several people had produced fake income certificates to avail of the scholarship -- meant for students belonging to the SC/ST community whose annual family income is less than Rs 2.5 lakh. The scam took place for over 15 years. A high court-monitored investigation had revealed that hundreds of private and government-aided colleges forged Aadhaar cards and passed off minors, labourers and rickshaw-pullers as students to siphon off funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/scholarship-scam-hc-terms-sits-affidavit-vague-in-content-directs-it-to-file-fresh-report/articleshow/80219627.cms||Prashant Jha
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Rain God will not play spoilsport on Lohri||Times News NetworkLudhiana: Rain God will not play spoilsport this Lohri. Though the day will be nippy, the meteorological department sees no chances of rain.“Cold wave is expected to continue for a few more days, including on Lohri, but there are no chances of rain on that day. With mild winds likely in the coming few days, sunlight may improve the visibility. There are chances of mild fog,” said Chandigarh meteorological department director Surender Paul.Weather experts at the Punjab Agricultural University have also ruled out chances of any weather disturbance for around a week.“Last year, it had drizzled in Ludhiana on Lohri night, but this year rainfall is not expected. We expect partly cloudy weather on that day and a breeze of around 5 to 6km per hour. For the next one week, weather is expected to remain dry and the day temperatures are likley to rise, while night temperatures may fall,” said Kulwinder Kaur Gill, weather expert at Punjab Agricultural University. She said snowfall conditions in the hills have developed in the northern system, which has brought cold to Punjab, as it is the first state in the plains after hills.According to the Met department’s website, the day temperature is likely to be 16 degrees Celsius on Lohri day, while the night temperature would be around 5 degrees. “The festival marks the start of the end of winter and is the time when sun heads to the north shining brighter to ensure weather conditions for new crops, which are to be sown soon,” said Narinder Singh, a resident of Pakhowal Road.As per the Met department, the maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Monday was recorded at 14.7 degrees Celsius, which is 4 degrees less than normal. On Sunday, the day temperature was 13.6 degrees Celsius, which was 4 degrees less than normal.On the other hand, the minimum (night) temperature was recorded 4 degrees Celsius above normal at 7.9 degrees, which was 0.1 degree less than a day before.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rain-god-will-not-play-spoilsport-on-lohri/articleshow/80219617.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Deemed varsities lure aspirants for management seats||CHENNAI: The state selection committee is conducting the last leg of the counselling with 432 management quota seats left in self-financing colleges, but deemed universities in the state are luring students to apply for 89 management seats and 146 NRI seats that were returned to the colleges as they fell vacant after three rounds of counselling, including a mop-round. Across the country, 1,092 such seats in deemed universities have been returned to colleges for counselling through offline mode. The list of eligible candidates will be forwarded to the respective institutions by the medical counselling committee (MCC) of the Directorate General of Health Services. While colleges are advertising about the on-campus stray vacancy round, agents have been calling parents and students asking them if they were still interested in undergraduate medical programmes. On Monday, Sridhar Srinivasan, who works as a marketing head for a manufacturing company, received a call from an agent regarding his daughter’s admission. “He told us that the state counselling will be held until 13. If my daughter does not make it to any of the colleges, she can try for admission there. But admissions are done on a first-come-first-serve basis. They will give her the seat if her name is on the MCC list,” he said. While students and parents have been visiting several deemed universities, student counsellors are now demanding a revamp. “Merit-based admission through NEET is defeated with such stray rounds. How will colleges get candidates in two days if the MCC is not able to fill them after three rounds of counselling over several weeks,” asked Manickavel Arumugam, who has been counselling students on MBBS admissions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/deemed-varsities-lure-aspirants-for-management-seats/articleshow/80220602.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: Ex-SP booked for hurting religious sentiments||LUDHIANA: The police have booked a retired superintendent of police (SP) for allegedly hurting religious sentiments of a community through an audio recording shared on his Facebook page. According to the complainant, the retired official has used inappropriate language for a deity in the recording. On the complaint of Yogesh Bakshi of New Chandar Nagar, the national vice-president of Shiv Sena Hind, an FIR has been registered at Dugri police station against the accused, identified as Sinderpal Singh, a resident of Urban Estate Phase-1. Yogesh Bakshi stated in his complaint that he received the link of the audio recording of retired SP Sinderpal Singh, which was shared on his Facebook profile. In that recording, he was heard using words against the deity, which has hurt the community’s religious sentiments. Thereafter, Bakshi lodged a complaint with the Dugri police and also submitted the link of the audio recording. Dugri police station ASI Balbeer Singh said a case has been registered under IPC Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) against the retired police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/ex-sp-booked-for-hurting-religious-sentiments/articleshow/80219603.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Key accused in 2017 Mussoorie gang rape-murder case held from Punjab||Dehradun: A team of Dehradun police on Monday arrested a key accused wanted in the Mussoorie gangrape-murder case, which took place in the hill town in 2017. The accused, carrying a cash reward of Rs 5,000, was identified as Nandu Pandit, according to SP (city) Shweta Choubey. To recall, nine men allegedly gangraped a woman before murdering her in Mussoorie in 2017. With this arrest, six accused have already been rounded up by the police. The other three were still absconding. “Police along with the Special Operation Group (SOG) have been gathering intelligence for the arrest of the absconding accused. Nandu, who is a native of Bihar, has been shifting places to escape arrest,” said Yogendra Singh Rawat, SSP Dehradun. During interrogation, Nandu Pandit told the police that he was hired by a contractor for construction work in Mussoorie in 2017, where he along with eight others committed the heinous crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/key-accused-in-2017-mussoorie-gang-rape-murder-case-held-from-punjab/articleshow/80219616.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Avishikta crossing traffic trial passes first-day test||KOLKATA: The first day traffic diversion trial at the Avishikta crossing, where a lane of the Garia-bound flank was kept shut, went off without much trouble. There was a challenge for around an hour in peak office hours after a political party’s rally that led to some congestion at the crossing. Cops said the trial had started from 9am. “We noted down our observation twice — first in the morning and then in the evening. Not much vehicles were stuck at the signal for too long during the office hours,” said an officer from Purba Jadavpur police station. According to the trial plan, cops are allowing the vehicles, headed from Ruby Crossing to Ajoynagar or Garia, to use one of the two lanes of the road. Besides, they are also allowing the vehicles to use the new culvert for the first time since it was constructed by KMDA. “Even the vehicles coming from the Prince Anwar Shah connector did not face any difficulty as they used the main EM Bypass flank and the culvert road. We feel that we can hand over the road to Metro authorities so that they can start the construction of the pier. What is important though is when they will ask for the next phase of the blockade. They will take over the entire two flanks of the road. But that is still some weeks away,” said an officer. After the trials, cops will send their report to the office of DC (traffic). Senior officers led by joint CP (Traffic) Santosh Pandey and DC (Traffic) Rupesh Kumar are likely to visit the spot before giving the final nod to Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL) for the construction once the report is finalized. “With the KMDA asking for a blockade at Ambedkar Bridge on the Bypass near Science City, where too they will carry out load tests, we will have to look into various issues. The Bypass is one of the nerve centres of the city and we have to keep it moving for 24 hours,” said an officer. “As the blockade will be there for several months, our planning will also include the movement of vehicles on the bylanes adjacent to the Bypass. Meanwhile, adequate U-turns at both Ruby and Ajoynagar are being planned as we are preparing for the blockade of Ajoynagar crossing for Metro work,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/avishikta-crossing-traffic-trial-passes-first-day-test/articleshow/80220611.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 12, 2021||Goa||If people don’t want IIT project, will stand with them: Goa minister Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: Showing willingness for the first time to rethink plans of having the IIT-Goa campus at Melauli, health and industries minister Vishwajit Rane said on Monday that use of “brute force” to execute the project was unacceptable. “If people don’t want this project, I am bound by my conscience to stand by the people of my constituency. The chief minister can take it to whichever part of Goa he wants,” Rane, who is a BJP MLA from Valpoi, told TOI. “I will not bring in any infrastructure project in Sattari using police force,” the health minister said. “Using brute force and implementing infrastructure projects is against my conscience. These are not my values,” Rane added in his first condemnation of the use of lathis and tear gas on January 6 at Melauli. When the project was first shifted to Sattari, he had said he was ecstatic because the IIT project will bring development to Sattari. Rane said he had always stressed on development and employment and worked towards bringing the government schemes to the doorsteps of the people. “I am grateful to the chief minister that he considered Sattari for setting up IIT and I have always supported him in all his decisions. But going against people’s sentiment, I will not be in a position to support any use of brute force to stifle the voices of the people,” he said. Rane also appealed to the chief minister to drop all cases against the people with immediate effect. Earlier in the day, he also tweeted that he will ‘be assessing the ground situation’ with the people of Shel-Melauli over the IIT project and accordingly take up the matter for discussion with the CM. “I shall seek an appointment with Hon’ble CM@DrPramodPSawant to discuss the matter pertaining to IIT. Issues raised by our people is of utmost concern to me, and I shall be working towards resolving them,” Rane said in a tweet. “My people are my true strength,” tweeted Rane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/if-people-dont-want-iit-project-will-stand-with-them-rane/articleshow/80223128.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Goa||‘Deregister bore well contractor’||Panaji: President of UGDP Jorson Fernandes demanded that the WRD deregister the contractor who dug the bore wells at the Cuncolim Industrial Estate, besides attaching machinery and filing criminal cases the contractor. Speaking based on data obtained under RTI, Fernandes said laboratory tests carried out on the water in six bore wells in the estate have been found to be polluted and unfit for consumption. “The Goa Pollution Control Board with the help of experts with ground penetration radar conducted an environmental audit in four fish processing units at Cuncolim, including Indo Tech Ice and Cold Storage, Sagar Feeds and Food Processing, and these were issued closure orders for illegally sinking bore wells,” Fernandes said WRD, Margao, has penalised two industrial units in the estate to the tune of Rs 45,000 for allegedly illegally sinking the bore wells. It has also directed the units to close the six bore wells as laboratory findings point to presence of nitrites in the water which poses serious health hazards. He said that as per the RTI report, water samples from the bore wells received on November 20, 2020, have shown the presence of total coliforms, fecal coliforms and e-coli. Consuming this could lead to “serious diseases” and health hazards which “cannot be just resolved by imposing simple fines”, Fernandes said, demanding that corrective as well as punitive measures be taken. He blamed the authorities for failing to carry out checks during the regular inspections. and said that the illegal bore wells were detected only after complaints were lodged. and called the approach by the government authorities casual and irresponsible, therefore criminal action against those responsible fo r digging the illegal bore wells as well“The WRD must deregister the contractor for digging the bore wells besides attaching the machinery and filing criminal cases against the registered contractor of bore wells with the WRD. Proper, regular inspections must be carried out by WRD with surprise monitoring as one cannot play with the health and lives of human beings,,” he said. “The fish meal processing units at Cuncolim must be first shut down till they take proper, corrective and preventive measures,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/deregister-bore-well-contractor/articleshow/80223134.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Govt challenges HC order on 7.5% quota seat for student||Madurai: The Madras high court on Monday ordered notice on an appeal preferred by the state government challenging the January 7 order of a single judge to provide medical seat to a student from Thanjavur under 7.5% quota, holding that the aided school where he studied, is a government school as it was managed by the district administration.A division bench of justice M M Sundresh and justice S Ananthi observed that since the counselling was completed and a seat was allotted, it is open to the student to join the course. The judges directed the student, D Arun to file a counter and adjourned the case to February 22 for further hearing.It may be recalled that Arun had filed the petition seeking to admit him in a medical course under the Tamil Nadu Admission to Undergraduate Courses in Medicine, Dentistry, Indian Medicine and Homoeopathy on a preferential basis to students of Government Schools Act, 2020.His request seeking bonafide certificate that he studied in a government school was rejected by the chief educational officer on the ground that the school was aided.Hearing the petition, a single judge said that the Rajah’s higher secondary school at Thanjavur district in which the petitioner studied is presently managed by district administration.The judge had said that based on the previous order of the court, the petitioner during counselling was allotted MBBS seat in Sivagangai Medical College. Since the court held that the school in which the petitioner studied is a government school within the meaning of Section 2(c) of the Act, the seat allocation made in favour of the petitioner is made absolute. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-challenges-hc-order-on-7-5-quota-seat-for-student/articleshow/80222335.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Covid-lonely couple opts for ‘ichchhamrityu’||KOLKATA: A 74-year-old former central government employee and his 68-year-old wife — both residents of a four-storey building on James Long Sarani near Joka —consumed an entire strip of sleeping pills and allegedly died by suicide hours after they had celebrated the birthday of their 46-year-old daughter along with the latter’s 7-year-old child. The couple wrote a detailed suicide note and titled it “Ichchhamrityu”. The incident was reported on Sunday morning, minutes after their daughter knocked on their room and found both of them unconscious on their bed. The victims were identified as Pradyut Kumar Lahiri and Pranati Lahiri. In the suicide note signed by both, the couple mentioned that their daughter was posted at a school at Joynagar in South 24 Parganas and they hardly got to spend time together. The Covid situation added to their woes. “The letter hinted that both of them felt lonely and might have been fearing old-age ailments. The fact they chose a special day to die shows they might have been planning this for some time,” said a police officer. The Haridevpur police is probing the case. According to cops, their daughter had gone through a rough patch in her personal life. She was working in a school 50km away. On Saturday, she celebrated her birthday and later took her child out for dinner. When she came back, she reportedly did not find anything amiss at the Block-B flat of the complex. Cops said she noticed that her parents’ room was silent on Sunday morning. The door had not been locked. The couple then was rushed to Vidyasagar Hospital, where they were declared dead. “A suicide note and an empty strip of medicine were recovered. No external injury marks could be found and no complaint has been received from any quarters. We are suspecting that it was a suicide pact but we do not want to comment on the exact cause of death unless we get the final post-mortem report,” said DC (Behala) Syed Waquar Raza. Haridevpur police sources said the suicide note had kept mentioning how they were worried about their daughter’s future. “They have clearly mentioned that in their absence, the property should be transferred to their daughter. They have also stated that they have no complaints against their daughter,” said a police source. The victims’ daughter refused to speak to TOI stating she was not in a position to talk. Neighbours, however, said they never realized the elderly couple felt so lonely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/covid-lonely-couple-opts-for-ichchhamrityu/articleshow/80222340.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: MIM worker killed as people watch near PVNR Expressway||HYDERABAD: A local AIMIM block leader, who also dabbled in real estate and private financing, was killed by three men with a concrete block and sticks, even as scared onlookers captured the incident on mobile phones late on Sunday near PVNR Expressway pillar in Rajendranagar. Police said that 33-year-old Mohammed Khaleel, a block president of AMIM in Rajendranagar, was killed by Sheikh Rasheed, an owner of a local hotel, and his two chefs, Mohammed Azmath and Syed Imran over a loan dispute. The murder captured on CCTV showed how one of the assailants kept the crowd and passing vehicles at bay while the other two took turns to smash Khaleel’s head and chest with the concrete piece. The accused who were nabbed by police from Jalpally early Monday morning confessed to killing Khaleel as he was putting pressure on Rasheed to return the Rs 15 lakh loan that the latter had taken just before lockdown to renovate his restaurant. With losses mounting due to lockdown, Rasheed failed to return the loan while paying only interest. “Desperate to get out of a debt trap, Rasheed took loans from a few more financiers. But Rasheed approached Khaleel again and asked him to dole out Rs 50 lakh more as loan,” said N Prakash Reddy, deputy commissioner of police (Shamshabad zone). Khaleel demanded return of loanKhaleel agreed, but wanted Rasheed to hand over the reins of the restaurant to him until his dues were cleared. Rasheed refused to accept the condition, but an angry Khaleel started putting pressure on Rasheed to return the earlier loan of Rs 15 lakh,” Reddy added. In order to get rid of Khaleel, Rasheed along with his two staff hatched the murder plan and on Sunday asked Khaleel to come near a function hall in Rajendranagar, police said. “When the victim was talking to Rasheed, the other two accused started to attack him with sticks. The victim started to run but the killers caught up with him near near PVNR Expressway,” said Reddy. After raining a few blows with a stick, they used the cement block to kill him, before walking away.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/amim-local-party-leaders-gruesome-murder-caught-on-camera-three-nabbed/articleshow/80222331.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kochi||UDF’s campaign ‘Kerala yatra’ from February 1||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ramesh Chennithala will embark on a ‘Kerala yatra’ from Kasaragod on February 1 to mark the launch of UDF’s campaign for the assembly election. The yatra will cover all 140 constituencies and leaders of various constituents of the front including P K Kunhalikutty, M K Muneer, P J Joseph, Anoop Jacob, N K Premachandran and G Devarajan will accompany the opposition leader. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran will also be part of the event. Monday’s UDF meeting in Thiruvananthapuram gave the go-ahead for the yatra. It decided that all senior leaders should take part in the yatra, which will be an opportunity to expose the anti-people policies of the LDF government, as well as the corruption charges it faces. The issues for the assembly election will be different from those raised during local-body polls. UDF will expose the state government and its unfulfilled promises in the coming days, said Chennithala. While announcing the plan, the opposition leader said UDF has also decided to appoint a committee headed by Benny Behannan MP to prepare the front’s manifesto for the assembly election. UDF has been meeting several community leaders over the past days and addressing concerns about some if its policies. We assured them of putting all their fears to rest soon, the Congress leader said. There has been no discussion on including more political parties to the front as no one has approached us. “There are reports that a few leaders have shown interest in joining the front. But no formal request has been made,’’ he said. P C George and P C Thomas have expressed the desire to work with UDF in the assembly election. On taking in NCP, Chennithala said the party is still part of LDF. We will take a decision if NCP leaves that front and express its interest in joining UDF. However, we have decided to start talks with constituent partners on seat sharing for the election, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/udfs-campaign-yatra-from-feb-1/articleshow/80227289.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19: Number of patients in Ludhiana on ventilator falls to almost nil||LUDHIANA: In a major improvement in the district, the number of Covid-19 patients on ventilators has fallen drastically. On three days in the past 10 days of this month, there was no patient from Ludhiana on ventilator. The health department had started providing the data on the number of Ludhiana patients on ventilators from September 25 last year. As per the latest data, in the past 10 days, no district patient was on ventilator on January 7, 8 and 10 and only one patient each on January 2, 3, 5, 6 and 9. On remaining two days, that is January 1 and 4, two patients were on ventilators. As per the data of the local health department, on September 25 last year, there were 1,421 active cases in the district of which 21 were on ventilators. That time, the number of ventilators in Ludhiana hospitals was 147, of which four government machines were installed at CMC Hospital. The data suggested that the next day, 23 patients from Ludhiana were on ventilators. By October 2, when the number of active cases of the district was 1,051, as many as 19 Ludhiana patients were on ventilators. On October 15, when the number of active cases dropped to 473, eight patients were on ventilators. Cases fell to 281 on October 31, and four patients needed ventilator support. On November 3, cases increased to 426 and eight patients went on ventilators. Cases further increased to 720 by November 13, but the number on ventilators fell to seven. By November 30, the number of cases increased further to 879, but only two patients were on ventilator. Number of active cases in December decreased substantially to 333, and patients on ventilators in hospitals remained below five. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said, “It is good that the number of Ludhiana patients on ventilators has decreased. In the past some days, we didn’t have any patient on ventilator.” Health department officials, however, said there were cases from other districts and states who were on ventilators in Ludhiana hospitals. They added that the number of such cases in the past 10 days has been below five.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-number-of-patients-on-ventilator-falls-to-almost-nil/articleshow/80219631.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 12, 2021||Goa||North Goa MP Shripad Naik injured, wife and PA killed in road accident in Karnataka||KARWAR/PANAJI: Union minister and North Goa MP Shripad Naik’s wife Vijaya and his personal assistant were killed while he was injured in a road accident late Monday when they were returning to Karnataka’s Gokarna after visiting the Gante Ganapati temple at Yellapur. Naik was said to be in a stable condition after being shifted to Goa Medical College and Hospital at 11.13pm, around 110km from the accident site in Ankola, through a green corridor created by the state police. Goa: Union Minister Shripad Naik brought to Goa Medical College and Hospital at Bambolim, from Ankola in Karnataka… https://t.co/Z06vLklSur— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1610387756000Soon after doctors examined Naik at GMC, chief minister Pramod Sawant said there was no immediate danger to the Union minister’s life. We wish a speedy recovery for Minister of State for Defence, Shri Shripad Naik and express deepest condolences for his personal loss.— Indian Air Force (@IAF_MCC) 1610419405000“Naik has suffered a fracture to his leg. He will undergo two minor surgeries. There is no need to shift him to Delhi for treatment. I have already briefed the Prime Minister about Naik’s condition,” he said. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will visit Goa today to inquire about the health and treatment of Union ayush… https://t.co/iOVLVL2PDR— TOI Goa (@TOIGoaNews) 1610421171000Naik, who is the Ayush minister, was given initial treatment at a private hospital, where he was first rushed to after the accident in Ankola, Sawant told reporters at midnight outside Goa Medical College. I will go to Goa today to inquire about the health of Minister of State for Defence Shripad Naik and his ongoing tr… https://t.co/OAsos50MmO— The Times Of India (@timesofindia) 1610420640000Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Sawant to make proper arrangements for treatment of Naik, while defence minister Rajnath Singh said he would arrange a special air ambulance to airlift Naik, who is also the minister of state for defence, if required. Union home minister Amit Shah and national BJP president J P Nadda also spoke to Sawant regarding Naik’s condition. Naik was in a Toyota Innova with wife Vijaya, three other family members and aide Deepak Dube when the car swerved and overturned on a damaged patch of road near Hillur-Hosakambi village in Ankola taluk. The car had taken a diversion from NH-66 moments earlier, officials said. Vijaya succumbed to head injuries while being taken to a private hospital in Ankola town. His assistant died at Ankola Government Hospital. Besides the minister, two other passengers suffered injuries. Naik had been hospitalised with Covid last August and spent more than a month battling various complications caused by the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripad-injured-wife-pa-killed-in-road-accident-in-karnataka/articleshow/80223137.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||UDF’s campaign ‘Kerala yatra’ from February 1||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Ramesh Chennithala will embark on a ‘Kerala yatra’ from Kasaragod on February 1 to mark the launch of UDF’s campaign for the assembly election. The yatra will cover all 140 constituencies and leaders of various constituents of the front including P K Kunhalikutty, M K Muneer, P J Joseph, Anoop Jacob, N K Premachandran and G Devarajan will accompany the opposition leader. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy and KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran will also be part of the event. Monday’s UDF meeting in Thiruvananthapuram gave the go-ahead for the yatra. It decided that all senior leaders should take part in the yatra, which will be an opportunity to expose the anti-people policies of the LDF government, as well as the corruption charges it faces. The issues for the assembly election will be different from those raised during local-body polls. UDF will expose the state government and its unfulfilled promises in the coming days, said Chennithala. While announcing the plan, the opposition leader said UDF has also decided to appoint a committee headed by Benny Behannan MP to prepare the front’s manifesto for the assembly election. UDF has been meeting several community leaders over the past days and addressing concerns about some if its policies. We assured them of putting all their fears to rest soon, the Congress leader said. There has been no discussion on including more political parties to the front as no one has approached us. “There are reports that a few leaders have shown interest in joining the front. But no formal request has been made,’’ he said. P C George and P C Thomas have expressed the desire to work with UDF in the assembly election. On taking in NCP, Chennithala said the party is still part of LDF. We will take a decision if NCP leaves that front and express its interest in joining UDF. However, we have decided to start talks with constituent partners on seat sharing for the election, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/udfs-campaign-yatra-from-feb-1/articleshow/80219638.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Harish Rawat asks Cong to announce its CM face for 2022 assembly polls||Dehradun: With the assembly polls scheduled for early next year, senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister (CM) has asked Congress to announce its “Senapati” (CM face) for the 2022 assembly polls to ensure win for the party. Rawat made the demand via a tweet on Monday morning. The tweet comes amidst the reports of bickering among the top brass of the state Congress unit. Notably, the Harish Rawat camp has accused the present state unit of ignoring him in posters that were put up at key political events. The Harish Rawat camp has, on occasions, accused state chief Pritam Singh and his team of trying to sideline the veteran politician. Similarly, some strong comments have also been made by leader of Opposition, Indira Hridayesh. Her remarks indicate differences among the top state leaders. When contacted, Surendra Kumar, spokesperson of the former CM, said, “It is a welcome move. It is not that Rawat has asked his name to be announced. He said that the party should name a CM candidate and everyone would support that person.” It is worth mentioning that Trivendra Singh Rawat is expected to be the CM face for the BJP. Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party has said that it would announce CM face well in advance and the candidate would be a “highly respected” person of the state. “When other parties have come clear on their stand, there should be clarity on our part too. There is no ignoring that Harish Rawat is the senior most party leader,” added Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/harish-rawat-asks-cong-to-announce-its-cm-face-for-2022-assembly-polls/articleshow/80219635.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 12, 2021||Vadodara||30 chicken die in Sindhrot||Vadodara: A resident of Sindhrot village on the outskirts of the city claimed on Monday that 30 out of the 45 chickens he owned died under mysterious conditions in the last couple of days.Arjun Mali, who lives near Shram Mandir in Sindhrot, said that after the chicken started dying he contacted the veterinary hospital at Bhutdi Jhampa in Vadodara city through Arvind Pawar, who runs Wildlife Rescue Trust.“But instead of properly attending to the issue, a veterinary doctor simply prescribed some drops for the remaining 15 sick birds. In fact, I purchased the medicines and administered it in the remaining chickens, who are sick,” said Pawar, adding that even the samples of the dead birds have not been collected. “They are so sick and foul smelling that I began vomiting while giving them medicines,” he said.Mali on the other hand said that he has already buried the dead birds. “The official who visited my residence has asked me not to bury if any other chicken dies even after administering the medicine,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/30-chicken-die-in-sindhrot/articleshow/80218725.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Tractor rally in Samrala to ready people for R-Day show||LUDHIANA: Members of various farmers’ organizations and social groups took out a tractor rally in Samrala to ask villagers to be prepared for the rally to Delhi on Republic Day. Leaders of these groups claimed to have received a phenomenal response from villages through which the rally passed. “We took out the tractor rally in Samrala. It started from near a private college and passed through Gayalpura, Karkhana, Bhagorh, Manki, Kullewal, Rajewal, Shamspur, Nagra, Mutiyon and various other villages. There were about 800 tractors in the rally and the passion of villagers was noteworthy,” said Sanjok Singh, Samrala president of Lok Chetna Lehar, a social organisation. “Through speakers fitted on our tractors, we asked villagers to be ready for the tractor rally to Delhi on Republic Day. This was a rehearsal for that. The laws passed by the Union government are not only against farmers, but against the nation, too.” Leaders, who participated in the rally, said they had got the message from those at the dharna site to start their journey on tractors around January 23 so that they could reach Delhi by Republic Day. They added that not only farmers, but intellectuals were also supporting them and they would continue to put pressure on the government through these programmes to repeal laws. “These black laws will badly affect farmers. The government promulgated them to help corporate houses,” said Avtar Singh, a rally participant. He added that they have also been sitting on a dharna near a toll plaza on Ludhiana-Chandigarh Road, near Gulal village. Various farmers organizations have already announced that copies of the three recently passed farming laws would be burnt on Lohri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/tractor-rally-in-samrala-to-ready-people-for-r-day-show/articleshow/80219624.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||Dilip Chhabria arrested for cheating Kapil Sharma||MUMBAI: City crime branch on Monday arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in a fresh case of cheating comedian Kapil Sharma of Rs 5.7 crore. Chhabria, arrested on December 29, 2020, in a car financing and dual registration racket, was sent to judicial custody last week. Police on Monday sought permission from a district court for his custody in the fresh case. Sharma had filed a complaint before EOW in September last year, alleging that despite paying him Rs 5.7 crore, he had not delivered a customised vanity van he had ordered in 2017, and was demanding more money and parking charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dilip-chhabria-arrested-for-cheating-kapil-sharma/articleshow/80223818.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Chennai||12 mobile toilets sanctioned for police||Chennai: The Tamil Nadu police have sanctioned 12 mobile toilets, one each for 12 police districts in the city, for personnel on bandobust duty during public meetings, processions and rallies. These mobile toilets will augment the 64-strong fleet introduced in 2016. Police officers said mobile toilets will help security personnel on field and boost their performance. An officer said toilets are necessary when women police personnel are deployed for long hours. On a normal day, they stand on the road for two to three hours but the duty may extend to six to seven hours during the visits of dignitaries. If the police personnel don’t relieve themselves during duty hours, they may fall ill. Usually, police personnel take permission from private buildings and use toilets. At present, the vehicle has toilets and a changing room. More facilities such as sanitary napkin dispensers in the wash area will be added. The mobile toilet, which has a tank that can hold 1,000 litres of water, costs Rs 10 lakh. “There were instances where the women police would not drink water while on duty for long hours due to the fear of having to relieve themselves. We would go in search of places to relieve ourselves. But sometimes when there is no option and we had to face a tough time,” said Saraswathi, a police constable from Avadi. “More mobile toilets are like a boon,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/12-mobile-toilets-sanctioned-for-police/articleshow/80220622.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||MassMutual sets up first capability centre outside US in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: In yet another validation for Hyderabad’s growing clout as a global financial services hub, marquee US-based life insurer Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company (MassMutual) has opened its first global capability centre (GCC) outside the US in Hyderabad. The company plans to invest Rs 1,000 crore in the centre. The 170-year-old BFSI (banking financial services and insurance) giant has leased 1.5 lakh sq ft space at Nanakramguda in Hyderabad’s financial district and plans to hire 1,000 techies, sources told TOI. The company had quietly rolled out its Hyderabad operations in June 2020 in the work from home (WFH) mode and has already hired around 300 people. “The company plans to open the GCC formally in February. Rs 1,000 crore will be invested over the next five years,” confirmed a source in the Telangana government. Telangana IT & industries minister KT Rama Rao too tweeted about the achievement: "What better way to start the week than to welcome a top Fortune-500 company. Delighted to announce that BFSI major US-based@massmutual is setting up their Global Capability Center in Hyderabad, Telangana.” He pointed out that Hyderabad has witnessed several marquee investments in recent times, notwithstanding the pandemic. The company, which has been in parleys with the Telangana government since October 2019, evaluated several global cities before zeroing in on Hyderabad. Results of a market analysis had shown that the city has a strong talent pool, favourable infrastructure and easily accessible enablement services. “We are confident in the quality of talent here - a mature workforce with a strong understanding of technology and business will help achieve MassMutual’s innovation goals,” said Arthur Riel, head of core technology at MassMutual. MassMutual’s announcement comes just three months after marquee investment banking firm Goldman Sachs announced plans to set up a centre in Hyderabad, which also houses a center of America’s second oldest financial institution State Street Corp. The company said with over 300 associates and leadership in all functional areas already on board, it is now actively hiring for multiple roles in application development and support, cloud engineering, data science and analytics. The site is positioned to attract global talent in technology, engineering, and research and development, adding to continued hiring in these areas by the company in the US, said MassMutual, which as close to 6,000 employees in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/massmutual-sets-up-first-capability-centre-outside-us-in-hyd/articleshow/80222344.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal woman gets molester arrested||KOLKATA: A woman was stalked and molested inside a Metro compartment around 9am on Monday. The RPF and later the Metro ensured the accused got nabbed from the spot. The incident was reported from Kabi Nazrul Metro station. A probe revealed the accused had been reportedly stalking the victim for the past two months and was taking undue advantage whenever she boarded a crowded train. The Patuli police are investigating if he had behaved in the same way with other women. The 26-year-old complainant, a resident of Bansdroni, alleged the accused, Amit Das (42), is a resident of Malancha Mahinagar of Sonarpur . The accused used to follow her when she travelled on Metro from Kabi Nazrul Metro Station to Esplanade. The victim had earlier warmed the accused but he did not stop stalking her. She alleged that the accused often outraged her modesty by passing lewd comments or making obscene gestures. But on Monday, the accused intentionally touched her private parts while she was boarding the train. This time, however, she decided to teach the stalker a lesson even though she was initially shocked after the incident. “After the gesture, the victim raised an alarm and the on duty RPF and Metro Rail Police officers immediately detained Das. The passengers, too, stood by the woman. The accused was later handed over to Patuli police station for further action. After three hours of questioning, the accused was arrested around 1pm,” said DC (SSD) Rashid Munir Khan. The police said they will secure CCTV footage and get the woman’s statement recorded before a magistrate at the earliest. The cops said they will file an early chargesheet to make an example out of this case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/woman-gets-molester-arrested/articleshow/80222350.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 12, 2021||Goa||Bird flu: Goa bans poultry from Maharashtra, Karnataka||PANAJI: Even as several states grapple with an outbreak of avian influenza (bird flu), Goa has decided to prohibit the entry of live poultry and other birds from Karnataka and Maharashtra. “There are no cases of bird flu in Goa, but still we have decided to ban the entry of birds,” Sawant told reporters after a meeting called by the Centre and addressed by PM Narendra Modi. “We have issued orders to the director of animal husbandry and veterinary services to stop bringing birds from other states.” Sawant said that at this stage, it is difficult to predict for how long the ban on live poultry and other birds will stay in force. “For some days we will have to stop the entry of live birds, else it will be a problem,” he said. During the virtual meeting, Modi reportedly asked animal husbandry departments and district magistrates to monitor unusual deaths among birds. He also asked states to remain alert and ensure constant vigil at places like water bodies, zoos and poultry farms. Modi had convened the meet to discuss the Covid-19 pandemic and vaccine rollout. Goa consumes around 40 tonnes of chicken per day, with close to 30 tonnes being procured from Karnataka. So far, bird flu has been confirmed in Kerala, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bird-flu-goa-bans-poultry-from-maha-ktaka/articleshow/80223139.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Farmers protest NE Railways subway through village, to begin hunger strike from Tuesday||Pilibhit: Small and marginal farmers of village Simaria Talluke Maharajpur under Puranpur tehsil staged a dharna on Monday to protest the construction of a limited height subway (LHS) of NE Railways on the village road. The subway is part of a project to convert the metre gauge railway line into broad gauge, between Mala in Pilibhit and Mailani junction in Kheri district. The villagers have announced they will convert their protest into an indefinite hunger strike from Tuesday. They are alleging the subway will be blocked by waterlogging during monsoons, due to the presence of water bodies nearby. They said the excavation work for the subway was causing deep cracks in their houses. “The waterlogged subway will permanently block the path of students, cyclists, bikers and pedestrians of the village every monsoon. Our repeated requests to the Railways and administration remain unheard, so we’ve now sent a letter to Pilibhit MP Varun Gandhi for his intervention,” said Ramautar Verma, one of the 49 villagers who signed the letter. NE Railways authorities said the LHS would be built with one of the best technologies after reviewing all local conditions, including the groundwater table. The district magistrate’s nod was also obtained before launching the project. The height of the subway would be a minimum of 3.6m, which would easily allow all crop-laden vehicles to pass under it unhindered. Allegations of villagers regarding cracks in their houses were false, the authorities said, adding they are located far away from the construction site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-protest-ne-railways-subway-through-village-to-begin-hunger-strike-from-tuesday/articleshow/80218713.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||First train arrives at Yog Nagri Rishikesh railway station||Dehradun: The Jammu-Tawi Express became the first train to arrive at the newly-built Yog Nagari Rishikesh railway station on Monday morning. The passengers of the train were accorded a warm welcome by the authorities and locals. On Monday, CM Trivendra Singh Rawat lauded the efforts of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and railways minister Piyush Goyal for the start of the railway station. “The PM has a special attachment with Uttarakhand and projects like All-Weather Char Dham Road and Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail line are being carried out at a fast pace,” he said. With an expense of Rs 16,216 crore, a 125-km rail line is being constructed from Rishikesh to Karnaprayag, connecting the plains of Garhwal with the hills. CM further added that the rail line would bring major economic reform to the hills. The tourism and economic activities will see a major rise in the hills of Uttarakhand due to this project. Notably, Yog Nagri Rishikesh is the first railway station of the Rishikesh-Karnaprayag rail route. With Kumbh around the corner, the railway station is sure to play an important role as trains are proposed to ply from the railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-train-arrives-at-yog-nagri-rishikesh-railway-station/articleshow/80219649.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 12, 2021||Meerut||Main accused, aide in hooch tragedy that killed 6 in UP found dead||Meerut: In its pursuit to get to the source of illegal liquor which left six dead last week, Bulandshahr police landed at a cosmetic factory in Greater Noida -- owned by a Delhi resident-- and found a huge distillation set-up and two bodies. One of the dead was Pradeep, a Bulandshahr resident police were looking for since the hooch deaths in the district on January 7. The other one was his accomplice, Santosh Sharma.Police believe that they may have died after drinking liquor from the same toxic consignment which left the six persons dead in Bulandshahr’s Jeetgarhi village. “The bodies have been sent for post-mortem examination. The exact cause of the death will be known soon,” a police officer said.The illegal factory was unearthed in a joint operation of Bulandshahr and Noida police in Kasana area, Greater Noida on Sunday evening. The tip-off was given by another accused, Kaalu, who also drank liquor from the same batch and is admitted in a hospital in Noida. "36 cartons of illicit liquor, raw material and packaging equipment were seized from the factory," Noida’s police commissioner Alok Singh said.According to sources, Minku Chandrabhan, the kingpin of the illicit liquor racket, had started the operation from the factory after taking it on rent on January 2. However, Noida police said that he shifted the base here after the deaths.Police in Bulandshahr have already arrested eight accused, including the supplier Kuldeep, who is believed to have brought the toxic liquor from the Noida factory and distributed it locally with the help of his aides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/main-accused-aide-in-hooch-tragedy-that-killed-6-in-up-found-dead/articleshow/80218728.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Meerut||Bird flu: Four owls found dead in Pilibhit||PILIBHIT/AMROHA: With the Centre confirming bird flu in 10 states, including Uttar Pradesh, surveillance has been increased around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. While Kanpur zoo was closed on Saturday after avian influenza was confirmed in two red jungle fowls, bird carcasses have been found in Bijnor, Amroha and Pilibhit over the past three days. On Monday, a forest and wildlife division team found four owl carcasses in Kalinagar town in Pilibhit district. A day earlier, 20 roosters were found dead at Sherpur village under Puranpur tehsil. The samples were collected for tests. The chief veterinary officer said primary symptoms of bird flu could not be detected in the carcasses of the owls, which indicated that they had died due to severe cold. “However, we have sent the samples to the Central Avian Research Institute in Bareilly for an autopsy as a precautionary measure,” he added. In Amroha’s Gajraula village, pigeons were found dead in on Monday. Two days ago, crow carcasses were found at Khaikhedi village. The animal husbandry department while denying that the deaths were related to bird flu, has ordered a probe to ascertain cause of death. In neighbouring Bijnor, 10 crows were found dead over the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/four-owls-found-dead-in-pilibhit-pigeons-in-amroha/articleshow/80218727.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Load check on Alipore, Bypass bridges soon||KOLKATA: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) is planning to conduct load capacity tests on Ambedkar bridge off EM Bypass and Durgapur bridge at Alipore soon. These are the two remaining bridges where load capacity tests are yet to be conducted. KMDA officials said a letter has been sent to the Kolkata traffic police, seeking to know the dates for the closure of Ambedkar bridge, preferably towards the weekends to conduct load capacity test. The officials have been in touch with the police for the closure of Durgapur bridge, too. Kolkata traffic police said they are aware of the requirements of the KMDA. “We are trying to facilitate the closure of both the bridges for 72 to 96 hours. Some major works have been planned at Sealdah flyover and Abhishikta crossing. A major re-routing of traffic will be required to shut down Sealdah bridge for the East-West Metro corridor. Once we get over these challenges, hopefully by January 20, we should be able to allow the closure of the two flyovers — may be from January 22 and January 26, a holiday week,” said an officer of Lalbazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/load-check-on-alipore-bypass-bridges-soon/articleshow/80220624.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 12, 2021||Meerut||Man found selling illicit liquor on bike in Bulandshahr market, arrested||MEERUT: Exposing chinks in local police’s claim of a crackdown on illicit liquor after last week’s six deaths, a man was found selling bottles of spurious alcohol on a motorcycle in a busy market stretch of Bulandshahr. Someone shot the video of the man and put it on social media platforms, prompting police to take a note of it. A case was filed and the accused was arrested. The liquor and the motorcycle used by him were also seized, Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) said. In the video, the man can be seen selling liquor in a busy locality in Shikarpur area. He was seen purportedly bargaining with curious customers. The arrested accused was identified as Akash Chauhan and 22 bottles of liquor was recovered from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/man-found-selling-illicit-liquor-on-bike-in-bulandshahr-market-arrested/articleshow/80218729.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Meerut||Crackdown on illegal mining: 24 booked, 13 arrested on UP-Haryana border||Meerut: In a crackdown on illegal sand mining on Yamuna river in Baghpat district, police have registered a case against 24 people and arrested 13 of them. Several vehicles used in the illegal mining, including earthmovers, have also been confiscated. “On the basis of complaints by villagers of Khedi Pradhan, we had conducted a raid and arrested people involved in illegal mining. In all ten machines, six pickup trucks, a trawler, Rs 3.75 in cash and a car were seized from the site. 24 people have been booked in relevant sections of Environment Protection Act, Mine and Minerals Act and Indian Penal Code. Out of these, 13 have been arrested,” said circle officer of Baraut, Alok Kumar Singh.The arrests were made on Saturday and the accused were produced before a court and sent to jail on Sunday.Several deep trenches have come up in the Yamuna river due to large-scale mining in UP’s Baghpat district adjoining Haryana. UP Police says that the workers, hired by criminals from the other state, are involved in it. It is also said that the river’s course was also changed in some parts due to the rampant sand mining. Sub divisional magistrate (SDM) Durgesh Kumar Singh said, “Illegal mining changed the course of Yamuna which has inundated standing crops here. When we conducted the raid, they tried to run towards the Haryana side. Yamuna serves as the border of the two states of Haryana and UP.” A villager, Arvind Singh Tomar, said, “Illegal mining is rampant in this region that causes a great amount of discomfort to us. Our crops are destroyed and there is always heavy movement of machinery in the region but no one cares. I hope now this crackdown sustains.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/crackdown-on-illegal-mining-24-booked-13-arrested-on-up-haryana-border/articleshow/80218726.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Man, two boys from Vikhroli involved in road rage assault cop||MUMBAI: A man and two minors from Vikhroli who were in a road rage incident with a doctor allegedly assaulted a cop who was taking them to the police station on Monday. The trio — Deepu Tiwari, an engineer, was riding the two boys seated behind — when their bike had a collision with an elderly doctor’s car at a signal in Powai. Constable Nitin Khairmode (35) from Powai police station who was taking the three to the police station by autorickshaw was allegedly abused and assaulted ing before they jumped out of the moving rickshaw. The two minors were caught, but were allowed to go with warnings after their parents were called. The cop suffered a cut on the lips and an abrasion on the face. “The bike rammed into the car from behind. The three assaulted the cop and escaped,” said DCP Mahesh Reddy. The three fought with the doctor and sped away, said senior inspector Vijay Dalvi of Powai police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-2-boys-involved-in-road-rage-assault-cop/articleshow/80222399.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Vending kiosks to debut in 3 New Town subways||KOLKATA: The New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) is setting up vending kiosks inside three pedestrian subways in the township. Officials said 28 such vending kiosks are being set up inside Mangaldeep subway at Akankha More while two other kiosks are coming up each at the Eco Park Gate No. 2 and DLF 1 subways off the main arterial road. Officials said the vending kiosks will not only rehabilitate local hawkers, self-help group women and other vendors but also bring a sense of security among the pedestrians, especially after evening when the subways mostly become empty. The kiosks can be used for running fruit, vegetable, bakery, newspaper, magazine or small gift item shops. The NKDA will be providing electricity to the kiosks while the charges will have to be paid by the operators. No cooking or heating, however, will be allowed in the kiosks that will be handed over for operation for 11 months. After that, the contract will be renewed further as per direction of the authorities. Officials said the subways in New Town have wide walking spaces inside the subways. The spaces have been made wider so that some activities can be organized inside the subways. Officials said they have noticed that the subways mostly remain empty throughout the day and that is why, they came up with the idea of setting up the vending kiosks to utilize the subways that have adequate illumination. Residents of New Town have welcomed the move of the NKDA to set up vending kiosks inside the subways. “This project will take into consideration both the economic and security aspects. It will not only provide alternative livelihood opportunities to locals but also help the daily commuters or other residents, using the subways, to have some refreshments or buy essentials from the kiosks,” said KIngshuk Chakraborty, a resident of New Town.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vending-kiosks-to-debut-in-3-new-town-subways/articleshow/80220673.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Sensex surges from 48k to 49k in 5 sessions on foreign fund buying||Mumbai: Another day, another lifetime peak. The sensex continued its dizzying surge to race past the 49,000 milestone for the first time in its history on Monday before closing at 49,269 points, its all-time closing high. As foreign portfolio investors made net infusions of over Rs 3,100 crore, the 30-scrip index gained 487 points on the day, led by software and financial stocks. On the NSE, the nifty closed at 14,485 points, up 138 points. Metals and PSU banks, however, witnessed some selling pressure. The day’s rally was also supported by expectations of bold moves by the government in the Budget that could boost the economic revival process, market players said. Monday’s gains on Dalal Street came despite weakness in the European markets in early trades. As expected, Wall Street opened lower as technology stocks witnessed selling pressure. At the end of the opening hour on Monday, Nasdaq was down 0.7% while the Dow Jones Index was down 0.5% and S&P500 0.6%. Although there were spurts of selling during the day, the day’s session also discounted the recent rise in dollar index and crude oil prices, market players said. The market’s surge also made investors richer by Rs 70,000 crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at an all-time peak of Rs 196.3 lakh crore, BSE data showed. In dollar terms, this took India’s market capitalisation to $2.7 trillion. Other than some signs of weakness in the global markets, on Dalal Street, more stocks closing lower compared to the ones closing higher is also pushing brokers to be cautious. “Positive newsflow, including results, are pushing indices and stocks higher. A negative advance decline ratio, however, is a sign of caution after such a steep rise. Typically distribution happens in such times of euphoria, which gets noticed a few days later,” said Deepak Jasani, head of retail research, HDFC Securities. Technically too, the market is in an ‘indecisive’ zone. According to Shrikant Chouhan, EVP-Equity Technical Research, Kotak Securities at Monday’s closing, the market is showing an “indecisive candlestick pattern at the top of the current movement and traders should take some profit at current levels.” The resumption of the upward movement could resume if Nifty crosses 14,520 level while for Sensex, the corresponding level is at the 49,370 level, Chouhan wrote in a note.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sensex-surges-from-48k-to-49k-in-5-sessions-on-foreign-fund-buying/articleshow/80223165.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Bull owners throng Avaniyapuram for hours, but many return without token||Madurai: Chaos prevailed at Avaniyapuram in Madurai district on Monday as hundreds of bull owners from various places thronged there and behaved in an unruly manner. Police used a mild force to control them. Tokens for bulls participating in the Avaniyapuram jallikattu, scheduled to take place on January 14, were issued at a school. Bull owners from Madurai and other districts thronged there and vied with one another to get tokens. Many of them did not wear masks and social distancing went for a toss. The crowd often turned unruly, resulting in chaos and confusion even as police tried their best to maintain calm. Many bull owners left disappointed as they did not get a token even after waiting for 12-15 hours. They alleged that only a few tokens were distributed and most of them were kept aside for influential people. Some desperate bull owners were even seen begging the authorities and police personnel for tokens. S Senthil Kumar, a bull owner from Kulamangalam in Madurai district, said, “I reached here at 7pm on Sunday. I stood in the queue facing various challenges. I was beaten up by police a few times. There were only around 20 people ahead of me in the queue, but I could not get one,” he said. “I tried to get the token last year too but could not get it. Eventually, I got a token sold in black at Rs 2,000 to release my bull at jallikattu event,” he added. Bull owners said that better preparation could have been made. They said the district administration should ensure that jallikattu committees distribute the token transparently. V Palanisamy from Thirumangalam said, “The district administration should make prior information on how many tokens would be make available to bull owners to prevent unnecessary overcrowding. Hundreds, including women returned empty-handed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/bull-owners-throng-avaniyapuram-for-hours-but-many-return-without-token/articleshow/80222364.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||More students apply online for PG seats in RU this yr||Jaipur: There has been a big spike in the number of forms submitted by students for postgraduation courses in Rajasthan University (RU) this year because of online submission.While 900 forms were received last year for 60 postgraduation seats in physics, this year the number has increase to 1,900. For 50 postgraduation seats in chemistry, more than 2,000 forms have been received.Physics HoD Rashmi Jain said, “Online submission of forms have made it easier for students to apply for various courses from anywhere. Students no longer have to come to the university to submit their documents.”In Sanskrit department, where most seats remained vacant, 85 forms were received.Till last year, students had to sit for a written examination for postgraduation, but after admission was made online on the basis of undergraduate percentage due to the pandemic, things have become easier. Students can directly apply without any need for written examination, or examination fees or preparation.Rashmi Jain, convenor of postgraduation admission said, “The accessibility has definitely increased for students and online admission has given an option to students to apply without physically appearing. There is however a drawback as in many institutes undergraduate marking is lenient. These kinds of students will get leverage over students in government colleges where marking usually doesn’t go above 60 – 65%.”In Hindi department, 150 forms were received for 60 seats last year. This year, the number has shot up to 500.Hindi HoD Shruti Sharma said it was quite shocking for them as well but due to online mode, students have shown interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/more-students-apply-online-for-pg-seats-in-ru-this-yr/articleshow/80220669.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Phone chat leak: File affidavit, SC tells ex-AP judge||New Delhi: The Supreme Court on Monday asked former judge of Andhra Pradesh high court Justice V Eswaraiah to file an affidavit certifying authenticity of the his leaked private telephonic conversation pertaining to a sitting SC judge for which the high court has ordered a probe. Justice Eswaraiah approached the apex court challenging the HC order for an investigation into his private telephonic conversation. A division bench of the high court had ordered the inquiry in August, under the supervision of former SC judge Justice R V Raveendran. Advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the judge, pleaded before a bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan that the HC erred in ordering the probe as it was a private conversation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/phone-chat-leak-file-affidavit-sc-tells-ex-ap-judge/articleshow/80222383.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||10,000 Covid-19 vaccinations on January 16 at 100 centres in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: The Covid-19 vaccination programme will begin from 100 centres in 11 districts of Vidarbha on January 16, with 10,000 health care workers to be vaccinated on the first day. The state government has fixed the number of vaccination centres for January 16 and 17. Nagpur district has been given highest number of centres at 22, of which 14 are in rural areas and eight in Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) limits. Initially, only health care workers will be vaccinated. The central government had announced front-line workers will also be vaccinated in phase-I but guidelines have been received only for health care workers. Nagpur municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI, “The centres will increase from January 18. There will be 59 centres in city to vaccinate over 25,000 health care workers. Each centre will vaccinate 100 beneficiaries in a single day,” he said. The civic chief added, “NMC hospitals at KT Nagar, Sadar, Pachpaoli, Mahal Diagnostic Centre, GMCH, IGGMCH, AIIMS and Daga Maternity Hospital have been finalized for January 16 and 17. Centralized Centre will be established at NMC head office for registration of beneficiaries and preparation of schedule for each centre.” Radhakrishnan also said, “Target is to vaccinate all registered health care workers within six working days in city. Vaccination will be done on four days in a week. Vaccination will not happen on Tuesday and Friday, as these days will be reserved for regular immunization of children. Sundays will be a holiday.” He also said, “There will be no problem in storage of vaccines. NMC has capacity to store 6 lakh vials at a time. Vaccines are likely to arrive on January 14.” Additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “NMC already has 54 ice-lined refrigerators (ILR) for storing vaccine. Government has already sent two new ILR with capacity of 225 litres each, and sanctioned 20 more ILRs with capacity of 45 litres each.” In the city, vaccine will be administered between 9am and 5pm. The government is yet to clarify whether Covishield or Covaxin will be distributed in the 11 districts of Vidarbha. Radhakrishnan and Joshi said, “There are no restrictions for beneficiaries and no need for any test or undertaking. It is a voluntary exercise. Even those who have tested positive earlier or having antibodies or currently positive, can also take it.” CEO of Nagpur Zilla Parishad Yogesh Kumbhejkar said, “Vaccination will be done at 14 centres in Nagpur rural. Some 12,000 health care workers have registered so far for the vaccine,” he said. The authorities here are yet to get exact information from the government whether they will receive vaccine at their centres or at the airport or railway stations. They are also not aware how many doses will be there in each vial. As per guidelines, each vial has to be consumed within four hours of its opening. Also, exact temperature at which vaccines are to be stored is not known to officials, who believe it will be in the 2-8 degree Celsius range, from their experience of the trial run. All these issues are likely to be cleared just before arrival of vaccines. Each centre will have minimum three rooms, one for waiting and verification of beneficiary, second for vaccination, and third for observation of each beneficiary for 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10000-covid-19-vaccinations-on-jan-16-at-100-centres-in-vid/articleshow/80222370.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Trade associations to boycott inauguration of Buddha Nullah project by CM||LUDHIANA: A day ahead of the inaugration of the Rs 650 crore Buddha Nullah project by chief minister Amarinder Singh at Ludhiana, Federation of All Textile Manufacturing and Trading Association of Ludhiana has called for boycott of inaugration. A group of local businessmen have been up in arms against government for approval of tender for Rs 650 crore for cleaning of the Buddha Nullah. These businessmen had been maintaining that this project can be executed at less than half the tender cost and they even offered to complete it for Rs 325 crore if given a chance. Taraun Jain Bawa, president of Bahadurke Road Textile and Knitwear Association, started the campaign to boycott the inauguration of the project that has allegedly been favouring over-estimated tender. He posted messages on various social media platforms along with the the banner of All Textile Manufacturing and Trading Association of Ludhiana. The post says “Boycott Captain Amarinder Singh against Buddha Nullah project. Ludhiana textile, hosiery and dyeing industry strongly protests and boycott the inauguration of Buddha Nullah project on January 12 by the chief minister of Punjab Amarinder Singh.” Meanwhile earlier in the day the District Administration made it clear that media is not being invited for the inaugration of this project due to shortage of space at Budha Nullah venue and photographs and video footage of Budha Nullah foundation stone laying would be provided to media by DPRO Office.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/trade-associations-to-boycott-inauguration-of-buddha-nullah-project-by-cm/articleshow/80222371.cms||Mohit Behl
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Can’t take walks in winter afternoons, extend park timings: Citizens to KMC||KOLKATA: A cross-section of citizens in Kolkata have urged the KMC to remove the restriction on park timings so that people can walk safely in the open space in the afternoon. Though KMDA removed time restrictions at the twin lakes in the city—Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarboar—nearly two months ago, KMC is yet to ring in the change. Consequently, parks continue to remain shut between 9am and 3pm. “There are six parks in Ward 63. Yet, all of them remain shut in the afternoon when doctors say it is the best time to walk in winter. The staff who oversee the parks say the closure at 9am is due to Covid restrictions. If malls can stay open all day, cinema halls can have 100% seating, people can take public transport to office, why is there a problem in allowing people to walk in the parks that are open air and one of the safest places to be in during the pandemic?” said Jael Sulliman, who lives on Moira Street. Health experts have for years urged people to avoid taking morning walks in winter, saying the air laden with pollutants in the early hours of the day can do more harm than good. “In winters, it is best to take a walk in the afternoon. As it warms up, the pollutants disperse,” said state pollution control board chairman Kalyan Rudra. Bonani Kakkar of NGO PUBLIC, who has been calling for parks to remain open till at least 8.30pm-9pm so that office-goers can also get some exercise, says parks play a crucial role in ensuring proper mental health of people, particularly at times like pandemic, when access to other forms of entertainment is limited. “Parks are meant for people. It does not make sense to keep them shut and deny people an opportunity to use them,” she said. Officials in the parks and squares department of the civic body said the reluctance to open parks for the entire day was both due to restoration work that had been going on in parks to repair the damage caused by Cyclone Amphan. Another reason was shortage of manpower as security staff had been deployed elsewhere during the lockdown, officials said. KMC on Monday made arrangements to open Rawdon Square that had been padlocked after its inauguration on Saturday. TOI had on Sunday reported about local residents’ disappointment over the park closure despite KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim’s announcement that Rawdon Square would be open from 6am to 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cant-take-walks-in-winter-afternoons-extend-park-timings-citizens-to-kmc/articleshow/80222390.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Evicted squatters prevent construction work at ropeway terminal station site||Claiming stones were pelted on the labourers engaged in construction work, a complaint has been lodged against protestersMussoorie: Around 100 people gathered at Chifonkot, the site where a terminal station of Mussoorie-Dehradun ropeway has been proposed, and stopped construction work, demanding resettlement, on Monday. The squatters, who were evicted from the site, said that they won't allow the construction work to resume until they are resettled. “It has been more than four months since we were evicted from Chifonkot. Mussoorie MLA as well as chairman of Mussoorie Municipal Council promised to relocate the displaced families, but nothing has been done," Anuj Shah, one of the protesters, said. At least 84 illegal squatter families were evicted from the site. Some families have shifted to other locations, but lack of alternate accommodation has forced many others to reside under a shed at Gandhi Chowk bus stand. “I am living under a tin shed for the past four months in this bitter cold with no arrangement of water and toilet. The government should rehabilitate us before the ropeway construction work starts,” Usha Devi, who was also evicted, said. Meanwhile, the construction company has lodged an official police complaint against the protesters claiming that stones were pelted on the labourers engaged in construction work. “We have received the complaint as we tried to persuade the protesters to allow the work to start. If they do not stop the protest then we will file a case and take action,” Devendra Aswal, station officer at Mussoorie, said. Notably, the ropeway connecting Mussoorie to Dehradun is said to be the country’s longest and world’s second longest with a length of 5.6 km. Constructed at a cost of Rs 300 crore, the ropeway would be able to transport more than 1,000 people in an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/evicted-squatters-prevent-construction-work-at-ropeway-terminal-station-site/articleshow/80219667.cms||Anmol Jain
January 12, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala CM’s mediation fails, NCP appears headed for a split||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A split in the NCP state unit appears imminent after mediation efforts by chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan failed to bear fruit. With the two party MLAs refusing to bury their differences, Mani C Kappan reiterated his demand for the Pala seat as a precondition for staying in the LDF during his talks with the CM and later with transport minister A K Saseendran. NCP state president T P Peethambaran Master also made his displeasure public by questioning CPM’s silence on the claim made by Kerala Congress (M)’s Jose K Mani faction for the Pala seat. “When he (Jose) said that they have received an assurance regarding the Pala seat, CPM didn’t deny it,” Peethambaran Master told reporters. After the assembly session on Monday, Vijayan held separate talks with Kappan and Saseendran. Later, Kappan and Saseendran held a brief meeting on the direction of the CM. While Kappan wanted an assurance regarding the Pala seat, Saseendran maintained that leaving LDF at this juncture would be suicidal as the front looks set for a stellar performance in the assembly election. Saseendran is understood to have told the CM that he would remain in LDF irrespective of the decision of NCP’s state leadership. NCP national president Sharad Pawar and general secretary Praful Patel are set to visit the state later this month for talks with district-level leaders. Though Pawar is not averse to an alliance with UDF, which will be more in line with party’s national position as a UPA constituent, he doesn’t prefer a split in the Kerala unit. Last week, Saseendran and Kappan had separate discussions with Pawar in Mumbai and both argued their positions and claimed the support of the majority of district committees. The CPM state secretariat, which discussed the NCP issue, had authorized the CM to mediate. CPM has already promised the Pala seat to Jose K Mani. And with Jose quitting the Rajya Sabha, the party is in no mood to go back on its word. In the worst-case scenario, CPM is prepared to let go of the faction led by Peethambaran Master and Kappan and back the Saseendran group as a separate party or by merging it with one of the junior partners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cms-mediation-fails-ncp-appears-headed-for-a-split/articleshow/80219665.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||NHAI sees foreign hand in green law||BENGALURU: The high court has said the National Highways Authority of India’s statement that “the Environmental Protection Act has been passed by Parliament at the instance of foreign powers” is shocking. The court on Monday directed the NHAI chairman to nominate a senior officer to inquire and come clean on the matter. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka was hearing a PIL filed by United Conservation Movement and Charitable Trust (Bengaluru), which had challenged the exemption granted by the ministry of environment on expanding national highways (up to 100km) from the requirement of environmental impact assessment (EIA). In the statement of objections filed by NHAI deputy general manager (technical) RB Pekam, there were references to “foreign powers” behind the Environment Protection Act. The bench pointed out it has been stated that there are many organisations in India such as Amnesty International which are actively involved in challenging government policies/ notifications and are indulging in anti-national activities. The NHAI official said “there are many NGOs receiving money from foreign sources and church funds in contravention of laws”. TNN Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/nhai-sees-foreign-hand-in-green-law/articleshow/80223822.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||State to cull 80k birds from today in Parbhani; all 36 dists on alert||Mumbai: With more than 1,200 avian flu deaths confirmed in Maharashtra, the government has ordered culling to begin on Tuesday in the most infected clusters starting with a village in Parbhani district in Marathwada where close to 80,000 birds will be exterminated across nearly 20 poultry farms.According to an official in the animal husbandry department, 411 more birds were found dead on Monday. Of these, 398 were poultry birds which were found dead in Parbhani (7), Latur (60), Nagpur (265), Nanded (12), Ahmednagar (50) and Satara (1), the official said. The samples are being sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases in Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section (DIS) in Pune for testing. It can take 48 to 72 hours to get the results of the investigation, the official said.Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. The animal husbandry department has declared the Latur poultry bird deaths as confirmed cases of avian flu and is likely to implement all protocols, including humane culling of poultry birds, in the infected zones at two places in the district from Tuesday, animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Monday. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1.As of now, the affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, an official said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans.Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products.CM Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius.Dhananjay Parkale, state additional commissioner of animal husbandry, told TOI, “We have 4,847 veterinary dispensaries across the state. There are seven to eight villages under each such veterinary dispensary on an average. These dispensaries have been instructed that in case they witness bird mortalities in their jurisdictions, they should send samples of the dead birds to Pune for tests.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-cull-80k-birds-from-today-in-parbhani-all-36-dists-on-alert/articleshow/80223161.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Surat||Avian influenza confirmed in Vadodara, Surat districts||VADODARA/ SURAT: Bird flu is spreading its wings dangerously in Gujarat. Three days after the first case was reported from Manavadar taluka in Junagadh, bird flu cases have been confirmed from two more districts of the state – Vadodara and Surat. After 2017, when the disease was confined in pockets of Ahmedabad, this is for the second time that the outbreak of the avian flu has surfaced in the state. Samples of five crows from Vasantpura village of Vadodara’s Savli taluka and Memon Kabrastan from Bardoli town have confirmed that they died of the flu. The samples were sent to Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD). While there has been no report of infection in poultry birds so far, the department of animal husbandry has intensified surveillance in the 10 km radius of both the spots following the confirmation. Notification banning sale of poultry and eggs in one-km radius of both the spots from where the dead crows were recovered has been issued. “Even before the reports arrived, we had already asked all poultry farms to remain vigilant while asking all villages falling within 10-12 km periphery of Vasantpura to take extra precautions. After this confirmation, we will intensify our efforts,” said Vadodara district development officer Kiran Zaveri. “All the 34 teams that we had formed last week for monitoring in eight talukas of the district have been alerted again,” said Zaveri. Dr Nilesh Patel, Surat’s assistant district animal husbandry officer told TOI: “We have issued notification banning the sale and purchase of poultry and eggs in one km radius of the town,” Sources said that after a few crows were found dead in the Hathoda village in Surat’s Mangrol taluka on Monday, a team of animal husbandry department collected samples of two dead crows and sent them to Bhopal. “We have sent the samples from Mangrol to NIHSAD. We don’t think that the crows may have died of avian influenza but we want to confirm the reason of their death,” said Patel. On Sunday, samples of dead crow from Bardoli’s Madhi village were also found positive of the avian influenza. In Vadodara, 25-odd crows had mysteriously died in Vasantpura after which samples of five crows were sent to Bhopal on Friday. On Sunday, as many as 30 pigeons in Karjan taluka’s Kia village and three peacocks in a private township of Vadodara were also found dead. Their samples too have been sent to NIHSAD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/avian-influenza-confirmed-in-vadodara-surat-districts/articleshow/80224403.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Vadodara||Avian influenza confirmed in Vadodara, Surat districts||VADODARA/ SURAT: Bird flu is spreading its wings dangerously in Gujarat. Three days after the first case was reported from Manavadar taluka in Junagadh, bird flu cases have been confirmed from two more districts of the state – Vadodara and Surat. After 2017, when the disease was confined in pockets of Ahmedabad, this is for the second time that the outbreak of the avian flu has surfaced in the state. Samples of five crows from Vasantpura village of Vadodara’s Savli taluka and Memon Kabrastan from Bardoli town have confirmed that they died of the flu. The samples were sent to Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD). While there has been no report of infection in poultry birds so far, the department of animal husbandry has intensified surveillance in the 10 km radius of both the spots following the confirmation. Notification banning sale of poultry and eggs in one-km radius of both the spots from where the dead crows were recovered has been issued. “Even before the reports arrived, we had already asked all poultry farms to remain vigilant while asking all villages falling within 10-12 km periphery of Vasantpura to take extra precautions. After this confirmation, we will intensify our efforts,” said Vadodara district development officer Kiran Zaveri. “All the 34 teams that we had formed last week for monitoring in eight talukas of the district have been alerted again,” said Zaveri. Dr Nilesh Patel, Surat’s assistant district animal husbandry officer told TOI: “We have issued notification banning the sale and purchase of poultry and eggs in one km radius of the town,” Sources said that after a few crows were found dead in the Hathoda village in Surat’s Mangrol taluka on Monday, a team of animal husbandry department collected samples of two dead crows and sent them to Bhopal. “We have sent the samples from Mangrol to NIHSAD. We don’t think that the crows may have died of avian influenza but we want to confirm the reason of their death,” said Patel. On Sunday, samples of dead crow from Bardoli’s Madhi village were also found positive of the avian influenza. In Vadodara, 25-odd crows had mysteriously died in Vasantpura after which samples of five crows were sent to Bhopal on Friday. On Sunday, as many as 30 pigeons in Karjan taluka’s Kia village and three peacocks in a private township of Vadodara were also found dead. Their samples too have been sent to NIHSAD.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/avian-influenza-confirmed-in-vadodara-surat-districts/articleshow/80218774.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kozhikode||Kerala: Forest department to set urine trap as tiger evades capture||KOZHIKODE: With the stray tiger, which attacked a forest range officer, evading capture at Kolavally in Wayanad, the forest department has made arrangements to bring urine of a female tiger from Mysuru zoo and spray it near the cages to attract the animal to the trap cages. The forest department which had deployed two trap cages at Kolavally on Sunday increased the number of cages to three on Monday. However, despite the massive search operation conducted by the around 70 forest staff on Monday, the tiger could not be traced though the staff could find fresh pug marks just 500 metre away from the spot where the tiger attacked the range officer indicating the presence of the tiger in the area itself. “We have asked to bring urine of female tiger from Mysuru zoo and hopefully it will reach by Tuesday evening. We guess that the stray tiger to be a male individual going by the sightings and we plan to spray the urine of the female tiger near the deployed cages to increase the chances of it coming near the cages,” chief conservator of forest (northern circle), D K Vinodkumar said. He added that even if the tiger is not a male it will get curious on smelling the urine thereby increasing chances of approaching the cage. The forest department started the search operation at 9am and even used a drone to spot the animal, but to no avail. The plan was to tranquilize the animal after spotting it. According to the forest officials, said the terrain interspersed with coffee plantations, bushes and plenty of wild growth provided plenty of spots for the tiger to hide. The department has deployed around 20 camera traps in the area and hopes that the image of the tiger will get caught in the cameras by Tuesday. Forest officials suspect the stray tiger to be a sub-adult dispersing tiger which could have possibly come from across the border from the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. Apart from the CCF, Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden Narendra Babu, flying squad DFO, Dhanesh Kumar, among others were present at Kolavally to oversee the search operations. Chethalath forest range officer T Sasikumar was attacked by the tiger during the search operation on Sunday. He is currently under treatment at a private medical college at Meppadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/forest-dept-to-set-urine-trap-as-tiger-evades-capture/articleshow/80219682.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Most private schools open with 30% attendance in Ludhiana||LUDHIANA: Ten months since the Covid-19 outbreak, most of the private schools reopened in Ludhiana on Monday with the written consent from parents. According to private school authorities, over 30% attendance was witnessed in the schools for classes V to VIII. Many parents are still hesitant to send their wards, fearing they may contract the infection, said the authorities. Parents claimed that weather too is not suitable for students to go to school. Schools which opened on Monday include Guru Nanak Public School Model Town, MGM Public School, Dugri, Nankana Sahib Public School, Gill Park and Ram Lal Bhasin School. Entry was from the main gate of the school and circles were drawn to ensure social distancing. Staff was deployed for the thermal screening of each student. Mona Singh, principal of Guru Nanak Public School, Model Town, said, “We have started the school and of 650 students, 125 came to attend the school. For students who will still not attend classes physically, we will be providing online study material via WhatsApp, Google drive, audio messages as usual — mostly it is content sharing via WhatsApp groups. The strength is expected to increase tomorrow.” Sunita Vij, principal of MGM Public School, said, “We also started classes from V to VIII and 30% attendance was witnessed on the first day. Teachers have prepared a ‘consent form’, which parents have to sign for sending children to school. By signing the form, parents agree to send their children to school only after making them wear a mask, follow Covid-19 precautions at home and teach their child how to maintain social distancing. Similar was the case at Ram Lal Bhasin School — only 25-30% students attended the school. However, at Nankana Public School, there was 50% attendance. Swaroop Singh from Parents Associations said, “We are fed up with children being at home for nine months. They do not study with the same enthusiasm. Even children themselves are now fed up with staying at home and wanted schools to reopen at the earliest.” Rajinder Kaur, district education officer (DEO) said, “Most parents showed their willingness and will be sending children to school now. We are expecting better attendance in schools after Lohri .”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/most-private-schools-open-with-30-attendance/articleshow/80222395.cms||Mehak Jain
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||RU reserves 20% seats for non-subject students for PG||Jaipur: This year, Rajasthan University has decided to allot 20% seats in every department to non-subject students for post graduation. As there will be no written test this year for post graduation examination, there was a possibility that non-subject students would take admission in humanities subjects to take advantage of facilities at the university. To prevent this, the university has made a rule that non-subject students cannot get admission on more than 20% of the seats. Non-subject students include a student who hasn’t studied the subject he has applied for, at the undergraduate level. Rashmi Jain, conveyor of PG admissions said, “In written examination, a student who has some knowledge of the subject will pass the examination. However, in online admission, any student can apply for any subject. In science stream, the percentage of marks is higher as compared to humanities in undergraduate. So, there was a possibility that such students will get advantage. But with the 20% rule, a student who had studied the subject in under-graduation will get preference.” This has been a trend in the university that non-subject students take admission in humanities subjects to take advantage of university’s facilities like hostel or library. Such students are focused on preparing for competitive examinations rather than studying the subject.Pramila Poonia, head of department of history, said that this year, they have received 20% forms from non-subject students. “This is a good decision by the admission committee as students interested in these subjects will take admission. Otherwise, science students would have gotten admitted easily, who would not attend the classes and would just focus on competitive examinations by using the library and hostel facilities,” said Poonia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ru-reserves-20-seats-for-non-subject-students-for-pg/articleshow/80220681.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Free Covid vaccine for cops: Maharashtra home minister||NAGPUR: The police department will get the vaccine free of cost, said state home minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday. The nationwide roll out of the vaccine programme is scheduled for January 16. In Maharashtra, 303 cops died due to Covid while 28,000 tested positive. Prime Minister Narendra Modi interacted with chief ministers, home ministers and health ministers of every state to discuss the national plan. “We have a broader plan of first ensuring that the frontline staff, health workers and doctors get the Covid shots followed by the police,” he said. In the past, Deshmukh lauded the Maharashtra police for exemplary work during the lockdown. Personnel had helped lakhs of migrants to reach their native place. Deshmukh had also attributed the high number of positive cases in the police department due to work with migrants. Deshmukh also allowed family members of deceased police personnel who succumbed to Covid to stay at their official quarters until the date of retirement of the victims. The home department also sanctioned Rs50 lakh for the kin of Covid victim cops. In Nagpur, Deshmukh’s initiative ensured the police hospital was converted into a dedicated Covid facility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/free-vaccine-for-cops-hm/articleshow/80222400.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||BTP to raise Bhil Pradesh demand in local body polls||Jaipur: Following the breaking of ties with the Congress, the Bharatiya Tribal Party (BTP) is all set to float its core demand of a separate Bhil Pradesh to polarise voters in the local body polls in tribal-dominated districts in Rajasthan. The polls are scheduled in Pratapgarh, Banswara, Udaipur and Dungarpur on January 28. The party has decided to display its Bhil Pradesh map consisting of 39 districts of four states — Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat — as the campaign material in the upcoming polls to woo voters. The map has been re-designed by BTP national working committee. The demand was first raised by Govind Guru, a tribal leader, in 1913 in Dungarpur, which was lost with time. Formed in 2017 in Gujarat, BTP’s core objective included separate statehood. For the next three years, the new political outfit will test waters in the electoral politics. They won two seats each in Gujarat and Rajasthan in 2017-2018 assembly polls, respectively. In Rajasthan, they won Sagwara and Chourasi seats in Dungarpur out of 11 seats contested against BJP and the Congress candidates. During this period, they lobbied hard with the Gehlot government in achieving larger share for indigenous people in government jobs, land rights under Forest Rights Act and separate legal code. “Separate statehood was our main objective even before the formation of BTP,” said Vela Ram Ghogra, state president of BTP, while explaining why they put it on hold for three years, he added, “The propaganda machine of both BJP and the Congress have branded us as ‘anti-nationals’ and ‘separatists’ as if we are demanding a separate country. We sought time in order to convince people that our demand is for the welfare of all.” Replying on the timing of the demand, Ghogra said, “Elections are the best time to communicate that separate statehood on the basis of language, geography or ethnicity is legal under the Constitution of India.” BTP parted ways from the ruling Congress after the latter joined hands with the BJP in defeating the tribal party candidate in the Dungarpur municipal elections. BTP emerged as the biggest party by winning 13 out of 27 seats. “For two years, we stood with the Congress like a rock during the Rajya Sabha polls and even during the political crises, but the Gehlot government has not fulfilled any demand. It is clear that the welfare of indigenous people is incomplete unless a separate state is created,” said Rajkumar Roat, BTP MLA from Chourasi. The Bhil Pradesh would have 10 districts in Rajasthan – Dungarpur, Udaipur, Pratapgarh, Banswara, Sirohi, Jalore, Barmer, Pali, Rajsamand and Chittorgarh, while 16 districts are from Gujarat, seven from Madhya Pradesh and six from Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/btp-to-raise-bhil-pradesh-demand-in-local-body-polls/articleshow/80220684.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Modi govt schemes empowering women: Raje||Jaipur: Former CM Vasundhara Raje has claimed that the Narendra Modi government’s schemes have been responsible for the empowerment of women in the state. While delivering her address at the second National Women’s Parliament on Monday, Raje said that the central government’s schemes like Ujjwala Yojana and Stand-Up India has scripted a new success story of empowerment. “When I became the CM for the first time, the social and economic condition of women was very painful. This was a reason that in my two tenures as the CM I made efforts in strengthening the condition of women,” said Raje. While recalling the schemes launched by her government, she said that her government has not only introduced schemes like Bhamashah, which made them the head of the family, but financially empowered them by crediting financial assistance directly into their accounts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/modi-govt-schemes-empowering-women-raje/articleshow/80220686.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||NGO reaches out to Sunderbans families||Kolkata: A city NGO has reached out to Amlamethi village and Bali island under Gosaba Block to rebuild homes and provide relief to families affected by Cyclone Amphan. Close to the Sunderbans, Gosaba and Basanti blocks have also seen a spurt in human-wildlife conflict (HWC), in which 24 families lost a member in the last half-a-decade. IHA Foundation has reached out to villages referred to as “Bidhoba pally” (widow locality). Weekly ration was provided to the families to enable them to sustain their lives following the double blow of pandemic and Cyclone Amphan. “IHA Foundation has tried its best to assist and uplift these people. In the winter, we provided around 200 widows, whose husbands were killed in tiger attacks, with clothes, blankets and other essential items. We have assured them to make them self-reliant so that they can manage issues within the group and also resolve all conflict of interests by themselves without seeking any external help,” said Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, Chairman IHA Foundation. TOI had reported that in Covid year, man-animal conflict in the Sunderbans saw a sharp rise, logging the highest figures in at least the last five years. At least, 24 persons were killed in conflict with tigers in 2020 after they ventured into the swamp to collect crabs, fish and firewood — 18 of them happening after Cyclone Amphan hit the region on May 20. The figure was 13 in both 2019 and 2018 and 15, 6 and 11 in 2015, 2016 and 2017, respectively. The lockdown-induced unemployment and Amphan have resulted in higher dependence on natural resources — a phenomenon, as per experts, that was also noticed after Aila in 2009. While foresters said they were still compiling data, local sources said the actual figures could be higher than 24 as many cases remain unreported due to the hostile terrains of the mangroves.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ngo-reaches-out-to-sunderbans-families/articleshow/80222402.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Online registration for vaccine for healthcare workers to close on Tuesday midnight||Jaipur: Online registration for healthcare workers on Co-Win software for vaccination will close on Tuesday midnight. The health department was yet to be informed about the number of vaccines it will receive from the Centre for the drive from January 16. State officials are also in the dark how will the consignment be sent. A senior health department official said they had been informed that the registration of healthcare workers will be closed by Tuesday midnight and they were helping the doctors and nurses who hadn’t been registered for the vaccine. “It is mandatory for a healthcare worker to get registered in Co-Win to get the vaccine in the first phase starting on January 16. As of now, more than 4 lakh have been registered from the state,” said a senior health department official.The Centre has already clarified that health workers, from both government and private sector, will be the first ones to receive the vaccine. Along with them, sanitation workers, other frontline workers such jawans and revenue officials associated with containment and surveillance, will also receive the vaccine on priority basis. “For frontline workers such as tehsildars, patwaris, the registration on Co-Win software will remain open till January 25,” said a health department official. The official said that they are in touch with the revenue department asking them to get their staff registered for Covid-19 vaccine on the Co-Win software.The Centre has informed the state that Co-Win is important for reminding the beneficiary for a second dose. After a person receives the first dose of vaccination, Co-Win will immediately generate a digital vaccination certificate. This certificate will also act as a reminder for the second dose, after which, a final certificate will be given. Co-Win which is a digital platform uses Aadhaar of the beneficiaries for identification for reminding them timely for second dosage of the vaccine. In the second stage, those above 50 years of age, and those below 50 years of age with comorbidities or with high risk of infection, will be vaccinated, the Centre informed the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/online-registration-for-vaccine-for-healthcare-workers-to-close-on-tuesday-midnight/articleshow/80220692.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Drunk man rapes married sister in Uttar Pradesh, friend shoots video of the act||BAREILLY: A drunk man entered his married younger sister's house in Uttar Pradesh in the absence of her husband and allegedly raped her. His friend, who was also drunk, filmed the act. The crime took place at the woman's in-laws' place last month in Moradabad and it came to light only when the accused began to stalk and harass her. The woman's parents initially put pressure on her not to go to the police. However, after being harassed and threatened, the woman decided to lodge her complaint on Friday. And the Moradabad police registered an FIR on Monday against her brother and his friend. In her complaint, the woman said she had informed her husband and the couple wanted to approach the cops immediately, but was prevented by her parents for "family's reputation". The woman later decided to lodge the complaint after the accused "continued to roam outside her house and tried to harass and intimidate her". According to police, on December 23, the woman’s "alcoholic" elder brother, along with his friend, reached his sister's in-laws' place on the pretext of "some important work" and bolted the doors from inside, and raped her. The accused then threatened to upload the video clip online, if she informed anyone. "The FIR has been registered against the main accused and his friend under IPC sections 376 (punishment for rape), 452 (house trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation)," Darvesh Kumar, Civil Lines SHO in Moradabad said. "Both the accused are still at large and efforts are on to nab them,” he added. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/drunk-man-rapes-married-sister-in-up-friend-shoots-video-of-the-act/articleshow/80218743.cms||Maria Khan
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||40 needy students were given tablets to aid them in online learning||LUDHIANA: Forty students from low-income families have been given tablets in an event held at Government Senior Secondary School in Pakhowal on Saturday where. The students were supported by a joint project by UK-based Social Education Voluntary Association (Seva) Trust and Haryana-based NGO Zila Yuva Vikas Sangathan (ZYVS). Kulwant Singh, a local teacher and district coordinator for Seva Trust said, “With the help of school and teachers, we have selected 40 students from Sikh, Hindu and Muslim backgrounds from 12 villages around Pakhowal and one student from a village near Jalandhar. Over 90% of the students are from scheduled and and backward castes whose families’ income is very low and are facing financial hardships. This is an endeavour to aid them with their online learning.” Baljinder Singh Grewal, coordinator of Seva, said “Since the educational institutions started online classes due to coronavirus, students from low-income families were badly impacted. They were not able to afford to buy the needed IT equipment for online learning. We consulted teaching staff, students and parents from the rural communities. Their feedback suggested they need reasonable sized smart devices in order to gain full benefit of online learning. We shared this feedback with our UK team and our chairman Charan Kanwal Singh Sekhon, who in turn led this initiative to set up a joint project with ZYVS, which has delivered many successful projects in Haryana for the rural children. These are wifi and mobile sim enabled high specification Samsung tabs that will meet all online learning needs. We have many educational projects lined up and will continue to support children from needy communities.” Grewal said Seva has been working in Punjab since 2016 and supported over 500 children in many villages of Pakhowal Block. “We also installed a solar power plant for Barundi school, which was the first government primary school in Punjab state to go on solar. This is now meeting all electric needs for the school. The Seva Trust team members are unpaid volunteers trying to serve the communities in the best possible way. We do not wish to waste a single rupee on lavish functions or VIP gatherings, every rupee goes to help the needy children. I am truly proud to be part of this noble cause,” he added. Chairman Sekhon said, “We have been supporting disadvantaged children from the rural communities for few years. The key factor in selecting these students is their exceptionally challenging family circumstances. We have already spent over Rs 10 lakh on educational grants. Seva Trust has contributed around Rs 6 lakh for this project. We are donating further Rs 1 lakh to Pakhowal and Barundi schools both getting Rs 50, 000 each.” District education officer (DEO) Rajinder Kaur said “The education department has taken many initiatives to support online learning and there is an excellent talent in rural schools kids and the additional support of this nature helps them enormously. I wanted to thank Seva Trust for supporting government schools.” Jashanpreet Kaur and Inderpreet Kaur, both students of Class 12 at Pakhowal school said, “Rural students were at a disadvantage when it came to online learning. Now the tablets will bridge that gap somewhat and help us with our studies.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/40-needy-students-were-given-tablets-to-aid-them-in-online-learning/articleshow/80222404.cms||Mehak Jain
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Five days on, search operations fail to find army captain in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Search for Captain Ankit Gupta, who went missing after jumping into Kaylana lake during an army exercise on Thursday, failed to yield results for the fifth day on Monday. Disappointed due to persistent failure, the army deployed heavy compressors with a view to churn the water expecting that if the officer was stuck somewhere at the bottom of the lake, he would surface on the water. Pipes connected to these compressors were dropped to the bottom of the lake and air with heavy pressure was infused in these pipes to stir the bottom and create huge waves. Local diver Dau Lal Malviya (71), who has been conducting such searches for past 50 years and has extracted about 800 bodies, was quite surprised that a person could not be found even after five days of search and that too after employing the best divers of the country and latest machines. “In my career so far, no search has exceeded 3 days. But this was for the first time that we are empty handed for five days”, said Malviya. About the new technique using compressors, he said this was a conventional method and had been used by him successfully 20 year back in Udaipur to search a person. Meanwhile, a new team of experts and divers comprising 20 persons equipped with special cameras also joined the operation. According to the sources, the murky quality of water has been inhibiting the divers to see clearly. Sub-inspector Manoj Kumar said every person engaged in this search operation had been working tirelessly in the hope of success. “Over 250 persons comprising experts, divers and other support staff have been actively mobilized at the lake with 15 boats equipped with equipment”, Kumar said. Experts said thick moss at the bottom of the lake, rocky formation, sticky sand and shrubs have been causing troubles in search operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-days-on-search-ops-fail-to-find-army-captain-in-jodhpur/articleshow/80220696.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kochi||BJP flag atop Gandhi statue: Police file case||Palakkad: Police have registered a case against some unknown people who have put BJP flag atop a statue of Mahatma Gandhi in Palakkad Municipal complex office on Monday. They later removed the flag from the statue. Congress municipal councillors protested against the disrespect shown to the father of the nation allegedly by BJP workers. They also staged a sit-in in front of the office of BJP municipal Chairperson. The DYFI also took out a protest march against the BJP flag on the Gandhi statue. BJP district president and deputy chairman of Palakkad Municipality E Krishnadas in a statement said the flag was not put by party activists and instead by some who want to put the blame on BJP. Earlier, there was a major controversy when BJP workers put up a banner with ‘Jai Sreeram’ writings atop Municipal office building during their victory march on December 16, 2020. Protesting this, CPM councillors came to the Council Hall for oath taking with national flag. BJP workers then marched to the Municipal office with ‘Jai Sreeram’ banners, resulting in clashes between the two groups. Police had a tough time to avoid a major clash. Police had registered cases against some activists of both the CPM and BJP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/bjp-flag-atop-gandhi-statue-police-file-case/articleshow/80219695.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Para-teacher stir hits city centre||Kolkata: Protesting para-teachers marching towards Nabanna clashed with police on Dufferin Road on Monday, leaving a DCP (south division) injured. While protesters claimed cops lathicharged the peaceful sit-in, which they held with high court permission, police said they had used minimal force to they remained put at the demonstration site. “After the rally, the protesters tried to go forward. We stopped them and tried to convince them not to move ahead. But they were insistent and that led to a minor confrontation,” said a cop.Hearing an urgent appeal by para-teachers against the police cancellation of their proposed rally and sit-in at the Sahid Minar grounds, Calcutta HC on Sunday asked cops to allow them to stage the demonstration but that the number should not cross 500.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/para-teacher-stir-hits-city-centre/articleshow/80222409.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Covid cases fall sharply in Rajasthan, recovery rate improves||JAIPUR: After witnessing a surge in Covid cases after the festive season, the state did not waste time and tightened its restrictions which helped in reducing cases. The move has increased the doubling rate of cases to 91.5 days, up from 68.89 days on December 13. Doubling of deaths is also taking more days now — 110 days from 88.3 days a month ago. Though doubling of cases and deaths are taking more time in Rajasthan, it is still behind the average time taken by the country. Across the country, deaths are doubling in 121 days, while cases are doubling in 113.59 days. While the graph of cases in the state has been going down over the past month, recovery rate in Rajasthan surpassed the national average. The state’s recovery rate has reached 96.98% against the national average of 96.4%. A senior health department official said they had managed to increase the time of doubling of cases and deaths by taking a series of measures such as generating awareness and also by expanding healthcare services for Covid patients. The health department official said they were taking measures to ensure to prevent the spread of the UK’s mutated strain as four persons have been found infected with it. In the last 24 hours, two persons died while 429 others tested positive taking the overall casualty count to 2,736 and cumulative count to 3,13,425. Districts which reported new cases are Kota (76), Jaipur (76), Jodhpur (60), Nagaur (26), Pali (20), Bhilwara (18), Ajmer (17), Alwar (16), Jhalawar (15), Sriganganagar (13), Chittorgarh (12), Udaipur (11), Baran (11), Dungarpur (11), Sirohi (7), Sikar (6), Banswara (6), Jalore (6), Sawai Madhopur (4), Bundi (4), Pratapgarh (3), Hanumangarh (2), Jhunjhunu (2), Bikaner (2), Barmer (1), Bharatpur (1), Dausa (1), Karauli (1) and Tonk (1). Kota reported its 168th Covid-19 death and Sikar reported its 99th.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-cases-double-in-110-days-in-state-deaths-in-91-5/articleshow/80220688.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Dip in rape and murder cases in Rajasthan: DGP||JAIPUR: DGP ML Lather on Monday said rape, murder and property related offences have come down. Sharing the annual crime figures of Rajasthan during a news conference here, Lather said police had taken proactive action against cow smuggling, drug peddling and illegal trafficking of arms. He claimed that the time taken to investigate a rape case had come down significantly because of effective monitoring by senior officers. “During 2017-18, it took around 274 days to probe a rape case, which has been reduced to 126 days in 2019-20. We are aiming to further reduce it,” he added. He shared that a special unit was set up for monitoring crimes against women in every district and effective monitoring of such cases was done. “In 2019, we arrested 398 persons involved in cow smuggling while number of arrests in 2020 has gone up to 455,” Lather said. He added that in 2020, the rate of filing a chargesheets in courts for serious crimes was 97 to 99 per cent despite a marginal increase in the number of cases. He said cases registered in 2020 under IPC were 14.21 per cent less than 2019. “Due to Covid and lockdown, there was dip in the crime cases, but with effective monitoring, we have brought down the number of various crimes.” He added that a massive campaign was launched across the state against illegal trafficking of narcotics and arms. “Small amount of narcotics peddling may have become bailable offences, but we have aimed at making continuous crackdown,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dip-in-rape-and-murder-cases-in-raj-dgp/articleshow/80220701.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||8-yr-old washed away in Thamirabarani||Tuticorin: An eight-year-old boy got washed away in the flooded Thamirabarani river at Kaliyavoor check dam near Vallanadu in Tuticorin district on Monday. The river was flooded with a combined outflow of more than 4,200 cusecs from Papanasam and Manimuthar reservoirs. Inquiries revealed that Subramanian, a carpenter from the locality, brought his two children to the check dam. The man walked nearly 400 meters on the check dam and the children were playing in the middle of the river in the afternoon. In an unexpected turn of events, Parthiban, the eldest of the two children, got washed away even as the locals watched helplessly. Murappanadu inspector R Baskaran said the check dam was overflowing. Search by the locals and the police along with the fire and rescue services personnel continued till 8 pm but did not yield any results. Baskaran said that the river has a rocky bed which made the search difficult. “We will resume the search in the morning,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/8-yr-old-washed-away-in-thamirabarani/articleshow/80222403.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Lovers seek nod to get engaged at Alanganallur vaadivasal||Madurai: A couple, who fell in love after meeting at the Alanganallur vaadivasal during the jallikattu protest in 2017, has petitioned the Madurai district administration on Monday seeking permission to get engaged at the same spot minutes before the event begins on January 16.M Karthikeyan, a writer from Alanganallur and V S Vidyadharani, an activist from Madurai, who advocates on minimalistic living and self-sustainability had decided to get married. Since they both met on January 16, they wanted to get engaged the same day amid jallikattu bull owners, tamers and spectators. “We initially thought of getting married there, but we are not sure whether we will get permission. So, we decided to keep it as an engagement event. It will take just 15 minutes. We will exchange rings and garlands in the presence of our family members. We will get married on another date,” Karthikeyan said.He said that they first approached the Alanganallur jallikattu committee. Although they accepted it, they wanted them to get permission from the collector as there will be heavy police security and protocol issues with the chief minister and deputy chief minister set to inaugurate the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/lovers-seek-nod-to-get-engaged-at-alanganallur-vaadivasal/articleshow/80222408.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jodhpur||Five days on, search operations fail to find army captain in Jodhpur||JODHPUR: Search for Captain Ankit Gupta, who went missing after jumping into Kaylana lake during an army exercise on Thursday, failed to yield results for the fifth day on Monday. Disappointed due to persistent failure, the army deployed heavy compressors with a view to churn the water expecting that if the officer was stuck somewhere at the bottom of the lake, he would surface on the water. Pipes connected to these compressors were dropped to the bottom of the lake and air with heavy pressure was infused in these pipes to stir the bottom and create huge waves. Local diver Dau Lal Malviya (71), who has been conducting such searches for past 50 years and has extracted about 800 bodies, was quite surprised that a person could not be found even after five days of search and that too after employing the best divers of the country and latest machines. “In my career so far, no search has exceeded 3 days. But this was for the first time that we are empty handed for five days”, said Malviya. About the new technique using compressors, he said this was a conventional method and had been used by him successfully 20 year back in Udaipur to search a person. Meanwhile, a new team of experts and divers comprising 20 persons equipped with special cameras also joined the operation. According to the sources, the murky quality of water has been inhibiting the divers to see clearly. Sub-inspector Manoj Kumar said every person engaged in this search operation had been working tirelessly in the hope of success. “Over 250 persons comprising experts, divers and other support staff have been actively mobilized at the lake with 15 boats equipped with equipment”, Kumar said. Experts said thick moss at the bottom of the lake, rocky formation, sticky sand and shrubs have been causing troubles in search operations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/5-days-on-search-ops-fail-to-find-army-captain-in-jodhpur/articleshow/80225504.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||MLA-LAD progress: Parameters finalised for grading districts; state and Jaipur’s overall grade is ‘D’||Jaipur: The rural development and panchayati raj department has started a grading system to evaluate the progress of work under MLA-LAD scheme in the districts. The districts will be graded and ranked based on progress of work under five different parameters finalised by the department. According to the department’s rating, both Rajasthan and Jaipur district’s overall grade has been pegged at ‘D’.The parameters include: percentage of utilisation certificate (UC) adjusted against advance given (Grade A: above 50%); cash balance in each district per MLA (in lakhs) (Grade A: less than 50 lakh); percentage of work not started against available work (Grade A: 0-15%); percentage of completed work against available fund (Grade A: above 65%) and percentage of sanctioned works against recommended work (Grade A: 95%).The state’s and Jaipur’s grade in terms of percentage of utilisation certificate (UC) adjusted against advance given is ‘E’ – 19.97 and 5.61 per cent, respectively. In terms of cash balance in each district per MLA (in lakhs), the state’s and Jaipur’s grade is ‘E’ – Rs 193.36 lakh and 292.20 lakh, respectively. As far as percentage of sanctioned works against recommended work is concerned, both Rajasthan and Jaipur district’s grade is ‘E’ – 76.63 and 72.45 per cent, respectively.In terms of percentage of completed works too, the state’s and Jaipur’s grade is ‘E’ (29.15 and 9.86 per cent, respectively). And in terms of percentage of work not started against available work, the state’s grade is ‘B’ (16.14%) and Jaipur’s grade is ‘C’ (32.17%). While the overall grade of 14 districts was ‘D’, the overall grade of 18 other districts was ‘C’. However, Bhilwara’s performance was the worst among the districts recording an ‘E’ grade. Additional chief secretary (ACS) rural development and panchayati raj department Rohit Kumar Singh said, “The objective behind introducing the grading system is to have positive competitiveness among the districts with regard to progress in the work of MLA-LAD scheme. We’ve done it for watershed projects and MGNREGA as well.”“This will also help in knowledge sharing. The districts can compare notes to improve each other’s performance. The collectors have been informed about the grading system. Action will be taken against the districts for not meeting the target or poor performance,” he added.Meanwhile, after the launch of ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign, the average wage rate of workers under MGNREGA has increased by 20 per cent in the last 15 days, according to data provided by the department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mla-lad-progress-parameters-finalised-for-grading-districts-state-and-jaipurs-overall-grade-is-d/articleshow/80220706.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Scratch marks on youth’s face helped cops to solve murder||Jaipur: It took cops just around six hours to arrest the killer of 55-year-old Vigya Devi who was strangulated at her Shipra Path home on Monday morning. Cops zeroed in on the youth, 19-year-old Krishna Kant Sharma, after he was seen roaming suspiciously at the crime scene with fresh scratch marks on his face though he made an attempt to hide those under the mask. It was sheer nervousness on the face of the youth that led to his arrest, cops said.After knowing about the murder at 9.30 am, senior police officers including the district special team of Jaipur (South) and a special team of crime branch rushed to the spot. “One of our policemen saw scratch marks on the face of the accused which were fresh. When he was asked about the injury marks near his eyes, his prompt reply was that dogs had attacked him. Our officers then asked him to remove the mask which led to the discovery of more injury marks,” said ACP (crime) Ajay Pal Lamba.Lamba said the accused was taken in custody and was questioned. “It was evident that the scratch marks were from human nails. And we believed that he could be behind the murder since there has been no trespass into the house of the victim. The terrace of the accused’s house and deceased’s house is next to each other,” he added.Police said the accused first entered the house of the woman from the front gate at 8am. “While the woman came out of her house to offer fodder to stray cows, Kamal Kant entered her house. Through the first floor he reached the terrace and opened its gate and waited there,” Lamba added. “Around 8.15am, he entered Devi’s house and attacked her. In order to give an impression that some organised gang had killed the woman, the accused tied her with the railing. He also threw a few household things here and there. We are also verifying if he had stolen some items,” Lamba added. The accused broke the neck of the woman with his knees and put a piece of cotton in her mouth to prevent her from screaming. Family to be interrogated on if they were harboring the accused – Senior police officers said that they will investigate if the family of the accused boy were aware that he had committed a murder. “Their role would be probed to find out if they were aware of the fact that the accused has committed the murder. They can be booked for criminal conspiracy,” said a senior officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/scratch-marks-on-youths-face-helped-cops-to-solve-murder/articleshow/80220704.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Extortion racket from prison: DGP orders transfer of SOG/CIU in-charge||Dehradun: Uttarakhand director general of police (DGP) Ashok Kumar on Monday ordered deputy inspector general (DIG) Garhwal to transfer the incumbent in-charge of the Special Operation Group (SOG) and Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) in Haridwar district. The move comes a day after the STF busted an extortion gang operating from inside the Roshnabad prison in Haridwar district and arrested two henchmen of Bhura gang. DGP Kumar also ordered that the next in-charge of the SOG and the CIU should preferably be from a hill district in Garhwal region. Besides, the DGP also directed IG (prison) to hold an inquiry into the crime and take action against the errant jail officials. Incidentally, the activities of the gang came into notice when the wife of a prisoner filed a complaint with police that she has been receiving messages from a few inmates who have been demanding money from her to ensure the safety of her husband inside the prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/extortion-racket-from-prison-dgp-orders-transfer-of-sog/ciu-in-charge/articleshow/80219697.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Man’s body removed from funeral pyre after wife alleges his brothers of murder||Bareilly: The body of a man was removed from his funeral pyre by UP Police’s Dial 112 emergency service team in Bilari area of Moradabad on Sunday night and sent for postmortem after the deceased’s wife alleged that her husband was murdered by his brothers over a property dispute. Sub-inspector Gajendra Singh of Dial 112 said, “After receiving a tip-off around 1 am on Sunday that a murder victim was being cremated without informing police, we rushed to the crematorium under Bilari police jurisdiction when the body was about to be cremated and removed the body from the funeral pyre. After taking custody of the body, we informed senior officers and sent the body for autopsy.”The deceased has been identified as Munesh, a resident of Bilari. Munesh’s wife Poonam, meanwhile, accused her brothers-in-law Saurabh and Sushil of killing her husband over a property dispute. Speaking to mediapersons, Poonam alleged that her husband was repeatedly assaulted by his family members over property. Accusing police of inaction, she said after her husband was assaulted recently, they had lodged a complaint with police, but no action was taken. Bilari police station SHO Madan Mohan said, “The actual cause of the death will be ascertained by the post-mortem report, which is currently awaited. Based on the report, an FIR will be registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mans-body-removed-from-funeral-pyre-after-wife-alleges-his-brothers-of-murder/articleshow/80218766.cms||Maria Khan
January 12, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Trial in actor rape case to resume on January 21||KOCHI: The additional special sessions court considering actress rape case on Monday decided to resume the trial on January 21. The trial is being restarted after a halt of nearly three months in which a new prosecutor took over as former special prosecutor resigned. The schedule of the trial in which as many as 166 witnesses are set to be examined was fixed on Monday and the witness examination is set to take place from January 21 to March 17. On Monday, the court heard a petition by prosecution making alteration in a charge which might weaken the prosecution case. Counsel for the defence objected to the petition and the court has reserved its order on the petition to Friday. Petitions for cancelling bail of Dileep and bail petitions of two accused people would also be considered by the court on Friday. As per the schedule fixed by the court, on January 21, accused-turned -approver Vipin Lal will be examined. Dileep’s wife Kavya Madhavan will be examined on January 28 and film director Nadirsha, a close friend of Dileep, will be examined on February 3. Apart from 116 witnesses, the court will examine nine investigation officers in the later stages of the trial. The entire proceedings would be in-camera. The court has so far examined 80 witnesses. The trial had hit a roadblock following the events of October last year when the Kerala high court dismissed a plea seeking to change the judge in the actor rape case. The prosecution had alleged that the present court was biased and that a fair trial was not possible. The HC, however, had held that most of the contentions raised by the survivor and prosecution for transfer of the case were unsustainable. This was upheld by the apex court. Special public prosecutor A Sureshan had resigned after the high court dismissed the plea and former CBI prosecutor A N Anil Kumar took charge as special public prosecutor last week. The case had received national attention after Dileep, a prominent actor in the Malayalam Film industry, was named as the eighth accused in the case. The survivor, a film actor, was abducted and sexually assaulted in a moving vehicle by the accused in February 2017. Dileep, who is out on bail, is accused of conspiring to commit the crime. There are 10 accused people facing the trial. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/trial-in-actor-rape-case-to-resume-on-jan-21/articleshow/80219700.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No policy to manage public open spaces for past four years||MUMBAI: Almost four years after the city’s draft open spaces policy was scrapped by then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis in 2016, the city remains without a policy to manage its parks and gardens. NGOs and citizen groups have asked the BMC to fast-track the new policy to manage public open spaces. In a recent letter to municipal commissioner Iqbal Chahal, NAGAR, an NGO that has been battling to save open spaces in the city sought that the new policy be expedited. The BMC had in August last year sought suggestions and objections from citizens for their new draft policy on open spaces. “Kindly expedite approval and release of the policy for public open spaces. We have been persistently voicing our concerns regarding a water-tight citizen-friendly policy. It is evident that the pandemic has made the need for access to public open spaces even more urgent,” the letter states. TimesViewMumbai doesn't have enough open spaces, and if it doesn't even have a well-defined policy, the ones that are still around will not be maintained well. Moreover, there is the danger of the city losing the available spaces as well. The pandemic has reinforced the need for, and importance of, open spaces, and the civic body must prioritize these areas and also get citizens to participate in the process of preserving and protecting them and opening up more spaces wherever possible.“When the four basic principles of conservation of these public open spaces are followed i.e. non-buildable, permeable, accessible and open to sky, they become a safe and health amenity for recreation,” NAGAR explained. The NGO’s trustee Nayana Kathpalia said they had already submitted detailed suggestions for the final policy. When Fadnavis stayed the draft policy, the BMC had come up with an interim policy where parks and gardens could be given to third parties for 11 months at a time in August 2019. After opposition from citizen groups and netas, the BMC put the policy on hold. “We have received suggestions and objections for the new policy. The interim policy is currently in place and we are considering giving out parks and gardens to third parties under the interim policy,” said a senior civic official. Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh, who had opposed the interim policy, said it would lead to privatisation of open spaces. “The interim policy was modified by the state government. As per the modification, citizens’ groups or local corporators will no longer be part of the scrutiny panel reviewing applications from private parties,” Shaikh said. Chahal did not respond to a query from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-policy-to-manage-public-open-spaces-for-past-4-yrs/articleshow/80222416.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Ludhiana||Ludhiana: School heads meet education department officials to work out plan for better results||LUDHIANA: Education secretary Krishan Kumar and district education officer (DEO) Rajinder Kaur had interacted with the school heads on Monday to analyse the results of the respective schools. They also discussed the infrastructure needs of the school as well as smart school projects. DEO Kaur said, “The most important challenge before us is getting students come to schools without compromising their safety. School heads have to ensure this.” On extra classes taken by government teachers, she said , “We feel very proud that all our young headmasters and headmistresses have decided at their association level to take extra classes themselves and take one subject of a board class. Many teachers are taking extra classes in all schools and they are being appreciated by the head office and there should be a specific mention of this in the ACRs of Teachers about such extra classes.” She said the teachers have been asked to use the projectors in the meeting. The material available on Punjab Educare app will be easily connected with projectors, said the DEO. On the school results the DEO said, “All our school heads have already analysed them. Now, the action plan and the priority need to be decided. The teachers have been instructed to make students write maximum MCQ-based tests.” The DEO also informed that there will be a special focus on all NTSE students so that Ludhiana district gets maximum merits. “An equal focus will be given to Class VIII students. For this, school heads will hold individual discussion with all subject teachers and help the teachers in making plans.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/school-heads-meet-edu-dept-officials-to-work-out-plan-for-better-results/articleshow/80222411.cms||Mehak Jain
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Land allottees at agri markets to get more time for construction||The state government has approved a proposal to deposit penalty for non-construction on the plot allocated on 99-year lease on agricultural produce market premises and to extend the period of construction on Monday. This decision was taken in view of the economic difficulties arising out of pandemic to provide relief to such traders, who could not get the construction done on these plots within stipulated time frame. According to the proposal, if the businessman who had deposited the entire allotment amount and the allotment was rejected due to non-construction, allotment could be restored on paying 25% of the allotment amount by March 31 this year. Interest waiver scheme extended till March 31: Keeping in view Covid, the CM extended Interest Waiver Scheme in which 75% waiver on interest payable in respect of mandi fee, allocation fee and other outstanding dues and disposal of cases in various APMCs of the state to March31.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/land-allottees-at-agri-markets-to-get-more-time-for-construction/articleshow/80220705.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||GPS tracking to monitor supply of foodgrains soon||Jaipur: The food and civil supplies department will create a Grains Accounting Receipt Deposit (GARD) system to strictly monitor the whole process of distribution of wheat to NFSA beneficiaries starting with lifting of foodgrains from food corporation godowns, said secretary of the department Naveen Jain on Monday.“In order to improve the supply and distribution process of foodgrains under the national food security scheme, all fair price shops and depots of Food Corporation of India (FCI) will be geo-tagged,” he said. He further informed that GPS tracking devices will be installed in all vehicles used for lifting of foodgrains from FCI godowns to speed up the supply of wheat, under supply chain management, to fair price shops. “Transparency will be brought in the process of transporting wheat, released from FCI godowns, to the consumers by better use of technology,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/gps-tracking-to-monitor-supply-of-foodgrains-soon/articleshow/80220708.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||77 fresh cases in southern dists, lowest in seven months||Madurai/Trichy: The southern region reported 77 fresh Covid-19 cases on Monday, its lowest in the last seven months, with all the ten districts keeping their number below 20. Madurai and Kanyakumari with 19 fresh cases had the highest while Ramanathapuram had just one. The eight districts in the central region together recorded 70 fresh cases with Thanjavur and Trichy showing the highest number of 21 each. Both regions recorded one death each. Kanyakumari (180) has the highest number of active cases among the southern districts followed by Madurai (165) while the eight other districts have less than 100. The lone death in the region was in Virudhunagar district. The 57-year-old man who tested positive on January 2 was admitted to a private hospital in Madurai the next day. With complaints of fever for seven days and difficulty in breathing for two days, he died on Sunday. In the central region, the number of active cases went down to 652 with Trichy registering the highest of 181 followed by Thanjavur (140). The region has so far discharged 73,211 patients. The lone death toll was of a 70-year-old man from Thanjavur due to multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) and Covid-19 pneumonia at a private hospital in Chennai on January 10. He was down with complaints of fever, cough and difficulty in breathing for five days and got admitted to the hospital on January 2. The region has recorded a cumulative death toll of 936.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/77-fresh-cases-in-southern-dists-lowest-in-seven-months/articleshow/80222412.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||CM seeks suggestions from public for 2021 budget||Dehradun: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat has sought suggestions from state residents, including intellectuals, youth and women, for the state's finance budget for 2021-22. The CM said that all sections of the society would be taken care of in the budget. “We will keep in mind the important suggestions while preparing the budget,” said Rawat. People can give their inputs on the government website — budget.uk.gov.in/feedback — or download mobile app Uttarakhand Budget to make suggestions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-seeks-suggestions-from-public-for-2021-budget/articleshow/80219701.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 12, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP brass backs BS Yediyurappa, quells rumours of CM’s retirement||NEW DELHI: The BJP brass has strongly backed BS Yediyurappa’ s continuance as Karnataka chief minister for the full term in a move intended to quell speculation about his retirement. The top leadership’s support for Yeddyurappa, seen as the party’ s tallest member in Karnataka and one who has delivered for the party, including in recent assembly bypolls, comes along with a nod for the expansion of the state ministry, which will take place on Wednesday. At present, the state cabinet has 27 ministers against a total capacity of 34 and an expansion has been on the cards for over a year now. Yediyurappa had a significant meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah and BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday alongwith general secretary (Karnataka in-charge) Arun Singh. During the meeting at Shah’s official residence, Yeddyurappa was assured the party’s support in his continuation and the need to press ahead with key programmes. Sources said photos of the members were taken and circulated to signal the party’s confidence in the veteran who will be turning 79. “The party has won several elections in the past few months in Karnataka, which shows the government under Yediyurappa is doing its work,” said a senior BJP functionary. In the recent assembly bypolls, BJP won both and the party had won 12 of the 15 assembly seats, bypolls for which were hled in November 2019, including a seat the party had never won in years. State vice president BY Vijayendra, the youngest son of the chief minister, was the poll in-charge for the party. The party’s victory in Sira assembly bypolls in Tumkur district also happened to be a breakthrough. These victories went strongly in favour of Yediyurappa as most of the seats are in Mysore region, where the saffron party managed to challenge the dominance of Congress and JDS. In gram panchayat polls two weeks back, BJP supported candidates won in about 45,246 seats (out of 86,183). In 2015, BJP had won 29,959 seats. BJP-backed candidates won majority in 3142 of 5760 gram panchayats as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-brass-backs-bsy-quells-rumours-of-cms-retirement/articleshow/80223824.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Man charred to death as 2 dumpers collide||Jaisalmer: Two dumpers carrying sand collided with each other on Monday morning under Sindhari police station area in Barmer district and caught fire, wherein one of the drivers was burnt alive.Later, police reached the spot on getting information and started relief and rescue operation. Fire tenders were rushed in that doused the fire. According to information from police, the two dumpers collided near Sernu village under Sadar police station in Barmer and caught fire. The driver of one of the dumpers was caught inside the cabin and could not escape and was burnt alive. According to investigating officer Durga Ram, both dumpers were full of sand. The deceased driver was identified as Chutraram, a resident of Dudaberi, while the other dumper driver sustained minor injuries and ran away from the spot. The postmortem was done and the body was handed over to the family members. Both the damaged vehicles have been seized and investigation has been started.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/man-charred-to-death-as-2-dumpers-collide/articleshow/80220710.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||1.2 lakh acres of encroached temple land recovered: Min||Dindigul: Minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) Sevvoor S Ramachandran has said that nearly 47,000 hectares (1.2 lakh acres) of temple land have been recovered from encroachers over the last four years. He was addressing a gathering after inaugurating the office of the deputy commission of the department at Seelapadi here on Monday.The minister said that recovery of several thousand acres more got delayed as the opposite party has moved the court and the case is under trial. The minister also said that there were less than 10,000 temples under the purview of the HR&CE department when it was formed and now it has increased to nearly 40,000 temples.Of the 11 zones the department has in the state, 2,434 temples in Dindigul, Theni, Madurai and Usilampatti come under the control of the deputy commission in Dindigul, he said. Minister for forests Dindigul C Sreenivasan, district collector M Vijayalakshmi and officials from the HR&CE department were present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/1-2-lakh-acres-of-encroached-temple-land-recovered-min/articleshow/80222421.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Bird diverters being installed to reduce GIB mortality in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: Following Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal’s directions to either put electric wires underground or bird diverters in the Great Indian Bustard (GIB) habitat area, some private companies have come forward to put diverters. A private sector company has planned to put bird diverters in Jaisalmer’s Khetolai and Dholia areas as a pilot project. Anil Kumar, an official of the company told TOI, “GIB conservation is one of our ongoing programmes with the team based in Jaisalmer. The Supreme Court of India, in a recent hearing, directed the power lines in the GIB landscape to be laid underground. We, under our GIB conservation project, took the initiative in providing an alternative to save the birds till the underground laying of power lines takes place in Jaisalmer district.” He said two stretches of approximately 6.5 kms were selected between Chacha and Dholia villages in Pokhran tehsil after due consultations with the forest department and ground surveys. The selected stretch is opposite Pokhran Field Firing Range, which offers a safe habitat to a breeding population of GIBs outside the Desert National Park Sanctuary in Jaisalmer. The power line in this stretch cuts across the firing range and the agriculture fields, where the GIBs are seen very often. He said “A total of 1,848 ‘Fire Fly’ bird diverters are being installed in this stretch – a model that was endorsed by experts from IUCN’s SSC Bustard Specialist Group. This type of flapper diverter was found to have highest reduction in mortality when tested in different environmental conditions compared to the spiral diverters during a study done in Spain.” Kumar added, “For the first time in India this has been initiated by an NGO with the generous support of the Rural India Support Trust (RIST), the ministry of Environment Forest and Climate Change and the Rajasthan forest department.” Deputy conservator, forests, Kapil Chandrawal confirming this said that last year a GIB was killed in Degrai pasture land after it hit an electricity wire. This is not an isolated case, there have been many instances of GIB being killed due to electricity lines, Chandrawal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/bird-diverters-being-installed-to-reduce-gib-mortality-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80220722.cms||Vimal Bhatia
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Miraculous escape for 11 TN fishermen after boat catches fire||Madurai: Eleven fishermen from Tamil Nadu had a miraculous escape as the boat in which they were fishing around 120 nautical miles (222km) off the Mangaluru coast caught fire on Sunday. Owner of the boat L Thatheus, 49, who suffered burn injuries on his face, hands and legs, was rescued by the Indian Coast Guard (ICG). He was admitted to hospital in Mangaluru.Talking to TOI over phone from hospital on Monday, Thatheus from Kanyakumari district said he and 10 others set sail from Kochi on his boat named AVKM on January 5. “We engaged in fishing only on Saturday. Early on Sunday morning, the boat developed a technical snag,” he said.Thatheus, who is also the captain of the boat, was in the engine room fixing the snag around 5am. “There was a spark, and flames were all around me. With fire on me, I rushed out and jumped into the sea. Fellow fishermen rescued me and took me on board,” he said. Thatheus added with fire all over the engine room, it posed grave threat to the boat and the men.Since the engine was faulty, they could not use the motor in the boat to pump water that was available all around them. Since nobody could enter the engine room, two men managed to lift a can with 25 litres petrol and threw it in the sea, which exploded immediately.“The boat would have gone into flames if there had been slight delay in throwing the can into the sea,” he said. It would have been deadly as the boat had nearly 3,000 litres diesel.The men jumped into action and manually poured water and put out the fire around 6am after struggling for about an hour. On receiving information, officials from the fisheries department and representatives of fishermen bodies alerted the Maritime Rescue Coordination Centre, Mumbai, who in turn alerted the ICG. The boat owner and the crew praised the ICG for their timely action. An ICG Dornier aircraft launched a search and spotted them around 11.15am. Around noon, two ICG ships reached the spot. Injured Thatheus and two others were taken on board the ICG ship and it reached the port shortly after 6pm. “An ambulance was ready, and they rushed me to the hospital,” he said.Another ICG ship and crew helped the eight other men on the boat to mend the faulty engine and accompanied them as the it slowly headed toward the shore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/miraculous-escape-for-11-tn-fishermen-after-boat-catches-fire/articleshow/80222414.cms||M K Ananth
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||7,000 residents form 19km long human chain to demand road widening||Dehradun: Over 7,000 residents of nearly 70 villages in Gopeshwar formed a 19 km-long human chain at 11am on Sunday, to reiterate a demand they had been making every day for a month now – to widen the road at Nandprayag Ghat. Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat had announced the road widening a year ago but nothing has been done since. On Monday, the protest led to a traffic jam, with vehicles staying stagnant for about half an hour. The CM finally took notice and asked the secretary of PWD to look into the demands of the villagers on priority. The Gopeshwar-Nandprayag-Ghat motorway was built in 1962. This road connects 55 gram panchayats of Ghat development block and 15 gram panchayats of Karnaprayag. It also links the Siddhpeeth Kurud shrine of Maa Nanda to various villages. A route from Kandaipul, located 6km from Nandprayag, connects the Bairaskund region.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/7000-residents-form-19km-long-human-chain-to-demand-road-widening/articleshow/80219711.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur: 265 poultry birds, eight peacocks found dead||NAGPUR: The bird flu scare has reached the poultry livestock in Nagpur district too. According to the daily report released by the state’s animal husbandry department, 265 poultry birds were found dead in Nagpur as on Monday. This is the highest toll of the species for the day in the state. The samples have been sent for further tests as the department has also stated that it is perfectly safe to eat eggs and poultry meat if cooked for 30 minutes at temperature of 70 degrees. Apart from the poultry birds, eight peacocks were also found dead at Khandala village of Yavatmal’s Arni Taluka. Samples of the national bird have been sent to the national institute of high security animal diseases (NISHAD) at Bhopal by the state’s animal husbandry department for further tests. Sources in the animal husbandry department said the peacocks were found in the wilderness near the village. The eight birds were lying in close proximity of each other on Sunday afternoon. So far, apart from poultry, birds of species like parrots, egrets and crows have been found dead with their samples sent for the tests. Sources said this must be the first ever incident of peacocks dying being reported. Dr Bahar Baviskar, a wildlife veterinarian at NGO WildCER, said, “It would be rare indeed if the peacock samples are found positive. Diseases like bird flu spread faster in the species of birds that roost in large numbers. Peacocks on the other hand live in a smaller group of eight to 10 which includes the same family. There is an interaction between different groups at places like waterholes but generally there is no large-scale mixing up of birds of this species.” Meanwhile, the animal husbandry department has maintained that no major case in poultry has been reported in entire Vidarbha. No deaths were reported in Nagpur division after the 40 parrots’ carcass was found in Kondhali on Saturday. The Nagpur division includes four districts of eastern Vidarbha. In Amravati division, apart from peacocks, locals in Akola district had reported of having seen five dead crows. The carcass of only one could be found which was in a decomposed state and not fit for drawing samples, said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/265-poultry-birds-eight-peacocks-found-dead/articleshow/80221797.cms||Shishir Arya
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||1 from MP killed, 2 injured as van hits truck in Kota dist||Kota: A 30-year-old man from Bhanpura (Madhya Pradesh) was killed on the spot while two others with him sustained injuries after a van carrying around seven persons from Ajmer rammed from behind into a stationary truck on NH- 52. The accident occurred near Padampura village under Mandana police station of Kota district on intervening night of Sunday and Monday.The deceased was identified as Mushrrat (30) and injured as Azhar and Ilyas, all residents of Bhanpura.At least seven persons from Bhanpura in MP were returning home by a van after offering prayers at dargah in Ajmer when the van hit a stationary truck. The injured have been admitted to MBS Hospital, said Mahesh Karwal, SHO of Mandana police station.The police lodged a case under relevant sections against the truck driver in this connection and handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Monday.Poor visibility due to fog is the likely reason behind the mishap as the van driver failed to see the stationary truck on the roadside and rammed into it, Karwal added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-from-mp-killed-2-injured-as-van-hits-truck-in-kota-dist/articleshow/80220745.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Madurai||15K driving licences to be suspended by Madurai RTOs||Madurai: The district police have recommended to the regional transport officers (RTO) in the district to suspend/cancel 19,021 driving licences for involvement in various offences including rash and negligent driving in 2020. The number recommended is 1,010 more compared to the previous year, according to the police. Of the 19,021, the RTOs have accepted 15,731 recommendations. Many of them are still under consideration.The recommendation to suspend or cancel the licences has been made to bring down the traffic violation cases and thereby reducing the number of road accidents. There were 15% lesser road accidents and 16% lesser deaths in 2020 as compared to its previous year. Suspension of licences played an important role in bringing down the number of cases, police said.A police officer said that mostly those involved in accidents are taken to task by suspending or cancelling their licences depending on the gravity of the mistake, but those who frequently violate traffic rules should also be punished. “We are not empowered to take action against the license. We would send a report to the road transport department officials, who will take the final call. Majority of the recommendations from us have been accepted,” he said.Of the 19,021 recommendations, 41% constituted the violation of traffic rules such as usage of mobile phone while driving, red light jumping, over speeding, overloading, carrying passengers in goods carriers and rash driving.From the 10 southern districts, total 67,114 recommendations were made by police in 2020. Police sources said that the Tirunelveli district police recommended the highest number for suspension/cancellation of driving licences in 2020. However, the number of recommendations accepted by the transport officials is proportionately far lesser compared to Madurai district. Apart from taking actions, sensitization programmes are also conducted by police units. A total of 23, 949 awareness programmes were conducted in 2020 in 10 districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/15k-driving-licences-to-be-suspended-by-madurai-rtos/articleshow/80222431.cms||V Devanathan
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Motorist dies after tree falls on him, pillion rider injured||Tirunelveli: A two-wheeler rider was killed while the pillion rider was injured when tree fell on them at Arockiyanathapuram here on Monday evening. Fire and rescue services personnel from Palayamkottai fire station who cleared the tree and retrieved his body said the tree could have fallen due to rain and winds. The tree fell on Kombaiah (aged around 35 years) from Palavoor near Suthamalli and Muthukani, 21, around 4.30pm when they were riding from Tiruchendur to Palayamkottai. While Kombaiah died on the spot, Muthukani escaped with a fractured leg. It took nearly half-an-hour for the fire and rescue services personnel to clear the tree with an electric saw. The body of the deceased was taken to the Tirunelveli medical college hospital for postmortem. The injured was also taken to the same hospital. Another man riding a bike on the same road escaped but his bike was damaged. Traffic was disrupted for nearly an hour due to the accident. Tirunelveli city police registered a case and are investigating.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/motorist-dies-after-tree-falls-on-him-pillion-rider-injured/articleshow/80222448.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Farmers from West Bengal, Andhra, Odisha join protest||Jaipur: Farmers from Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and West Bengal reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border in batches on Monday via Jaipur to extend their support to the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s farm laws.More batches of farmers from West Bengal and Kerala will join the agitation in the coming days, said Sanjay Madhav of Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha. Earlier, farmers from several districts of Jammu and Kashmir and Haryana had joined the protest in Shahjahanpur. These farmers will head towards Delhi to join the farmers’ agitation after a stay here for a couple of days.A day after the locals threatened to block the supply of food items, ration, blankets and mattresses to the farmers’ protest site at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur, Haryana police on Monday opened the service lane at the border for four-wheelers traveling from Delhi to Jaipur.Meanwhile, heavy vehicles and trucks are being diverted through Behror-Khairtal. Talks are going on between the locals and the administration to open the other service for vehicles traveling from Jaipur to Delhi.The residents of 35 villages from both sides of the border (Rajasthan and Haryana), during a mahapanchayat on Sunday, decided to block the supply of ration, food items, blankets and mattresses for protesting farmers at Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border. They had also decided to block all the roads leading to the protest site in Shahjahanpur.They had demanded that the highway should be cleared and appealed to the farmer leaders to either end their agitation or move to a different location. However, the farmers had refused to clear the highway.The locals had taken a decision to organise chaupals in the villages at night and mobilise villagers to be united against the protesting farmers. Security has been beefed up on both sides due to the growing tension at the border.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farmers-from-west-bengal-andhra-odisha-join-protest/articleshow/80220757.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||5 years on, JMC yet to use Rs 30 crore for repairing heritage wall||JAIPUR: After sitting on a financial aid of Rs 30 crore given for urgent repairs of the city’s Heritage Wall by the state archaeological department for around five years, the Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC) has finally woken up after the department sought a report on work done. This financial aid was provided to the JMC in 2015 after an order of the Rajasthan High Court. Initially, Rs 12.57 crore was given followed by two tranches of Rs 18 crore in 2015 for urgent repairs. On December 31, 2020, the archaeological department has again sought a report of the work done. TimesViewSitting on a financial aid for the last five years to upgrade a detailed project report (DPR) and start restoration of the heritage wall shows a lackadaisical attitude of JMC officials. It’s been more than a year since the Unesco heritage tag was given to Walled City with a condition that JMC would remove the encroachments and start the restoration process. Unless JMC takes the matter seriously, Jaipur might lose the heritage label and slowly the remaining wall of Walled City would also be encroached leading to its collapse. The government must speed up the process before it is too late for the city.Director of state archaeological department Prakash Chand Sharma said, “After the high court order, an estimate of Rs 100 crore was made to fully repair the wall. But for the urgent repair, it was decided that Rs 30 crore was essential. Hence, we transferred that amount and now the JMC will have to act. We need to make a report and send it to high court for which we have asked for an update.” Archaeological department had sent a notice to the JMC in September 2019 as well but it went was unanswered. In-charge of heritage cell Rajesh Tulara said DPR was being drafted and would be ready by January-end. “We are in the process of making a draft based on which repairs will start. We are expecting that within two months, work will began,” said Tulara. This is considered to be an utter lackadaisical attitude from the part of officials despite knowing that the UNESCO World Heritage tag given to Walled City came with a condition that the JMC would repair the 23km-long Heritage Wall as well. In 2010, a DPR was drafted by INTACH (Indian National trust of Art and Heritage) in which the condition of wall was mentioned and an urgent need to start restoration work was suggested. However, no immediate action was taken by the authorities. At the time of UNESCO’s inspection, a condition was laid that the old DPR would be upgraded. Shikha Jain, a consultant for UNESCO World Heritage Sites and Jaipur City while talking to TOI agreed that there is surely an urgent need to expedite the process of removal of encroachment, repair and restoration of the city wall. “We are far behind our target and need to take some action to remove the encroachments from the wall. We need to comply by the condition laid down by UNESCO where they have asked for specific actions on restoration of the city wall,” said Jain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/5-yrs-on-jmc-yet-to-use-rs-30cr-for-repairing-heritage-wall/articleshow/80220759.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Kota cops recover 14 stolen bikes, 2 held||Kota: Acting on reports of motorbike thefts from various police station areas of the city, a special team on Sunday arrested two youths and recovered at least 14 motorbikes lifted from neighbouring districts from their possession. A special team led by inspector Ganga Sahay Sharma arrested two youths identified as Lokesh Meena, son of Sheojilal (20) and Komal Goswami (21), son of Durgashankar, both residents of Bundi district and recovered at least 14 motorbikes from two separate locations hinted by the accused, said Kota city SP Vikas Pathak. The accused youths were riding on a bike without a number plate when the police stopped them at Kunhari Circle on Sunday and failed to produce the papers of the vehicle, he said adding that the motorbike was found to be stolen and a case was lodged in this connection. On interrogation, accused Lokesh admitted to have lifted motorbikes from neighbouring districts and to have sold the same to other accused Komal, he added. Following hints by the accused, the police recovered at least 11 motorbikes from a ruined building in Kunhari area while the two other bikes sold to Komal were recovered from his village Vinayka in Keshoraipatan area of Bundi district, the SP city said. The two accused were produced before the court on Monday that ordered to send Komal Goswami to jail under judicial custody and to hand over Lokesh Meena to the police on remand for interrogation, said SHO at Kunhari police station Ganga Sahay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kota-cops-recover-14-stolen-bikes-2-held/articleshow/80220756.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Agra||UP: Nine criminals of Kalua gang held on way to looting a jewellery shop||AGRA: Firozabad police arrested nine wanted criminals while they were on their way to loot a jewellery shop in Shikohabad after an encounter on Monday. The gang had opened fire on the police team. A constable was hit by a bullet in his hand. In counter firing, two members of the gang were hit by a bullet in leg. According to police, the arrested men are members of Kalua gang, including gang leader Satish alias Kalua. Their local associate Manoj, a jeweller based in Tundla, was also arrested. Total eight illegal weapons, cartridges, a Mahindra Scorpio car, Rs 1.08 lakh cash, 45 gram gold, 20 kg silver, tools and equipment for breaking shop were recovered from the accused. The gang is accused of involvement in three cases of loot at jewellery shops in Firozabad district in December. Following back-to-back cases of loot, Firozabad SSP Ajay Kumar formed a special team headed by ASP (rural) Rajesh Kumar to nab the culprits. The special operation group of Firozabad police and the special task force was also involved in the probe. After investigators identified a similar pattern in all the three cases of loot, they hinted at Kalua gang’s involvement in the cases. Additional superintendent of police Rajesh Kumar said, “On Sunday evening, we received a tip-off that Kalua gang was planning to loot a jewellery shop in Shikohabad. Patrolling teams were alerted and intense checking of vehicles was ordered.” “At 1:15am on Monday, a white colour SUV with Etah registration number was spotted near Nagla Prabhu Village under Shikohabad police station. After being chased by the police, the criminals inside the car started firing. Nine members of the notorious Kalua gang were arrested. Two gang members were injured in counter firing by police. They were admitted in hospital. Besides, one of our constables Harvendra was hit by a bullet in his hand. He is getting medical treatment and is out of danger,” he said. Besides gang leader Kalua, the eight gang members arrested by police were identified as Balveer, Girish, Puran Singh, Gauri, Kripal Singh, Devendra, Praveen and Satish. The arrested men belong to Kasganj, Hathras and Etah district. SSP Ajay Kumar said, “The arrested members of the gang have confessed involvement in three incidents of loot at jewellery shops under Khergarh, Shikohabad and Nagla Fariha police station. Primary interrogation of the arrested men has revealed that the gang has five more active members. A team has been tasked to arrest them.” He said, “It is an inter-state gang and is suspected to be involved in major cases of loot in other districts and neighboring states. A detailed investigation has been initiated in this regard. The gang leader Kalua was wanted in 11 cases registered against him in Kasganj, Etah, Aligarh and Hathras district. Other gang members also have criminal history. We will be developing a history-sheet against all the gang members. They will be booked under the Gangster Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/nine-criminals-of-kalua-gang-held-on-way-to-looting-a-jewellery-shop/articleshow/80218824.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Dalit panchayat president complains against vice-prez||Dindigul: K Pavunuthai, president of the Jambudurai Kottai panchayat , has petitioned the Dindigul district collector, seeking action against the panchayat vice-president for allegedly harassing her and for preventing her from discharging her duties. The woman in her petition, on Monday, alleged that he is treating her badly as she hails from the dalit community.She told reporters that she was performing her duties in the panchayat office on Friday when the vice-president Sivaraman came to the office with four others, used foul language, verbally abused and threatened her. She said that the turn of events were recorded in CCTV cameras in the office.Pavunuthai said that she has lodged a complaint in this connection at the Ammainaickanur police station and at the Nilakottai taluk office as well. She sought departmental action against him so that she would be able to perform her duties without hindrances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/dalit-panchayat-president-complains-against-vice-prez/articleshow/80222466.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Covid vaccine to be available in 5k centres, health workers to be inoculated in first phase||Dehradun: Ahead of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, set to start from January 16, the Uttarakhand government has identified 4,943 healthcare centres, both private and government, where the vaccine will be made available, said director general (health) Dr Amita Upreti. According to the official, in the first phase, the state will have 9,073 vaccination sessions and 87,000 healthcare workers will be vaccinated. She added that the health department has also trained 2,118 auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) for vaccination to ensure 100% success of the exercise. Addressing mediapersons, Dr Upreti said that the state has made 317 cold chain points and 547 deep freezers to keep Covid-19 vaccine safe. There will be 6,509 vaccinators, including 2,118 ANMs. The media briefing comes a day before the final dry run for Covid-19 vaccination is to be conducted. “We have trained 402 invigilators who will keep a strict vigil on the vaccination process. The vaccination will take place in three phases. In the first phase, frontline Covid-19 workers will be vaccinated. In the second phase, people above 50 years of age and those with comorbidities will be vaccinated. All other people will be covered in the third phase,” said Dr Upreti. She added that vaccination will take place just like elections and every booth will have 100 registered beneficiaries. Meanwhile, Uttarakhand recorded less than 200 cases of Covid-19 after almost six months on Monday. “A total of 156 cases of Covid-19 surfaced in Uttarakhand on Monday. Among these, 56 were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 44 in Nainital, 15 in Haridwar, and 13 in Udham Singh Nagar. The nine hill districts reported new infections in single digits,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Also, five coronavirus-related deaths were recorded in Uttarakhand, taking the toll of the virus to 1,578. On Monday, 523 people recovered from Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cured cases to 88,196.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-vaccine-to-be-available-in-5k-centres-health-workers-to-be-inoculated-in-first-phase/articleshow/80219714.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 12, 2021||Agra||Youth kills teenage neighbour whorefuses to give his android phone||Agra: Unable to afford a touchscreen mobile phone he desperately wanted to give his girlfriend as a gift, a 20-year-old youth allegedly killed his teenage neighbour who refused to give his android mobile phone to him. Police claimed that the accused Manu (20) confessed that he, with the help of his friend Sumit, killed Jitendra Kumar (19) when the victim had gone to relieve himself. During interrogation, said police, Manu told them that his girlfriend wanted an android mobile phone which was beyond his reach. Manu knew that Jitendra had a touchscreen mobile phone worth Rs 15,000 and had asked him to give the phone to him for some time, but Jitendra refused, said police, adding that Manu, then, decided to get the phone in any case. On January 5, a missing complaint was registered at Saiyan police station after Jitendra did not return home. A day later, his body was found in the field, just 5km from his house. SP (West) Satyajeet Gupta told TOI that Manu strangled Jitendra after tying his hands and legs with the help of his friend. “They stuffed soil in the victim’s nose and mouth to ensure that he had died. After killing the teenager, the accused made calls on several contact numbers available on the victim’s phonebook to mislead police, but they were caught.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/youth-kills-teenage-neighbour-whorefuses-to-give-his-android-phone/articleshow/80218841.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Promote physical edu teachers: Assn||Hyderabad: Members of the Physical Education Teachers Association (PETA), Telangana on Monday met the education minister and requested her to amend rules and ensure that physical education teachers (PET) are eligible for promotions. They said that the teachers, who are working for the past 20 years, have never been promoted and are forced to retire in the same position. “PETs who joined in 2001 are still working as Secondary Grade Teacher (SGT). While all other teachers are promoted, only PETs are not being promoted to the post of School Assistant (SA),” said S Someshwar Rao, president, PETA. He added that by amending GO 11 and 12, the state can promote existing PETs. “The move would benefit around 1,800 physical education teachers,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/promote-physical-edu-teachers-assn/articleshow/80220761.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||1 burnt alive, another injured in mishap||Jaipur: A person was burnt alive while another person was injured when the car in which they were travelling caught fire after it rammed into an electric pole on the divider at Gandhi Path Road in Karni Vihar locality. According to police, the driver of the car lost control over the wheels and rammed into an electric pole. “After this the vehicle caught fire. Two men, including the driver, were in the car. People came to the spot and pulled out the young man. Then there was an explosion from the diesel tank. After that people ran away. The driver was burnt alive,” said police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-burnt-alive-another-injured-in-mishap/articleshow/80220764.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Vadodara||Man rapes 6-year-old niece, booked in Vadodara||VADODARA: A labourer in Sokhda village near the city was booked for allegedly raping his cousin’s six-year-old daughter. The girl’s father, who is also a labourer, lodged a complaint with Vadodara Taluka police station on Sunday. When the girl was playing outside her house on January 9 evening, the accused lured the girl with an offer to buy a packet of wafers. The girl’s father too outside the house for some work, but when he went inside, the accused took the change. He took the girl to a plot near the house where touched her private parts. When the girl started crying, her father went to the open plot. Seeing him, the accused fled from there. The girl’s father then approached cops and her medical test was done on Sunday. “We have registered case of rape and are alsosearching for the accused,” said a police official. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/man-rapes-6-yr-old-niece-booked/articleshow/80218851.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Frontline warriors to get shots in 3 days’ time: Gujarat deputy CM||GANDHINAGAR: Deputy chief minister and health minister Nitin Patel said that the first shipment of the Covid-19 vaccine will arrive in Gujarat in a day and the PM will flag off the vaccination of frontline corona warriors at 277 places in Gujarat, along with the rest of the country, on January 16. Speaking to the media in Gandhinagar on Monday, Patel said that all frontline Covid-19 warriors of the state will get their first dose of the vaccine by January 18, while the second dose of the vaccine will be administered after one month. He added that the central government will bear the cost of vaccination of frontline corona warriors. Patel said that all preparations have been done for transporting the vaccine doses to centres across the state and frontline Covid-19 warriors will be informed by SMS about the date, time and place where they will receive the vaccine. “The PM held a video conference with all chief ministers and other important functionaries of states. He will address Covid-19 warriors on January 16 before formally starting the vaccination programme across the country. We have made arrangements for two-way communication with the PM from Ahmedabad and Rajkot,” Patel said. According to Patel, immunity will begin to build up 15 days after completing both doses of the vaccine. “45 days after getting the first dose, people will be fairly secured against the virus and will also not spread it to anybody else,” he said. Patel added that the central government has directed states not to procure Covid-19 vaccines independently and only rely on vaccines which are provided by the Centre. Asked about threats by panchayat employees that they will not participate in the vaccination programme until their demands are met, Patel said, “It is not proper for anyone to connect their demands with a programme like Covid-19 vaccination. During elections, such things generally crop up.” On whether the CM and ministers will get vaccinated, Nitin Patel said, “The priority is vaccinating frontline Covid-19 warriors. The CM, dy CM, ministers and other leaders of the BJP will not get themselves vaccinated until frontline warriors are vaccinated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/frontline-warriors-to-get-shots-in-3-days-time-dycm/articleshow/80220779.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||UDH mulls to curtail local bodies’ powers||Jaipur: The state government plans to curtail the powers of local bodies, including municipal corporations, development authorities, municipalities and others, for changing land use of plots. As per the proposal, the development authority will now have power to change the land use for a maximum area up to 4,000sqmtr. Earlier, the authorities had power to change the land use of plot size 6,000sqmtr. Similarly, the municipal corporations and urban improvement trust (UIT) will be allowed to change the land use of the plot upto 2,500sqm against the previous 5,000sqm. Sources said the Urban Development and Housing (UDH) department has framed new rules for allowing change of land use defined in the city master plans. But the owners have to pay administrative fees now. After the high court directed the state government that land use norms laid out in the master plans can only be changed in larger public interest, the department is now trying to follow them strictly. In the past, the department allegedly frequently changed land use rules to allow development of areas without adhering to the original master plans. A senior town planner said, UDH minister Shanti Dhariwal has approved the new rules that require land owners to pay an administrative charge for changing the purpose of land use. This is for the first time the charges will be imposed. “This charge will be a minimum of Rs 50,000 and maximum Rs 5 lakh, depending on the area,” said an official. “If a land owner were to pay Rs 30,000 for land use change, he or she would now have to pay a minimum charge of Rs 50,000 fixed by the department. Similarly, if the charges are over Rs 6 lakh, the owner will have to pay Rs 5 lakh as the upper limit. The department has fixed Rs 10 per sq mtr rate for land use conversion,” the official added. For agriculture land in cities, where master plans have been implemented, the matter will be decided by the state-level committee constituted for land use change. At present, rules framed in 2010 are followed. The new guidelines have been made for hassle-free land use change. An official said that in cases of residential land, UDH will allow activities including day care centres, nurseries, schools, dispensaries, hostels, informal shops, restaurants, libraries, MSMEs and petrol pumps. In commercial land use, activities including hotels, marriage gardens, banks, cinema halls, multiplexes and others are allowed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/udh-mulls-to-curtail-local-bodies-powers/articleshow/80220776.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Goa||Satre’s limestone cave a geological marvel for nature lovers||Keri: Nestled in the forests of Sattari is a rock formation that has caught the fancy of nature enthusiasts. Located at Acri-Cockri in Krishnapur on the Karnataka-Goa border, a trek in the forested pathway from Surla to Satre near the Kalasa nalla leads to a limestone cave that is being considered a natural wonder. As the cave lies beneath the surface, acidic groundwater seeps inside, creating natural cavities. Algae undergoes photosynthesis, releasing oxygen, while the inner portion of the rock is exposed to dry surroundings. With time, rainwater and the weak carbonic acid dissolves the limestone, and this chemical reaction had formed intriguing shapes and textures within it. Pankaj Lad, a wildlifer and a post graduate in geology, said, “When I saw the limestone cave for the first time, I was mesmerised to see nature’s wonder. There is a need to explore the limestone caves of Sattari that showcase the geological heritage of our land.” “This cave is purely natural in existence and has been standing in the forest for over millions of years, offering shelter to tigers, bats and other forms of wildlife. The cave, with its cool interiors, is enveloped in darkness as sunlight hardly enters it,” said Vithoba Gaude from Caranzol. Vachan Kerkar, a trekker from Keri-Sattari, pointed out that the continuous natural flow of spring water inside the cave also attracts wildlife to quench their thirst. “This cave is spacious. Rainwater has been eroding the limestone, creating a variety of genesis within the cave’s walls. It is enthralling experience to visit the cave during the winter season, after trekking the forested pathway from Surla to Satre. There is a need to explore the cave in a scientific manner that can shed more light on many unknown geological and ecological facts,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/satres-limestone-cave-a-geological-marvel-for-nature-lovers/articleshow/80222505.cms||Rajendra Kerkar
January 12, 2021||Madurai||MP reviews progress of smart city projects||Madurai: Madurai MP Su Venkatesan on Monday inspected the smart city projects in the city which are in various stages of progress. He inspected the revamped park around the King Thirumalai Nayak Mahal, development work of heritage sites like Vilakkuthoon, Pathu Thoon and smart street scaping of Masi streets. Su Venkatesan said that Madurai is witnessing high traffic congestion and high levels of air pollution. Dust emanating from the smart city projects is also a cause of concern. Issues like these are inevitable when development projects are carried out. However, it has to be ensured that they cause minimum inconvenience to people, Venkatesan said. He said that as a representative of people, he has been taking all possible steps from his end to ensure that development works are carried out with good quality of work. Underground drainage construction works for the 15 wards in north Madurai have begun at the cost of Rs 275 crore. The left out wards in south Madurai will get the facility after the funds are obtained. Periyar Bus Terminal will be available for public use by March, he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mp-reviews-progress-of-smart-city-projects/articleshow/80222499.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Agra||Woman, 2 sons booked for murder||Agra: Wife and two sons of a former MLA have been booked for allegedly killing a man about a year ago. The FIR was filed after a court order in Mathura. The petitioner, Preeti Mittal, alleged that her husband Manoj Mittal had given Rs 10lakh to the politician who later died. When Manoj contacted his sons for the money, they promised to pay it back. But they didn’t, she alleged. Later, on February 18 last year, they called Manoj to collect the money at home. Manoj went that day, but never returned, she said. His body was later found in Mathura. Preeti claimed that three persons witnessed Manoj going with the politician's son. The FIR was registered for murder, causing disappearance of evidence of offence and criminal conspiracy against the politician’s wife and the two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/woman-2-sons-booked-for-murder/articleshow/80218850.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||NRIs holding farm land can register on Dharani soon||HYDERABAD: CM K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday directed officials to make necessary modifications on Dharani portal in a week, providing a facility for Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) to register based on their passport number. “Make Dharani portal more user-friendly. For this, make necessary modifications. Create a facility on Dharani for the NRIs to register based on their passport number. Also, modify Dharani in such a way that companies and societies should also be able to get passbooks for land they purchase,” KCR said at the collectors’ conference held at Pragathi Bhavan. Earlier, details of those who did not give their Aadhaar number were not uploaded on Dharani portal. “Give them one more opportunity and register their Aadhaar number and issue passbooks. The collectors should solve disputes with regard to land transfer regulation in the Agency areas within a month,” the chief minister said. He also instructed the officials to bring more flexibility in the sale and purchase of agriculture land and make suitable modifications to Dharani portal in a week. Invite fresh applications for the pending mutations and the mutations should be done within a week, he added. The officials were told to create a facility on Dharani for those who booked the slot to cancel or reschedule their slots. The list of prohibited land should be updated regularly. Make changes as per court orders. “Put the land taken by the government from farmers under prohibited list. Solve all issues under Part B except those involved in legal litigation. Collectors should examine the applications submitted for regularisation of Sada Bainamas and solve issues,” the CM said. Allow the facility to register general power of attorney, special power of attorney and agreement of sale-cum-general power of attorney through Dharani portal, KCR said. Cases pending before revenue court’s jurisdiction must be resolved early by the district-level tribunals to be formed under the leadership of district collectors, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nris-holding-farm-land-can-register-on-dharani-soon/articleshow/80220777.cms||Roushan Ali
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Five more infected with UK strain treated, discharged||Ahmedabad: Top state health department officials confirmed that the state had nine persons – who had tested positive for Covid-19 upon return from the UK or other European countries – with the infectious ‘UK strain.’ Out of eight samples that were sent to National Institute of Virology (NIV), five had tested positive. Earlier, four patients – two from Ahmedabad, one each from Bharuch and Diu – who had returned from the UK on December 22 were confirmed patients for the UK strain. All four were discharged on January 6 after completing 14 days of observation period. All four were asked to report any symptoms associated with the viral infection for a week. The state health department officials said that all are fine and have not reported any health complications. “Out of the eight samples sent to NIV, five tested positive for VUI202012/01 mutation, popularly known as the ‘UK strain’. All are from different parts of the state and all have been discharged after spending 14 days of mandatory period under observation and isolation,” said a senior state health department official. “We are in continuous contact with them and no one has recorded any major complication so far.” According to reports, India’s total tally of confirmed cases for the new strain of Covid-19 – a series of mutations in the spike protein – is close to 100 as of Monday evening. The strain is dreaded due to its high infectious nature, said experts, even as there is no evidence of rise in mortality or severity. City-based experts had earlier said that the treatment protocol for the patients with the UK strain is the same. The only difference, according to the guidelines laid out by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), comes in the form of a separate facility for the patients and observation period, they added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/five-more-infected-with-uk-strain-treated-discharged/articleshow/80220780.cms||Parth Shastri
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: After flak from commuters, MSRTC ‘deep cleans’ buses||MUMBAI: MSRTC, facing flak from commuters for unclean buses, on Monday began ‘deep cleaning’ 17,000 buses in view of Covid. TOI highlighted complaints of unclean buses and those in bad condition (January 6, 2021) following which MSRTC decided on a “four-step process” to clean interiors and exteriors of its buses. A senior official said the buses had to be kept spic and span and in good condition to ensure ‘healthy and safe’ travel of commuters. Around 1,000 state buses have been taken by BEST on lease in Mumbai for ferrying office-goers and essential staff daily. BEST committee recently witnessed a hue and cry as members complained of the bad quality of state buses operating in the city. TimesViewBus passengers in India’s financial capital deserve to travel in comfort and in clean/hygienic conditions during Covid. The deep cleaning of buses by MSRTC, including sprucing up 1,000 buses specially for city residents, is welcome. It should not be a kneejerk reaction to complaints lately, but done regularly to ensure buses are spic and span daily.Sources said MSRTC will take up the process in four steps. It will dust buses, shampoo and wet-clean them, remove stains (like paan) and them and remove bad odour. “The deep cleaning will involve every part roof, seats, windows/panes, floor and doors. Passengers should not complaint about cleanliness any more,” an official said. “The move is good and will benefit scores of commuters,” said a committee member. “We have been raising a voice over the buses, which have been introduced in large numbers for Mumbaikars, but basic cleanliness was missing in most buses,” he said. BEST has taken 1,000 buses from MSRTC on lease. It is a temporary arrangement during Covid crisis and may be taken off once things normalise. BEST said the drivers were well-trained and buses were roadworthy. It has ferried 4-5 lakh commuters daily and reduced the wait time for citizens at bus-stops. The buses were procured from MSRTC depots in Nashik, Manmad, Sinnar and Igatpuri. “We are getting more from other depots. Many were lying idle during Covid,” an MSRTC official said. The buses have been given on lease for Rs75/km and each bus makes trips of 150-200km daily.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-flak-from-commuters-msrtc-deep-cleans-buses/articleshow/80222522.cms||Somit Sen
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Southern dists get moderate rain||Madurai: The southern districts, especially the coastal regions received moderate to mild rainfall in the 24 hours till Monday morning. Madurai district received an average rainfall of 1.62mm with Kallandri recording the highest (7.2mm). Water level in Periyar reservoir was 121.5ft, marginally climbing from 121.35ft on Sunday morning. The inflow was 1,054 cusecs against the outflow of 700 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the water level climbed to 61.25 feet on Monday from 60.99ft on Sunday morning. Inflow to the reservoir was 1,091 cusecs against the outflow of 469 cusecs. Ramanathapuram district recorded an average rainfall of 30.61mm. Ramanathapuram district headquarters recorded the highest rainfall of 62mm, followed by Pamban (61.8mm), Thangachimadam (58.4mm), Rameswaram (54.2mm) and Mandapam (37mm). In Tirunelveli district, the average rainfall was 21.33mm with Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai recording 40mm and 20mm, respectively. The district has recorded an average rainfall of 120.13mm in the 10 days of this month. This is much higher than the 6.3mm and 0.38mm total rainfall recorded in the whole of January in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Water level in Manimuthar reservoir, the one with the largest storage capacity in the region, was maintained at 117.5ft over the last two days against the full reservoir level of 118ft. At 5,461 MCFT, the available water is 99.09% of its total capacity of 5,511 MCFT. Inflow to the reservoir was 2,050 cusecs against the outflow of 2,038 cusecs. The combined inflow to Papanasam and Servalar in the district was 2,322 cusecs against the outflow of 2,182 cusecs. In Papanasam, the water level was 142.15ft against its full level of 143ft. Water availability was 98.92% water against its capacity of 5,500 MCFT. Tuticorin district recorded an average rainfall of 17.19mm with the highest rainfall recorded at Vedanatham (47mm), followed by Surangudi (37mm), Tuticorin city (35mm), Kayalpattinam (31mm) and Kulasekarapattinam (30mm). Kanyakumari district recorded an average rainfall of 12.37mm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/southern-dists-get-moderate-rain/articleshow/80222515.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||One sem over, first yr students keen to attend classes in college||Madurai: With one semester already competed, first year UG and PG students in various city colleges are yet to step on to their campus. However, after final year students were allowed to return to the campus for classes in December, first year students are hoping that they will be the next to be allowed into college. “We have adapted to online classes now. However, it is sad we missed out on the campus experience for one whole semester. We are looking forward to meeting all classmates and faculty in person now that Covid-19 cases are also coming down,” said K Vinisha, a first year BSc Physics student. Another student, L Harshita, said that online classes are difficult to follow with just a smart phone. They are unable to make use of computer and library facilities on the campus. Their learning would improve with a combination of online and offline classes. “Many parents and students have been writing to us asking when first year students will be allowed into the campus. As much as we want to welcome them, the students’ safety is priority. At the same time, students are also comfortable with online classes,” said Dr Christianna Singh, principal, Lady Doak College. Meanwhile, the faculty are also hoping to have first year students at the campus soon. “Since they are transitioning from school to college, it is really important to have face-to-face interactions. Though we are giving assignments, we would be able to know how far they were able to learn through online classes only at college,” said an assistant professor at a city college. Colleges are also apprehensive of reopening for students other than final year due to issues around enforcing Covid-19 safety, especially social distancing. “At the moment, we are not quite ready for it. The state government has also announced free data card of 2 GB a day for students to attend online classes. This would alleviate issues for any student who is without internet connectivity. Ideally, online classes can be continued for some time longer,” said Dr Davamani M Christober, principal, The American College.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/one-sem-over-first-yr-students-keen-to-attend-classes-in-college/articleshow/80222527.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Pratapnagar police files a case of loot||Jaipur: Pratapnagar police station received a complaint by one Rajesh Saini who alleged that unidentified persons took away Rs 10 lakh from him when he was on his way to deposit the sum collected from the dairy booths on Monday. Saini, a money collector at a Saras booth parlour in Pratapnagar’s Sector 10 had collected the sum from nearby dairy booths. It being a Monday, the sum collected was of two days. “The dairy booth owners visit his booth and give him the money collected on all working days. Saini collected the money and was on the way to deposit it in a bank at Kumbha Nagar in Pratapnagar. His two-wheeler was hit by a car and he fell. Two persons with covered faces came out of the car, snatched his bag and sped away,” said a police inspector. Saini fractured one of his legs and was rushed to a private hospital. Police have collected CCTV footage from nearby areas and have identified the car. “The accused could not be seen since their car had tinted windows. We are also questioning the victim as to how the accused knew about the money that was in his possession,” said the cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/pratapnagar-police-files-a-case-of-loot/articleshow/80220785.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Goa||‘BJP doors open for competent politicians’||Panaji: Results of the recent zilla panchayat elections in Goa are a proof that the BJP will win the upcoming 2022 assembly elections in the state with a big majority, said BJP’s national spokesperson Shahnawaz Hussain on Monday. “The BJP has always kept its doors open for anyone who believes in the development of Goa. If someone believes in it, we will not refuse them entry,” said Hussain, commenting on the 10 former Congress party MLAs who later joined the BJP in Goa after the last assembly polls. “We believe in sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas. Even if someone comes from another party and if they are competent, we respect them. It is not an issue. If anyone believes in Goa’s development, then we are not opposed to them,” said Hussain. He said when the opposition parties are getting weaker by the day, the competent politicians are left with no other option but to look in the BJP’s direction. “Other parties are almost non-existent? Congress has been demolished in polls across the country and therefore the competent ones want to join us. If they are competent, if they want development for Goa, BJP has its doors open,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-doors-open-for-competent-politicians/articleshow/80222523.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Goa||Hundreds from other Sattari villages back Melauli locals, serve ultimatum||VALPOI: The protests against the proposed IIT project at Melauli in Sattari soared on Monday, as hundreds of villagers from neighbouring Mauxi, Dhabe and Khotodem entered Melauli’s forests to join the agitation. Residents from Mauxi marched almost 20km towards Melauli, shouting slogans, even as police attempts to stop the protesters failed. Together, the protesters have given the government a 10-day ultimatum to shift the campus out of Melauli. Residents have also demanded the suspension of Valpoi PI Sagar Ekoskar and the withdrawal of all FIRs filed against Melauli residents; these cases were registered after the January 6 clash between villagers and police personnel. On Monday, the villagers threatened to hold a Valpoi bandh by evening if local Kalpesh Gaonkar was not released from police custody. The bandh, however, was called off as Gaonkar and two others, Vishwesh Prabhu and Shailendra Velingkar, were released on bail. Convenor of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan (MPGBA) Shashikant Savordekar said that they would not stop their protest until the IIT is shifted out of Melauli. “If the government has guts, it should arrest all the villagers,” said Savordekar. MPGBA co-convenor Shubham Shivolkar demanded a legal inquiry against Ekoskar for stepping on to a woman’s chest during the January 6 protest, when women were lying on the ground at Melauli to stop surveyors from carrying out land demarcation. “If the proposed IIT is not shifted from Melauli in 10 days, the government will face dire consequences,” he said. Shivolkar said that the villagers also condemn health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane for not coming out to take a strong stand on the IIT issue despite the protests. “If his attitude towards this project remains the same, we will send bangles to him, let him wear them and sit at home,” he said. Shivolkar said that chief minister Pramod Sawant, despite being an ayurvedic doctor, doesn’t seem to know the value of medicinal plants at the proposed IIT site in Melauli, as he has agreed to the project detrimental to the local flora. A Mauxi villager, Sanjay Gaonkar, said that hundreds of Mauxi residents decided to march to Melauli seeing the locals’ ‘pain’. “Villagers do not have land ownership rights... in every village of Sattari. So we request villagers of entire Sattari taluka to come forward and save their properties as this government can take over people’s properties at any time,” Gaonkar said. Another Melauli villager challenged Sawant to stop villagers from different parts of Sattari, who will now keep coming forward to support Melauli’s locals. He said the government has harassed Melauli villagers due to the IIT project. “Our villager Kalpesh Gaonkar, who was arrested by police recently, was the sole breadwinner of his family, as he doesn’t have parents. He only has an elderly grandmother, who was left alone unattended at home after his arrest,” said Shankar Devali. Senior citizen from Melauli, Ram Melekar requested Goans outside Sattari to also come forward to save their village, and also thanked those who participated in their protests and supported them. Melauli locals are protesting inside a forest patch ever since a large police force was brought into Valpoi following the January 6 clash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hundreds-from-other-sattari-villages-back-melauli-locals-serve-ultimatum/articleshow/80222519.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Heritage sites Damdi Mahal & Gaumukh to get a facelift||Aurangabad: The smart city development corporation has finally decided to take up the restoration work of the heritage structures of Damdi Mahal and Gaumukh, which have been lying in a state of neglect for many years. The directive for the restoration work was issued by administrator of Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Astik Kumar Pandey, who is also the CEO of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL). Located just opposite the divisional commissioner’s bungalow ‘Gulshan Mahal’, the Damdi Mahal is a unique structure having a blend of Bundela, Rajasthan and medieval Mughal style of architecture. It was built during the same period as the ‘Baradari’ — now known as the tehsil office of the city — which was erected by Aiwaz Khan. The Mahal has many common features of the 18th century buildings. It is said while the ‘Baradari’ work was in progress, the workers at the construction site had to give ‘one damdee’ each (four annas or 25 paise) as tax towards the construction of Damdi Mahal.Sneha Bakshi, project manager of ASCDCL, said, “Once restored, the Damdi Mahal and the Gaumukh will serve as interpretation center for the tourists. This (Damdi Mahal) is a structure built of bricks and lime around a courtyard.” Damdi Mahal, Gaumukh and Panchakki are one-of-its-kind underwater harvesting systems built during the reign of Malik Amber — the African slave-turned-warrior who found Aurangabad. The surrounding hills catch monsoon rain in seasonal lakes, from which the water reaches the city via underground channels (nahars).Those privy to the process said already architects having experience in restoring and conserving heritage structures have examined the sites. As per plans, once the restoration work is complete, AMC authorities will ensure these two sites are mentioned in the list of must-visit places prepared by the state tourism department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/heritage-sites-damdi-mahal-gaumukh-to-get-a-facelift/articleshow/80218865.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 12, 2021||Agra||Temperatures dip by 3.4 degrees in Agra||Agra: After a few days of respite from the severe cold, temperatures dropped by 3.4 degrees Celsius in 24 hours in Agra district. The minimum temperature, which was recorded at 11.2 degrees Celsius on Sunday, dipped to 7.8 degrees on Monday even as cold winds swept the region. The air quality remained in ‘poor’ category. On Monday, the maximum temperature in Agra district was recorded at 19.2 degrees Celsius which was three degrees below normal. The metrological department has forecast further dip in temperatures by 2 degrees Celsius on both minimum and maximum scale in the coming days. It has also warned of dense fog over the next four days in the morning and evening. Besides Agra, intense cold prevailed in the neighbouring districts of Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh was colder than Agra with minimum temperature recorded at 7.2 degrees Celsius. On Monday, the air quality index in Agra was recorded at 216 or "poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/temperatures-dip-by-3-4-degrees-in-agra/articleshow/80218870.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt relaxes criterion for promotions||Hyderabad: The state government on Monday issued orders relaxing the minimum service required for promotions from three years to two years. This adhoc rule came into force with immediate effect and would be in force up to August 31, 2021. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao, at the collectors’ conference on Monday, directed chief secretary, HODs and collectors to announce promotions in all departments immediately. “Only after giving promotions will vacancies be known. Complete within a week all the postings under compassionate grounds category,” he said. KCR may also meet leaders of various associations of government employees on January 13 and discuss the pay revision commission report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-relaxes-criterion-for-promotions/articleshow/80220784.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Deploy ICG to protect TN fishers from SL navy: Vasan||Madurai: Tamil Maanila Congress (TMC) president G K Vasan has urged the Centre to deploy the India Coast Guard (ICG) in the Bay of Bengal to protect fishermen from Tamil Nadu from the Sri Lankan navy when they are fishing.In a statement on Monday, he alleged that nine TN fishermen were attacked and their fishing gear damaged before they were arrested by the Lankan navy two days ago. He condemned the continuance of such attacks on Indian fishermen even after the recent visit of external affairs minister of India S Jaishankar to Sri Lanka.Vasan urged the Centre to strongly condemn Sri Lanka for such attacks happening even after his visit and put an end to them using diplomatic ties to protect the livelihood of the thousands of fishermen from Rameswaram and adjoining coastal areas in the southern coast of Tamil Nadu.The former Union minister also said that the government should take steps for the speedy release of nearly 40 India fishermen who are languishing in prisons in Sri Lanka before Pongal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deploy-icg-to-protect-tn-fishers-from-sl-navy-vasan/articleshow/80222520.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Goa||Open to discussion on IIT, project beneficial to all: CM||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Monday reiterated that he is open to discussions with Melauli villagers over their opposition to the IIT project coming up in their village. Stating that ‘they are our own people’, the chief minister said it is for the villagers now to take a step forward to discuss their issues with the project. Sawant said he had done his bit by visiting Melauli earlier to hear the grievances of the locals. “Due to some opposition there, they have been called to speak to me. We are open to discussion. This has been my stand from day one; they should come forward to discuss it. I have called them. I have already gone there. Now it is for them to come forward to discuss it,” Sawant told reporters. The chief minister said the IIT project is a prestigious one for Goa. “They are our own people. They should also come and discuss the issues. It is such a big developmental project for the state. It is beneficial to everyone. We can talk and come out with a solution,” said Sawant. According to sources, the chief minister held a meeting with DGP Mukesh Kumar Meena and North Goa collector R Menaka, purportedly to discuss the law and order situation in Melauli village, where locals had clashed with police on January 6, as the villagers were trying to stop work of land demarcation for the IIT project. Over the past few days, police had been stationed at the Guleli and Khotodem junctions and they maintained a close watch on those entering Melauli. They even put up barricades at the entry points to the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/open-to-discussion-on-iit-project-beneficial-to-all-cm/articleshow/80222528.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Call outsiders, we’ll invite cops: Societies to Ahmedabad residents||AHMEDABAD: Housing societies have not only barred outsiders for Uttarayan celebrations but have also warned that police will be called if residents invite visitors to their terraces or flout Covid norms. “We have asked the chairpersons of individual blocks to ensure that outsiders are not allowed in,” said Devendra Bhavsar, the chairman of Sarjan Tower, Memnagar. “Security guards have been told to be extra vigilant and stop any unauthorized entry. Moreover, we have a small terrace on each block and hence have told the members that no more than 10 persons should gather there.” Many societies have also issued circulars banning music on terraces. Dr Rathish Nair, the chairman of Smarana Apartments in Bakeri City, Vejalpur, said: “We have asked security guards to visit terraces once an hour and ensure that no outsider has come in.” Nair added: “We had a request from one member seeking permission to have his grandparents over. A gate pass will be issued to him but his grandparents should not venture onto the terrace.” Society bylaws do not give enforcement powers, Nair said. “But the government directive had forced us to enforce some norms,” he said. “Except servants, maids, and service providers nobody will be allowed to enter the society till January 15 beginning from Sunday.” The chairman of Safal Parisar in Bopal, Vanrajsinh Rajput, said: “The members of our society are law-abiding citizens and hence won’t crowd the terraces.” Rajput added: “Our experience suggests that not many members fly kites and so we expect that they will comply with the guidelines.” He went on to say: “We are planning to organize events in the society maintaining social distancing. The society had 42 corona cases after Diwali and today we have zero.” Amrut Desai, the caretaker of Surel Apartments in Satellite said: “We have asked the members to enjoy the festival while maintaining social distancing.” He added: “We have imposed a cap of 20 people for gatherings and won’t allow outsiders to enter the society.” He said music systems and firecrackers have been banned. Dinesh Sheth, the chairman of Ishan-I in Satellite, said: “We have told security staff not to allow any outsiders and have asked members not to go out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/call-outsiders-well-invite-cops-societies-to-residents/articleshow/80220808.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||IMA extends support to campaign||Ahmedabad: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Monday requested its 3.5 lakh members in 1,800 branches across India to ‘voluntarily come out and get vaccinated first to show to the world that these vaccines are safe and efficacious.’ The Gujarat state branch of IMA joined in the efforts and told TOI on Monday that they would be extending all possible support to the state government for rolling out the vaccination drive. Dr Devendra Patel, president of the state branch of IMA, said that they have been part of all the discussions with the state government on behalf of the medical community. “We are going to support the state government in the vaccination drive in getting volunteers for the process, for the health workers to get the shot and even provide infrastructural facility when required,” he said. IMA in its letter to its branches mentioned that the members will ensure that healthcare teams get vaccinated on priority. ‘Good protective levels of antibodies have been found to develop with our Indian vaccines against current strain and new mutated strains. These vaccines are practically easy to store and use in Indian conditions,’ states the letter. IMA has stated that the infrastructure with the association will be available for the vaccination programme and the IMA members will serve voluntarily with technical and supportive human resources. ‘IMA believes getting vaccination is not only to protect individuals, but also to bring herd immunity to the community, thereby raising the hope to control the corona pandemic,’ reads the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/ima-extends-support-to-campaign/articleshow/80220856.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Fewer avian rescue volunteers this year||Ahmedabad: Despite restrictions on festivities this Uttarayan, the count of injured birds has continued to go up. However, this Makar Sankranti, the number of volunteers helping to rescue and treat injured birds will be 60% of the usual number, owing to the pandemic and bird flu warning issued recently by the state government. Against some 200 volunteers at Jivdaya Charitable Trust (JCT) every year, barely 100-120 will be treating injured birds this year. Kartik Shastri, trustee, JCT, said, “Due to the pandemic, we have proactively reduced the number of volunteers so birds can be treated while maintaining social distancing and ensuring all Covid-19 protocols are in place. RT-PCR test of all volunteers who will be part of the mission will be done.” Shastri said that the number of volunteers have declined due to apprehensions among them and their families due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Even though the government has imposed several restrictions on kite flying with large gatherings barred, the number of injured birds coming to JCT has gone up in the past ten days or so. “Earlier, we used to get more calls from the walled city areas but now we get more calls from the western parts of the city,” said an official of JCT. “The need for volunteers has increased but due to Covid-19 but deployment has been adjusted so that maximum rescue work can be carried out,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/fewer-avian-rescue-volunteers-this-year/articleshow/80220826.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP threatens agitation if free water scheme is not implemented in Secunderabad Cantonment||HYDERABAD: The BJP wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment on Monday threatened to stage protests if the state government’s free water supply scheme is not implemented in the Cantonment areas. Speaking at a press conference on Monday, former vice-president of Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) and BJP member J Rama Krishna said that the BJP has urged MAUD minister K Taraka Rama Rao to implement the scheme, under which free water up to 20,000 litres (20 KL) will be provided to consumers, in Cantonment areas as well. He also submitted his representation to the principal secretary, MAUD, Arvind Kumar, seeking extension of the scheme to Cantonment areas and revision of water tariffs. “BJP will protest if the government ignores our plea on free water supply,” he said. “SCB is already in deep financial crisis and cannot spend large sums of money on operation and maintenance of water supply network. The state government must instruct the water board to revise water tariffs,” he said. Meanwhile, the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) released the data of consumers who will benefit from the scheme. As many as 1.96 lakh slum dwellers will benefit from the scheme and they need not install water meters. Further, 7.87 lakh consumers under the ‘domestic-individuals’ category and 24,967 consumers under ‘domestic apartments & domestic bulk’ category will be eligible for the scheme. “To avail the scheme, beneficiaries can link their Aadhaar number with the existing consumer account number (CAN) at Mee-Seva Kendra or log on to www.hyderabadwater.gov.in”HMWS&SB said in a press release. They can dial 155313 for queries. KTR will launch the scheme in Borabanda at 8 am on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-threatens-agitation-if-free-water-scheme-is-not-implemented-in-cantt/articleshow/80220842.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Meerut||Teen girl gang-raped in UP’s Meerut||Meerut: A 15-year-old girl was allegedly abducted and gang-raped by three youths in Daurala area of Meerut district. "An FIR has been registered and the main accused and his brother have been arrested," police said. According to police, the accused had threatened the girl if she reports about the incident to the police. But the teenage girl, unfazed with threats, went to the local police station and filed a complaint. The survivor and the victim belong to the same village. Police, based on the complaint of the family of rape survivor, an FIR under relevant sections of rape and Pocso act was been registered at Daurala police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/teen-girl-gang-raped-in-ups-meerut/articleshow/80334146.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Pune||MBA, MMS allotment list out today for 37,000 aspirants||PUNE: The first allotment list for aspirants of MBA/MMS courses will be displayed online on Tuesday. Students who accept the allotted seat need to click on the freeze option, while others can click on the ‘not freeze’ option for betterment option. The admission process for the first round will take place between January 13 and 15. Parag Kalkar, dean of management and commerce faculty at Savitribai Phule Pune University, said, “This year, there are just 17 to 20,000 seats and over 37,000 candidates. All the seats will be filled as many top students must have taken admission via other examinations too. The first cut-offs are always high, but they reduce in the subsequent round. Students will prefer a college near them rather than going to a far off place.” All the reading and learning material is available online and IIM professors are putting their video lectures online. The examinations are also online and it is easy for students to take admission in a nearby college unless one gets into the top colleges in the state, he said. Students must accept the offered seat through his or her login, report to the allotted institute, confirm the admission by submitting required documents and pay the fees between January 13 and 15. Students must self-verify the seat allotment made to him or her. If there is an error in the claims made by a student, then they need to report the grievance through their login by online mode. Those allotted their first preference get their choice of ‘auto-freeze’. They need to pay the seat acceptance fee online through their login, and they would not be considered eligible for the subsequent centralised admission process rounds whether they accept the seat or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mba-mms-allotment-list-out-today-for-37k-aspirants/articleshow/80222531.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 12, 2021||Goa||Calangute residents oppose sewerage proj in temple land||Calangute: Shree Shantadurga Kalangutkarin Nanoda Devasthan committee members on Monday said they will never allow a sewerage pumping station to be built on the temple land at Gauravaddo, Calangute. Speaking at a protest meeting at the site of the pumping station, devasthan president Digamber Sawant said that they forced the contractor to stop the work which had started in December. “We will never allow a sewerage pumping station on devasthan land as it is sacred to us. We don’t want to defile the sanctity of the land with all the filth which will come to the pumping station,” he said. Sawant said they have been opposing the pumping station for the past few years and had even offered an alternative site for it. “When Manohar Parrikar was the chief minister, he had agreed to take the alternative site, and a feasibility study was also conducted. But then nothing was done about it,” Sawant said. Participants at the meeting said they are not against a pumping station, but are opposed to its location on devasthan land. “The land belonging to the devasthan was acquired by the government without following proper procedure,” Rajan Korgaonkar, attorney of the devasthan, said. Calangute Constituency Forum president Premanand Divkar claimed the sewerage pipeline network in Calangute which is ready, has already developed defects. “Water flows out of the chambers during the monsoon. If the sewerage network starts functioning, it’s very likely the sewage will spill out from the chambers onto the roads. This will sound a death knell to tourism in Calangute,” he said. Members of Hindu Janajagruti Samiti and the social action cell of Calangute parish also lent support to the protest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/calangute-residents-oppose-sewerage-proj-in-temple-land/articleshow/80222533.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Jaipur||Chicken food biz of eateries plunges over 40%||JAIPUR: Rajveer Singh Kapoor’s two children don’t know what bird flu is and he has run out of ideas to dissuade them from eating chicken. With growing number of families like Kapoor’s and individuals abstaining from having the popular non-veg, restaurants, chicken shops and poultry farm are now feeling the heat. “The demand for non-veg, mostly chicken-made delicacies, has fallen over 40%. Chicken is free from the bird flu. But you cannot change people’s fears, though some people still consume,” said Aziz Tanwar, owner of a restaurant. Tanwar said about 70% of non-veg business comes from chicken and items range is very large unlike mutton or fish which has two or three maximum. If night curfew was not enough, now we have to deal with this even though bird flu has no connection to poultry population as of now,” said Tanwar. Confirming the sudden sharp decline in sales, Rajasthan Poultry Farmers Society president Rajkumar Jaipal said sale of chicken had fallen about 60% while the decline in egg sales is around 30%. “The strain impacts on wild birds. We have sent a couple of dead chicken to labs in Pune and Bhopal. All have come negative. It’s just a fear and there is not enough awareness,” Jaipal said. He said the demand decline has affected the prices of eggs. “Now the ex-farm rates have come down to Rs 4 from Rs 6.65 a 10 days ago.” Even chicken shop owners in the city said the demand contraction had affected the prices. “From Rs 220 per kg, chicken prices have come down to Rs 120 or so. There is also a drop in demand for mutton and fish which have witnessed demand decline of around 30%,” said Safik, a non-veg shop retailer. People visiting restaurants in star hotels are also skipping non-veg, especially chicken-made food items. “As such we have a strict quality control for food entering our hotel. The corona pandemic has further tightened those norms. So, there is a high level of assurance we provide. But it is sometimes hard to take out the fear factor from the mind of the visitors. Certainly, now-a-days, less number of people are asking for non-veg in our restaurants. But this is a temporary phase and will go away soon,” said a hotelier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chicken-food-biz-of-eateries-plunges-over-40/articleshow/80220821.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Agra||97% Covid patients cured of infection in Agra district||AGRA: Over 97% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,379 cases reported in the district. The number of active Covid cases also reduced from 132 on Sunday to 124 on Monday. Moreover, at least seven new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 10,379. The patients included staffers of SN Medical College and a staffer of Agra Municipal Corporation. Four of them were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 16 Covid patients were discharged on Monday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.2%. So far, 9,993 (97.1%) people have been cured of the infection. People who came in contact with Covid patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city." Meanwhile, a final Covid vaccine dry run was conducted at 68 centres in Agra district on Monday. Technical glitches related to the internet server caused disruption during the dry run at several centres. Health department officials claimed to sort out the network-related issues before the start of the actual vaccination on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/97-covid-patients-cured-of-infection-in-agra-district/articleshow/80218889.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Now, smart city buses ply to Shendra, Karmad||Aurangabad: For the first time, since the smart city buses were rolled out in Aurangabad city, authorities have extended the services to Shendra and Karmad — around 20km and 25km away from the city respectively. The bus services to these two locations were flagged off on Monday evening. In addition to this, a total of 50 smart city buses will run on 20 routes, including nine new routes in the city. The new routes to be covered include railway station, Harsul T-point via Government Engineering College, Sutgirni Chowk, Pundaliknagar and Cidco. The other routes include Aurangpura to Ranjangaon, Cidco to Ghanegaon, Cidco to Bamu, Cidco to Bajajnagar, starting and ending at railway station via Seven Hills, Central Naka, Shahgunj and Central Bus Stand. Authorities said the decision to extend the bus services to Shendra and Karmad has been taken to improve connectivity with AURIC city —India’s first well-planned and Greenfield Smart industrial city. AURIC has been planned on a sprawling 10,000 acre and is part of the ambitious Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC) project. Pushkal Shivam, deputy CEO of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited, said, “Since its launch on November 5 last year, about 3.5 lakh commuters have already availed of the bus services. On an average, about 6,000 to 7,000 citizens take the cit buses for daily travel.” Authorities have appealed to citizens to take the benefit of various concession schemes that have been floated for regular travellers. Pass sale centres are open at Cidco bus stand, Aurangpura and railway station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-smart-city-buses-ply-to-shendra-karmad/articleshow/80218894.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Chennai||Do not push me to rethink my decision on politics, says Rajini||Chennai: Actor Rajinikanth has asked his fans not to push him any further to rethink his decision on not entering electoral politics by holding rallies. “I have made my decision. Do not cause more and more anguish by organizing such rallies and trying to pressure me to enter politics. I have clearly explained in my statement why I am not entering electoral politics,” Rajinikanth said in a statement on Monday. Rajinikanth’s statement came a day after a section of his fans held a rally at Valluvar Kottam here to urge him to take a relook at his earlier decision not to enter electoral politics. In a statement on December 29, 2020, Rajinikanth had said that he was unable to enter electoral politics or launch a party owing to his health condition. Though initially shocked by his decision, a majority of his fans and Rajini Makkal Mandram (RMM) members grudgingly accepted the actor’s decision, since it was made based on his health condition. Rajinikanth also expressed his anguish that some fans along with certain expelled RMM members came together to hold a rally on Sunday. It went against the decision of RMM, said the actor, thanking its members, who did not take part in the rally. While expressing his displeasure over attempts to hold such rallies to push him more, Rajinikanth said he was happy with the way the rally on Sunday was organized, without causing hindrance to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/do-not-push-me-to-rethink-my-decision-on-politics-says-rajini/articleshow/80220816.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Health dept’s 15 teams collecting samples from bull owners, tamers||Madurai: With jallikattu set to happen this week in Madurai, district health officials are taking precautionary measures to prevent Covid-19 spread by ensuring that all jallikattu participants undergo Covid-19 tests in a phased manner before the event. Especially with fresh Covid-19 cases seeing a declining trend in the district, health officials are hoping to keep the spread in check and urged for public cooperation. Covid-19 testing is being conducted in a phased manner since Sunday at Avaniyapuram, Alanganallur and Palamedu, the three venues where jallikattu is set to happen. “A total of 15 teams are responsible for collecting samples from bull owners and bull tamers. Each team has one lab technician, health inspector and health worker. On Monday, around 500 samples were collected overall. The test results will also be given by the next day,” said Dr KV Arjun Kumar, deputy director of health services, Madurai. He added that it is compulsory for all the participants to bring their test results to participate in the jallikattu event. With two days allotted for each of the three venues, by Wednesday, the sample collection for Covid-19 testing for participants is set to be completed. Samples are also further being collected from all officials and organisers taking part in the event as well. “Temperature screening and masks are mandatory for all those entering the venues on the day of the event,” said a city health official. Currently, the active Covid-19 cases in Madurai district is at 165 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/health-depts-15-teams-collecting-samples-from-bull-owners-tamers/articleshow/80222547.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: 100 centres to mentor kids with Type 1 diabetes||AHMEDABAD: The state government plans to set up around 100 centres in Gujarat to mentor children with Type 1 diabetes. This is being done as part of a nationwide Type 1 Diabetes Network (T1DN) initiative which plans to reach out to kids living with the condition, not only with medical support but also with mentoring for overall care. The drive was launched by the Research Society for the Study of Diabetes in India (RSSDI) on Monday, the 99th anniversary of Insulin Injection Day. City-based diabetologist Banshi Saboo, who is president of RSSDI, said about 1.5 lakh persons below 18 years live with Type 1 diabetes in India. “The nation-wide initiative was launched on Monday evening. “Through the drive, we intend to create a system in India where all existing type-1 centres in all states will partner to identify, select, train, and support other healthcare professionals in hand-holding patients,” he said. RSSDI officials said that several doctors and experts are already supporting local communities, but the initiative is to streamline the efforts and cover more patients who might be out of the ambit of the formal healthcare system. “In Gujarat, we intend to create at least one such support group in each district. In bigger districts, we can have two centres. In all, we intend to establish 100 such centres this year,” said Dr Saboo. Type 1 patients need to take insulin throughout their life. They also need support in dispelling myths, understanding the requirements of the person, and learning from the peers. Several parents of persons with Type 1 diabetes also carry out awareness drives and support the communities, said RSSDI officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/100-centres-to-mentor-kids-with-type-1-diabetes/articleshow/80220907.cms||Parth Shastri
January 12, 2021||Goa||HC seeks govt reply on plea filed against marina||Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has sought a reply from central and state government authorities in a public interest petition challenging the power of the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) to grant a lease deed of 1 lakh sqm of area to a company for the proposed marina project at Nauxim Bay. The petitioners — Manoj Parab, Viresh Borkar and villagers and members of the fishing community in the area — have challenged the power and jurisdiction of the board of trustees of MPT to grant lease dated October 12, 2020 of the foreshore water area of 1 lakh sqm of the water front on the northern bank of river Zuari within’s MPT’s limits. Stating that the lease deed is illegal, the petitioners have sought the high court’s intervention to get the lease deed quashed. “The title to the land being granted by the said lease deed does not vest in the central government nor the board of trustees of MPT, and hence the land under the said lease deed could not have been conveyed by the board of trustees to Kargwal Constructions Private Ltd whether by a lease or otherwise,” their petition stated. The petitioners stated that the “setting up of marina at Nauxim Bay would be merely for pleasure and not a necessity for public at large”. The petitioners have alleged that environment destruction caused due to the project would adversely affect the biodiversity as well as the fragile ecosystem of Nauxim Bay. “Permitting a marina to be set up at Nauxim Bay would destroy the windowpane oysters which are a protected species under The Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972. Any licence granted to set up a marina in this fragile area would have the effect of doing indirectly, what could not be done directly - thus destroy the very beds and destroy and injure the protected windowpane oysters,” the petitioners stated in their petition. The members from the fishing community have stated that the livelihood will be destroyed with the setting up of the marina, the petitioners said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-seeks-govt-reply-on-plea-filed-against-marina/articleshow/80222541.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Govt junior colleges want additional grant to start physical classes||HYDERABAD: Ahead of junior colleges reopening in the state, the principals of government colleges say that an additional grant of Rs 500 per each student should be sanctioned to all colleges in the state. They said that the grant is necessary to hire sweepers, scavengers, and buy sanitizers, hand wash, and maintain other precautions in the colleges. “Principals would need at least a week to get the colleges cleaned and have everything in place to resume classes. To do this, the state should first sanction us an additional grant,” said KS Rama Rao, president, Telangana Government Junior Colleges Principals Association. He said that a college would need Rs 10,000 per month to hire a sweeper and scavenger on an outsourcing basis. “Apart from hiring sweepers and scavengers, we also need funds to procure essentials to follow Covid-19 norms on the campus. To meet all expenses, the state should give Rs 500 per each student,” he added and said that they had also submitted a representation to finance minister T Harish Rao on the subject. Principals said that ever since the state started providing free education to intermediate students as part of the free KG to PG education programme, they are unable to provide the basic amenities to the students due to lack of funds and that the principals are facing financial hardships. “In majority of colleges, principals are using their own funds even to pay telephone bills. So, if colleges are started without sanctioning additional grants, it will be an extra burden on principals and faculty,” said a principal of government junior college. Syed Omer Jaleel, secretary, commissioner and secretary, Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education (TSBIE) said that he received no formal request from the principals seeking additional funds. “I am aware that colleges would need additional funds and have already informed the state. It is up to the state to decide on whether or not to give additional grants,” said Jaleel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/govt-jr-colleges-want-additional-grant-to-start-physical-classes/articleshow/80220857.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 12, 2021||Goa||Power dept to get new chief engg||Panaji: The government is set to appoint Raghuvir Keni as chief electrical engineer of the Goa electricity department on contract basis. His name was cleared at the recent cabinet meeting. He was earlier appointed as chief on deputation basis from Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) where he was superintending engineer, in December 2019 and retired on September 30 last year. After he retired, the charge was given to the department’s executive engineer and superintending engineer I of the department Rajiv Samant. The department has been finding it difficult to appoint an engineer to the top post because of the lack of degree-holders with the required experience within the department which in turn is due to delays in timely promotions of junior engineers (degree holders) to assistant engineers in the past. Several top posts in the department continue to be vacant with no engineers eligible for the posts and with executive engineers holding charge of these posts. Keni’s name was initially recommended by the Goa Public Service Commission for the post in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-to-get-new-chief-engg/articleshow/80222546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Pune||Pune municipal corporation allows coaching classes to reopen, most want to wait for jabs||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has given permission to reopen coaching classes from Tuesday. A notification to this effect was issued by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar on Monday. These include private coaching classes, including those training typists, skill development, computer classes and other coaching institutes for board exams and professional and competitive exams, have been permitted to reopen from Tuesday. Owners said they had to consider the size of classrooms and the number of students, while others said the vaccine was here and it would improve the situation. The notification said coaching classes must ensure all safety precautions of social distancing, sanitisation, RT-PCR tests of faculty, admin staff and non-teaching employees are conducted before they reopen. Masks, thermal scanning, sanitiser bottles at the entry point, safe distance between two benches are to be followed too. Vaibhav Bakliwal, director of Bakliwal Tutorials and vice-president of Coaching Federation of India said students and teachers should have an option whether they want to join classes physically or continue online. They will observe the situation for a while before starting physical classes, he said. Owner of Ekatvam, Sucharit Rajyadhyaksha, which conducts training for chartered accountancy classes said the staff has been discussing the reopening. “We get daily messages from students, but we are in two minds. The Covid vaccine is here and it will be a good idea to wait,” he added. Director of IITians Prashikshan Kendra, Durgesh Mangeshkar, said opinion is divided amongst coaching institutes, students and parents on the feasibility of offline classes and online coaching is smooth in many institutes. Class owners said many parents and teachers felt offline classes must start after all are vaccinated. Mangeshkar said,“I am expecting a mixed bag of possibilities as we go forward.” Centre head at Allen Arun Jain said, “Students were waiting for classes to open as it was always a challenge to comprehend abstract topics in the online mode. Opening up will assist students with their regular classes and specific doubt sessions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-allows-coaching-classes-to-reopen-most-want-to-wait-for-jabs/articleshow/80222538.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Tech college inspections in next academic year?||HYDERABAD: Physical inspection of technical colleges in the state by the Fact-Finding Committee (FFC) of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad (JNTUH), which has been pending for the academic year 2020-21, will now most likely be held together during the affiliation process of next academic year. While the JNTUH officials said that they might have to conduct both the inspections together owing to time constraints, the faculty said that the move will only give a clean chit to private colleges that committed irregularities in the year 2020-21. “A final decision has not been taken yet, but there is a possibility that we might conduct physical inspections for 2020-21 and 2021-22 academic year together,” M Manzoor Hussain, JNTUH registrar, said. “Our main aim has been to ensure that this academic year will not be a zero year. So, we might not have time to conduct two separate physical inspections as colleges will only reopen in February. But, there is no reason to worry as our FFCs will ensure that both academic year’s documents are properly checked,” he said, and added that they will focus on the number of faculty, salary, and bank statements as they have received several complaints. The faculty said that if inspections are conducted together, the varsity must increase the number of members in an FFC. “At least five to six must come for inspection and two must focus only on verifying documents and facilities with respect to the academic year 2020-21. If that’s not possible, they should verify documents one day and conduct physical inspection the next day,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, Telangana Technical Institutions Employees Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-college-inspections-in-next-academic-year/articleshow/80220886.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||In passing of Yazdani’s Zend, Mumbai has lost a master baker||MUMBAI: “Get rid of your cough, eat my ginger biscuit.” The baker who kneaded such happy prescriptions into Mumbai's gut via the blackboard of the iconic Yazdani bakery in Fort is no more. Zend Meherwan Zend, the jovial co-owner of the six-decade-old Irani bakery who said bread must have a bite to it and who did not let Parkinson’s disease keep him from sipping tea or relishing ice-cream at the cash counter, passed away at age 86 this past Sunday. With the departure of this jolly former boxer at Yazdani, known for both its muscular multigrain bread loaf as 1950s’ American bodybuilders staring from its walls, the city has lost a rare leavening agent: Someone who shared chicken sandwiches with strangers passing by his bakery on walking tours. City historian Deepak Rao recalled the friend he lovingly referred to as ZZZ—short for Zend Zend Zend—as a well-built former boxing champion who loved English poetry and lived in Colaba’s Bennett Villa on the junction of Wodehouse Road and Cooperage Road. Food historian Kurush Dalal remembered him as “perhaps the first baker in Mumbai to go beyond Bun, Brun, Laadi Pav and Sliced Bread” in his online tribute. Food writer Kalyan Karmakar spoke of his “warmest and most loving handshake”. Over a century before sourdough bread would become a thing, Zend’s grandfather had set up a bakery near Alexander cinema that followed a similar fermenting process as this baker’s yeast-shunning bread. His grandmother Jerbanoo would get up at 3am to knead the dough in khamir, the basic yeast ferment—a technique from Iran. Zend’s father later joined Rising Sun Bakery at Golpitha that used to supply breads, cakes and pastries from Colaba Military Camp to Chembur Naka on a bullock cart and started Yazdani Restaurant and Bakery in the 1950s in a building that used to be a Japanese bank through World War II. Breads and delicacies emerging from the woodfired oven at Zend’s Yazdani—cheese and garlic buns, chocolate bread, Swiss rolls, hot dogs. gutli and pav—would travel to canteens from Mantralaya to Bombay Gymkhana. So sinful were its rum-soaked Christmas plum cakes they came with an oral disclaimer: “Don’t eat and drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-passing-of-yazdanis-zend-city-has-lost-a-master-baker/articleshow/80219749.cms||Sharmila Ganesan Ram
January 12, 2021||Madurai||Minor runs over pedestrian with bike, uncle held||Ramanathapuram: The district police arrested the uncle of a minor boy for giving him his bike, as he fatally knocked down a pedestrian recently. Police said that the 17-year-old rode the bike and hit Karupaiah, 55, from Vadavayal near Thirupalaikudi on Friday. He was booked under the IPC section 304(a)- causing death by negligence. The Thirupalaikudi police, which registered the case, took up further investigation in the case. It was found that the boy’s uncle S Dhanapalan, 45, of Pichankurichi gave him the bike to ride. Subsequently, the case was altered to the IPC section 304 (II) - culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Dhanapalan was produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in a prison. Ramanathapuram district SP E Karthick said that minors should not be allowed to ride vehicles. If they are allowed to do so and cause an accident, the owner would be held responsible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minor-runs-over-pedestrian-with-bike-uncle-held/articleshow/80222561.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Fallout over Rs 7,500 crore project to develop south Mumbai plot, builder exits pact||MUMBAI: Six years after signing a joint development agreement for a prime sea facing Prabhadevi plot, developer Wadhwa Group is believed to have walked out of the Rs 7,500-crore project following differences with partner Hubtown (formerly Ackruti). The partners ‘cordially’ decided to end the agreement for the luxury residential development called 25 South, comprising three towers of about 50-storeys each on a 5.5-acre plot. On Monday, both sides vehemently denied the split during a con call with TOI.“It’s not true. We had issues which any two partners have and we both have moved on and are focusing on what is important,” said Navin Makhija, MD, Wadhwa Group. “We are jointly developing the project. There is no disagreement. Rivals are spreading rumours,” sai Vimal Shah, MD, Hubtown. However, market sources confirmed the differences between the two builders were settled before an arbitration tribunal of Justice (retired) MG Gaikwad. TOI has learnt the two developers have already signed consent terms to end the partnership and the papers have been sent to be formally registered. The Prabhadevi plot owned by Hubtown used to be the Hindoostan Mills. In December 2014, the developer tied up with Wadhwa to jointly develop the land. Sources familiar with the agreement said that Wadhwa had raised Rs 130 crore from its own capital to start the project. As part of the deal, Wadhwa was to receive 13.5% from the total sale of apartments in the three towers and a fixed fee of Rs 30 crore for planning, developing and executing the entire project. The dispute between the two partners arose over payment issues, it is learnt. The first of the three skyscrapers (Wing A South Tower) has reached up to the 38 floors of the sanctioned 47 floors. According to sources, Wadhwa will now only have claim over portions of this tower and not the other two. “Hubtown will now take over the entire project while Wadhwa will assist in completion of the first tower. Wadhwa will have no rights or interest in the balance project,’’ said sources. Hubtown will reimburse Wadhwa to the tune of Rs 225 crore which will be in the form of 45,897 sq ft of space in the under-construction tower. This includes 21 apartments and 55 car parks in the tower. Some of the corporate honchos and businessmen who have booked flats in Wing A include Rajesh Mandawewala of Welspun Group, Rajiv Sabharwal, MD & CEO of Tata Capital and Sandeep Bakshi, MD & CEO of ICICI bank. Recently, Oaktree Capital Management invested Rs 425 crore in the project.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fallout-over-rs7500cr-project-to-develop-sobo-plot-bldr-exits-pact/articleshow/80222565.cms||Nauzer Bharucha
January 12, 2021||Goa||Delay in demarcating pvt forests draws NGT’s ire||New Delhi: The National Green Tribunal (NGT) has rapped the Goa government over the delay in identification and demarcation of private forests in the coastal state, saying the state authorities were deliberately delaying the compliance of its orders. A bench headed by NGT chairperson Justice A K Goel directed the Goa government to complete the entire exercise within three months. The tribunal warned that if the exercise is not completed within the stipulated time, coercive measures may have to be taken if the officers concerned do not behave responsibly. If any grievance survives, it will be open to the applicant to take further remedies in accordance with the law, the bench said. The tribunal passed the order on a plea filed by NGO Goa Foundation. The Goa government had constituted a committee on January 21, 2020 to submit a report on the review of earlier reports prepared by different committees. For this purpose, a public notice was issued on July 15, 2020 and time to file objections was extended till August 31, 2020 on the ground of Covid-19 pandemic. However, the objections have still not been finalised, NGT noted. The counsel for the Goa government submitted before NGT that the exercise will require one year time. The tribunal, however, said, “We find the statement to be ridiculous and lacks sense of responsibility since the tribunal, by order passed more than two years ago required the whole exercise to be completed by March, 2019.” “Thus, it is difficult to brush aside the applicant’s contention that the attitude of the state authorities is to deliberately delay the compliance of orders of this tribunal for indefinite period, defeating the public interest,” the bench said. The NGT had earlier directed the Goa government to notify an area of 46.11 square kilometres as ‘private forest’. However, another 4-5 times this area was identified as additional tracts of private forest by the Araujo and Thomas Committees for South and North Goa, respectively. This report is still waiting to be finalised by the state government. The NGT order approving 46sqkm of private forest in Goa was based on the findings of the Sawant and the Karapurkar Committees, later reviewed and confirmed by the Sharma Committee. But the committees headed by retired forest officers F X Araujo and V T Thomas worked between 2012 and 2017, identifying new survey numbers with private forests, which were not covered by the earlier committees. Agencies||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/delay-in-demarcating-pvt-forests-draws-ngts-ire/articleshow/80222557.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Goa||‘Rejig of Congress minority cell soon’||Panaji: With an eye on the upcoming municipal and state elections, Congress has started reorganising the state minority department even at the booth level across the state. Congress state coordinator for minority department, Akash Chajad arrived on Monday for a two-day visit to assess the situation and oversee the process of reconstituting the department in Goa. Chajad said that the new team will be put in place within 30 days. “I am here in Goa to pick a new team or new members for the minority department. In the coming elections, we need to form a strong team that will work hard in the next elections. Our attempt is to form a new minority department in a month’s time,” said Chajad. This is his first official visit to Goa and it comes less than a week after Congress disbanded the entire minority department in Goa. A revamp was necessitated after the former minority cell chairman Urfan Mulla resigned in November and subsequently joined BJP. While quitting, Mulla had complained about the lack of unity among Congress MLAs and functionaries. He was seen working for BJP in the zilla panchayat elections. Chajad met party workers, former members of the minority department, South Goa district Congress office bearers and state party president Girish Chodankar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rejig-of-congress-minority-cell-soon/articleshow/80222548.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Madurai||MRB nurses on hunger strike demanding regularisation||Madurai: Around 200 nurses recruited by the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Recruitment Board (TNMRB) on consolidated pay held a protest on Monday at Anna Nagar here seeking regularisation. “This is part of a state-wide protest in which around 14,000 nurses are participating. The nurses are on a hunger strike while at work or gathered at the protest venue. We have repeatedly protested, so far the state government has not responded. If our demand is not met, we will escalate the protests further,” said SK Sujatha, secretary, Tamil Nadu MRB Nurses Empowerment Association. The MRB nurses working in government hospitals and primary health centres have been demanding regularisation despite working for many years. As per the usual process, according to seniority and vacancies arising after retirement of existing staff or based on promotion, MRB nurses after working for a minimum of two years on consolidated pay get their jobs regularised. However, many have not got their jobs regularised despite years of service as officials always cite lack of vacancies. The nurses further said that their salaries are also much less compared to regular staff nurses despite doing the same work.Nurses from Madurai, Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai and Theni took part in the protest held in Madurai on Monday. Similar protests were also organised in Chennai, Tirunelveli, Trichy and Coimbatore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/mrb-nurses-on-hunger-strike-demanding-regularisation/articleshow/80222549.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||90-year-old woman dies in Karamadai house fire||Coimbatore: A 90-year-old woman was charred to death when a fire broke out in her house at Karamadai on Monday morning.The deceased was identified as K Chellammal of Ranga Nagar. Her daughter, S Pavathal, 50, suffered 60% burn injuries. “They were sleeping when the fire broke out around 3am. Neighbours rescued Pavathal and rushed her to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). As the fire spread, an LPG cylinder exploded. Fire and rescue services personnel reached the spot and put out the fire within 30 minutes. They retrieved the charred body of Chellammal,” a police officer said.The Karamadai police sent the body to CMCH for postmortem. Forensic experts inspected the place.Chellammal had visited the Coimbatore collectorate two weeks ago to submit a petition to collector K Rajamani, the officer said. “In her petition, Chellammal said that two of her daughters refused to look after her after receiving a share of her property. She had sought the collector’s help to get back the property.”A police team is seeking the whereabouts of her daughters when the fire broke out, said superintendent of police Ara Arularasu. “We will collect their phone details to find out whether there was any foul play,” he said.Chellammal’s two sons had died a few years ago and her daughters, Rangammal, 60, Nagammal, 65, Jayamani, 53, and Pavathal, 50, were residing with their families.Pavathal’s husband Selvaraj had died four years ago. Her two daughters are college students. She was staying in a house at Ranga Nagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/90-year-old-woman-dies-in-karamadai-house-fire/articleshow/80220924.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab set to introduce settlement scheme for dealers and traders||CHANDIGARH: In a reprieve to the business community, especially the small and medium businessmen, to sail through during the pandemic times, the Punjab cabinet on Monday approved the ‘Punjab One Time Settlement Scheme for Recovery of Outstanding Dues-2021’ to clear and settle their pending arrears. With implementation of OTS, the state exchequer would bear a financial burden of Rs 121 crore. A government spokesperson said that the scheme would be implemented from February 1, 2021, across the state under which all the dealers whose assessments had been framed up to December 31, 2020, could apply under the scheme till April 30, 2021. The dealer can even submit additional statutory forms, like C-forms, which were not produced at the time of assessment, with the application form and will have to make the self-assessment and submit the proof of payment net tax payable as the result of settlement. The concerned ward in-charge would issue an order of settlement which would not be reopened in any proceeding by way of review or revision. Various trade associations had raised a concern that they are facing difficulties in procuring statutory forms prescribed under the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, for availing concessional/nil rate of tax on interstate transactions. They also urged the state government for settling their outstanding dues by introduction of One Time Settlement Scheme for the clearance and settlement of outstanding arrears. For the smooth functioning in GST regime, it is necessary and expedient to dispose of the pending assessments under the Punjab VAT Act, 2005, and CST Act-1956. In addition to this, it is also necessary that the arrears in legacy cases be recovered and settled as early as possible. Assessments pertaining to the financial year 2013-14 were framed for 47,627 dealers. With the implementation of the OTS, from the assessments conducted for the year 2013-14, 40,000 plus dealers with demand up to Rs 1 lakh would get 90% relief in tax and 100% relief in interest and penalty. They would be required to pay only 10% of due tax and zero amount on account of interest or penalty. Thus, these 40,000 plus dealers are required to deposit only Rs 6.7 crore against the total demand of Rs.90.52 crore. Apart from this, 4,755 dealers with demands ranging from Rs 1-5 lakh would get 100% relief in interest and penalty in the assessments conducted for the year 2013-14. Likewise, arrears of demand are pending for various reasons in 7,004 cases pertaining to the financial years from 2005-06 to 2012-13. With the implementation of this OTS, dealers in 4,037 of these cases would get 90% tax relief and 100% relief in interest and penalty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-to-bring-settlement-scheme-for-dealers-traders/articleshow/80222570.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Pollachi case: accused in CBI custody||Coimbatore: The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday got two days custody of Haron Paul, 29, of Achipatti, an accused in the Pollachi sexual assault case.CBI had filed a petition before the district mahila court on Friday, seeking five days custody of Paul. The petition came up for hearing on Monday. A police team led by inspector Deivasigamani produced Paul before the court from the Gobichettipalayam sub-jail. After judge Nandhini Devi granted two days custody, CBI took Paul to an undisclosed place for interrogation. K Arulanandam, 34, of Vadugapalayam, P Babu, 27 and Paul were arrested by CBI on January 6 in connection with the case. Sources said that while Arulanandam and Babu cooperated with CBI, Paul refused to do so. So, CBI took him to custody for two days. He will be produced before the court on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pollachi-case-accused-in-cbi-custody/articleshow/80220925.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana: 14 of gang plotting to leak Gram Sachiv exam papers caught||KARNAL/PANIPAT: Haryana police have thwarted an attempt to leak the question papers of the Gram Sachiv examination conducted by Haryana Staff Selection Commission (HSSC), by arresting 14 people, including the owner of a private school. Police have claimed that the gang was trying to leak the question papers and distribute the answer key to the candidates. Police also recovered some devices from their possession, which were to be allegedly used for passing the answer key for solving the question paper. Panipat SP Sashank Kumar Sawan said one of the accused was the owner of a private school in Samalkha where the paper was being conducted. "We got a tip-off that a gang was planning to leak the Gram Sachiv paper in Samalkha area after some people were held in Hisar district on Saturday, leading to the arrest of other accused on Sunday," said Sawan. The accused have been identified as Jagdeep and his son Anuj, owner the school; Rahul of Garhi Kesari village in Sonipat; Rajesh of Shiva Panipat; Devender of Atail village in Sonipat; Vaibhav of Kishanpura Panipat; Pushpinder of Sampla in Rohtak; Anuj of Maina village in Rohtak; Sanjit, Aman, Vishavjeet, Sunil and Ankit, all residents of Baliana village in Rohtak; and Deepak of Kasreti village in Rohtak. Panipat SP said that Rahul who was arrested from the school premises revealed that he was called by the school owners (Jagdeep and Anuj) to solve the paper. Devender and Vaibhav too were tasked with solving the question papers and Rajesh was to provide answer key to the examinees. Police have recovered 18 mobile phones, 2 laptops, 1 printer, 1 bluetooth device, 2 ID card (MTS), four cars, including Brezza, Polo, Santro and i-10 from the possession of the accused. The SP said that the accused were produced before the court and sent in 3-day police remand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/14-of-gang-plotting-to-leak-gram-sachiv-exam-papers-caught/articleshow/80222574.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Teacher to challenge edu dept’s transfer order||Aurangabad: The joint director of higher and technical education recently recommended the transfer of a teacher of a polytechnic, stating that the teacher got himself shifted to the institution through misrepresentation in 2005. The teacher told TOI that he would challenge the order legally. The management of the college had lodged a complaint against the teacher. Joint director technical education regional office Mahesh Shivankar went into details and concluded that the teachers got himself transferred by “making false claims”. Despite repeated attempts, Shivankar could be reached for his comments. When contacted, the teacher, Dr Vijay Katariya, said that his appointment was never illegal. “My transfer under surplus was done through a GR by then principal secretary of higher and technical education. Authorities at the joint director’s office do not want transparency in the administration. When I lodged a complaint against the joint director, this is the way I am being sidelined,” he said. He said he had not received any copy of the letter from the joint director of education recommending his transfer. He will contest it legally as it was against the law of principle of natural justice. The lecturer said that he along with other teachers, have successfully contested and won legal cases for being denied sixth pay arrears and separately he also won PhD increment case in the high court against the college principal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/teacher-to-challenge-edu-depts-transfer-order/articleshow/80218914.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmers oppose new bypass on Sathyamangalam Road||Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu Farmers Association has requested the state government to widen the existing Sathy Road instead of creating a new bypass road from Kurumbapalayam to Sathyamangalam. The bypass will lead to acquisition of many farmlands, affecting their livelihood, the association said in a petition submitted to collector K Rajamani in the city on Monday.The road widening work should be taken up by the national highways department rather than a private agency brought in by the central government, the association said.Association president S Palanisamy said, "496-km Sathy Road, from Coimbatore to Sathyamangalam in Erode, connects a host of villages including Kurumbapalayam, Kovilpalayam and parts of Annur." "Though the government approved widening of the road and even allocated Rs 1,200 crore for it, the project is yet to take off," he said.Officials also say there is enough space to widen the road up to 120ft, he added.Farmers say the government should focus on widening Sathy Road, which has been a long-pending demand of residents, farmers and industrialists on the road. It should be widened like Coimbatore-Pollachi Road and Mettupalayam Road. "Instead, an agency employed by the central government is measuring parcels of land to create a 96km-long bypass from Kurumbapalayam to Sathyamangalam passing through Annur and Puliapatti. This will affect thousands of small farmers since that particular belt is majorly agricultural," Palanisamy said.Farmers say Sathy Road, which connects Mettupalayam Road and Annur, is already a ring road. "Just widening the road will reduce congestion and allow vehicles to move faster," he said. "The state and central governments can come up with any scheme, as long as farmers are not affected," he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-oppose-new-bypass-on-sathyamangalam-road/articleshow/80220931.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Ryot kills kin’s wife over property dispute, tries to pass it off as mishap||HYDERABAD: A farmer was arrested on Sunday for allegedly killing his relative, a woman, by running over her with an autorickshaw trolley and tried to pass it off as a road accident at Macharam village in Mahbubnagar district. At 4.30pm on Saturday, S Shailaja,40, her husband Yadaiah,44, also a farmer, and their five-year-old daughter Niharika were travelling on a bike. An auto trolley first hit their vehicle from the rear. The trio fell off the vehicle and suffered bleeding injuries. The trolley took a U-turn and returned to the place and ran over the injured Shailaja. She died on the spot, Mahbubnagar superintendent of police Rema Rajeshwari said. The locals tried to catch the trolley driver, but he escaped from the spot. When police reached the spot, the locals informed them that it was not an accident as the driver deliberately ran over the victim. After preliminary investigation, police took K Narasimhulu into custody. They discovered that Narasimhulu had conspired and tried to eliminate the entire family as he had a property dispute with the victims. “Both the victims and the accused are relatives and are into farming. They have property disputes from a long time. To eliminate the victims, Narasimhulu hatched the plan with the support of two others, K Yadagiri and K Mahesh,’’ the SP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ryot-kills-kins-wife-over-property-dispute-tries-to-pass-it-off-as-mishap/articleshow/80220939.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Nine held for abducting three men, extorting money; 6 on the run||Erode: The district police arrested nine persons on Sunday for abducting three men and extorting money. The abductees were P Mohan, 45, an antique seller from Kilpauk in Chennai, his car driver Suresh, 36, and his friend Roy, of Kolkata, 40. Police said Mohan was doing business with Rahuman, 42, of Kalahasthi in Andhra Pradesh and Ranjith Kumar, 39, of Sathyamangalam in Erode district. Recently, the duo approached Mohan that they were willing to sell iridium materials in their possession. On January 7, Mohan and his friend Roy came to Sathyamangalam in a car to buy iridium materials and were waiting for the duo. “Suddenly, as many as 15 people came in two cars and kidnapped Mohan, his friend and the driver. The gang took them to a farm house at Rajan Nagar near Bannari,” said P Thangadurai, district superintendent of police. The gang then contacted Mohan’s wife Vidya, 40, and demanded Rs 1 crore as a ransom. “As directed by the kidnappers, Vidya deposited Rs 8.5 lakh on January 7, Rs 2.5 lakh on January 8 and Rs 11 lakh on the next day, in a bank account,” the SP added. When the gang refused to release the three men till they get full ransom money, frightened Vidya lodged a complaint with the Sathyamangalam police on Saturday based on her husband’s last known location. The police formed a special team and initiated an inquiry. The team on Sunday found the hideout of the gang and managed to arrest nine culprits, the SP said. Six others escaped from the spot. The arrested were identified as Ranjith Kumar, Arun kumar, 35, Shanmugam, 40, Jeeva, 30, Sethupathi, 30, Rajesh Kumar, 28, Ratnasabapathi, 29, Gopalakrishnan, 32 and Anand Babu, 26. The police have launched a search for the other culprits, including Ramesh, 40, a former head constable in the district police, who was recently dismissed from the service for indulging in criminal activities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/nine-held-for-abducting-three-men-extorting-money-6-on-the-run/articleshow/80220927.cms||---
January 12, 2021||India||Daily Covid-19 cases fall to 12,500, lowest in 208 days||The daily number of fresh Covid-19 cases in India fell below 15,000 for the first time since June 22 last year. Only 12,507 new infections were detected on Monday, the lowest count in 208 days. The sharp dip in cases came out of the lowest number of tests conducted on the previous day since August 23. On Sunday, less than 6.6 lakh tests for the virus were run, a drop of more than 1.8 lakh from the previous day, as per the covid19india.org tracker. While fresh cases dip every Monday due to lower testing and staff shortages over the weekend, this Monday’s numbers were nearly 4,000 less than the previous day’s count, a drop of around 25%. India last recorded a lower tally of daily cases way back on June 16 last year, when 10,914 infections were reported. The last time a daily count of less than 15,000 was registered was on June 22, when countrywide cases totalled up to 14,778, as per TOI’s database collated from state government figures. There were 169 deaths from the virus on Monday, around the same as the previous day’s toll of 161. Meanwhile, in the week just gone by (January 4-10), Maharashtra saw a spike of nearly 20% in fresh Covid cases after five weeks of decline. The state recorded 26,978 cases, up from 22,586 in the previous week. Kerala continued to log the most number of new cases in the country at 35,296, the count having remained unchanged from the previous week. Together, Kerala and Maharashtra accounted for nearly half of all cases detected in India during the week. Among big states, Karnataka’ s count remained largely flat while Bengal, UP and Raj recorded the sharpest fall in cases. Bengal, identified recently by the Centre as one of four states where the pandemic was still seeing a spike, registered a fall of nearly 1,800 cases as compared with the previous week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/daily-covid-19-cases-fall-to-12500-lowest-in-208-days/articleshow/80223832.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Kamal tells youth to vote for honest rule||Coimbatore: Buoyed by scores of youngsters who gathered along his campaign route in Coimbatore and Tirupur on Monday, Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan appealed the youth to vote for an honest rule.Campaigning in several localities in Coimbatore for the second day and later in Tirupur on Monday, Kamal urged youth to educate elders in their families on the need to rescue and revive Tamil Nadu. “Those who are going to vote anew are the harbingers of a new sort of politics. The hands of first-time voters are blotless,’’ he said, calling upon people to vote not on the basis of the caste of candidates, but on their track record.The election will be a battle between honesty and corruption, Kamal said and urged the youth to stand by the side of honesty. “If you decide to vote for honesty, then I am sure that MNM would automatically become your choice.”Kamal said that politicians want the poverty line to remain forever and want people to stay below the line to exploit them. “But we will move you towards the line of affluency with our schemes and plans,” he told a gathering in Tirupur.Earlier in the day, industrialist and philanthropist Manickam Athappa Gounder joined MNM in Coimbatore. Kamal said that Manickam joining MNM was coming together of people with like-mindedness towards serving the society with honesty. During a brief interaction with media, Kamal refused to comment on Rajnikanth’s statement not to pressurise him further to enter politics. “According to my understanding, his statement means not to trouble him further,’’ he said. To another query, Kamal said if and when he meets Rajnikanth, it would not be done without the knowledge of public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/kamal-tells-youth-to-vote-for-honest-rule/articleshow/80220974.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||War heroes’ kin can now reserve Punjab govt job for minor child||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Monday gave the nod to amend the policy of ‘Appointments of Honour and Gratitude to the War Heroes or their Dependants’ to mitigate problems faced by dependants of martyred or disabled soldiers in getting jobs in line with the existing policy. The amendments in the policy will now allow the family of a martyr to reserve the job for a minor child in case the widow of the soldier does not wish to take up the job herself. Another provision has been inserted whereby widows of martyrs, who had been constrained to take up Group D posts due to extreme financial hardship, would be allowed to take a fresh Group C appointment, provided they had upgraded their educational qualifications accordingly. The spokesperson said these amendments, along with certain others, would pave the way for the next of kin to avail benefits being provided to them in recognition of the valour and bravery shown by the martyr. The policy was notified on August 19, 1999, to enable the state government to provide a government job to one dependent family member of a martyr/disabled soldier. Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh had met the next of kin (NOK) of martyrs, who have been given appointments, on February 14, 2020, wherein he had been apprised of these issues and thereupon he had assured them of their resolution on priority.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/war-heroes-kin-can-now-reserve-punjab-govt-job-for-minor-child/articleshow/80222622.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nashik||2 gold chains worth Rs 3.2L snatched||Nashik: Two gold chains worth over Rs 3.20 lakh were snatched around the same time in two different parts of the city on Sunday evening. In the first incident that took place outside a wedding hall on Aurangabad Road, a bike-borne individual targeted a woman and snatched her gold chain worth Rs 2.40 lakh. The second incident was reported near Indiranagar where a man snatched a gold chain worth Rs 80,000 from a 37-year-old woman.The complainant in the first case was walking with her children towards the wedding hall when the suspect came from behind and snatched the gold chain. In the second case, the suspect was on foot and after committing the crime he ran towards Sucheta Nagar.Police have registered the cases||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-gold-chains-worth-rs-3-2l-snatched/articleshow/80218941.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Opposition hits out at Maharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray over security to Yuva Sena secretary||MUMBAI: BJP and MNS on Monday attacked the Shiv Sena-led government for reducing the security of opposition leaders like former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and MNS chief Raj Thackeray, while boosting the Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai’s security cover to X category.  A cousin to state environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, Sardesai’s rise has been dramatic, and he is now seen as a key party figure. BJP MLA Nitesh Rane took to microblogging platform Twitter, stating sarcastically that Sardesai needed the extra security because of the way he “controls the files” in Mantralaya and that bureaucrats were “frustrated” and “angry” with him. “By giving security to Varun Sardesai, the CM has taken his slogan of ‘My Family My Responsibility’ seriously,” MNS’s Sandeep Deshpande tweeted. Sardesai was not available for comment, but a shiv Sena functionary said he did not apply for an upgrade in security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cover-for-sena-youth-leader-draws-oppn-ire/articleshow/80221021.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Cabinet approves acquisition of Mubarik Manzil palace at Malerkotla||CHANDIGARH: Punjab has decided to acquire, conserve and use of Mubarik Manzil Palace in Malerkotla of Sangrur. The Punjab cabinet on Monday decided to provide Rs 3 crore to facilitate the acquisition of the Mubarik Manzil Palace to Begum Munawwar-ul-Nisa, the owner of the said property as consideration to her for transferring property with all its rights to the state government.  A decision to this effect was taken during the cabinet meeting chaired by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh here through videoconferencing. Capt Amarinder said the decision would be instrumental in preserving the rich legacy of the state and to reconnect younger generations with the state’s glorious past. The cabinet noted that Nawab Sher Mohammad Khan of Malerkotla had vehemently raised his voice in favour of younger Sahibzadas of Guru Gobind Singh against the Subedar of Sirhind and thus has a treasured and honoured place in history of Punjab. Nawab Sher Mohammad Khan openly opposed the execution of the Guru’s younger Sahibzadas Baba Zorawar Singh and Baba Fateh Singh, aged about 9 years and 7 years. On learning of this courageous action on the part of Nawab Sher Mohammad Khan, Guru Gobind Singh gave his blessings and protection to the state of Malerkotla. As a mark of recognition Guru Ji also sent a sword ‘Sri Sahib’ to Nawab Sher Mohamad Khan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cabinet-approves-acquisition-of-mubarik-manzil-palace-at-malerkotla/articleshow/80222595.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||MP ready for vaccination: Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan||BHOPAL: Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan claimed that Madhya Pradesh is fully prepared and ready for corona vaccination. While speaking at the meeting of chief ministers with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday, Chouhan said that the vaccination drive would start in state from January 16. He said that in the first phase, about 4.16 lakh corona warriors and frontline workers would be vaccinated. Reiterating the scientists claim that both the vaccines made in India— Covishield by Serun Institute and Covaxin by Bharat Biotech – are safe and effective, he urged people not to give credence to rumours or spread misinformation about the vaccines. He said it is a matter of pride for India that our scientists have developed the vaccines locally and they are effective and cost efficient. On the occasion, Chouhan also hailed the steps taken by Prime Minister Modi to contain spread of Covid-19 across India and his initiative in launching the world’s biggest vaccination drive starting from January 16. He said the CoWIN app and portal developed for government of India to keep a tab on vaccine delivery and registration of people demonstrates the IT capacity of our experts. The app will help in better monitoring, besides maintaining complete transparency. A state-level control room and command centre has been set up for the vaccination drive. Down the line every district and blocks will have control room for better monitoring. JP hospital Bhopal and MGM medical college Indore will webcast the vaccination. It will be a two-way communication, said Chouhan. Chouhan also informed that all works have been completed with regards to logistics— training of staff, transport of vaccine, cold chains and dry run. Bulk storage facility for vaccines have been set up at Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur and the vaccines would be transported to all district vaccination centres within 24 hours of receipt of the vaccine, he said. Chief minister informed that district hospitals, community health centres, civil hospitals, primary health centres and selected private institutes will be used as vaccination centres across the state. There will be 1,149 vaccination centres and the same number of teams have been formed for administering the vaccine shots. Each team comprises of four members that include 2 ANMs, one Asha and aangawadi worker each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-ready-for-vaccination-cm/articleshow/80219805.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Latur poultry birds died of avian influenza: Animal husbandry dept||Pune: The animal husbandry department, Maharashtra, has declared Latur poultry bird deaths as confirmed cases of avian flu and is likely to implement all protocols, including humane culling of poultry birds, in the infected zones at two places in the district from Tuesday, animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Monday. The death toll in poultry birds surged in Maharashtra on Monday, as reports of 398 poultry birds found dead were received by the animal husbandry department. Of the 398 birds, seven died in Parbhani district, 60 in Latur, 265 in Nagpur, 12 in Nanded, one in Satara and 50 in Ahmednagar district, a senior official from the department said. Three crows in Nanded and two in Gondia districts were also found dead, apart from eight peahens in Yavatmal district. The mortality in birds on Monday was 411, taking the total toll to 1,621 from Sunday's 1205. The samples are being sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases In Bhopal and Disease Investigation Section (DIS) Pune for testing. It can take 48 to 72 hours to get the results of the investigation, the official said.Dhananjay Parkale, state additional commissioner of animal husbandry, told TOI, “There is no ban imposed on consumption of poultry products in the state. We have upped our surveillance in all the districts after the dead bird samples were found positive with avian influenza. We have 4,847 veterinary dispensaries across the state. There are seven to eight villages under each such veterinary dispensary on an average. These dispensaries have been instructed that in case they witness bird mortalities in their jurisdictions, they should immediately send samples of the dead birds to Pune for tests,” Parkale said.He said it has been communicated to the owners of poultry farms and general public that an intimation of mortality in crows, parrots, herons or in migratory birds in any village or of any unusual mortality of poultry birds in commercial farms, as well as in the backyard poultry, be immediately given to the nearest veterinary dispensary. The intimation should also be given on the toll-free number, 18002330418. The results of the inspection of the previously tested samples from Mumbai, Ghodbander (Thane district) and Dapoli for crows and herons and samples of poultry farm from Muramba (Parbhani) had been found positive for the H5N1 strain and samples from Beed district found positive for H5N8 strain of avian influenza late Sunday night. Culling operations have already started in the infected zone of Parbhani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/latur-poultry-birds-died-of-avian-influenza-animal-husbandry-dept/articleshow/80222572.cms||Neha Madaan
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Fire & electrical audit suggestions for CPR hosp in Kolhapur remain on paper||Kolhapur: After the fire incident in the trauma care unit of Chhatrapati Pramila Raje (CPR) hospital in September 2020, fire and electrical audits were done, however, most of the suggestions made by the fire department of the Kolhapur Municipal Corporation remained on paper.The suggestions, including installing fire extinguishers, securing all electrical wires and equipment, developing vents and evacuation routes for the critical care units, constructing underground tank of 50,000 litre capacity for water source and installing central electrical control system, were made. The fire in the trauma care unit was caused due to the fluctuations in the electricity supply.Ranjit Chile, the chief fire officer of KMC said, “We inspect the hospital every month. The fire extinguishers have been installed. However, there are limitations to revamping the electrical works in the main building which is old. We have sent a reminder to the hospital administration to comply with the rest of the measures.”The fire department has observed that in the case of disasters there are no evacuation ways on the premises. Also, the lift system needs to be upgraded to evacuate and safely shift the patients to another floor. The officials of the hospital said the work to restructure the electrical lines will be the priority and they have planned to have electrical set up separately for every floor so that in case of a disaster, the fire can be restricted to a limited spaceS S More, the dean of the hospital, said, “Proposal to revamp the safety structures and measures suggested in the audit have been sent to the government for the approval of funds. Till then, we have installed fire extinguishers in the critical care units and the training for disaster mitigation has been imparted to the staff.”The hospital is the largest public hospital in the district with a 500-bed capacity. The hospital premise has 22 buildings and most of the electrical works are not updated. Since 2013, the KMC carried out fire audit thrice. The last was conducted after the fire incident in the trauma care unit of CPR hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/fire-electrical-audit-suggestions-for-cpr-hosp-in-kolhapur-remain-on-paper/articleshow/80218925.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Villagers in Vikarabad fell sick due to withdrawal symptoms: Officials||HYDERABAD: More than 100 people in 11 villages of Vikarabad district took ill not because of consumption of adulterated toddy but due to their suffering from withdrawal symptoms, excise officials have found out. One person had died on January 9 and a 90-year-old man succumbed on Monday at his house in Vattimeenapally village. Excise superintendent of Vikarabad district A Varaprasad told TOI that there was no supply of toddy for three days in the villages prior to January 8 when people started falling sick. “Withdrawals symptoms are common when people are deprived of what they are addicting to consuming. In this case, we have found that there was no supply of toddy for three days,” he said. He said they found this out after talking to some of the villagers who were admitted to the hospitals. Samples of the toddy that was left at the toddy shops in the villages were collected and sent for testing. “We are awaiting the test reports to know if there was adulteration of toddy of what they had consumed three days prior to when they started falling sick,” Varaprasad said. Initially, it was suspected that villagers were falling sick due to some mysterious illness. Men, women and youth suffered from convulsions and some fell unconscious. They were rushed to hospitals in Vikarabad. Most of the affected villagers belong to Nawabpet and Vikarabad mandals. Excise officials said their investigations will continue. On Monday, the samples that had been collected were sent for testing to a lab of the excise department and to IICT, Hyderabad. This had to be done through the court. Officials are expecting the reports to come in two or three days. Komaraiah (90) died on Monday, taking the death toll in the incident to two. Fifty-five-year-old Billa Krishna Reddy of Pendlimadugu village in Vikarabad mandal died on January 9.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-villagers-fell-sick-due-to-withdrawal-symptoms/articleshow/80220983.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Why did you not raise Rajoana issue when in power: Punjab minister to SAD||CHANDIGARH: Punjab jails and cooperation minister Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa attacked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Monday, accusing him of playing politics over the release of Balwant Singh Rajoana, who was sentenced to death for the assassination of former chief minister Beant Singh in 1995. Sukhbir has sought time to meet the President, seeking pardon to Rajoana and his release. Randhawa asked the SAD president why he did not raise this demand when his party was part of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government at the Centre. The minister said SAD was now trying to raise the Rajoana issue to make political capital out of it since they are now out of power. Randhawa said when the Punjab government had pardoned prisoners to mark the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev, it had also proposed to the central government that all jail inmates who had already spent maximum punishment period of their sentence and were still languishing in different jails should be released. “Why did Harsimrat Kaur Badal, as she was a central minister then, not take up the demand with the government and help in their release?” said Randhawa. The minister added this was characteristic of SAD. He said it forget everything, including Punjab and the panth as it remain obsessed with self interest, and once they were out of power, they started remembering the panth and panthic issues just to gain political mileage. Randhawa asked Sukhbir why he did not raise this matter in Parliament or during the Prime Minister and the President’s visit to Punjab during the 550th birth centenary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev. “Doing it now is only aimed at gaining political mileage as otherwise Sukhbir has never been sincere about anything?” said Randhawa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-minister-to-sad-why-did-you-not-raise-rajoana-issue-when-in-power/articleshow/80222660.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Special infrastructure development fee on petrol, diesel, property purchase in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: To fund infrastructure development work in the state, the Punjab cabinet on Monday gave a go ahead to levy of ‘Special Infrastructure Development (ID) Fee’ to be deposited in the development fund of the Punjab Infrastructure Development Board (PIDB). According to a government spokesperson, the special ID Fee would be imposed at the rate of Rs 0.25 per litre each on sale of petrol and diesel within the state. Likewise, special ID Fee of Rs 0.25 will also be levied for every one hundred rupees of the value of purchase of immovable property within the state. The special fee imposed would lead to creation of additional revenue streams of Rs 216.16 crore annually into the Punjab Infrastructure Development Fund (PIDF). Likewise, the cabinet also gave approval for certain amendments in the Punjab Infrastructure (Development and Regulation) Act, 2002, through promulgation of an ordinance and thereafter introducing a bill viz. the Punjab Infrastructure (Development and Regulation) Amendment Bill, 2021 in the Punjab Vidhan Sabha. To effect the imposition of special ID Fee, an amendment to the effect would be made in the existing provision by inserting a new Section 25-A Levy of Special Fee, which stipulates: “Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government may impose the Special ID Fee for purpose of which a special head shall be created under which the accrued Special ID Fee shall be collected and deposited to the Development Fund created under the provisions of Section 27(1).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/special-infra-development-fee-on-petrol-diesel-property-purchase-in-pb/articleshow/80222646.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||‘Mutation of virus found, won’t affect vaccination’||MUMBAI: Doctors at the Tata Memorial Centre (TMC) said a genetic mutation of SARS-CoV-2 virus found in samples tested in its Kharghar hospital does not appear to have the potential to impact the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The Kharghar centre of the hospital, ACTREC, has been helping in the pandemic by testing for Covid-19 and has performed genetic sequencing of 700 Covid-19 samples between April and September. Three samples had the S-E484K mutation, which has been a topic of discussion in the medical community on social media because of its “ability to escape three antibodies” and thereby affect the efficacy of vaccines. At a press conference held on Monday, TMC director Dr Rajan Badwe and ACTREC director Dr Sudeep Gupta said none of the samples sequenced in ACTREC had either the UK or the South African variant. “The South African variant is characterized by the presence of all three mutations, that is K417N, E484K and N501Y, which were seen in none of our patients,” said Dr Sudeep Gupta. He further said that E484K's “immune escape” (ability to avoid antibodies) is “speculative” at this point. The mutation was found in September and does not appear to have led to any outbreak. “In fact, cases and deaths have been on a decline since October,” said Dr Badwe. He said an analysis of data up to January 9, 2021, from Johns Hopkins Covid-19 repository showed the number of Covid-19 deaths and cases per 1 lakh population in India had peaked approximately four months ago. “They have declined to very low levels currently,” said Dr Badwe. Therefore, the presence of any genetic mutations in the virus has not yet had an adverse impact at the population level in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mutation-of-virus-found-wont-affect-vaccination/articleshow/80221097.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||172 sectoral cops to establish rapport with city residents||Coimbatore: As many as 172 police personnel were appointed on Monday as sectoral city police officers (SCPOs) for several localities in the city. The 15 police station limits were divided into 43 sectoral areas, to which four cops each were allotted for the round-the-clock duty. Depending on the jurisdiction area, police stations would have two or three sectoral areas. All SCPOs were drawn from the existing police force.Each SCPO will be given charge of a locality within the station jurisdiction and he/she will act as a liaison among public, police and officers from other government departments.For instance, if residents were dissatisfied with a prolonged problem of water shortage and decide to stage a protest, the SCPO will inform police officers as well as concerned government department about the situation. Contact numbers of the SCPOs will be shared among the residents, who can reach out to them for all issues. The SCPOs would often visit their allotted sector and meet people. They will be in regular contact with ward councillors, VAOs, NGOs and social activists. Each SCPO should create a WhatsApp group with at least 100 members from the area. Respective police station inspectors and sub-inspectors would also be members in the group.The SCPOs should maintain a checklist of important temple festivals and events of different communities. He/she also should maintain a separate list about anti-social elements, rowdies and other issues. After inaugurating the programme at a police community hall on Avinashi Road, city police commissioner Sumit Sharan handed over booklets defining the role of SCPOs to the officers. Deputy commissioner of police G Stalin said the SCPOs would try to establish a good rapport with the public in their allotted areas, which would also help to gather information about any law & order issues.“The functioning of the SCPOs will be reviewed by senior police officials every month,” the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/172-sectoral-cops-to-establish-rapport-with-city-residents/articleshow/80221013.cms||A Subburaj
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Diversion leads to snarl on highway||Nashik: The traffic diversion being enforced for linking the Dwarka flyover with the new flyover has led to traffic snarls on the Mumbai-Agra highway between KK Wagh College and Jatra hotel.Police inspector (traffic branch) Phuldas Bhoye said the actual traffic diversion was enforced from Saturday for the first phase of work for linking the two flyovers.“The traffic from the main highway has been diverted on the twin service roads along the main carriage due to which the speed of the vehicle has reduced. However, the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) has provided us with eight traffic wardens to streamline the vehicular traffic,” he said.Currently, the traffic is diverted on the service roads at a stretch of 240 meter, causing inconvenience to the motorists. Nilesh Bacchav, a resident of Ayodhya Nagar, said, “The service roads are too small to accommodate the heavy traffic of the highway following which the travelling time has increased significantly. Bikers like me are really afraid of riding our two-wheelers through heavy vehicles. Women and girls also use the service road. The police need to deploy more personnel so that there is no scope of traffic jam.”The work of linking the two flyovers will be carried out in three phases. The first phase of the work has started and the entire work of linking the two flyovers would be completed by April 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/diversion-leads-to-snarl-on-highway/articleshow/80218953.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||3 held for printing fake currency||Kolhapur: Three men have been arrested by Sangli police for being involved in printing fake currency and trying to circulate them in the market. According to police, two of the suspects are from Sangli district, while the third is from Solapur. A computer, scanner, colour printer and paper have been confiscated by the police from the house of one of the suspects — Tejas Suryakant Gore (23), a resident of Malshiras tehsil in Solapur district. The other two suspects have been identifed as Vijay Balasaheb Koli (33) and Sharad Bapu Hedge (34). Koli and Hedge were stopped by the police on Friday night at a check point as the duo was moving in suspicious manner. When they were frisked, police found 10 currency notes of Rs 2,000 denomination on Koli, while Hedge was carrying 29 currency notes of the same denomination. Further investigation found that all the notes were fake. Koli and Hedge, during interrogation, confirmed that they fake currency was given to them by Gore. Accordingly, a police team rushed to Gore’s residence in Malsiras tehsil and arrested him. The trio has been remanded in five-day police custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/3-held-for-printing-fake-currency/articleshow/80218948.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||‘No need for alarm over falling water level in Parsons Valley dam’||Udhagamandalam: There is no need to be alarmed about the falling water level in the Parsons Valley reservoir, Ooty municipal commissioner Rajendran said.The water level in the reservoir now stands at 27ft compared to 46.7ft during the corresponding period last year. The reservoir is 50ft deep.The Parsons Valley reservoir is main source of water for residents of Ooty town and the defence area at Wellington. The other nine small reservoirs, including Marlimund, Gorishola, Kodappamund among, are connected to the Parsons Valley reservoir.“We could manage supply of water to Ooty town for another three months and we expect good summer showers in March and April. Even if rainfall fails, sufficient water could be released from the Parsons Valley Hydel Reservoir for supply,” the municipal commissioner said. However, at present, the water is supplied once in two days or three days due to the falling level, a municipal official said. Another problem is pumping water to uphill areas, which at least takes eight hours, the official added.With around 42,000 water connections in Ooty town, the municipality requires at least 160 lakh litres of water a day for sufficient supply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/no-need-for-alarm-over-falling-water-level-in-parsons-valley-dam/articleshow/80221007.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Medicines, hand sanitizers gutted in godown fire||Coimbatore: Medicines and hand sanitizers worth crores of rupees were destroyed after a fire broke out in a pharmaceutical warehouse at Bharathi Nagar in Singanallur on Monday morning.A private pharmacy had been storing medicines in the building for the last eight years. More than 40 people were working there. The facility supplied medicines to Coimbatore, Erode and the Nilgiris districts.A security guard, who noticed smoke at 3.30am, informed the godown in-charge Dhamodaran. Three water tenders from Coimbatore south and one each from Peelamedu, Sulur and Ganapathy rushed to the spot and put out the fire around 10.30am. Firemen suspect short circuit might be the cause of fire. They acted swiftly to stop the fire from reaching a nearby paint godown. More than 50 cops were deployed in the residential area.The Singanallur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/medicines-hand-sanitizers-gutted-in-godown-fire/articleshow/80220987.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Pollachi turns political battleground||Coimbatore: Slugfest between the ruling AIADMK and opposition DMK in Coimbatore intensified on Monday as deputy speaker of the state assembly Pollachi V Jayaraman and a host of AIADMK leaders launched a scathing attack on DMK president M K Stalin at a public meeting in Pollachi. Jayaraman said he was ready to quit politics if charges levelled against him and his family members by DMK in connection with Pollachi sexual assault case were proved. “Stalin has been linking my family to the case. I dare him to furnish proof. If he comes out with evidence, I will quit politics forever. If he is unable to furnish proof, will Stalin step down from the post of DMK president?’’ Jayaraman asked. ``Let him take a week and respond,’’ Jayaraman added. Jayaraman said Stalin raked up the issue ahead of the Lok Sabha polls in 2019 and has taken it up again when the state was gearing up for assembly polls. ``When I heard about the sexual assault on the girl, I was the one who spoke to the victim and gave her courage to lodge a police complaint. The victim had also released an audio message stating this,’’ Jayaraman said. ``Also, I was the first politician who spoke about the scandal in February 2019 demanding action against the culprits. But DMK is blaming me and my family,’’ Jayaraman said. The meeting, in which a host of AIADMK leaders, including B Valarmathi and S Gokula Indira, participated was organised a day after DMK held a protest led by M K Kanimozhi against the AIADMK for alleged attempts to protect the accused in the Pollachi sex scandal. The meeting replete with below the belt attacks against Stalin and M Karunanidhi was organised by the AIADMK women’s wing to condemn Udhayanidhi Stalin for `denigrating women’ and Stalin for giving party posts to DMK men accused of harassing women. Local administration minister S P Velumani, meanwhile, said action would be taken against all the accused in the Pollachi case irrespective of who they were. They demanded that DMK stop the false propaganda. While DMK is contemplating a series of protests, AIADMK partymen have vowed to hit back with counter protests. Last week too, after Stalin held a `makkal gram sabha’ meeting in minister Velumani’s Thondamuthur constituency, a protest was organised by the AIADMK within the next two days to counter the allegations. Stalin’s makkal sabha meeting in Thondamuthur was itself a response to police arresting DMK men elsewhere in Coimbatore for organising the gram sabhas earlier in the month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/pollachi-turns-political-battleground/articleshow/80221017.cms||Mayilvaganan
January 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Three killed, 18 injured in seven accidents within six hours on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass||PUNE: Three persons were killed and 18 others were injured, one of them critically, in seven accidents occurring within a span of six hours since 4.30am on Monday on the busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. Six of these accidents occurred at different spots within a one-km stretch of each other along the approach route to Bhumkar bridge at Narhe. The seventh accident occurred near the Kiwale bridge, which is 29km from Bhumkar bridge towards the Dehu Road end of the 40-km long bypass linking the Mumbai and Bengaluru highways. The first accident occurred around 4.30am when a speeding truck rammed a slow-moving truck at Narhe. Two persons died in the accident. “We suspect the driver of the truck that was speeding might have dozed off,” senior inspector Devidas Gheware of the Sinhagad road police said. “Both trucks were coming from Satara and headed for Mumbai,” the officer added. Police identified the deceased as Raju Mujalade and Ajay Mujalade and the injured man as Anil Chavan. All of them were from Madhya Pradesh and were travelling in the driver’s cabin of the speeding truck that was reduced to a mangled structure. In fact, the victims were stuck in the damaged cabin for quite some time. The fire brigade personnel had to be summoned to extricate them, the police said. Chavan was admitted to a nearby private hospital. The police said the slow-moving truck was carrying a consignment of alcohol bottles that were left strewn all over the accident site. People from Narhe and surrounding areas rushed to the spot. But instead of helping the victims, many people started fleeing with the alcohol bottles, the police said. Around the same time, a private luxury bus carrying passengers from Udgir in Latur district to Mumbai crashed into a mini truck, which was moving from the side of the road on to the bypass near the Kiwale bridge. “Bajrang Gaikwad (40) of Latur, the second driver of the bus occupying the cleaner’s seat, took the brunt of the crash and died. Nine passengers and four occupants of the mini truck were injured,” assistant inspector Vishal Jadhav of the Ravet police told TOI. “Six of the injured persons are undergoing treatment at a hospital. Most passengers were from Latur,” he said. Jadhav said, “The accident occurred due to speeding, as bus driver Jalil Sayyad (35), also of Latur, failed to anticipate the mini truck’s movement despite the latter showing the amber light to come onto the road. Sayyad lost control over the wheel and crashed into the mini truck. We have arrested Sayyad on the charge of rash and negligent driving.” The accident spot is located just before the Kiwale bridge that also connects to the Pune-Mumbai expressway. A truck and a mini-truck had halted on the roadside for a tea break at a nearby eatery, Jadhav said. After having tea, the mini truck driver and two others boarded the vehicle and started moving on to the bypass. Due to the impact of the dash by the bus, the mini truck crashed into the rear of the stationary truck. A little while later, a truck carrying heavy paper rolls crashed through the iron railings on Bhumkar bridge and fell on the service lane below, hitting an autorickshaw and a motorcycle rider. The motorcyclist, whose identity could not be ascertained immediately, was removed to a nearby hospital in a critical condition. Three members of a family in the autorickshaw were injured. The autorickshaw driver survived unhurt. The accidents disrupted traffic on the busy bypass for quite some time, as the police had to slow down vehicles near the accident spots. A crane had to be summoned at the service lane for removing the truck and the heavy paper rolls even as a sizeable crowd gathered around. This was followed by four minor accidents, in which an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) of the Pune rural police was injured. His four-wheeler and an autorickshaw running parallel turned on their side after being hit by a container truck from rear. ASI Krishna Ramchandra Kadam, who was driving the vehicle belonging to the Rajgadh police, sustained injuries in head and leg. In the other accident, a truck crashed into another truck from behind; another truck crashed into a roadside railing and a seven-seater SUV hit a truck on the bridge. No one was injured in these accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-killed-18-injured-in-7-accidents-within-6-hours-on-katraj-dehu-road-bypass/articleshow/80222578.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 12, 2021||Pune||Serum gets order for 1.1 crore vaccine doses, begins transportation amid tight security||PUNE: The process of transporting the Covishield vaccine began on Monday after Serum Institute of India (SII) received the Centre’s initial purchase order for 11 million (1.1 crore) doses at Rs 200 per dose. This makes the Oxford- AstraZeneca vaccine, which is being manufactured by SII, the first Covid-19 vaccine to be used for a mass immunisation programme. NITI Aayog member (health) VK Paul told a television channel that both Covishield and Covaxin would be used in the initial phase itself. Six refrigerated trucks reached SII’s sprawling premises in Pune on Monday evening to begin transportation of the Covishield vaccine amid tight police security. The trucks containing vials of the vaccine are expected to leave the institute in the wee hours of Tuesday for dispatch across the country. The vaccine doses will be administered to the priority groups, including three crore healthcare and frontline workers, for free from January 16. The vaccine, likely to be available in the market by June, will cost Rs 1,000 per dose. “The government has signed the order and agreement with us for the initial purchase of 11 million doses of Covishield vaccine. We have offered the vaccine to the government at a special price of Rs 200, which has always been the fixed price for the government for the first 100 million doses,” said a top SII official. Pune’s deputy commissioner of police (zone-V) Namrata Patil said that one of the six vans carrying the vaccine will be leaving the SII premises on Monday night for the state’s cold storage unit at the family welfare bureau near Naidu hospital in the city. “The rest of the vans will move out of the SII premises in the wee hours of Tuesday. However, we are yet to receive their movement schedule,” she told TOI. A cold chain logistics service provider, Kool-Ex Cold Chain Ltd, has been assigned the responsibility of moving the vaccine from SII’s manufacturing plant at Manjari here to 48 government depots in the first leg. On Tuesday, police vans escorted the trucks to the SII premises, where policemen were deployed through the day. Four vans, each with four policemen, will be escorting the trucks from SII to the airport. Sources in SII and at the airport said the trucks were expected to begin movement by 4.30am for various destinations. Sources said that of the six trucks, two were expected to go to Gujarat and one to Karnal, all by road. Some shipments are expected by the first flights out of Pune airport on Tuesday morning. The sources said that the vaccine doses will be dispatched by various flights from the Pune airport on Tuesday to cities like Chennai, Patna, Chandigarh, New Delhi, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Gandhinagar, Kolkata, Guwahati, Hyderabad, Vijaywada and Bhubaneswar. A source from GoAir said the first cargo is expected on their morning flight to Chennai and a batch of the vaccines is also expected to go on an Air India flight to Ahmedabad. An official with IndiGo at the Pune airport told TOI that they had not received any cargo plan pertaining to the transportation of the vaccine until late Monday evening and the air dispatch would happen only on Tuesday. Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said, “Police will also provide bandobast to SII trucks carrying vaccine to different parts of the state and to the state borders, if the trucks are going to other states.” (With inputs from Gitesh Shelke)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/serum-gets-order-for-1-1cr-vaccine-doses-begins-transportation-amid-tight-security/articleshow/80222655.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana gets Rs 1,070 crore GST relief||HYDERABAD: Telangana on Monday received GST compensation of Rs 1,077 crore under the special window by the central government. After the Covid-hit economic slowdown, states were given an additional borrowing limit under various grounds to fill the GST gap. Telangana got Rs 5,017 crore as the additional borrowing limit of 0.5 per cent and Rs 1,077 crore as the special fund raised by the Centre as the special window.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-gets-rs-1070-cr-gst-relief/articleshow/80221036.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Cab driver steals bike from Malad, gifts it to his girlfriend||MUMBAI: To please his girlfriend, a 22-year-old app cab driver allegedly stole a bike from Malad (east) recently. The aggregator firm helped the cops track him down as he had driven in his cab to commit the theft, the police said. They found he was wanted in another case of sexually harassing a minor at Mahim. The accused, Pradeep Upadhyaya, who lives in Nalasopara, was in a relationship with a woman who wanted a motorcycle as a gift to ride around. “As Pradeep did not have enough money, he decided to steal one,” said a police officer. He roped in another Nalasopara resident, Sarvesh Upadhyaya (19), for the theft. He even painted his girlfriend’s name on the bike. “A complaint was lodged at Kurar police station on January 2,” said detection officer Dhanesh Satardekar. The app cab in which he had come to lift the bike was captured on CCTV. The two were arrested on Saturday and the bike recovered from Pradeep’s girlfriend on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cab-driver-steals-bike-gifts-it-to-his-girlfriend/articleshow/80222672.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||Less than 500 new Covid-19 cases in MP after six months||BHOPAL: It is nearly after six months that less than 500 new positive cases were reported in the state in a single day on Monday. A total 485 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the count of positive cases in the state to 2,49,082. It was on July 12, 2020, that less than 500 (431 new cases) were reported in the state. Since then, more than 500 cases were reported every day after that. Apart from the fresh cases, seven deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,718. On Monday, new cases were reported from 41 of the 52 districts. On the brighter side, 650 people recovered taking the count recoveries so far to 2,37,713. The positivity rate for Monday stood at 2%. As on January 11, there were 7,651 active cases in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-500-new-covid-19-cases-in-mp-after-six-months/articleshow/80219812.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Vijay Kelkar, others had no role in cashew fraud’||HYDERABAD: Well-known economist Vijay Kelkar has said that he is only the non-executive chairman of the National Bulk Handling Corporation (NBHC) with no executive responsibility. He was responding to the CBI naming him in an FIR related to an alleged fraud by a firm trading in cashew nuts. In the FIR, CBI alleged that the promoters of Surya Sree Cashew Products conspired with NBHC officials and replaced raw cashew stocks with empty shells without repaying credit limits and caused a loss of Rs 20 crore to Punjab National Bank (PNB). Denying the involvement of Kelkar and others, NBHC said it was the corporation that had first discovered the bags of cashew with shells on July 20, 2019 and informed PNB. The corporation also filed a police complaint and a FIR was registered against the accused on August 16, 2019. NBHC blamed PNB for the current controversy, saying that the bank officials should have helped take the police complaint forward, but did not do so. Instead it filed a complaint with CBI one year later. Kelkar and other directors, including Dr Ajay Shah and Mr Srikrishna Dwaram, are only non-executive directors of NBHC, with no involvement in day-to-day operations, NHBC has added and alleged that CBI had simply named “known officials of NBHC by default”. In fact, NBHC has already asked PNB to withdraw names of directors from its complaint. NBHC has already asked PNB to withdraw names of directors from its complaint. It also said it will assist agencies in the investigation and denied any collusion with cashew firm||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kelkar-others-had-no-role-in-cashew-fraud/articleshow/80221010.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||IAF officer’s Sulur house burgled||Coimbatore: Miscreants gained entry into the house of an Indian Air Force (IAF) officer at Sahaya Annai Nagar near Sulur on Monday morning and made away with 49 sovereigns of gold ornaments, Rs 19,900 and two televisions.M Josh, 49, from Deepam Cottage at Sahaya Annai Nagar at Sulur, is working as a commanding officer at the Sulur Air Force station. On Sunday around 5pm, he locked his house and went to Vadavalli along with his family members to attend a condolence.Police said Josh and his family members returned home on Monday around 10.30am and found the front door of the house broken open. They found the valuables missing. He informed Sulur police who rushed to the spot and held an inquiry with Josh and his neighbours.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/iaf-officers-sulur-house-burgled/articleshow/80221030.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Bike-borne men flee with two smartphones||Pune: Bike-borne men snatched two smartphones, collectively worth Rs 48,000, in separate strikes in Bavdhan and Chikhali on Saturday. Suarabh Patil (23) of Bavdhan was walking on the service road of the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass and talking on his smartphone on Saturday night. When he reached near a furniture showroom in Bavdhan, three men on a motorcycle threatened Patil and snatched his smartphone worth Rs40,000.The second incident occurred at Sharadnagar in Chikhali around 10.30pm on Saturday, when two bike-borne men snatched a cellphone worth Rs8,000 from a woman (27). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bike-borne-men-flee-with-two-smartphones/articleshow/80222641.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Couple cheats garment unit owner of Rs 5.5 CR||Coimbatore: The crime branch (CCB) of the city police on Monday arrested a couple for cheating a garment unit owner of Rs 5.5 crore. The arrested have been identified as P Sivakumar, 42, and his wife S Sathya Priya, 40, from Cheran Maa Nagar. They were booked under sections 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code. The couple was produced before a judicial magistrate on Monday and later remanded in judicial custody.The couple was running a surgical equipment sales company in the name of MSS Surgical near New Siddhapudur in the city. They borrowed Rs5.5crore in several installments between 2015 and 2016 from A Sivalingam, a garment unit owner from Pa Vadugapalayam near Palladam in Tirupur district. But they failed to repay the amount.When Sivalingam demanded his money, the couple promised that they would get back their pledged property documents from the bank and hand it over to him. The couple also promised Sivalingam that they would appoint his son as their statewide distributor.However, the couple went missing from 2017. A few months ago, they started a new company in the name of New Tech Surgical Products at Pappanaickenpalayam. Sivalingam again contacted the couple who did not respond to his calls.He lodged a complaint with the CCB police who registered a case against the couple on Saturday and arrested them on Monday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/couple-cheats-garment-unit-owner-of-rs-5-5-cr/articleshow/80221042.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Retail chicken prices dip after avian flu outbreak||PUNE: Prices of live chicken across the state have come down by Rs 10-15 per kg in retail markets from Monday after the government confirmed an outbreak of avian flu, poultry industry representatives said on Monday. They, however, said the market would not see much impact of the flu beyond a week. Maharashtra on Sunday joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. “There was a slump in chicken prices and consumption last week. From 2,500 tonnes, the daily demand for chicken meat in the state had come down to 2,200 tonnes because the consumers were a bit confused. But within four days, the sale is once again picking up. It’s an encouraging sign for us,” Vasant Kumar, president of poultry farmers and breeders association of Maharashtra, said. “Bird flu has not yet reached the organized poultry farms in the state, barring a single incident. There is no need to panic. Since 2006, bird flu has been reported 10 times in the state. But it has not caused any harm to consumers. The government has a proper protocol on what one should do if there’s a bird flu outbreak. The protocol is being implemented across the state in a proper way. Besides, poultry farmers are aware about the precautionary measures to take in such a scenario,” he told TOI. Chicken retailers said the impact of bird flu would be realized only in the next 48 hours. “We had a good chicken sale on January 10. Over 70 tonnes of chicken were sold from over 700 stores across Pune city on that day. At some places, customers had to stand in queues to buy chicken. It indicates that the market is returning to the normal stage,” said Vijay More, head of Amir Chicken suppliers, one of the largest retailers in the city with over 700 stores. “We can’t rule out the possibility of a slump in the demand for chicken. But even if there’s a slump, it will not continue for more than two weeks. The flu is temporary and there’s no need to panic,” he said, Prasanna Pedgaonkar, general manager at Venkateshwara hatcheries, said the market was “normal” for the past three days with little impact on sales. “The farm gate live chicken prices had gone down to Rs55 from Rs60 per kg. On Monday, it went up to the range of Rs65 to Rs70. The bird flu scare won’t remain for more than a week, as the consumers are aware about it and had responded positively in the past.” He, however, said the actual situation of the market would be realized in the next 48 hours. “Our sale is in the normal range,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/retail-chicken-prices-dip-after-avian-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80226325.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Retail chicken prices dip after avian flu outbreak||PUNE: Prices of live chicken across the state have come down by Rs 10-15 per kg in retail markets from Monday after the government confirmed an outbreak of avian flu, poultry industry representatives said on Monday. They, however, said the market would not see much impact of the flu beyond a week. Maharashtra on Sunday joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. “There was a slump in chicken prices and consumption last week. From 2,500 tonnes, the daily demand for chicken meat in the state had come down to 2,200 tonnes because the consumers were a bit confused. But within four days, the sale is once again picking up. It’s an encouraging sign for us,” Vasant Kumar, president of poultry farmers and breeders association of Maharashtra, said. “Bird flu has not yet reached the organized poultry farms in the state, barring a single incident. There is no need to panic. Since 2006, bird flu has been reported 10 times in the state. But it has not caused any harm to consumers. The government has a proper protocol on what one should do if there’s a bird flu outbreak. The protocol is being implemented across the state in a proper way. Besides, poultry farmers are aware about the precautionary measures to take in such a scenario,” he told TOI. Chicken retailers said the impact of bird flu would be realized only in the next 48 hours. “We had a good chicken sale on January 10. Over 70 tonnes of chicken were sold from over 700 stores across Pune city on that day. At some places, customers had to stand in queues to buy chicken. It indicates that the market is returning to the normal stage,” said Vijay More, head of Amir Chicken suppliers, one of the largest retailers in the city with over 700 stores. “We can’t rule out the possibility of a slump in the demand for chicken. But even if there’s a slump, it will not continue for more than two weeks. The flu is temporary and there’s no need to panic,” he said, Prasanna Pedgaonkar, general manager at Venkateshwara hatcheries, said the market was “normal” for the past three days with little impact on sales. “The farm gate live chicken prices had gone down to Rs55 from Rs60 per kg. On Monday, it went up to the range of Rs65 to Rs70. The bird flu scare won’t remain for more than a week, as the consumers are aware about it and had responded positively in the past.” He, however, said the actual situation of the market would be realized in the next 48 hours. “Our sale is in the normal range,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/retail-chicken-prices-dip-after-avian-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80226322.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 12, 2021||Amritsar||5 hospitals de-empanelled over AB-SSBY scam||AMRITSAR: The state health department has de-empanelled five hospitals in Amritsar for committing fraud in the Ayushman Bharat Sarbat Sehat Bima Yojana (AB-SSBY). According to sources, the hospitals in question used to embezzle funds under the scheme through wrongful and dummy entries. Confirming the details, Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh said five hospitals had been de-empanelled. “Further investigation will be conducted to expose their modus operandi,” he said. Sources said the hospital used to make two files of each patients to wrongfully claim the insurance amount. Sources said one of the hospitals claimed insurance money at least over a dozen times to conduct dialyses of a single patient while another doctor in another hospital was siphoning off money on treatment in his wife’s name. The scheme provides health cover of Rs 5 lakh per family per year. Police were already carrying out investigations of Ex Servicemen Contributory Health Scheme scam unearthed in the recent past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/5-hospitals-de-empanelled-over-ab-ssby-scam/articleshow/80222676.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Retail chicken prices dip after avian flu outbreak||PUNE: Prices of live chicken across the state have come down by Rs 10-15 per kg in retail markets from Monday after the government confirmed an outbreak of avian flu, poultry industry representatives said on Monday. They, however, said the market would not see much impact of the flu beyond a week. Maharashtra on Sunday joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. “There was a slump in chicken prices and consumption last week. From 2,500 tonnes, the daily demand for chicken meat in the state had come down to 2,200 tonnes because the consumers were a bit confused. But within four days, the sale is once again picking up. It’s an encouraging sign for us,” Vasant Kumar, president of poultry farmers and breeders association of Maharashtra, said. “Bird flu has not yet reached the organized poultry farms in the state, barring a single incident. There is no need to panic. Since 2006, bird flu has been reported 10 times in the state. But it has not caused any harm to consumers. The government has a proper protocol on what one should do if there’s a bird flu outbreak. The protocol is being implemented across the state in a proper way. Besides, poultry farmers are aware about the precautionary measures to take in such a scenario,” he told TOI. Chicken retailers said the impact of bird flu would be realized only in the next 48 hours. “We had a good chicken sale on January 10. Over 70 tonnes of chicken were sold from over 700 stores across Pune city on that day. At some places, customers had to stand in queues to buy chicken. It indicates that the market is returning to the normal stage,” said Vijay More, head of Amir Chicken suppliers, one of the largest retailers in the city with over 700 stores. “We can’t rule out the possibility of a slump in the demand for chicken. But even if there’s a slump, it will not continue for more than two weeks. The flu is temporary and there’s no need to panic,” he said, Prasanna Pedgaonkar, general manager at Venkateshwara hatcheries, said the market was “normal” for the past three days with little impact on sales. “The farm gate live chicken prices had gone down to Rs55 from Rs60 per kg. On Monday, it went up to the range of Rs65 to Rs70. The bird flu scare won’t remain for more than a week, as the consumers are aware about it and had responded positively in the past.” He, however, said the actual situation of the market would be realized in the next 48 hours. “Our sale is in the normal range,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retail-chicken-prices-dip-after-avian-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80222625.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Retail chicken prices dip after avian flu outbreak||PUNE: Prices of live chicken across the state have come down by Rs 10-15 per kg in retail markets from Monday after the government confirmed an outbreak of avian flu, poultry industry representatives said on Monday. They, however, said the market would not see much impact of the flu beyond a week. Maharashtra on Sunday joined seven other states in reporting an outbreak of avian influenza or bird flu. The presence of the H5N1 strain in Maharashtra was confirmed late on Sunday with Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases finding it in the trachea and spleen samples of dead birds sent from the state for tests even as 11 more crows were found dead in Chembur in Mumbai. “There was a slump in chicken prices and consumption last week. From 2,500 tonnes, the daily demand for chicken meat in the state had come down to 2,200 tonnes because the consumers were a bit confused. But within four days, the sale is once again picking up. It’s an encouraging sign for us,” Vasant Kumar, president of poultry farmers and breeders association of Maharashtra, said. “Bird flu has not yet reached the organized poultry farms in the state, barring a single incident. There is no need to panic. Since 2006, bird flu has been reported 10 times in the state. But it has not caused any harm to consumers. The government has a proper protocol on what one should do if there’s a bird flu outbreak. The protocol is being implemented across the state in a proper way. Besides, poultry farmers are aware about the precautionary measures to take in such a scenario,” he told TOI. Chicken retailers said the impact of bird flu would be realized only in the next 48 hours. “We had a good chicken sale on January 10. Over 70 tonnes of chicken were sold from over 700 stores across Pune city on that day. At some places, customers had to stand in queues to buy chicken. It indicates that the market is returning to the normal stage,” said Vijay More, head of Amir Chicken suppliers, one of the largest retailers in the city with over 700 stores. “We can’t rule out the possibility of a slump in the demand for chicken. But even if there’s a slump, it will not continue for more than two weeks. The flu is temporary and there’s no need to panic,” he said, Prasanna Pedgaonkar, general manager at Venkateshwara hatcheries, said the market was “normal” for the past three days with little impact on sales. “The farm gate live chicken prices had gone down to Rs55 from Rs60 per kg. On Monday, it went up to the range of Rs65 to Rs70. The bird flu scare won’t remain for more than a week, as the consumers are aware about it and had responded positively in the past.” He, however, said the actual situation of the market would be realized in the next 48 hours. “Our sale is in the normal range,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/retail-chicken-prices-dip-after-avian-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80226324.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||IMA, TNPCB root for smoke-free Bhogi celebrations tomorrow||Coimbatore: The Indian Medical Association’s (IMA) Coimbatore branch and the Tamil Nadu pollution control board (TNPCB) have requested people to refrain from burning old stuff on Wednesday to mark bhogi, as it will cause air pollution. Compared to earlier years, when people burnt organic waste like brooms, nowadays discarded tyres and plastic products are set on fire, producing carbon monoxide, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, benzene, formaldehyde and butadiene. “When plastic is burnt, people can get exposed to dioxins, polychlorinated biphenyl and furan,” said Ramesh Karthik, assistant engineer of Coimbatore north. Getting exposed to the toxins can be lethal for people who have recently been infected by Covid-19. Smoke may worsen the condition of wheezing patients and make them more vulnerable if they contract Covid-19. “Lungs will be the first to be affected by Covid-19,” said pulmonologist Dr Nandagopal. “For people whose lungs have been affected by the virus, it can lead to many complications when they inhale smoke from burning of toxic wastes. It could lead to more exacerbations and coughing, among others,” he said. “For people who suffer lung fibrosis, their airways are already shrunk, and when they inhale smoke, it can lead to issues like breathlessness.” Air pollution levels in the city is within the government-specified levels, TNPCB officials said. “If large-scale burnings occur, air quality level may turn worse for a few hours. We have air pollution sensors at Saibaba Colony, Kavundampalayam, Kurichi and PSG College of Arts and Science. So far, air pollution has not been widespread enough to be caught on these sensors during bhogi,” said Karthik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/ima-tnpcb-root-for-smoke-free-bhogi-celebrations-tomorrow/articleshow/80221064.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||58% more volunteers were enrolled for vaccine trial, says People’s College dean||Bhopal: About 58% more than the expected clinical trial volunteers were enrolled by Bhopal’s People’s medical college in the controversial coronavirus vaccine trial. “Bharat Biotech had given us a target of 1,000 volunteers for the third phase trial of Covaxin, but we enrolled 1,700,” said PCMS dean, Dr Anil Dixit, at a press conference here on Monday. The press meet comes five days after the news of a vaccine volunteer’s death. “10% or about 170 of the volunteers in the clinical trial are medical professionals,” Dr Dixit said, rejecting allegations that uneducated people were targeted for enrolment in the clinical trial. The guidelines indicated that maximum trial volunteers should be within 4km of the medical college. The campus is near the abandoned UCIL factory — the ground zero of the 1984 Bhopal gas disaster. The surrounding localities are by and large populated by the Bhopal gas victims. Many of them enrolled for the trial along with people from poor economic background. Some of the volunteers were illiterate. Questions related to the volunteer’s death dominated the press conference. People’s College of Medical Sciences officials restated that all clinical trial protocols were followed. However, when asked for details about the college SEC committee, he replied, “It was confidential and their names cannot be disclosed.” After the death of the clinical trial volunteer, activists pointed out the lack of transparency in the way the vaccine trial has been conducted. PCMS and Bharat Biotech, the vaccine manufacturer, have dismissed the allegations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/58-more-volunteers-were-enrolled-for-vaccine-trial-says-peoples-college-dean/articleshow/80219824.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Unrequited love claims life of woman’s father||Coimbatore: A 23-year-old man stabbed the father of a young woman to death for refusing to get her married to him at S Kumarapalayam near Senjerimalai in Coimbatore district on Monday. The deceased was identified as A George John Angelis, 62, from S Kumarapalayam near Senjerimalai. Police said he was working as an accountant at a coir products manufacturing unit in the same locality. His wife Celine Romila, 52, is working as a headmistress at an elementary school at Odakkalpalayam.The couple has two daughters. Their elder daughter is married and living in Bengaluru. The younger daughter is working in a private company at Marthandam in Kanyakumari district.On Monday morning, George didn’t return to work after going for lunch to his house. He didn’t answer repeated calls from his wife as well. She immediately informed the owner of the company where her husband is working. Supervisors of the company Thangaraj and Ganesh rushed to the house around 3pm and found George lying dead in a pool of blood. There were stab injuries on his neck, abdomen and chest.The Sultanpet police sent the dead body to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) for postmortem.Preliminary investigations revealed that Karthick, 23, from S Kumarapalayam, was in an unrequited love with George’s younger daughter.A few months ago, Karthick had approached George requesting him to get his daughter married to him. George, however, denied and fixed a betrothal for his daughter with another person recently.In a fit of rage, Karthick had gone to George’s house on Monday afternoon and stabbed him to death using a knife. Later, he consumed pesticide and told the incident to his friends who took him to Palladam government hospital. Later, he was referred to the Tirupur government medical college and hospital. Doctors told the police that Karthick’s condition is critical. The police have registered a case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/unrequited-love-claims-life-of-womans-father/articleshow/80221062.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Rajkot||11 loan sharks booked in Rajkot||Rajkot: Eleven persons were booked for extorting money from a 37-year-old man as he had stopped paying interest to them on the money, he had borrowed from them.Police said that the complainant Jayesh Joshi, who lives near SRP camp and works in a private firm, filed a complaint as the loan sharks continued demanding money even after taking away the possession of his house, bike and car. Joshi had borrowed different amounts from the 11 people around two years ago. The 11 accused have been identified as Hitesh Pancholi, Milan Tatamiya, Chirag Patel, his wife Hetal Patel and mother-in-law Leela Patel, Vikram Khuman, Praveen Devariya, Umesh Patel, Sandeep Singh, Vikram Patel and Priyesh Dhanesha. As Joshi had lost income due to the pandemic and other reasons, he stopped paying interests to the 11 lenders due to which he started getting threats from them. One of the accused – Pancholi – took away possession of his house and later forced Joshi to sell it off. He even took away Rs 3 lakh which Joshi had received as token amount. The other accused Dhanesha took away his bike while two other accused took away his car. Even after losing his house and vehicles, when the threats continued Joshi lodged a complaint with Rajkot A Division police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/11-loan-sharks-booked-in-rajkot/articleshow/80218968.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Neglected 225-year-old paintings at Pune varsity to be restored by March||Pune: Paintings of Madhavrao Peshwe, Mahadji Scindia and Nana Fadnavis that are over two centuries old and adorn Savitribai Phule Pune University’s main building will be restored by March with help from the state archaeological department. Senate members, who met on Saturday and Sunday, picked on the poor condition of these 225-year-old paintings lying unattended in the main building. They require restoration as they were valuable possessions, they said. The paintings have been gathering dust ever since the renovation work of the main building began a few years ago. The work is now complete. Senate member Santosh Dhore said the university has a great treasure in these paintings and it is disappointing to see that they have been catching dust. “No member of the university administration has bothered to notice and restore them. It is a great heritage that the varsity has received and it should be conserved,” he added.The paintings are the work of eminent artist James Wells from Scotland,. The university archives have many such valuable paintings, and some select art pieces have been put up in the main building’s hall. These paintings were taken down when renovation of the British-era building began.Vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, “We are trying to conserve all valuable and heritage belongings of the SPPU. We have restarted the British-era tunnel and the heritage walk through this tunnel was appreciated by many citizens. We have been talking to Tejas Garge, director of the archaeology department, but due to the lockdown we could not progress with the conservation work in the past few months. These paintings are of national importance and the conservation has begun. We will finish it by March.”Other Works Sant Dnyaneshwar, Samarth Ramdas, Sant Gadgebaba, Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru, Lokmanya Tilak, Vishnushastri Chiplunkar, first vice-chancellor Mukund Jaykar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/neglected-225-year-old-paintings-at-pune-varsity-to-be-restored-by-march/articleshow/80222669.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Four owls, found dead in Pilibhit, pigeons in Amroha||Pilibhit/Amroha: With the Centre confirming bird flu in 10 states, including Uttar Pradesh, surveillance has been increased around water bodies, live bird markets, zoos and poultry farms. While Kanpur zoo was closed on Saturday after avian influenza was confirmed in two red jungle fowls, bird carcasses have been found in Bijnor, Amroha and Pilibhit over the past three days. On Monday, a forest and wildlife division team found four owl carcasses in Kalinagar town in Pilibhit district. A day earlier, 20 roosters were found dead at Sherpur village under Puranpur tehsil. The samples were collected for tests. The chief veterinary officer said primary symptoms of bird flu could not be detected in the carcasses of the owls, which indicated that they had died due to severe cold. “However, we have sent the samples to the Central Avian Research Institute in Bareilly for an autopsy as a precautionary measure,” he added. In Amroha’s Gajraula village, pigeons were found dead in on Monday. Two days ago, crow carcasses were found at Khaikhedi village. The animal husbandry department while denying that the deaths were related to bird flu, has ordered a probe to ascertain cause of death. In neighbouring Bijnor, 10 crows were found dead over the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/four-owls-found-dead-in-pilibhit-pigeons-in-amroha/articleshow/80218962.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80224307.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Amritsar||Poultry sample collection stepped up||Amritsar: The animal husbandry departments of Gurdaspur, Amritsar and Pathankot districts have increased sample collection of live birds to watch for possible cases of bird flu. Deputy director (animal husbandry), Gurdaspur Dr Sham Singh informed that they have collected over 70 samples and sent them to RDDL, Jalandhar. Department teams also visited over 40 poultry farms and wetlands but didn’t find any unusual activity or mortality among the birds, he said. In Amritsar, Dr Amarjit Singh Aulakh, deputy director, animal husbandry informed that the department had constituted teams to collect a minimum of 50 live samples daily from poultry, backyard poultry and shops. Officiating deputy director, animal husbandry, Pathankot Dr Ramesh Kohli informed that the department had also been sending regular samples. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/poultry-sample-collection-stepped-up/articleshow/80222699.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Shimla||HP bans import of poultry birds from other states for one week||SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the state government has imposed a ban on the import of poultry products from other states for a week to ensure that bird flu infection does not reach Himachal through poultry products from other states. Government of India has deputed a 3-member central team for monitoring and epidemiological investigations in epicentres of the avian influenza outbreak, he said, adding that around 1,600 migratory birds have died in the state over the last five days. On January 6, the state reported 2,736 deaths of migratory birds, which increased to 3,028 on January 7, 3,474 on January 8, 3,771 on January 9, 4,109 on January 10 and 4,324 on January 11. Also, 215 other birds have also been found dead in various parts of the state till date. Director, department of animal husbandry, Dr Ajmer Dogra said avian influenza infection has been found in bird species, including Bar-headed geese, River Lapwing, Little cormorant, River tern, Grey lag goose, Northern pintail, Eurasian wigeon, Brow headed gull, Northern shouler, Common pochard, Pied avocet, Great thick knel, Common teal, Tufted duck, Little egnet and crows. In Kangra district, 0-1 km area from Pong Dam lake in four sub-divisions of Jawali, Indora Dehra and Fatehpur has been declared as infected zone while 1-10 km area has been declared as surveillance zone, Dogra said. According to him, the Central team includes Dr Jasbir Singh Bedi, professor and head, Veterinary Public Health, Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Science University, Ludhiana; Dr Sukhdev Nandi, CDDL Bareilly and Dr Gaurav Sharma from NRDDL Jalandhar. The team has already reached Pong Dam lake to conduct investigations, he said. Presiding over a meeting to take stock of the bird flu situation in Shimla on Monday, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said till date, about 4,324 migratory birds have died of bird flu and these birds were being buried as per protocol to prevent spread of the virus. He said about 65 rapid response teams of animal husbandry and wildlife departments were regularly monitoring Pong Dam and adjoining areas. He said that keeping in view the intensity of bird flu, samples of poultry have been sent to RDDL, Jalandhar by the animal husbandry department. He also said 1,000 dead domestic poultry birds were found dumped in Dharampur sub-division of Solan. The carcasses, he said, were disposed of by deep burial. The area is being sanitised in accordance with protocol and samples sent to RDDL Jalandhar for diagnosis. The CM has directed officers concerned to keep a strict vigil on birds alongside reservoirs and sensitise people about proper handling of poultry products. He said it is important to spread awareness regarding preventive measures to be taken to check brid flu and directed officers concerned to take necessary steps in this regard. He also requested people to inform the animal husbandry and wildlife departments if any bird was found dead in their areas.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-bans-import-of-poultry-birds-from-other-states-for-one-week/articleshow/80222690.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to put security for Covid vaccine transport in place||CHANDIGARH: With the Covid-19 vaccine drive set to start from January 16, the Punjab government is working to ensure elaborate security arrangements for the safe transport and delivery of the doses across the state. The central government on Monday placed a purchase order with Serum Institute of India (SII) at the rate of Rs 210 per dose. The vaccine doses will be transported by the manufacturer to the state vaccine store in Chandigarh by air. The state government will further transport these doses to district vaccine stores and vaccination sites in refrigerated vans. The state has a total of 20 refrigerated vans, which will be pressed into action for transporting vaccine doses to 729 cold chain points across the state, 22 stores at district level and 127 at block level. The state health department has written to the home department for making security arrangements for ensuring safe transport and crowd management at the vaccination sites. The refrigerated vans transporting vaccine doses will be accompanied by police staff. To protect pilferage and theft, a stringent mechanism is being worked out. Any untoward activity will be immediately reported, and prompt police action will be initiated. The centre government has also directed to fix accountability in case of any untoward incident. Punjab health department nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar shared that appropriate security arrangements would be put in place and the home department had been requested to work on it. Punjab director health services Dr G B Singh said the central government had provided about nine lakh syringes to the state which had been sent to the vaccination sites. He said there was no communication on the number of doses Punjab will provide initially. “All the preparations have been made for a successful roll out of vaccine drive,” said Dr G B Singh. Punjab has already shared details of number and location of vaccination centres, vaccinators and cold chains with the central government. A total of 1.58 lakh health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. IMA, Punjab extends support To put an end to speculations about safety and efficacy of Covid-19 vaccine developed in India, the Punjab chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) urged all its members to get vaccinated. IMA Punjab president Dr Paramjit Mann of shared that they have around 9,000 members and they have been requested to get vaccinated first. Coming in support of the government in smooth roll out of the much anticipated vaccination drive, the association has also urged its members to extend full cooperation. “We are ready to provide every possible assistance to the government, be it manpower or space,” said Dr Mann.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-health-dept-asks-home-dept-to-make-security-arrangements-for-vaccine-transport/articleshow/80222684.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Paray Samadhan hope for bad roads||KOLKATA: Poor condition of roads in the city and neighbouring civic areas emerged as one of the prime grievances taken up at the state government’s ‘Paray Samadhan’ programme launched on January 2. The campaign has been started to redress local grievances, ranging from bad roads to inadequate or malfunctioning street lights. Residents can visit the kiosks at Duare Sarkar camps and lodge their complaints. Following a flurry of complaints, KMC and KMDA have already started the process for repairing stretches. Government officials said many of the complaints were about potholed roads and lanes on the city fringes, where nothing had been done for a long time. In Kolkata, complaints about 40-50 short as well as long stretches have come in from KMC added areas, southwestern parts of the city, such as Behala and Sakuntala Park, areas near EM Bypass, like Mukundapur, and from north Kolkata, including Cossipore. Most of them pertained to dug-up roads and lack of maintenance. The roads would be repaired at the earliest, KMC officials assured. KMDA has identified over 60 roads under civic bodies of Bidhannagar, South Dum Dum, Howrah and Madhyamgram. KMDA officials said they had started the process of engaging agencies so that work could begin in a few weeks. The agencies will have to complete the repairs within three months of starting. The state is sanctioning Rs 5 lakh to Rs 50 lakh for each stretch, depending on the length. The eight stretches identified in Howrah Municipal Corporation area include Lok Samiti to Baksara Bazar, Madav Babu Lane, Satyasadhan Dhar Lane, MSPC Lane and Chatterjee Para. Among the roads that will be renovated are Khagendranath Ganguly Lane, Peskar Lane, Atul Ghosh Lane, Ashutosh Mukherjee Lane and Ramlal Mukherjee Lane. In Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation area, the authorities will repair and renovate the canal side road from Nepalpatti bridge to Arjunpur bridge and again, from Arjunpur bridge to Prafulla Kanan Road. About seven roads in South Dum Dum Municipality area will be revamped. They include the stretches from Shivtala Mandir to Shishupani Bhawan and Chitra Biswas House to Vivekananda Link Road. Officials said more roads would be repaired, based on complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/paray-samadhan-hope-for-bad-roads/articleshow/80221089.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Cases of over-speeding rise on highway near Kasara Ghoti||Nashik: The cases of motorists’ over-speeding have increased on the Kasara-Ghoti section of the Mumbai-Agra highway in 2020 as the state highway police have issued 11,748 challans for over-speeding despite two months of Covid-related lockdown. A total of 11,300 challans were issued against erring motorists in 2019. Last year, the number of motorists fined for only over-speeding is more than the total number of challans issued in 2019, which comprises all kinds of traffic violation. Amol Walzade, the assistant police inspector of the Ghoti (Traffic Aid Post), said,11,109 challans have been issued to erring motorists and a fine of Rs 18.73 lakh was collected in 2019. While in 2020, as many as 28,147 challans have been issued and a fine of Rs 1.43 crore was collected. “Additional director general of police (traffic) Bhushan Kumar Upadhyay had instructed us to take all the necessary steps to reduce the rate of road accidents on the highway. He had also instructed us to take strict action against motorists violating the traffic rules. On this backdrop, we conducted a special drive last year against motorists indulging in over-speeding with the help of the interceptor vehicle,” he added. Another 11,527 motorists were booked at the Ghoti TAP for illegal lane cutting. Apart from this, motorists were also booked for not wearing helmet, illegal parking etc. The Kasara Ghat on the highway which comes under the Ghoti TAP witnesses traffic congestions and accidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cases-of-over-speeding-rise-on-highway-near-kasara-ghoti/articleshow/80218988.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 12, 2021||Rajkot||Store owner held for purchasing stolen mobile phones||Rajkot: A mobile store owner in Junagadh was arrested for purchasing stolen mobile phones and selling them at a higher price after replacing their parts.The special operations group of Junagadh police had received information about the illegal activities by the store owner identified as Kazim Mohammed Gameti. Based on the tip-off the store was raided on MG Road on Monday. Cops found 504 mobile phones from Gameti which he admitted to having purchased from Ajay Devipujak, Sunny Devipujak and Dhuna Devipujak. Gameti used to unlock phones using software on his laptop. He would then dismantle the phones and replace their parts. He would sell the original spare parts to mobile phone repairers while assembled phones to users. All 504 phones and Gameti’s laptop all worth Rs 28 lakh was seized. Cops suspect that the seized phones were stolen from Junagadh and as well as from Rajkot and other neighbouring districts. On Monday, cops were able to get IMEI numbers of 169 phones while they are still trying to retrieve IMEI numbers of 335 other phones.Meanwhile, cops are also searching for the three thieves who used to sell the phones to Gameti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/store-owner-held-for-purchasing-stolen-mobile-phones/articleshow/80218983.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Coimbatore||Senior planning commission official conducts meetings||Coimbatore: Vice-chairman of the state planning commission C Ponnaiyan visited the city on Monday to meet panchayat chiefs and collector K Rajamani. He asked panchayat chiefs to propose plans for under-developed villages to get special schemes including hospitals, loans for self-help groups and women cooperatives, among others.Ponnaiyan, who headed the meeting attended by district panchayat chairman Shanthymathy and panchayat secretary Sangamithrai, asked them to make a list of villages that need to be developed. “The senior official can then list the villages, mention the facilities they lack and what scheme can be implanted in those villages,” said an official, who attended the meeting. “He suggested hospitals, health centres, schools, anganwadis and loans to set up self-help groups and cooperatives to generate women employment and entrepreneurship.”The official also visited the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University to monitor and evaluate the Tamil Nadu Innovation Initiative Projects. He visited nano labs, post-harvest technology centre, state-of-the-art insect museum, coconut tissue-culture lab and bamboo oxygen park, among others. He appreciated the scientists for the progressive growth of TNAU. Research productivity has to be aligned with private partners for quality research, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/senior-planning-commission-official-conducts-meetings/articleshow/80221086.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Pune||Chain snatcher in net 7 months after robbery||Pune: A 28-year-old history-sheeter wanted in a months-old chain-snatching case was arrested from Yeolewadi on January 6 following a tip-off. An officer from the Kondhwa police said Abbas Zaid was charged with snatching the gold chain worth Rs75,000 of a 23-year-old youth in Undri on May 25, last year, while the latter was passing via Undri Chowk on a two-wheeler. “Zaid admitted to his involvement in the crime during the questioning. A search conducted at his residence led to the recovery of the chain,” assistant inspector Chetan More of the Kondhwa police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/chain-snatcher-in-net-7-months-after-robbery/articleshow/80222652.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80224302.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80224303.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80224304.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana forest officials plan open bait to capture suspected man-eater||HYDERABAD: Telangana forest officials have changed their tactic to capture the eluding man-eater tiger. The officials, who failed to capture the suspected man-eater tiger using cages, have turned towards open bait mechanism to lure and tranquilise it. Experts from Maharasthra forest department would assist their Telangana counterparts and local veterinarians in tranquillising the suspected man-eater. A wildlife wing official of Telangana forest department said the tiger was moving in Bejjur area. A tiger mauled Sidam Vignesh to death in Didiga of Asfiabad district on November 11. On November 29, Pasula Nirmala was mauled to death by another tiger in Kondapally in Penchikalpet mandal. Wildlife wing official said, “In the open bait system, a buffalo or goat would be put and a proper machan will be set up for tranquillising. The man hiding on the machan will fire the dart.” Nawab Shafat Ali Khan, a hunter, said: “The choice of machan should be selected by an expert. Scouting should be done in 10 km radius of human kill area. Trackers on foot patrolling should look for carcass, pugmarks and scat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/forest-officials-plan-open-bait-to-capture-suspected-man-eater/articleshow/80221079.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Retired cop files FIR after bank agents’ ‘threat’||MUMBAI: “Harassed and humiliated” by bank officials and their recovery agents for credit card repayment during lockdown has compelled a retired assistant commissioner of police to lodge an FIR. Retired ACP Iqbal Shaikh 66) lodged the FIR at Khar police station against the bank officials and recovery agents for harassment and issuing threats.Shaikh said he hopes to send out the message to his bank that their illegal tactics should stop at once. “I have been using the credit of this bank for years and there were no pending dues until March 2020. Due to the pandemic, I couldn’t step out and I defaulted on Rs 20,000. It was the peak time of corona and the government extended moratorium for monthly payment of EMIstill August 31. From September 1, I got calls from the bank and then from recovery agents,” he said.  Initially Shaikh tried to convince them that he will make the payment by October 15 but they refused to listen and started using abusive language. Bank officials told Shaikh that the calls were system-generated and so they could not help. On October 3, when Shaikh went to a hospital to see his brother, a few recovery agents barged into his Bandra home and threatened and behaved indecently in front of his daughter-in-law and kids. The next day Shaikh sent an email complaint to the bank||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rtd-cop-files-fir-after-bank-agents-threat/articleshow/80222720.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80222704.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Thane||Avian flu: Maharashtra to cull 80,000 birds in Parbhani from today||Bird flu deaths in Maharashtra have been confirmed across Mumbai, Thane, Konkan, Marathwada and Vidarbha regions, prompting the state to put all 36 districts on alert. In Mumbai Metropolitan Region and adjoining areas, crow carcasses from Vartak Nagar in Thane were sent for tests while fresh samples from Dapoli in Ratnagiri were found to contain the virus strain H5N1. Apart from mass culling of 80,000 chickens in Parbhani, the administration has asked animal husbandry staff to mount a vigil at poultry farms in their jurisdiction. Foresters have been told to monitor natural habitats for bodies of migratory birds including herons and those of native varieties such as crows and parakeets. In urban centres, ward-levels checks have been advised on shops stocking poultry products. Mumbai and Thane are asking citizens to report bird deaths on civic helplines. As of now, affected districts are Mumbai, Thane, Ratnagiri, Parbhani, Beed, Latur, Akola, Chandrapur, Amravati and Gondia, said an official. Of 1,205 birds reported dead so far, 1,112 are poultry and rest are from the wild. Parbhani with 843 cases and Latur with 240 have the most casualties, said a senior official. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray while reviewing the outbreak on Monday, said there was no need to panic as the infection did not transmit to humans. He held a meeting with district collectors and asked the animal husbandry wing to start the process of setting up an upgraded laboratory to carry out bird flu tests in the state. Currently, all samples are being sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. Thane civic officials said they have sent carcasses of crows for tests to Pune. Some of them may have died while scavenging rodents that were poisoned by locals, they said. However, officials said they would reserve comment till lab test reports arrived. Animal Husbandry Assistant Commissioner Mukund Londhe said crows found dead in a dumping ground in Dapoli were confirmed to be H5N1 positive. “The report from Bhopal on Monday confirmed it through RT-PCR test,” he said, Under the protocol, curbs may be put in place in a radius of 1km around spots where bird flu deaths are reported and culling may be carried out in such areas if fatalities are high, said officials. Sunil Kedar, minister for animal husbandry, said the state may put restrictions on movement around infected spots. Kedar reiterated that there was no ban on consumption of eggs or chicken. He said they could be consumed if precautions were taken like cooking or boiling it at 70-80 degrees Celsius (see graphic).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/epicentre-in-marathwada-mmr-has-cases-in-the-wild/articleshow/80224306.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Top Telangana politicians discharged in 86 criminal cases||HYDERABAD: A Right To Information (RTI) reply from the special court trying MP and MLA cases has revealed that in 86 criminal cases Telangana legislators were acquitted or discharged in 2018 and 2019. Those acquitted include chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao, ministers KT Rama Rao, T Harish Rao, Eatala Rajendra and MLC K Kavitha of TRS. Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, MLA T Raja Singh, and Union minister for state for home G Kishan Reddy were among those from BJP against whom cases were dropped. Forum for Good Governance, which filed the RTI, said that no public prosecutor and permanent staff for the court led to acquittal or discharge due to lack of proper focus on cases. On December 23, 2018, the Telangana government had issued a sanction order for establishment of the special court for the trial of MP and MLA cases. Since its inception, the court has had no permanent public prosecutor and supporting staff. FGG had made several representations to the governor and chief secretary for appointment of staff for the court. FGG secretary and retired IFS officer M Padmanabha Reddy said, “Even after two years of establishment of the special court, no full-time public prosecutor has been appointed. An additional charge public prosecutor, who has been looking after four courts, is not able to give his full attention to the special court for MLA and MP cases. The situation has led to acquittals. The chief secretary should immediately take stock of the situation and appoint a full-time public prosecutor and other supporting staff and make the special court fully functional.” Film actor and former MLA Jayasudha Kapoor was discharged or acquitted from three cases. Hyderabad MP Asaduddin Owaisi, MLA Akbaruddin Owaisi and other legislators of MIM too were acquitted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/top-t-politicians-discharged-in-86-criminal-cases/articleshow/80221091.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 12, 2021||Goa||‘Over 1,500 youth trained under skill devpt scheme’||Panaji: Over 1,500 youth were trained in Goa under the Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) while around 650 candidates are likely to undergo training under the flagship skill development scheme from January 25 onwards, said the directorate of skill development and entrepreneurship in a statement on Monday. The Centre has allocated a target of 257 candidates under the Short Term Training (STT) module and 400 under Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) module of PMKVY 3.0 launched on January 15. The department said that a total of 1,532 candidates were trained under PMKVY 2.0 at the 10 government ITIs and three private training institutes. “The district skill committees (DSC) constituted under the chairmanship of respective district collectors, are actively involved in implementing the PMKVY in both the districts in terms of mobilisation, awareness, assessing skill gap in the district and support in placement of certified candidates,” the department said in a statement. The PMKVY encourages and promotes skill development in the country by providing free short duration skill training, incentivising skill development by providing monetary rewards to youth for skill certification and employability of youth corresponding to the industrial demand. The directorate said that Goans in the age group of 15-45 years can use the central funded skill development scheme to gain new skills. A total of 1,532 candidates were trained under PMKVY 2.0 at the 10 government ITIs and three private training institutes||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/over-1500-youth-trained-under-skill-devpt-scheme/articleshow/80336454.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Pune||Civic body identifies hubs for first phase||Pune: The corporation has finalised 15 sites — one in each ward — for the Covid-19 vaccination drive and would use the jumbo Covid hospital on the College of Engineering, Pune, premises as the 16th site if needed. “All the preparations for the vaccination drive are in the last stage. We have formed teams for the drive and their training has been completed,” said Rubal Agarwal, the additional commissioner of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). She said the jumbo Covid hub at the CoEP would be kept ready as a backup. The civic administration has planned for the vaccination of frontline healthcare workers in municipal as well as private hospitals on priority. The conservancy staff and people involved in solid waste management would be the next in the vaccination priority list. The PMC would vaccinate a total of 52,700 health workers. The beneficiaries would include 11,100 health workers of government hospitals, urban health centres and maternity homes. Besides, a total of 41,600 health workers from private hospitals would be vaccinated in the first phase. About 1.05 lakh doses of vaccines would be used. Each health worker would get the two shots. Each centre would vaccinate 100 people in a day and 99 booths would be set up in these centres, which would be operated by 400 staff members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/civic-body-identifies-hubs-for-first-phase/articleshow/80222752.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Personal assistants of former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya, hubby among 3 held||HYDERABAD: Three persons, including two personal assistants (PAs) of former AP minister Bhuma Akhila Priya and her husband Bhargav Ram, were arrested by Hyderabad police on Monday for their alleged involvement in the abduction of three businessmen — Praveen Rao, Sunil Rao, Naveen Rao — related to chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s PA. Police have declared 19 persons, including fugitive Bhargav Ram, as accused in the case. Briefing the media on Monday, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said B Sampath, PA of arrested Akhila Priya, N Mallikarjuna Reddy, PA of Bhargav Ram, and driver D Balachennaiah were arrested. In the sensational case, deputy commissioner of police (DCP) (North Zone) Kalmeshwar Shingenavar might be made a witness. Mallikarjun Reddy, in his confession, admitted that he had bought six mobile phone SIM cards at a store at Miyapur on January 2 and 3 to execute the abduction of Praveen, Sunil and Naveen with whom Akhila Priya’s family had a property dispute. These SIM cards were used by different accused involved in the case, including Akhila Priya, and the prime executor of the conspiracy, Guntur Srinu, who is absconding. Some of the accused, including Srinu, met at a hotel at Kukatpally and hatched a conspiracy about how to execute the kidnap. As part of the planning, police said Sampath and Balachennaiah conducted a recce of the victim’s Manovikasnagar residence and later they shared the information with Bhargav Ram and Srinu about the movement of the victims. “During investigation, it was established that Akhila Priya planned and executed the crime along with Bhargav Ram, Guntur Srinu and other accomplices in order to grab the land or extort money from the victims,’’ the Hyderabad police chief said. At 5.48pm on January 5, Akhila Priya started her journey from Vijayawada to Hyderabad. At various points of her travel, using the SIM bought by Mallikarjun to execute the kidnap, she and other accused were constantly in touch. It was late in the evening, the victims were abducted from their residence by the accused posing as income tax officials. Police produced before the media several fake vehicle registration number plates used by the accused during the execution of the crime. “Critical evidence is that one of the abductors using one of the numbers, which was part of the six SIMs, called Akhila Priya on her phone on the day of the kidnapping. Later, the kidnapper made victim Sunil Rao call DCP, North Zone, Kalmeshwar Shingenavar and inform that they were safe at 1am on January 6, an hour before they were set free,’’ the CP said, adding that, if need be, the DCP would also be made a witness in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/personal-assistants-of-akhila-priya-hubby-among-3-held/articleshow/80221099.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man encroaches on NRI’s house, arrested||HYDERABAD: Based on the complaint lodged by an NRI woman, a person was taken into custody by the Rajendranagar police since he allegedly encroached into her house. Syeda Batool Afshan’s has been living in Dubai for more than 30 years. It was in the year 2012 that she bought an open plot under Rajendranagar police station limits and constructed a house. “Without my knowledge and in my absence, my brother sold my house to a person with a criminal record. When I went to my house, the person in possession refused to vacate. I later found that the property transaction was done by my brother using fake documents,’’ she said. After she lodged a complaint, the person who was in possession of the house was taken into custody.  Deputy commissioner of police (Shamshabad Zone) Prakash Reddy said thorough investigation is being done. She bought an open plot under Rajendranagar police station limits in 2012. Without her knowledge her brother sold her house to a person with criminal record||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-encroaches-on-nris-house-arrested/articleshow/80221102.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Poultry sector hit by avian flu fears, chicken prices drop||BHOPAL: The poultry sector is facing another major crisis in under a year. After Covid outbreak and the months-long lockdown, now avian influenza has led to a decline in sale of chicken and eggs in the state capital. The sale nosedived in the last four days, say shopkeepers. Poultry dealers are concerned over the losses that they are expected to face if the current trend continues. A poultry farm owner said, “We are self-reliant as far as chicken and eggs are concerned. Chicken eggs supplied in Bhopal and neighbouring districts are produced in Bhopal only.” He said about 7 lakh eggs are produced in Bhopal and about 4 lakh are consumed in Bhopal. The remaining eggs are consumed in neighbouring districts. Chicken was sold at the rate of Rs70 a kg in Bhopal on Monday as the sale declined to almost 50%, said Inamurehman, a poultry farm owner in Bhopal. Rajendra Singh, a poultry farm owner and office-bearer of the city unit of the National Eggs Coordination Committee, said: “It is wrong to link this avian influenza with consumption of eggs and chicken.” Despite assurances, some consumers are sceptical, “It is better to be safe than sorry. We can give up consumption of chicken and eggs for a while to be on the safer side,” said Siddharth Singh, a resident of Arera Colony. While there are others who continue to consume poultry products. “The sales are down by 50 per cent”, said Raja Ahuja, “it means 50 % product is still being sold. It also means that a large number of people are consuming it without falling ill."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/poultry-sector-hit-by-avian-flu-fears-chicken-prices-drop/articleshow/80219842.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Covid jab in 89 hospitals in Pune region||PUNE: As many as 89 hospitals in Pune, Satara and Solapur districts have been picked as Covid-19 vaccination sites for the initial stage of vaccinating health workers, deputy director of health services for Pune region Dr Sanjay Deshmukh told TOI on Monday. Deshmukh said the figure of 89 was final, but the hospitals which would be part of the list of session sites were still being finalised. He said 55 vaccination sites — 16 each in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, and the rest in Pune rural areas, had been identified as vaccinating centres in Pune district. The nationwide vaccination drive is slated to start on January 16. According to the Covid-19 vaccines’ operational guidelines, government health facilities at and above the level of primary health centre/urban primary health centre can be utilised as session site. Private health facilities with more than or equal to 100 heathcare workers can also be opted for as session sites. “Major factors being considered into choosing the sites include the required three-room set up space, good internet connectivity as all data would be uploaded on CoWIN app and trained manpower in vaccinating as well as overseeing adverse event following immunization (AEFI). Vaccinators are trained in monitoring AEFI, and only the best of the best have been chosen for the task,” said Deshmukh. Pune district will have the maximum vaccinators in the region, with as many as 1,350 vaccinators trained in administering the jabs to healthcare workers during the initial stages. “From this number, around 223 vaccinators would be giving the jabs in the PMC limits, 140 in PCMC limits, and the rest in Pune rural. These vaccinators would not only be administering the vaccine but would also monitor adverse events following immunisation. The vaccinators have been routinely administering vaccines over the years and monitoring AEFI, the only difference in the current scenario is that they will be giving the new Covid-19 vaccine jabs to adults instead of children,” said Deshmukh. He said the regional health authorities aim to vaccinate 8,900-9,000 healthcare workers in the three districts each day during the initial stage of the drive, after which this number as well as the number of sites would be increased. Around 1.1 lakh healthcare workers in Pune district were expected to be vaccinated in 20 days, Deshmukh said, if 100 were vaccinated in each of the 55 sites in the district per day initially. “After healthcare workers are inoculated, the number of sites and manpower will be increased when the drive progresses to frontline workers,” said Deshmukh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/covid-jab-in-89-hospitals-in-pune-region/articleshow/80222730.cms||Neha Madaan
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hospital fire may have started in radiant warmer calibrated 3 months ago||NAGPUR: The fire, which claimed the lives of ten babies, likely started from one of the ten radiant warmers in the Sick Neonatal Care Unit (SNCU) at Bhandara District General Hospital, said sources. Faber Sindoori Management Service Private Limited of Pune had recalibrated these radiant warmers just three months ago. Bhandara police on Monday directed biomedical engineers of Faber to come for statement. Accordingly, the private agency’s sub regional operational head Pawan Meshram from Nagpur and three biomedical engineers from Bhandara went and gave their statements. Apart from the six-member government committee, electrical wing of state’s Public Works Department (PWD), National Fire Service College (NFSC) and VNIT have reportedly completed preliminary inspection to identify the cause of fire and various issues. Sources from one of these government agencies told TOI preliminary investigation revealed fire started from one of the 10 radiant warmers in which babies were undergoing treatment. One radiant warmer was damaged to a great extent along with two adjacent to it. The remaining seven radiant warmers were not damaged due to the fire. The plug and socket of the radiant warmer where the fire likely started were intact, said sources. Plug and socket would have been burned if there had been electric short circuit and then fire reached the radiant warmer. This indicates less chance of electric short circuit in wiring at SNCU. Exact picture will become clear only after completion of entire investigations, said the sources. The officials of these government agencies refused to share findings of preliminary investigation on record. The fire had broken out in SNCU at around 1.30am on January 9. After the incident, Bhandara civil surgeon had given an official statement that three-four babies were charred to death due to fire and remaining casualties happened due to cut in oxygen supply. Under National Health Mission, the government had appointed Faber Sindoori for preventive maintenance and calibration of all biomedical equipment, including radiant warmers, in government hospitals in the state for five years. The officials of Bhandara district general hospital said the private agency had completed preventive maintenance of biomedical equipment, including these particular 10 radiant warmers, on September 20, 2020. The agency had also calibrated this equipment on October 6, 2020, which they said was valid up to October 5, 2021. Meshram confirmed to TOI that calibration was done on these equipment on October 6, 2020. “Biomedical engineers ensured calibration of equipment and found no problems. The 35 radiant warmers situated in SNCU were found fit after calibration. This is done once in a year,” he said. Meshram also said one of the three biomedical engineers of his company is appointed for Bhandara district general hospital. Directors of two private hospitals in the city said on condition of anonymity that preventive maintenance and calibration is must once in every quarter, especially for radiant warmers. The six-member committee also reportedly recorded the statements of Faber Sindoori. The committee and police took statements of electricians and other staff of the hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hospital-fire-may-have-started-in-radiant-warmer-calibrated-3-months-ago/articleshow/80221093.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Fill up vacant posts in varsities: BJP||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the graduates constituency MLC polls, state BJP unit demanded that government fill up vacant posts in various universities. A party delegation of former national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao, state unit former president Dr K Laxman and sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao will meet governor seeking the filling of posts in varsities. CM K Chandrasekhar Rao cleared names of vice chancellors for two universities. “Government suddenly named two VCs ahead of the MLC elections,” Ramchander Rao said. “In Osmania University alone there are 900 vacant posts,” Rao said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-fill-up-vacant-posts-in-varsities/articleshow/80221095.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Pune: Police say NHAI’s response to action plan on bypass ‘partial’||PUNE: The NHAI, which controls the 40km long Katraj-Dehu Road bypass, has so far “partially acted” on the police’s action plan submitted last month for measures such as installation of rumble strips and signboards to reduce accidents. The city traffic police had studied the stretch between new Katraj tunnel and Vadgaon bridge following accidents in November and December and prepared a list of measures to be taken on the bypass stretch to reduce accidents, especially between Bhumkar Chowk and Navale bridge. The traffic police had submitted a list of 24 measures to the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to reduce the number of accidents on the stretch of the bypass, which is part of the Golden Quadrilateral project linking Mumbai and Bengaluru. After Monday’s accidents, NHAI project director Suhas Chitnis, DCP (traffic) Rahul Shrirame, superintendent of police of Highway Safety Police (HSP) Sanjay Jadhav and DCP (Zone III) Pournima Gaikwad reviewed the “black spots” along the bypass. Shrirame later told TOI, “We had told NHAI to have more rumble strips at spots such as Bhumkar and Navale bridges. They have acted on some suggestions. But the number of rumble strips is quite less. We want at least 40 rumble strips, especially on sections with slope.” The police had also told the NHAI to have more traffic signboards on the section. “We have requested them to expedite the work” Shrirame said. Chitnis told TOI, “We have acted positively on the suggestions of the police. We have painted rumble strips, and installed awareness boards. Now, police want us to install more awareness boards mentioning the speed limit of 60kmph. We will put up such boards. We will also consider the police’s suggestions to have more rumble strips . All pending work will be soon completed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-say-nhais-response-to-action-plan-on-bypass-partial/articleshow/80222679.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Gurgaon||Rohtak PGI vaccine trial head catches Covid-19||ROHTAK: Dr Savita Verma, principal investigator of the Covid-19 vaccine trial at PGIMS, Rohtak, tested positive for coronavirus infection on Monday. Dr Savita has been associated with the ongoing human clinical trial of Covaxin at the premier institute since July 2020. Dr Gajender Singh, public relations officer of the institute, said Dr Verma got herself tested after coming in contact with a Covid-19 patient. She also had body ache and was feeling feverish, said Dr Ramesh Verma, co-principal investigator of vaccine trial. PGIMS said since Dr Savita was part of the vaccine trial, she was exempted to undergo a vaccine trial as per the protocol laid down by the institute. Dr Verma has been isolated at home and keeping well, said the doctors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pgims-vaccine-trial-head-tests-covid-positive/articleshow/80222737.cms||Sat Singh
January 12, 2021||Nashik||60 birds found dead in poultry at Ahmednagar’s Midsangavi village||Nashik: A backyard poultry in the Midsangavi village of Pathardi taluka in Ahmednagar district recorded the death of 60 hens over the past four days. The samples have been collected and sent to the Disease Investigation Agency (DIA) in Pune for further analysis.“There are reports of nearly 60 birds being found dead in the Pathardi taluka. Our animal husbandry teams have gone to the location for verification. The samples have been sent to Pune to check if the cause of death was avian influenza and the reports are awaited,” Ahmednagar collector R B Bhosale told TOI.According to Ahmednagar AHO Dr Sunil Tumbhare: “The birds belong to a backyard poultry of five different farmers in the village. The farmers have reported the death of 60 birds since January 8. They had brought the birds from the Ukanda village in Beed district that too has witnessed cases of confirmed avian influenza. However, all precautions are being taken to ensure that whatever caused the bird deaths is limited only to the ones in the question.”The collector added that all poultry farmers have been asked to take precautionary measures to ensure their birds’ safety. “There are 3,341 poultries in the district with 1.4 crore birds. The farmers have been cautioned though they need not panic. It is just important that they undertake all the biosecurity measures to minimize the chances of the spread of the disease,” Bhosale said. The animal husbandry teams have been asked to take steps for the safe disposal of the dead hens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/60-birds-found-dead-in-poultry-at-ahmednagars-midsangavi-village/articleshow/80218993.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Mock drill to test hospital preparedness||Nashik: The Nashik civil hospital will conduct a mock drill in a month to check the preparedness of the staff to evacuate babies in case of an emergency. Civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said the mock drill will be held in the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU). On Monday, she conducted a meeting on the backdrop of the incident in Bhandara civil hospital, where 10 babies lost their life due to the fire and smoke. The civil hospital has 38 incubators for babies in the SNCU, which has only one exit door. “We have asked the officials to come up with the evacuation plan for the babies. It will consist of pre-identified location, which has to be kept clean always and where the babies can be shifted and treatment started immediately,” she said. The officer said nurses and doctors would be provided training to use fire extinguishers and an alarm system. A fresh electrical gadget safety audit will also be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/mock-drill-to-test-hospital-preparedness/articleshow/80219006.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 12, 2021||Rajkot||Man held for killing ex-wife’s lover in Morbi||Rajkot: Morbi police cracked a murder case dating back to November 2018 by arresting a man living in Rajkot’s Parevadi chowk on Sunday night.Cops said that they were searching the accused Dilavar Chavada, a native of Vankaner, as he had killed his former wife’s lover on November 14 night in 2018. Chavada had taken help of a man from Uttar Pradesh named Pavan Kumar Bhaiya to kill Bhavesh Bharwad near Raviraj Chowkdi in Morbi. Chavada was angry over Bharwad as the former’s wife Hasina had illicit affair with the latter. When Chavada had learnt about it, he confronted Bharwad and they had heated verbal exchanges. As she wanted to live with Bharwad, Hasina divorced Chavada which hurt him and he decided to kill Bharwad. When Chavada came to know that Bharwad was alone on the night of murder, he and Bhaiya went to meet him and killed him by hitting a glass bottle on his head. “We have arrested the main accused, but his accomplice is still absconding. We suspect that he may have fled to his native place in Uttar Pradesh,” said inspector V B Jadeja of local crime branch.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-held-for-killing-ex-wifes-lover-in-morbi/articleshow/80219005.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||4 missing minor girls found in Mumbai||Pune: The four minor girls reported missing from Warje were found in Mumbai in the early hours of Monday, within 12 hours after they left home. The girls aged between 12 and 16 years had left their home around 4pm. They were spotted near the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) building around 3.30am on Monday. A team of the Warje Malwadi police, led by inspector Amrut Marathe, brought the girls back to Pune and handed them over to their parents. “The girls claimed that they had left home following harassment by their parents. Each one carried extra clothes,” Marathe said. The parents of the girls, residing in the same building in Warje, had lodged the missing complaint on Sunday evening. “We registered a case of kidnapping and began the probe. During the technical investigation, we found that the girls were in Vadgaon Maval. We immediately sent a team there, but could not find them,” Marathe said. The police then suspected the girls could go to Mumbai and alerted the control room of the Government Railway Police (GRP) in Mumbai. “We had provided them with the photographs of the girls. Besides, we sent a team to Mumbai,” Marathe said. Around 3.30am, a GRP team noticed the girls sitting outside the BMC building. “After they alerted us, our team reached there and took the custody of the girls,” Marathe said. He said the girls later told the police that they first went to Panvel by bus. They boarded another bus from there to reach Dadar and hired a taxi to reach near Chhatrapati Shivaji Terminus. “One of them was carrying a cellphone, but it was not reachable,” Marathe said. MP Supriya Sule, who was in Warje Malwadi for some programme, went to the police station and appreciated the personnel for acting swiftly in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-missing-minor-girls-found-in-mumbai/articleshow/80222696.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyberabad cops arrest two from UP over fake helmets||HYDERABAD: Cyberabad traffic police on Sunday arrested two people for manufacturing low-quality helmets. The arrested were identified as Dheeraj Kumar of Aashirwad Helmets and Anil Kumar of Welfare Enterprises, from Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. After noticing an increase in sale, distribution and usage of low-quality and fake helmets, officials constituted a special team to identify and conduct raids on manufacturing units and warehouses from where these helmets were brought and sold in the city. “The EOW team identified such manufacturing companies at Ghaziabad in UP, and made arrests to curb the supply of such low quality and fake helmets in the city. This is not just illegal, but the helmets also provide no protection to the riders,” said SM Vijay Kumar, Cyberabad DCP (traffic). The DCP further said that this fake helmet racket bust was the first of its kind in the country and that police had registered a total of 10 FIRs against the accused. The police further informed that the drive was conducted after taking into consideration the increase in number of fatalities related to road accidents. “On detailed analysis, it was found the majority of fatalities in road accidents are mostly two-wheeler riders and pillion riders who don’t wear helmets or wear low quality helmets,” said Kumar, adding that most of these low-quality helmets are made of cheap plastic, fiber and thermocol which cannot bear the weight or pressure of a bike rider on fall, as mandated by legal standards. They also bear a fake ISI mark. The manufacturing cost of these low-quality helmets will be anywhere between Rs 100 to Rs 200, but are sold at Rs 500 and above.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-two-from-up-over-fake-helmets/articleshow/80221132.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Gollapally residents attack GWMC staff||WARANGAL: Residents of Gollapally in Yadavanagar attacked GWMC staff obstructing the laying of CC road. Municipal staff and the DRF team tried to demolish the wall constructed on the road. Noticing this, four residents of the area T Sugunamma, Neelaveni, Rajeshwari and Ch Srinivas attacked municipal staff with stones. Enraged family members tried to obstruct traffic on the main road. A case has been registered with the Hanamkonda police station. Inspector Chandrashekhar Goud said, the GWMC authorities served notices to T Sugunamma and other family members to vacate their homes constructed illegally in the 42 division. On the directions of commissioner Pamela Satpathy, the staff demolished the wall and tried to lay the CC road here on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gollapally-residents-attack-gwmc-staff/articleshow/80221124.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Robbery accused hangs self in Hisar jail||HISAR: Charanjit (25), a resident of Khunan village in Fatehabad district who was arrested two days ago for allegedly robbing Rs 2,000, committed suicide by hanging himself in a central jail on Sunday evening. Police said he made the noose for hanging himself from the shirt he was wearing and his body was found near the bathroom. He and Jasdeep, both residents of Khunan, were jailed on Saturday. The family of deceased youth said they were not satisfied by the police’s version. At the same time, the body of the deceased has been referred to Agroha Medical College for the post-mortem. On January 8, Sadar Ratia police station registered a case on a complaint by Sandeep, a resident of Diwana village in Fatehabad district, against two unidentified youths under sections 392 (robbery) and 393 (attempt to commit robbery) of the Indian Penal Code. During the investigation, police arrested Charanjeet and Jasandeep, and the court sent them in judicial custody. On Sunday evening, Charanjit committed suicide by hanging himself in jail. In the police complaint, Sandeep had said that at 10pm on January 7, when he was going to his village, on the way, near the bus station of Dhani Bilaspur, two youth riding on motorcycle showed him a sword and attempt to snatched his motorcycle from him and snatched cash of Rs 2000 from him. Meanwhile, seeing the car coming from the front, both escaped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/robbery-accused-hangs-self-in-hisar-jail/articleshow/80222754.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||CoWIN app should record inoculation refusals: Tope||Pune: State health minister Rajesh Tope has raised a concern with the Union government health authorities regarding the lack of a ‘refusal’ option in the CoWIN system. CoWIN (Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network) tracks the deployment of Covid-19 shots and dosage. Tope said the app needs a function to record inoculation refusals or a person’s inability to reach a vaccination site. The minister said state health authorities had raised this point before with central officials, but added that there has been no fix yet. “During the voting process, there is a NOTA (none of the above) option. There should be a similar function in the CoWIN app,” a state immunization officer said. Nearly eight lakh health workers have registered for priority round of vaccinations in the state, which remains a voluntary process. Tope said during the vaccine dry runs in the state on January 2 and January 8, officials had said the CoWIN system lacks a way to track dropouts among beneficiaries. “Central officials had made a note of this concern. But they are yet to revert,” he said. “There is now little clarity on how to update status on the app if someone doesn’t want the vaccine or is unable to make it to a site. There needs to be a space where a beneficiary can state reasons.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cowin-app-should-record-inoculation-refusals-tope/articleshow/80222765.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Synthetic manja under forest department lens||HYDERABAD: With less than a week for the Sankranti festival, forest department officials met with various NGOs and volunteers on Monday to discuss steps that need to be taken to prevent the use of synthetic or glass-coated manja used to fly kites. The National Green Tribunal’s 2017 order bans the use of this type of manja. The NGT had prohibited the manufacture, sale, storage, purchase and use of glass-coated manja and all other similar synthetic thread used for kite flying. “Glass-coated nylon or synthetic manja, which has been in use for many years, poses a serious threat to the safety of animals, humans and environment. Over the years, there have been cases where innumerable birds, animals and humans have been subjected to serious injuries and in some cases slow and painful deaths,” said principal chief conservator of forests and chief wildlife warden R Shobha. Despite the ban, many kite-sellers in the city have been illegally selling the manja. Such cases may be reported to Telangana State Forest Department on 24x7 helpline. Forest department officials reiterated that the penalty for a violation is imprisonment up to five years and fine of up to Rs 1 lakh, or both under section 15 of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986. Causing injury or death of wild animals and birds with synthetic manja amounts to hunting, which is punishable under Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 under Sec 51 with imprisonment of three to seven years and fine not less than Rs 10,000. Causing injury to domestic animals attracts provisions of Prevention of cruelty to Animals Act 1960. Police, wildlife NGOs and conservators will also be roped in to implement the National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) 2017 order that bans the use of synthetic or glass-coated manja||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/synthetic-manja-under-forest-dept-lens/articleshow/80221094.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad cops to question Akhila Priya soon||HYDERABAD: A local court on Monday allowed a petition filed by Hyderabad police seeking the custodial interrogation of Akhila Priya for three days. She is likely to be questioned by police about her alleged involvement in the abduction of Praveen Rao, Sunil Rao and Naveen Rao with the gathered evidence and confessions of other arrested accused. Police took Akhila Priya, who was in Chanchalguda jail, into custody later in the day. Her police custody would end on January 13. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-to-question-akhila-priya-soon/articleshow/80221119.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Will beat up those making false charges: Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut||MUMBAI: Without taking names, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut said he would beat anyone who made baseless allegations against him, and could not prove it in court, with a chappal, in front of the Enforcement Directorate office. Raut was replying to a question on a Marathi TV channel in Delhi about a BJP leader announcing he would file a case against him. “Some people are making baseless allegations against Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik, a few other Sena leaders, and me and my family. They should prove it. If they cannot do so, I will beat them in front of the ED office,” said Raut. A war of words has been going on between the BJP leader and the Shiv Sena for the past few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/will-beat-up-those-making-false-charges/articleshow/80222779.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Man’s body removed from funeral pyre after wife accuses his brothers of murder||BAREILLY: The body of a man was removed from his funeral pyre by UP Police’s Dial 112 emergency service team in Bilari area of Moradabad on Sunday night and sent for postmortem after the deceased’s wife alleged that her husband was murdered by his brothers over a property dispute. Sub-inspector Gajendra Singh of Dial 112 said, “After receiving a tip-off around 1 am on Sunday that a murder victim was being cremated without informing police, we rushed to the crematorium under Bilari police jurisdiction when the body was about to be cremated and removed the body from the funeral pyre. After taking custody of the body, we informed senior officers and sent the body for autopsy.” The deceased has been identified as Munesh, a resident of Bilari. Munesh’s wife Poonam, meanwhile, accused her brothers-in-law Saurabh and Sushil of killing her husband over a property dispute. Speaking to mediapersons, Poonam alleged that her husband was repeatedly assaulted by his family members over property. Accusing police of inaction, she said after her husband was assaulted recently, they had lodged a complaint with police, but no action was taken. Bilari police station SHO Madan Mohan said, “The actual cause of the death will be ascertained by the post-mortem report, which is currently awaited. Based on the report, an FIR will be registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/mans-body-removed-from-funeral-pyre-after-wife-accuses-his-brothers-of-murder/articleshow/80218990.cms||Maria Khan
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Vijay Zalke asks Nagpur civic body to take action against illegal hoardings, towers||NAGPUR: NMC standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke on Monday directed officials of the 10 zones to take action against illegal hoardings and increase revenue from mobile towers. In a meeting convened by Zalke, officials said that there are 991 authorized places in ten zones for putting up advertisement hoardings. It is the responsibility of the corporation to allow and control the hoardings. Officials added that no hoarding is permitted without a ‘Structural Stability Report’. The survey was conducted in February 2019 in all the zones. In all, 49 illegal hoardings were found — Gandhibagh zone (11), Sataranjipura (8), Lakadganj (5), Asinagar (21) and Mangalwari (4). “The number of illegal hoardings is likely to go up to one hundred,” said Zalke. Revenue through hoardings is one of the sources of income for the civic body and at present, it is only Rs1.25 crore every year, which is very meagre, added Zalke. He issued instructions for stern and immediate action against illegal hoardings. There are 773 towers in the city. These include 131 in Laxminagar zone, 69 in Dharampeth, 98 in Hanuman Nagar, 52 in Dhantoli, 79 in Nehru Nagar, 65 in Gandhibagh, 34 in Sataranjipura, 75 in Lakadganj, 78 in Asinagar and 92 in Mangalwari zone. The demand from towers in the form of tax is Rs2.53 crore per annum. However, many towers are operating without the permission and affecting the civic body’s revenue. Zalke also directed officials to initiate action against illegal towers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/zalke-asks-nmc-to-take-action-against-illegal-hoardings-towers/articleshow/80219857.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Auto driver, who rescued minor, gets ‘Main Hoon Asli Hero’ award||BHOPAL: An alert auto-rickshaw driver, Manoj Gaikwad, who helped rescue a 14-year-old Mandsaur-based girl in September last year, was felicitated with ‘Main Hoon Asli Hero’ award by CM Shivraj Singh Chauhan during a programme at Minto Hall on Monday. The accused had lured the girl in his trap through social media and motivated her to run away from her home. The girl went missing from home and reached Sitamau from where she boarded a bus for Indore. Then she took another bus and arrived in Bhopal. She wanted to board a bus from Bhopal to Delhi when Gaikwad saw the girl at ISBT. He noticed that the girl looked tensed and overheard her misleading her family over the phone. He dialled Govindpura police. Cops rescued the girl. Cops found that a missing person’s complaint was lodged at Sitamou police station in Mandsaur. They immediately informed her family members. The accused had sent a video promising a job to the girl and asked her to reach to Rewari in Haryana. Cops counselled the girl and she revealed that she came in contact with an unidentified man through Instagram and was going to Haryana to meet him. She became friends with him and started talking to him on video call. The accused took her family details and on September 28, asked her to come to Haryana promising her a job. CSP Ankit Jaiswal said that police appreciated the alertness of Manoj and felicitated him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/auto-driver-who-rescued-minor-gets-main-hoon-asli-hero-award/articleshow/80219884.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Winds of change: Paper kites crash land as plastic takes to the skies||HYDERABAD: There has been a flurry of activity at markets across the city where traders have set up temporary stores in the run up to the Sankranti festival. However, with plastic kites flooding stores, the traditional paper kite market is experiencing a major slump. Each year seems to be bringing less business to traditional paper kite makers, especially those in the Old City. The kite makers in the patang markets of Dhoolpet say the situation is worse this year as traders have stocked up on Chinese plastic kites. Gopal Singh, from Dhoolpet, whose family has been in the business of traditional kite-making for over a decade, is also feeling the pinch. “Although we have been working hard for months to make these traditional kites, traders are mainly keeping plastic kites because people prefer fancy Chinese kites to the traditional paper ones,” Singh said. Hundreds of families in Old City’s Dhoolpet, Gulzar Houz, Dabeerpura, Mangalhath and Yakutpura make kites for months at a stretch. Most families share similar woes. A traditional kite maker, Baldev Singh, of Papalal Patang Nivas, said, “We earn around Rs 150 to Rs 200 after making 100 kites and each person can make about 30 to 50 kites a day depending on the size. It is a difficult job and even after putting in so much effort, we are deprived of a decent earning.” The craftsmen said that in the last two years, more than 60 per cent to 70 per cent of families have dropped out of traditional kite-making business owing to the lack of profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/winds-of-change-paper-kites-crash-land-as-plastic-takes-to-the-skies/articleshow/80221088.cms||Moulika.KV
January 12, 2021||World||House speeding to impeach Trump for Capitol 'insurrection'||WASHINGTON: Poised to impeach, the House sped ahead Monday with plans to oust President Donald Trump from office, warning he is a threat to democracy and pushing the vice president and Cabinet to act even more quickly in an extraordinary effort to remove Trump in the final days of his presidency. Trump faces a single charge -- "incitement of insurrection" - after the deadly Capitol riot in an impeachment resolution that the House will begin debating Wednesday. At the same time, the FBI warned ominously on Monday of potential armed protests in Washington and many states by Trump loyalists ahead of President-elect Joe Biden's inauguration, Jan. 20. In a dark foreshadowing, the Washington Monument was being closed to the public amid the threats of disruption. It all adds up to stunning final moments for Trump's presidency as Democrats and a growing number of Republicans declare that he is unfit for office and could do more damage after inciting a mob that violently ransacked the U.S. Capitol last Wednesday. "President Trump gravely endangered the security of the United States and its institutions of Government," reads the four-page impeachment bill. "He will remain a threat to national security, democracy, and the Constitution if allowed to remain in office," it reads. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi is summoning lawmakers back to Washington for votes, and Democrats aren't the only ones who say Trump needs to go. A small number of House Republicans may vote to impeach him, while others at least want to vote for censure. Former GOP Speaker John Boehner said "it's time" for Trump to resign. Republican Sen. Pat Toomey of Pennsylvania, joined GOP Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska over the weekend in calling for Trump to "go away as soon as possible." As security tightened, Biden said Monday he was "not afraid" of taking the oath of office outside _ as is traditionally done at the Capitol's west steps, one of the areas where people stormed the building. As for the rioters, Biden said, "It is critically important that there'll be a real serious focus on holding those folks who engaged in sedition and threatening the lives, defacing public property, caused great damage -- that they be held accountable." Biden said he's had conversations with senators ahead of a possible impeachment trial, which some have worried would cloud the opening days of his administration. Senate Democratic leader Chuck Schumer was exploring ways to immediately convene the Senate for the trial as soon as the House acts, though Republican leader Mitch McConnell would need to agree. The president-elect suggested splitting the Senate's time, perhaps "go a half day on dealing with impeachment, a half day on getting my people nominated and confirmed in the Senate, as well as moving on the package" for more Covidrelief. As Congress briefly resumed on Monday, an uneasiness swept government. More lawmakers tested positive for COVID-19 after sheltering during the siege. And new security officials were quickly installed after the Capitol police chief and others were ousted in fallout from the attack on the iconic dome of democracy. Some GOP lawmakers, including Sen. Josh Hawley, faced public blowback for their efforts on the day of the riot trying to overturn Biden's election. Pending impeachment, Democrats called on Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to invoke constitutional authority under the 25th Amendment to remove Trump from office before Inauguration Day. Their House resolution was blocked by Republicans. However, the full House is to hold a roll call vote on it Tuesday, and it is expected to pass. After that, Pelosi said Pence will have 24 hours to respond. Next would be the impeachment proceedings. Pence has given no indication he is ready to proceed on a course involving the 25th Amendment and a vote by a majority of the Cabinet to oust Trump before Jan. 20. No member of the Cabinet has publicly called for Trump to be removed from office in that way. House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer, D-Md., offered the resolution during Monday's brief session. It was blocked by Rep. Alex Mooney, R-W. Va., as other GOP lawmakers stood by him. Pelosi said the Republicans were enabling Trump's "unhinged, unstable and deranged acts of sedition to continue. Their complicity endangers America, erodes our Democracy, and it must end." The impeachment bill from Reps. David Cicilline of Rhode Island, Ted Lieu of California, Jamie Raskin of Maryland and and Jerrold Nadler of New York draws from Trump's own false statements about his election defeat to Biden. Judges across the country, including some nominated by Trump, have repeatedly dismissed cases challenging the election results, and Attorney General William Barr, a Trump ally, has said there was no sign of widespread fraud. The impeachment legislation also details Trump's pressure on state officials in Georgia to "find" him more votes, and his White House rally ahead of the Capitol siege, in which he encouraged thousands of supporters last Wednesday to "fight like hell" and march to the building. The mob overpowered police, broke through security lines and windows and rampaged through the Capitol, forcing lawmakers to scatter as they were finalizing Biden's victory over Trump in the Electoral College. While some have questioned impeaching the president so close to the end of his term, Democrats and others argue he must be held accountable and prevented from holding future public office. He would be the only president twice impeached. House Democrats have been considering a strategy to delay for 100 days sending articles of impeachment to the Senate for trial, to allow Biden to focus on other priorities. There is precedent for pursuing impeachment after an official leaves office. In 1876, during the Ulysses Grant administration, War Secretary William Belknap was impeached by the House the day he resigned, and the Senate convened a trial months later. He was acquitted. Some Republicans warn against impeachment. "They're not only going to create bad feelings in Congress, they're really going to create tremendously bad feelings in America," said Rep. Jeff Van Drew of New Jersey. Still, other Republicans might be supportive. Nebraska Sen. Ben Sasse said he would take a look at any articles that the House sent over. Illinois Rep. Adam Kinzinger, a frequent Trump critic, said he would "vote the right way" if the matter were put in front of him. Cicilline, leader of the House effort to draft impeachment articles, tweeted Monday that "we now have the votes to impeach," including 213 cosponsors and private commitments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/house-speeding-to-impeach-trump-for-capitol-insurrection/articleshow/80223855.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Avian influenza fear keeps poultry off the menu for many||Nashik: The confirmation of avian influenza in Maharashtra has had a direct impact on the sale and consumption of poultry products in the state.Many consumers said they would refrain from eating poultry products for some time. “I love non-vegetarian food. But I will abstain from eating chicken for now because prevention is always better than cure. Fish and mutton are also viable options now,” said Sanjay Gaikwad, a private professional from Purna in Parbhani.Poultry sellers said the bird flu has delivered another blow to the business close on the heels of the Covid-19 pandemic. “Poultry products were being sold at throwaway prices during the pandemic. There is again a similar situation now. The government should extend a helping hand to the poultry owners on the line of farmers' assistance,” said Shaikh Jameel, a poultry owner in Aurangabad.Uddhav Aher, the secretary of the Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Welfare Association also confirmed that chicken consumption has dropped by 20% in the state. However, the prices are slowly picking up, he added.Aher claimed that all the current reports have shown that most birds and hens that have died so far were from backyard poultries, and not the organised poultry farms — though future infection cannot be ruled out. “It is important to note that broiler poultries are organised and are equipped with better equipment to prevent the infection of birds,” Aher said.He also said the flu has hit Maharashtra at least 28 times since 2006. Aher said the panic is more this time as it comes close behind Covid-19. He said poultry price — that had dropped sharply from Rs 90 per kg to Rs 55 per kg over five days — has now risen to Rs 65 per kg, which is a good sign. Aher expects a bumper sale of chicken day after Makar Sankrant in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/avian-influenza-fear-keeps-poultry-off-the-menu-for-many/articleshow/80219031.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana CM Chandrasekhar Rao updates PM Modi on preparations as vaccine day nears||HYDERABAD: Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday said the Centre has identified Serum Institute’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin as effective vaccines which would be administered first to ASHA workers, Anganwadi staff, medical and health employees in the state from January 16. Subsequently, police, security personnel, sanitary workers and other frontline warriors would be given the vaccine shots. This will be followed by vaccine administration to the people above 50 years and those with comorbidities. The Chief Minister said this after attending the virtual meeting addressed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with all chief ministers and heads of union territories. During the virtual meeting with the PM, KCR made a few suggestions while explaining the arrangements made by Telangana for administration of the vaccine. Earlier, the CM reviewed the arrangements being made by the officials for a state-wide vaccination drive against coronavirus at the collectors conference held at Pragathi Bhavan. Almost all ministers and senior IAS officers participated in the meeting. The officials of health department are expecting the arrival of vaccine in the city on Monday evening or Tuesday. The CM said special arrangements should be made to treat people who may have side effects. “The government has already made necessary arrangements to give vaccines in all PHCs. Arrangements have been made to administer the vaccine at 1,213 centres all over state. As many as 866 cold chain points have been created to transport vaccine. Volunteers are ready at all stages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kcr-updates-pm-modi-on-prep-as-vaccine-day-nears/articleshow/80221111.cms||Roushan Ali
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Parents accuse Bhandara hospital administration of holding back babies to ‘show off’||NAGPUR: The parents of the seven babies rescued in the January 9 fire incident have accused the Bhandara District General Hospital administration of forcibly holding back the children, to allegedly “show them off” to media and visiting ministers. The Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) at the hospital has had a flurry of VIP visits, including CM Uddhav Thackeray, home minister Anil Deshmukh, public health minister Rajesh Tope, medical education minister Amit Deshmukh and other cabinet ministers. “I want to shift my twin daughters to a private hospital, if needed, as I don’t have faith in the district hospital anymore. I can’t afford it, but I will sell off my land to keep my daughters alive,” said Dinesh Maroti, a farmer. Some other parents also said they feel the hospital is unnecessarily keeping the babies admitted. “We were told the babies would be discharged on Saturday. But the tragedy took place and we are now stranded here,” said another father. They also complained the mother and father were asked to share the bed as new admissions jumped on Monday. The hospital had come to a standstill for last two days after the fire. Another parent, Umesh Chachere, said ministers are coming daily and the hospital has to show them around. “VIPs are coming everyday and seeing our babies. My wife asked when would they discharge us,” he said. Chachere’s wife was told that the discharge has been cancelled as of now. “My daughter, born on Jan 7, was doing well. Earlier, some of us were set to be discharged on Saturday,” he said. Both Maroti and Chachere said the visiting ministers are not talking to them. “The police and hospital staff blocked me from meeting them. If they had met me, I would have asked what I couldn’t tell the CM. I want to ask what is the future of our kids,” said Chachere. Maroti said the government is only paying attention to those who lost their babies but neglecting those who are alive. When asked if parents were insisting on discharge, Bhandara district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate said they are likely to be discharged on Tuesday. “Our paediatrician will take a final call on Tuesday. We could have discharged them on Monday, but it is not proper to send them at night. All the 17 were underweight and preterm babies when they were admitted. No baby was forcibly admitted,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parents-accuse-bhandara-hospital-admin-of-holding-back-babies-to-show-off/articleshow/80221136.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 12, 2021||Rajkot||Schools reopen but fear keeps kids away||Rajkot/Surat/Vadodara: ‘Savere savere, yaaron se milne, ban-than ke nikle hum…marji se chale hum, school chale hum…’ While these words still held fort, the underlying mood on Monday morning across schools in Gujarat belied the inner trepidations over the lingering pandemic. Schools opened after almost 11-long months’ forced home study including two months of summer vacation. Many parents, be it in Rajkot, Vadodara, Surat or elsewhere, seemed more inclined to wait and watch than risk sending kids to school. Many want to look at how the schools start functioning before they take a decision after Uttarayan. However, the happiness on the bright faces of the kids lit up the atmosphere in many a school and many had to be restrained after the Covid rules were seen flying out of classroom windows in their eagerness to catch up with friends. To lift students’ spirits, school authorities everywhere also prepared small welcoming ceremonies where the DEO office roped in local political leaders to welcome children. In Rajkot, approximately 44,000 students’ study in Class X, and 40,000 in Class XII across 895 schools of the district. On Monday, the district education authority claims, nearly 36,000 students remained present on the first day. About 125 schools did not reopen on Day One. Rajkot district education officer DEO BS Kaila said, “Some schools are still contacting the parents who are reluctant in consenting for physical education, while a few others are still carrying out sanitizing work on their school premises. We have given them permission to defer one week to start physical education.” School rickshaws and vans have not yet been given a nod, while school buses can run with 50 percent occupancy only. Thin attendance greeted Saurashtra University (SU) too on Monday when just 8-10% students attended classes in 237 affiliated colleges across Saurashtra. In Surat too, almost all 719 schools of Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) in the city and district reopened on Monday to 40 % attendance. Majority of CBSE schools in the Surat, however, remained closed and are likely to take a decision in the next few days. "It was a smooth start for all schools of Surat on Monday, and reopening was necessary more particularly for the science students who can now get their practicals done in the school laboratories," said H H Rajyaguru, DEO, Surat. Even as schools were strictly following the guidelines like one student in one bench, sanitizers, odd-even formula to avoid crowding etc, many parents were still apprehensive in giving consent. "Many students whose parents had earlier consented, did not come to school on Monday. Fear is palpable, but the numbers will gradually rise post festivities if Covid figures stays low," said Himanshu Parekh, principal of Sir JJ High School. Vadodara DEO UN Rathod added that the students were excited about classroom teaching. “We are continuing with a combination of both classroom and online teaching,” he added. Overall attendance of Class X was higher than Class XII with nearly 8,000 Class X students (nearly 21% of total students) attending classes. But only about 3,000 Class XII students (17%) turned up. Interestingly, of the 356-odd schools, not a single student turned up at Lal Bahadur Shastri school on Monday. “Reopening of schools is a welcome decision. In my view, classroom teaching for Class X and XII students is crucial in this final academic year,” said Rohit Kharva, a parent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/schools-reopen-but-fear-keeps-kids-away/articleshow/80219035.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Over 500 villages in district without any land for STPs||Pune: More than 500 villages in the district do not have land for setting up sewage treatment and solid waste management plants.Pune Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad has sought plots from district collector Rajesh Deshmukh in those villages in a letter dated January 4.He said considering the growth of industries in rural areas, there is a need for solid waste management plants and sewage treatment plants (STPs). Prasad added that the ZP has prepared a detailed project report (DPR) about construction of the STPs, but lack of land is a major problem.“Government land, where available in villages, could be used for the purpose of waste management and STPs. There are 241 such villages out of 539, where some government land is available, and plants could be built there,” he said.According to Prasad, there are four solid waste management and sewage treatment plants in the district at Junnar, Khed and Mulshi talukas. “There are over 1,400 gram panchayats in the district and work on 50 solid waste management and sewage treatment plants will begin soon for which the budgetary provision is being worked out. Once it is achieved, around 1,350 gram panchayats will be involved in the next phase for the construction of the STPs,” he said.Prasad said, “The solid waste management plant and STPs could prove helpful.”He said one officer has been stationed at the district collector’s office from the Pune ZP to liaison for land request and find out if there are any issues with available land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-500-villages-in-district-without-any-land-for-stps/articleshow/80222749.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 12, 2021||Pune||From April, no waste pickup from errant housing societies: Pune civic body||PUNE: The civic administration will stop collecting garbage from the premises of the bulk waste generators that fail to comply with the norm of processing wet waste at the source by March-end. According to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s solid waste management rule, it is mandatory for bulk waste generators, with 100kg of waste every day, to process the wet waste within their premises. A recent verification survey undertaken by the civic body found that several bulk waste generators were flouting the norms. “The civic administration had served notices to the erring housing societies. If they don’t repair or restore the garbage processing units by the end of March, the PMC would stop waste collection,” PMC additional commissioner Kunal Khemnar said. According to the PMC records, nearly 2,100 tonnes of garbage is generated in the municipal limits. Out of this, around 800 tonnes are wet garbage, 700 tonnes are dry garbage, while around 600 tonnes are mixed trash. The bulk waste generators are expected to give only dry waste to the civic administration for processing. The additional commissioner said the civic body had given orders to discontinue the tax rebate to 3,081 properties for failing to keep the waste processing unit operational within their premises. A total of 75,038 properties avail the benefit of tax discount for processing waste, along with implementing rainwater harvesting or solar projects, on their respective premises in the PMC limits. The recent survey conducted by the civic administration found over 3,000 properties were availing the benefit of tax discount without actually complying with the established rules.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/from-april-no-waste-pickup-from-errant-hsg-societies-pmc/articleshow/80222725.cms||Prasad Kulkarni
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana reports 244 Covid-19 cases, 6 die||CHANDIGARH: At a time when final roll-out and last minute preparations for vaccination have begun, Haryana, on Monday, reported 244 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, while 201 persons recovered during the day. Lower recoveries resulted in a slight dip in the overall recovery rate, which was recorded at 97.92%. The state’s total tally now consists of 2,65,199 cases, 2,59,696 recoveries with 2,956 deaths and 2,547 active cases. Of these, 107 patients are said to be in critical condition. With 17,532 persons examined, positivity rate has been recorded at 5.51% while doubling rate has been recorded at 99 days. Fatality rate was recorded at 1.11%. Sources said 15 districts reported less than 10 cases while Gurgaon, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Jind reported one death each. Gurgaon reported 72 new cases for the day while Faridabad reported 36 cases. Gurgaon’s total tally now has gone up to 57,574 cases, 348 deaths and 789 active cases while Faridabad’s tally has reached 45,860 cases with 408 deaths and 196 active cases. Sonepat and Panchkula reported 20 new cases each. Yamunagar reported 17 cases, Kurukshetra reported 15 cases and Karnal reported 12. The 15 districts which reported less than 10 cases include Hisar, Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahindergarh, Rewari, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Jind, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-reports-244-covid-19-cases-6-die/articleshow/80222797.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Trichy||DVAC raid unearths Rs 1.8L cash in PEW unit||Trichy/Pudukkottai: Sleuths of the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption (DVAC) in Trichy unearthed Rs 1.80 lakh unaccounted cash from the office of the prohibition and enforcement wing (PEW) at Musiri on the outskirts of Trichy on Monday. A separate team from DVAC in Pudukottai and Chennai also searched the house of an officer of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) at Thirumayam in Pudukottai district. Acting on a tip, a team led by DVAC deputy superintendent of police Trichy, Raju, searched the office of PEW which brought to light the possession of Rs 1,80,850 in cash by two police personnel who could not show its source. Considering it unaccounted, the team seized the amount and case will be registered against the duo. DSP Raju told TOI that the action was taken based on information that there was an illegal cash transaction at the unit. In Pudukottai, DVAC teams searched the residence of TNPCB superintendent in Chennai S Pandian at Kulathupattikottai near Thirumayam. It may be pointed out that DVAC had in December seized unaccounted cash worth Rs 1.4 crore, about 3 kg of gold, diamonds, property documents, car and two wheelers and booked a case against him. Sources said the team took away some documents and valuables from the house in Monday’s raid but DVAC was yet to confirm it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dvac-raid-unearths-rs-1-8l-cash-in-pew-unit/articleshow/80221215.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Clerk stabs officer’s personal assistant in Habibganj||Bhopal: Panic gripped the Commercial tax office in Habibganj area on Monday noon after a 32-year-old clerk allegedly took a 55-year-old man, posted as personal assistant of the additional commissioner, on the office terrace and stabbed him multiple times on face and hands. The victim sustained severe injuries and was rushed to hospital where his condition was reported stable. Habibganj police reached the spot but the accused had fled by then. Police registered a case on charges of attempt to murder against the accused and arrested him later. Investigation officer SI Vivek Sharma said that victim Manoharlal Malviya, 55, a resident of Basant Kunj in Ayodhya Nagar, is posted as private assistant to additional commissioner at commercial tax office in Habibganj. The accused Vijay Rajbhar, 32 is an assistant grade-3 clerk in the office. SI Sharma said that a department enquiry was ongoing against Vijay for some irregularity in documents. The former additional commissioner retired a few days back and Vijay suspected that Manoharlal put up his DE file before the present in-charge additional commissioner. He reached Manoharlal’s office on Monday and started arguing with him. He took Manoharlal to the office building terrace where he he stabbed the victim multiple times on face and hands. SI Sharma said that Manoharlal shouted in pain after which other office employees rushed to the spot and accused Vijay fled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/clerk-stabs-officers-pa-in-habibganj/articleshow/80219904.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Shimla||Fear of avalanche persists in Lahaul||Manali: After recent avalanches in Lahaul valley, the district police has decided not to allow any vehicle in the valley after 5pm. An avalanche had hit the highway near Muling village on Saturday. Another avalanche was reported from near Jispa in isolated place. The avalanche threat is high as the valley was recently jolted with the earthquake. There is possibility that earthquake may have made snow and ice unstable on upper reaches. The temperature in Lahaul has again dipped below minus 10 degrees C. Lahaul-Spiti police have issued a travel advisory for travellers. Lahaul-Spiti SP Manav Verma said only four-wheel drive vehicles are allowed to play the highway in Lahaul. “People have been advised to travel only between 10am and 5pm after informing the local authorities for safety concerns. Owing to avalanche and earthquake, it has been decided that vehicles will not be permitted to enter Lahaul after 5pm,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/fear-of-avalanche-persists-in-lahaul/articleshow/80222800.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Faridabad||Haryana reports 244 Covid-19 cases, 6 die||CHANDIGARH: At a time when final roll-out and last minute preparations for vaccination have begun, Haryana, on Monday, reported 244 Covid-19 cases and six deaths, while 201 persons recovered during the day. Lower recoveries resulted in a slight dip in the overall recovery rate, which was recorded at 97.92%. The state’s total tally now consists of 2,65,199 cases, 2,59,696 recoveries with 2,956 deaths and 2,547 active cases. Of these, 107 patients are said to be in critical condition. With 17,532 persons examined, positivity rate has been recorded at 5.51% while doubling rate has been recorded at 99 days. Fatality rate was recorded at 1.11%. Sources said 15 districts reported less than 10 cases while Gurgaon, Karnal, Panipat, Sirsa, Jhajjar and Jind reported one death each. Gurgaon reported 72 new cases for the day while Faridabad reported 36 cases. Gurgaon’s total tally now has gone up to 57,574 cases, 348 deaths and 789 active cases while Faridabad’s tally has reached 45,860 cases with 408 deaths and 196 active cases. Sonepat and Panchkula reported 20 new cases each. Yamunagar reported 17 cases, Kurukshetra reported 15 cases and Karnal reported 12. The 15 districts which reported less than 10 cases include Hisar, Ambala, Panipat, Rohtak, Rewari, Sirsa, Mahindergarh, Rewari, Jhajjar, Palwal, Fatehabad, Kaithal, Jind, Nuh and Charkhi Dadri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/haryana-reports-244-covid-19-cases-6-die/articleshow/80229729.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Feathers fly on poultry farms but safety protocols in place||MUMBAI: The discovery of avian influenza or bird flu among crows and poultry birds in and around Mumbai has induced anxiety among consumers who eat chicken and egg, as well as the poultry industry. Although experts say it is safe to consume poultry items cooked at high temperatures, there has been a visible reduction in demand and a corresponding dip in prices. Avian influenza is the second blow in a single year to the poultry industry. “All of 2020 was spent battling rumours that eating chicken caused Covid-19. Just as we tided over that spell, now the prospect of bird flu has damaged earnings,” said Nizamuddin Khan of AK Broiler in Amboli. Major chicken brands like Godrej and Zorabian have not reported infection on their hatcheries or farms. They are taking care to secure their birds, while propagating safe consumption. Prashant Vatkar, CEO of Godrej Tyson Foods Ltd, said, “Currently, no notifiable avian influenza has been reported in the regions where our dedicated contracted farms are located...We have created a special point of sale material mentioning this to alleviate consumer concerns.” Perizaad Zorabian, director of Zorabian Chicken, said, “Not a single case of bird flu has been reported on any of our 150 contract farms in Raigad, Pune or Khopoli, in fact not even in the vicinity. We grow our own birds and process our own feed...This is the second crisis the poultry industry is facing in the past one year. But this time, the animal husbandry department is taking proactive steps to counter misinformation and advising people that it is safe to consume chicken and eggs if cooked properly.” Zorabian has begun to print its safety protocols and certificate on its product packaging. Prices of loose, unbranded chicken fell by Rs 15-20 per kg on Monday. But Zorabian at least has no plans to follow suit. Vasant Kumar Shetty, president of the Maharashtra branch of Poultry Breeders Welfare Association, said, “Over the last six to eight months, we are surviving without hotel or factory support and only on home consumption. We are operating at 80% compared to 2019. Two days ago, we sold 2,100-2,200 tonnes, while it was 2,400-2,500 tonnes prior to the lockdown.” In Mulund, Parag Phadnis of Eatwell Cold Storage said sales had reduced by 40%. “Buyers are preferring branded chicken and branded organic eggs,” he said. Nasir Hussain Khan from H K Chicken and Egg Shop nearby has been spending his time assuaging the fears of anxious customers enquiring whether it is safe to eat chicken. Poultry sellers in Thane saw a marginal dip in demand Monday, but said the impact could deepen Tuesday. —Sanjeev Devasia, Somit Sen, Manoj Badgeri & Bella Jaisinghani||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/feathers-fly-on-poultry-farms-but-safety-protocols-in-place/articleshow/80222803.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Five petrol pump staff beat up drunk biker in Borivli||MUMBAI: A drunk biker was assaulted by five employees of a petrol pump in Borivli on Sunday night following a trivial dispute. The five were arrested by Kasturba Marg police after a video of the assault, shot by a bystander, went viral. The biker, Periyaswami Harijan, was also booked for unruly behaviour. The incident occurred at an HP petrol pump in Magathane, Borivli (E). Harijan started honking when a staffer took time getting change for a customer in front of him. This led to a heated exchange of words and a scuffle broke out. The incident was captured on CCTV camera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-petrol-pump-staff-beat-up-drunk-biker/articleshow/80221290.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Shimla||Himachal to expedite setting up NDRF battalion HQ||Shimla: All formalities regarding identification and transfer of land to set up the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) battalion headquarters at Balh in Mandi district will be expedited to facilitate smooth functioning of the Battalion. Presiding over a meeting with NDRF Commandant Baljinder Singh and other senior officials of the state government, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur directed the revenue department to take necessary steps in this direction. He also asked the forest department to get FCA approval at the earliest. The Government of India, has sanctioned the new NDRF 14th Battalion for the state in view of the geographical conditions and disaster vulnerability of the area. This, he said, would ensure prompt response in case of natural calamities. NDRF regional response centres (Companies), would also be established in six places of the state, the CM said, adding that one company would be established in Baddi to deal with any chemical hazard as the area had maximum industrial factories.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/himachal-to-expedite-setting-up-ndrf-battalion-hq/articleshow/80222798.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Pune||Woman fractures leg as auto overturns||Pune: A 27-year-old woman fractured her leg after the driver of an autorickshaw, in which she was travelling, lost control of the vehicle while negotiating a speed breaker and overturned near Bharati hospital on Pune-Satara Road on Saturday night. Deepa Waghmare (27) from Tadiwala road, who is undergoing treatment in a private hospital, alleged in her FIR lodged with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Sunday night that the autorickshaw driver was driving at a high speed under the influence of alcohol and was not able to control the vehicle when it hit the speed breaker. Waghmare and her friend had boarded the autorickshaw from Sahakarnagar for reaching Katraj. Senior inspector Jagannath Kalaskar of Bharati Vidyapeeth police told TOI on Monday, “We are searching for the driver, who is on the run, and will soon arrest and question him over drunk driving. We will also get the driver medically examined.” TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-fractures-leg-as-auto-overturns/articleshow/80222757.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Space crunch at banana auction centre chokes East Boulevard rd||Trichy: Inadequate space for banana auction centre near Gandhi market is taking a toll on public mobility during peak hours. The huge chunk of waste generated by the auction centre is shrinking the motorable space thus leading to traffic snarls,.Sprawling for about 2 acres, the banana auction centre is home to over 60 wholesale and retail traders. Since the space is inadequate, traders tend to display the banana bunches over a portion of East Boulevard road. As the road space already encroached by the parcel and cargo agencies to park their trucks, the locality around Gandhi market is witnessing frequent traffic bottlenecks during the peak hours. On normal days, as the centre handles 150 MT of banana per day and during the festival and wedding days, the capacity exceeds 300 MT per day. Locals have suggested Trichy corporation to relocate the auction centre. “If Trichy corporation properly removes the waste every day, the accumulation of waste will not happen,” K P Palanivel, president of plantain traders association said. On normal days, the auction centre generates 15 MT of waste per day and it increases during special occasions. A pulveriser machine in the facility used to shred banana stems remains non-functional for months now.Corporation sources said that banana traders are not cooperative in managing the waste resulting in the accumulation. “If the banana traders buy their own property and move out of the East Boulevard locality, it will be a great relief as far as waste management is concerned. The waste generated by them is creating traffic snarls,” an official with Trichy corporation said. The civic body said that they will soon organize a meeting with banana traders to resolve the issue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/space-crunch-at-banana-auction-centre-chokes-east-boulevard-rd/articleshow/80221254.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Biotech vax supply by Thursday||Bharat Biotech said it is likely to begin the supply of around 55 lakh doses of indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin to the Centre at the rate of Rs 295 per dose after it is reported to have arrived at a price agreement on Monday. The supply is to be made by January 14. AGENCIES||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-biotech-vax-supply-by-thursday/articleshow/80221151.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||No FYJC seat? Here’s your last chance for admission||MUMBAI: Announcing the last chance at admissions for First Year Junior College (Class XI), the education department said vacant seats will be up for grabs at a ‘First Come First Served (FCFS)’ round from January 13. Students will be able to secure seats on days allotted to them based on the class X score. While the education department had, in a government resolution last year, announced that the FCFS will not happen this year, it did a U-turn earlier this week as many seats were vacant even after five rounds of admission. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 1.9 lakh out of the 2.1 lakh applicants have confirmed admissions in various colleges. This year, the FCFS round will be held in seven phases. In phase one students with a score of 90% will be able to claim their seat between January 13 and 15. The website will open for students with a lower score on following dates (see box). Being the last of round of admission, the education department will not only allow all existing applicants to participate, it will also accept new forms. “Students must be very careful in this round. Before logging in to claim a seat, students must use the portal to check for vacancies, stream, medium of instruction, subjects, college code and location. If a student selects a college by mistake, he must cancel the seat and avail a new one,” said Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of education, Mumbai. Students will have to confirm admission at the respective college in the given timeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/no-fyjc-seat-heres-your-last-chance-for-admission/articleshow/80224030.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||No FYJC seat? Here’s your last chance for admission||MUMBAI: Announcing the last chance at admissions for First Year Junior College (Class XI), the education department said vacant seats will be up for grabs at a ‘First Come First Served (FCFS)’ round from January 13. Students will be able to secure seats on days allotted to them based on the class X score. While the education department had, in a government resolution last year, announced that the FCFS will not happen this year, it did a U-turn earlier this week as many seats were vacant even after five rounds of admission. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 1.9 lakh out of the 2.1 lakh applicants have confirmed admissions in various colleges. This year, the FCFS round will be held in seven phases. In phase one students with a score of 90% will be able to claim their seat between January 13 and 15. The website will open for students with a lower score on following dates (see box). Being the last of round of admission, the education department will not only allow all existing applicants to participate, it will also accept new forms. “Students must be very careful in this round. Before logging in to claim a seat, students must use the portal to check for vacancies, stream, medium of instruction, subjects, college code and location. If a student selects a college by mistake, he must cancel the seat and avail a new one,” said Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of education, Mumbai. Students will have to confirm admission at the respective college in the given timeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-fyjc-seat-heres-your-last-chance-for-admission/articleshow/80222813.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 12, 2021||Thane||No FYJC seat? Here’s your last chance for admission||MUMBAI: Announcing the last chance at admissions for First Year Junior College (Class XI), the education department said vacant seats will be up for grabs at a ‘First Come First Served (FCFS)’ round from January 13. Students will be able to secure seats on days allotted to them based on the class X score. While the education department had, in a government resolution last year, announced that the FCFS will not happen this year, it did a U-turn earlier this week as many seats were vacant even after five rounds of admission. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, 1.9 lakh out of the 2.1 lakh applicants have confirmed admissions in various colleges. This year, the FCFS round will be held in seven phases. In phase one students with a score of 90% will be able to claim their seat between January 13 and 15. The website will open for students with a lower score on following dates (see box). Being the last of round of admission, the education department will not only allow all existing applicants to participate, it will also accept new forms. “Students must be very careful in this round. Before logging in to claim a seat, students must use the portal to check for vacancies, stream, medium of instruction, subjects, college code and location. If a student selects a college by mistake, he must cancel the seat and avail a new one,” said Sandeep Sangave, deputy director of education, Mumbai. Students will have to confirm admission at the respective college in the given timeline.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/no-fyjc-seat-heres-your-last-chance-for-admission/articleshow/80224029.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC has Rs 20,000 crore property tax outstanding, auction is likely||MUMBAI: BMC has a total outstanding property tax of nearly Rs 20,000 crore in the city. With the civic body facing a severe cash crunch this year due to Covid-19 and a slew of discounts to builders and contractors, BMC will soon attach and auction properties of defaulters. It missed its property tax collection target of Rs 5,300 crore this year, and so far collected only Rs 950 crore. It has time till March-end to recover Rs 4,300 crore. A senior civic official said most dues are from bulk generators like builders, hoteliers and commercial complex owners, in some cases since 2010. “We will impose penalties at 2% per month on outstanding amounts if they don’t pay by March. We have attached several properties and will begin auctioning them. We will first auction commercial spaces and land under construction,” said Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner (assessment and collection). BMC data showed that as on December 2020, total property tax it has to recover is Rs 19,950 crore. Officials said with octroi abolished property tax is the biggest source of income for BMC (24%). BMC has failed to achieve its target of property tax collection from 2017. Officials said they will soon publish an inventory of properties that will be auctioned. Officials said it had set a target of Rs 6,788 crore for property tax collection for this year. “But we collected around Rs 950 crore so far due to lockdown and lack of clarity on collecting taxes from below 500 sq ft homes. Now we will collect tax, except the general tax component, from below 500 sq ft homes. There was to be a revision in tax rates this year, but it was shelved by the state government, so our target came down by 17%. Our revised target is around Rs 5,300 crore,” the official explained. BMC estimates the city has over 4.2 lakh property-owners. Officials explained that BMC gives 90 days to defaulters to pay property tax after serving a notice. If they don’t pay up, BMC disconnects water supply. If owners still don’t pay, their properties are attached. BMC can initiate an auction on property within 21 days. BMC had announced it will reform its property tax collection mechanism and structure. “A large part of recovery amount is pending due to a dispute over capital value system. This also caused an increase in outstanding year-on-year. The existing rule has many discrepancies that have to be streamlined. So far we have not been recovering the penal amount, but we will have to start this year due to revenue loss from other sources,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-has-property-tax-outstanding-of-rs20k-crore/articleshow/80221267.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||11-PB-Briefs||Education department to train counsellors Chandigarh: The Punjab school education department has released the schedule for imparting online training to selected counsellers of high and senior secondary schools to guide students of Class IX to XII on vocational courses. Training will be conducted from 10 am to 1 pm and different dates have been fixed for each district. According to the spokesperson, 150 counsellers have been selected from each district for training which will continue till February 15. SAD leader seeks FIR against Sidhu’s aide Amritsar: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to intervene for the registration of a murder case against Dr Navjot Kaur Sidhu’s confidant Mithu Madaan for allegedly inciting and leading a mob which attacked a Tilak Nagar-based family in Amritsar. SAD leader Virsa Singh Valtoha on Monday alleged that no action had been taken even after four days of the incident. He claimed that Madaan was also being protected in the Dussehra train tragedy case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/11-pb-briefs/articleshow/80222805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Traders see dull Pongal biz as vendors, buyers cautious||Trichy: With only days left for Pongal festival, the ambience in the commercial streets of Trichy city does not reflect the usual festive mood. While Diwali did not better the fortune of traders or street vendors adversely hit by the pandemic and lockdowns, there was anticipation that economic activity will pick up at least for Pongal. However, dashing hopes, the lacklustre business continues with no major recovery post the relaxations.Unlike the Pongal season of previous years that saw people coming out for purchase at least a week ahead of the festival date, street vendors opined that the footfall this year has drastically come down although the festival is three days away. Following poor Diwali sales, street vendors said that many seasonal traders who routinely set up stalls during the festival days have refrained from investing this time. Only a limited number of stalls were established in the commercial streets here with many street vendors selling fancy items opting for pushcarts covering residential neighbourhoods. “During Pongal, we used to do sales for Rs 10,000 daily but post the pandemic, the sales are down to Rs 3,000 per day. People are into austerity measures to keep their expense as low as possible,” A Ashraf Ali, secretary, Manithaneya Varthagargal Nala Sangam, said. Street vendors on NSB road, Teppakulam and Nandhikoil street, the commercial hotspots, said that the sales so far was only 30% of the previous Pongal sales.“Compared to the recent Diwali festival sales after the outbreak, Pongal sales have improved. But, if we compare them to the sales in the previous Pongal festivals, the ongoing season has seen only average business,” a manager of the textile showroom in Singarathope added. Traders said that the arrival of customers from rural hamlets has declined significantly. The last weekend before the festival would usually sees commercial streets here including West Boulevard road and Madurai road completely choked, but not this time. The traders now pin their hopes on the day before Pongal to make the best of the festival through last-minute sales.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/traders-see-dull-pongal-biz-as-vendors-buyers-cautious/articleshow/80221247.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Temporary bus stands in Trichy city||Trichy: Police have announced the setting up of temporary bus stands for Pongal at Mannarpuram roundabout and opposite Sona Mina theatre on William’s Road to prevent traffic congestion in the Central bus stand. The bus stands will start functioning from January 12 to 19.Buses plying from Trichy to Thanjavur will be operated from the TNSTC depot near Sona Mina theatre, while buses to Pudukottai and Madurai routes will be ferrying passengers from Mannarpuram roundabout.Buses from Pudukottai and southern districts to Chennai via Trichy should pickup and drop passengers at Mannarpuram and use the national highway only.There will be no change in the origin of buses to other districts from the Central bus stand. Since the temporary bus stand at Mannarpuram is situated away from the Central bus stand, TNSTC will operate circular buses between these two destinations for the benefit of passengers.Commissioner of police, Trichy city J Loganthan said in a statement that police personnel have been deployed in those areas to ensure the safety of the passengers. Police will make announcements through the public address system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temporary-bus-stands-in-trichy-city/articleshow/80221245.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Trichy||JC Bose memorial award conferred on 6||Trichy: Vice-chancellor of the Bharathiar University in Coimbatore, Prof P Kaliraj was conferred the 17th Annual JC Bose Memorial lifetime achievement award for his contributions in the field of biotechnology. The event was organised by the Indian Science Monitor in association with the National College in Trichy on Monday.Justice of Madras high court G R Swaminathan conferred the award on Kaliraj. The judge also presented awards to founder-director and CEO, Clean Green Bio-systems, Chennai S Prem Mathimaran and medical director of Dr Aravindh Vision Care, Dr. Aravind Venkatraman.Others who were awarded were AJM Foundations, Chennai founded by CAA John Moris, Prof R Rajendran, PSG College of Arts and Science, Coimbatore, for his contributions in the field of biotechnological applications in textile industry and science education and vice-principal, National College Dr Prasanna Balaji, for his contributions in the field of sports education. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jc-bose-memorial-award-conferred-on-6/articleshow/80221243.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Govt cancels mega amphitheatre planned on Nagpur varsity land||NAGPUR: The Maharashtra government cancelled the Nagpur University plan to build a a mega amphitheatre having seating capacity of over 10,000 persons behind NU campus on Amravati Road. The one of its kind structure to be named after former chief minister Vasantrao Naik was also supposed to have an auditorium-cum-convocation hall accommodating 2,000 persons below it. The hall was to be used by the university for its various events. “We received a letter from the government informing us that the plan to build an amphitheatre auditorium was cancelled,” vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari told TOI adding that no reason was provided for the decision. He added NU now planned to build a technology park on the unused land. With this cancellation, the jinx around the auditorium to commemorate the former CM continues. The structure was announced by then CM Prithviraj Chavan in 2011 during Congress-NCP government’s tenure to celebrate Naik’s birth centenary year. It kept on getting delayed primarily over lack of suitable location. Earlier, it was planned at Raj Bhavan but nearby residents opposed it alleging loss of open space. They moved the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court, after which the plan was dropped. Later, the district administration approached Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV) for land behind Mor Bhavan, but its executive council too, opposed the proposal. TOI had carried several reports in 2017 detailing how the government forced its decision of building an amphitheatre on NU land, which it had actually handed over for an auditorium. TOI had quoted then collector Ashwin Mudgal that the administration had forwarded the revised plan to the State General Administration Department (GAD) for administrative approval where it was pending for the last couple of years. NU officials told TOI the government cancelled the plan after facing financial constraints in the aftermath of Covid-19 pandemic. When the government decided to use NU land for implementing a long pending project to commemorate Naik, it was agreed to build an auditorium that would cater to the needs of government as well as NU. The project was announced by then CM Devendra Fadnavis in September 2015 while laying the foundation stone of NU’s new administrative block. He had also declared that Rs20 crore allocated for the purpose would be released. Mudgal had told TOI the entire complex was designed to be a happening place with food courts and shops for the visitors. Two banquet halls were also proposed on the second floor and as many as 30 suites for guests along with four lifts. Officials said it was a big jolt to NU as it spends Rs3-Rs5 lakh for using Suresh Bhat Hall for its convocation. The mega amphitheatre-cum-auditorium would have saved money and also would have provided a venue for cultural events in city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-cancels-mega-amphitheatre-planned-on-nagpur-varsity-land/articleshow/80221225.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Drugs control officers in Telangana want first Covid vaccine dose||HYDERABAD: Drugs control officers, working in the State Drug Control Administration and the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization, have demanded that the Centre include them in the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination drive. The All India Drugs Control Officers’ Confederation (AIDCOC) has asked that the government include them as frontline staff as they have been working to ensure drug and vaccine delivery. AIDCOC president Dr Jayanta Chaudhury in his letter to Union Health Ministry said,“We worked round-the-clock since day one of the lockdown... We have been actively engaged in inspections and licensing of manufacturing facilities, clearing import and export consignments in a fast-track mode of re-purposed medicines, re-purposed drugs used for Covid-19.” He said, “We were exposed to the Covid-19 virus like doctors, nurses, pharmacists and other frontline workers. Many of the officers and supporting staff tested Covid positive and lost the lives of their dear ones in spite of precautions taken.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drugs-control-officers-want-1st-vax-dose/articleshow/80221177.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||Breather for jumbos as HC stays Uttarakhand order to denotify Shivalik||NAINITAL: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday stayed the government order (GO) issued on Friday denotifying Shivalik Elephant Reserve. The GO had been issued by the state government hours after the HC stayed the state wildlife board’s recommendation denotifying the state’s only elephant reserve. Forest minister Harak Singh Rawat had then called it a “coincidence” that the GO and the HC stay were issued on the same day, alleging that he had no knowledge of the stay while passing the order. The case will be heard next on March 4. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari held that the government's notification goes against the provisions of the Forest Conservation Act 1980. “Section 2 of the Forest Conservation Act 1980 makes it mandatory for the state or any authority to seek permission from the Centre before any such denotification. We therefore informed the court about the illegality with the government notification,” Abhijay Negi, counsel appearing for petitioner Reenu Paul, told TOI. It was on Paul’s petition that the HC had stayed the denotification last week. The decision to denotify the Shivalik Reserve had been taken in a state wildlife board meeting in November, to “pave the way for development works, including the expansion of Dehradun’s Jolly Grant Airport”. The move triggered widespread protests, involving citizens as well as activists. The central government, which had in October written to the state asking it to look for “alternate land” for airport expansion, queried the government again in November, with the PMO issuing a notice to the chief wildlife warden, asking for “necessary action” to be taken in the matter. The state maintained there was no alternate land available and went ahead with its decision. Advocate General (AG) SN Babulkar, appearing for the state government, admitted before the court that he was not in a position to inform if the state had answered the issues raised by the Centre in its letter. Also, the AG could not produce permission from the Centre for the denotification. In Monday’s verdict, the court added, “If the notification was allowed to operate, it would cause irreparable loss to the ecology and environment and to the elephant population as well”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-stays-govt-order-denotifying-shivalik-elephant-reserve/articleshow/80219061.cms||Prashant Jha
January 12, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Covid-19 vaccines almost here but health workers still sceptical||BHOPAL: Emergency use authorisation (EUA) for soon-to-be-rolled out two Covid-19 vaccines is yet to instil full confidence across the medical fraternity in Bhopal.  “We are suggesting that all should get the Covid-19 vaccine shot. There are known side-effects,” said MP medical officers association (MPMOA), president, Dr D K Goswami. “It is not a question of ones right to refuse the vaccine. Everyone (health workers & doctors) should take the vaccine shot that is our stand and appeal. Social media has created a lot of confusion and apprehension,” he added. MPMOA has about 4,500 doctors, who work under the health department. Based out of Sagar district, he has worked for almost two decades in TB and chest infection programme. He dismissed the Bhopal Covid vaccine clinical trial volunteer’s death was due the vaccine. He cited the post mortem report which has hinted at poisoning. “If allowed I would agree to take the first shot on January 16,” he said. Private medical practitioners and some senior consultants are still questioning the lack of long-term efficacy studies done on the two vaccines. For now, apprehensive about these anti-Covid vaccines, some are looking to abstain in the first round. “I got a call from the health department seeking my details to register for vaccination. I stated the process is voluntary. No sooner, I received calls from other officials seeking my medical council registration details,” said a consultant, seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vac-almost-here-but-health-workers-still-sceptical/articleshow/80219921.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Woman mowed down by tractor||Trichy: A 32-year-old woman was mowed down by a tractor in Perambalur district on Sunday. Demanding the arrest of the man, who caused the accident, relatives of the deceased woman staged a protest near Perambalur government hospital.Sources identified the deceased as Anjali, 32, wife of late Selvaraj, from Neikuppai village in Perambalur district. Anjali was working as daily wage labourer. On Sunday, the woman along with her co-worker Paramasivam, was returning to Neikuppai from Pudhur on a two-wheeler on Sunday night, when a man driving a tractor is said to have rammed the two-wheeler. In the impact, Anjali died on the spot.Anjali’s relatives on Monday refused to collect the body from Perambalur GH demanding the arrest of the tractor driver. They had also sought compensation for victim’s 14-year-old daughter, who has now lost both father and mother. Later, during a peace talk the Perambalur police assured to take up the issue with the district administration, following which, the protest was withdrawn.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-mowed-down-by-tractor/articleshow/80221271.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad to see 8mn sft of office space come up in 2021, experts predict spike next year||HYDERABAD: The new year seems to have begun on a high note for Hyderabad’s commercial realty market. According to rough estimates, the city already has transactions of about eight million square feet (mn sft) in its kitty, with more likely to come through 2021. This, courtesy several e-commerce, insurance and IT biggies deciding to ramp up their existing operations in Hyderabad that saw office space absorptions cross the 10 mn sft mark, before the pandemic struck. Choice of location: the city’s western corridor running through Madhapur, Gachibowli and Kokapet. “The last year was just a blip in an otherwise solid market with strong fundamentals. With several large deals gradually coming back to the market, further recovery in office leasing is expected over the next 6 to 12 months,” said Veera Babu, managing director of Cushman & Wakefield, Hyderabad. He added: “Nearly seven to eight mn sft space enquiries are currently active in the market and we expect office demand to pivot with long-term positive sentiments. Market conditions will remain balanced with nearly 10 mn sft of new supply and about eight to nine mn sft of new demand.” Developers too are confident of a steady recovery, despite fears about the work-from-home (WFH) model holding companies back from investing in physical spaces. “While 25% of employees might still WFH, I strongly feel office space requirement will continue to grow. Having the entire staff work remotely is only temporary,” said R Suresh Kumar, senior vice-president (business operations), Prestige Group (Hyderabad). The firm is developing office spaces – in Financial District and Kokapet – measuring 4.1 mn sft collectively. “With companies remodelling their spaces to incorporate social distancing, there will be a need for larger areas. In the next one and half years, I expect Hyderabad market to touch the 20 mn sft mark,” said Gopikrishna Patibanda, chairman Phoenix Group.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-to-see-8mn-sft-of-office-space-come-up-in-2021-experts-predict-spike-next-yr/articleshow/80221237.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Burial ground for unclaimed bodies||Trichy: To ensure a decent burial for the bodies of orphans as well as unidentified people, members of a service organisation called 'Nesakkaram' has set up a separate burial ground called “Amaithi Vanam” in Mannargudi in Tiruvarur district. Mannargudi municipality has allotted about 8,000 squarefeet space from the existing common crematorium on the banks of Pamani river near Cherankulam for the purpose. Over 170 members of Nesakkaram including traders, activists, politicians, NGOs, functionaries of Lions, Rotary, JCI, government officials and Mannargudi municipality have collectively put in their efforts to establish ‘Amaithi Vanam’. During the lockdown period, its volunteers have given a decent burial to more than 40 unclaimed bodies kept at government hospitals in Thanjavur and Mannargudi. That was the starting point for members of the group to think about establishing a separate burial ground for the bodies of orphans and those left unclaimed, said S Prabakaran, coordinator of Nesakkaram. “A decent burial is the fundamental right of every citizen. So far we have faced no hurdle while performing burial of the unclaimed bodies. Even then, our members felt that if there is a separate space for that, it would be a great way to give respect to people who died with none beside them,” Prabakaran told TOI.Most of the people left orphaned were abandoned by their children and relatives. “This arrangement is to ensure final respects for them, as if they had kith and kin,” he added. “With the help of donors, fencing has been done with an arch at the entrance of the burial ground. On coming to know about the effort, many came forward expressing their willingness to be a part of our efforts,” he further stated. General secretary of Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association, Mannargudi S Ranganathan, who is the chief organizer of Nesakkaram, said they had already revived several waterbodies in Mannargudi in the last several years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/burial-ground-for-unclaimed-bodies/articleshow/80221278.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 12, 2021||Chandigarh||Former MLA Balbir Singh passes away||Hisar: Former MLA of Fatehabad assembly constituency and a satyagrahi of the Hindi movement 1957, Balbir Singh Chaudhary passed away at 86 on Monday. He had been unwell for the past several days. Balbir was elected BJP MLA from Fatehabad in 1987. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/former-mla-balbir-singh-passes-away/articleshow/80222810.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 12, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Excessive precautions turn into obsession during Covid||RAJKOT/SURAT/VADODARA: For a Rajkot-based Patel family, a concoction of black pepper, cinnamon, haldi, ginger and tulsi had become a three-times drink for all in the family of five. The ‘desi kadha’ was the best bet to stay safe during Covid-19 to maintain immunity. But the frequent shots left boils in the mouth while some got severe acidity and indigestion. Similarly, fear coupled with stress made Vadodara’s Hemangi Shah wash her hands every 30 minutes and she got obsessed with checking if doors and windows of her 3-BHK apartment were properly shut. Excessive precautions during Covid have resulted in a big spurt in obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) across Gujarat. OCD is a mental condition where a person repeatedly keeps performing routine actions with so much frequency that it impairs normal working. In fact, 68% people in Rajkot alone have become victims of this psychological condition, revealed a study of 405 people done by the psychology department of Saurashtra University (SU). The survey was done by assistant professor Dimpal Ramani along with her student Krishna Kambaria based on phone calls that were attended on the helpline that SU started since the beginning of the lockdown. “As the nature of queries clearly showed OCD, so we decided to conduct the survey,” said Yogesh Jogsan, head of the department. The highest numbers were that of teenagers (43%) while 23% women were affected. Dr Nehal Shah, an Ahmedabad-based psychiatrist said OCD worsened in people with mild symptoms of Covid or were under treatment. A 19-year-old girl in Ahmedabad bluntly refused to allow anyone near her, fought with family members frequently and forced them to follow a cleanliness routine. She also cleaned her room with chemicals as many times as possible. “She was ultimately put on medication,” said Dr Shah. Gitanjali Roy, assistant professor at M S University’s Department of Psychology, said, “In normal course, OCD is just out of fear, but this time its intensity has increased due to Covid. We have seen people forcing their maids to wear only a particular type of mask or use a particular brand of sanitizer.” “Earlier, patients with mild OCD symptoms did not require treatment. But, during the pandemic, they had to be given drugs due aggravated obsessive behaviour,” added Dr Parag Shah, head of Department of Psychology at Surat’s SMIMER College and Hospital. (with inputs from Prashant Rupera in Vadodara, Vijaysinh Parmar in Surat and Parth Shastri in Ahmedabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/excessive-precautions-turn-into-obsession-during-covid/articleshow/80219084.cms||Nimesh Khakhariya
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Nashik district forms 28 rapid response teams, Dhule sets up 31||Nashik: Bird deaths in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district has prompted the Nashik district animal husbandry officials to form 28 rapid response teams (RRTs) to keep an eye on avian influenza-related developments in the district. “The 28 RRTs will maintain a strict vigil on all poultry farms and backyard poultries. They will assess bird death-related developments with the help of the local residents,” said district deputy commissioner Dr B R Narawade. The Nashik district has 1,634 poultries with 94.6 lakh birds. The officer said the Nashik district collector has issued a letter to the minor irrigation department (MID), the forest department and the zilla parishad, asking them to use their manpower. “The forest department has been asked to keep an eye on migratory/wild bird deaths, especially in the bird sanctuaries at Nandurmadhmeshwar. The MID has been asked to keep an eye on birds in the water bodies. The ZP officials will report the death of poultry to the animal husbandry department,” he added. District deputy commissioner of Dhule has appealed to the people to contact the district disaster management cell or the animal husbandry department in case they notice bird deaths. Dhule district — which has 292 poultry farms with 44 lakh birds— too has formed 31 RRTs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-district-forms-28-rapid-response-teams-dhule-sets-up-31/articleshow/80219074.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 12, 2021||Trichy||508 frontline staff in Trichy rly division on list to get vaccine||Trichy: Trichy railway division has prepared a list of its frontline workers for free Covid-19 vaccines, based on the instruction from the railway authorities in Southern Railways. A total of 508 frontline workers have been identified in in Trichy railway division including doctors, nurses, health workers and sanitary workers.In a circular issued by the principal executive director (health) of railway to the divisional railway departments, all authorities were instructed to include their frontline workers to get their dose of Covid-19 vaccination. All the divisional authorities in railways have been asked to nominate one nodal officer to prepare the list of frontline workers, who are at great risk of exposure to Covid-19 infection in the department. The list has already been sent to the zonal railways in Chennai, a senior official from the Trichy railway division said.Meanwhile, railway unions said that when several railway workers have been affected due to Covid-19, they hailed the railway authorities’ initiative to safeguard the frontline workers.According to sources, the railway has lost around 700 frontline workers, among the 30,000 infected with Covid-19 in the last 10 months. Most of the workers, who lost their lives, were working amid the general public to facilitate the running of trains during the pandemic, said D Manoharan, deputy general secretary of DREU."So, railway department's move to prepare and send the list of frontline workers from the Trichy railway division is an appreciable one,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/508-frontline-staff-in-trichy-rly-division-on-list-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80221273.cms||D Vincent Arockiaraj
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Rain dampens ‘kolam’ powder sales||Trichy: Considered as an inseparable part of Pongal festival, the sale of ‘kolam’ powder has taken a beating with rain playing spoilsport. The wet weather prevailing in the city for the past few days has made people shy away from buying the colourful powders used in decorating houses throughout the Pongal festival days. “Let alone the demand, we are even unable to sell the coloured kolam powders for the past three days due to intermittent rain. Such weather condition will make people put off their purchase,” S Veeramani, a kolam powder seller of Big Bazaar street said. The rain has also prevented vendors from displaying the powders as the wet condition will spoil their quality. Anticipating the demand during the festivities, kolam producers said they were engaged in powder production for a month now braving several odds. But the unusual weather the week before Pongal has jeopardised their business. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-dampens-kolam-powder-sales/articleshow/80221261.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Five kidnap man for revenge||MUMBAI: Five men kidnapped a 20-year-old man at knifepoint in an ambulance at Aarey’s Chhota Kashmir on Saturday, as revenge for killing their friend. Mohammad Sadiq, had been honey-trapped into coming to Aarey Colony, where the kidnappers intended to whisk him away to Naigaon and murder him there. But the police got wind of their plan and caught them. Sadiq, a bakery employee, was accused of killing a man from Malwani in June 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5-kidnap-man-for-revenge/articleshow/80222822.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Dehradun||HC asks Centre to come up with guidelines for holding Kumbh||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Monday directed the Centre to come up with standard operating procedures to be followed at the upcoming Kumbh Mela in view of the Covid-19 pandemic. The court has also directed the chief secretary, additional secretary health, Haridwar district magistrate and mela officer to convene a meeting by Tuesday and chalk out all the plans. The state government had earlier filed an affidavit in the court detailing the steps it has taken to host the Kumbh as well as measures taken to maintain social distancing norms. However, the court said that several details in the affidavit were missing and directed the officials to convene the meeting. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari also said that the decision of the meeting will then be placed before the HC on Wednesday when the court will hear the case next. The court has also directed these officials be present before the HC through video-conferencing on Wednesday. The directions came from the HC while it was hearing a bunch of PILs on the state’s handling of the coronavirus pandemic. Concerns were raised before the court that unless the number of people coming to Haridwar for Kumbh is controlled and unless arrangements are made for congregation at ghats, the Mela can be a breeding ground for the virus. Speaking to TOI, Shiv Bhatt, counsel appearing for one of the petitioners, said that the court also expressed concerns that the infected people may carry the virus to different parts of the country, which can cause an outbreak there as well. “The court, therefore, said that the government should chalk out plans for permitting people to reach Haridwar and that measures about logistical details should also be taken,” Bhatt said. According to estimates, more than five crore people visited the Kumbh in Haridwar last time and the numbers are estimated to be much higher in the upcoming Kumbh. The first Shahi Snan will be held on March 11 and lakhs of people are estimated to visit Haridwar on the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/hc-asks-centre-to-come-up-with-guidelines-for-holding-kumbh/articleshow/80219096.cms||Prashant Jha
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Rabi sowing completed in 4 districts of north Maha||Nashik: The sowing of rabi crops in four districts of north Maharashtra has been completed. The state agriculture department had projected sowing on 4.66 lakh hectare of land in North Maharashtra, but the activity has been carried out on 4.68 lakh hectare. Crops like wheat, gram, jowar, maize are taken up for cultivation during rabi season. “The sowing has been 100% completed in north Maharashtra. The acreage of gram and wheat has increased in the region due to the prolonged monsoon. Farmers cultivating on non-irrigating farmland sowed gram and wheat as the rains continued till by November,” said B K Warghade, the divisional statistic officer of the agriculture department, Nashik division. The rabi sowing acreage in north Maharashtra includes 1.12 lakh hectare in Nashik district, 2.02 lakh hectare in Jalgaon, 90,123 hectare in Dhule and 61,734 hectare in Nandurbar districts. Of which, 108% sowing has been done in Jalgaon, 106% in Dhule, 99% in Nashik and 70% in Nandurbar district. “We are yet to get the sowing reports of some parts of Nandurbar. Hence, there is a drop in sowing in Nandurbar, but it will increase when we get the complete update,” he said. Wheat is one of the major rabi crop of the north Maharashtra as it shares 38% of the total rabi acreage in four districts. The acreage under wheat has increased by 9,000 hectare to 1.83 lakh hectares in the region. The acreage under gram has also increased by 5,000 hectare. Of the total estimated areas of 1.47 lakh hectare, under cultivation of gram, the sowing has been done on 1.52 lakh hectare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rabi-sowing-completed-in-4-districts-of-north-maha/articleshow/80219087.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 12, 2021||Trichy||Dist admins fix rent for harvesters||Trichy: Based on the appeal made by the farmers, the district administrations of Nagapattinam and Thanjavur have fixed the rent for the harvesters after consultation with the farmers and harvester operators. Collectors have also warned the private harvester operators to not fleece the farmers. As the samba paddy crop harvesting has commenced in delta districts, farmers had earlier appealed to the district administrations to fix the rental rates for these machines. At a meeting headed byNagapattinam district collector Praveen P Nair, the rent was finalized on Saturday. . The rent for the chain type harvester was fixed at Rs 2,100 per hour which was Rs 2,000. last year. While for tyre type harvester, the new rent for this season is Rs 1,600. Last year it was fixed at Rs 1,500. During the similar meeting convened by the Thanjavur district collector M Govinda Rao last week, the same rates were fixed for the private harvesters. Meanwhile, the harvester machines provided by the agriculture engineering department has been fixed at Rs 1,415 for chain type and at Rs 875 for tyre type machines, collector further stated. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/dist-admins-fix-rent-for-harvesters/articleshow/80221286.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Nashik man held for attacking traffic cop||NASHIK: The Mumbai Naka police arrested a man for assaulting a traffic constable at the Indiranagar underpass on Sunday evening. The accused has been identified as Narayan Laxman Suryawanshi, a 40-year-resident of the Govindnagar slum area. A complaint against him was lodged by traffic branch police constable Shankar Datir, who stated that Suryawanshi assaulted him near the Indiranagar underpass when he questioned a biker for rash driving. Constable Datir and one more traffic policeman were patrolling the Indiranagar area at 6 pm on Sunday, when they saw a rash-riding biker. When Datir stopped the biker to question him, Suryawanshi, who was riding pillion, got abusive and slapped the traffic constable. Soon after the traffic cop brought the incident to the notice of the Mumbai Naka police, they swung into action and arrested Suryawanshi. The Mumbai Naka police are investigating the case further. This is not an isolated incident of assault on a traffic policeman in the city. In fact, many people are booked every year for assaulting public servants. Last year, till November-end, there were 37 cases of assault on government servants reported in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-man-held-for-attacking-traffic-cop/articleshow/80219076.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Chicken prices see further fall in Maharashtra||Prices of poultry items fell further on Monday as bird flu deaths were reported in Maharashtra. Live chicken was cheaper by Rs 15-20 a kg at Rs 155-160 as compared to Rs 175-180 over the weekend, while broiler rates dropped to Rs 62-65 from Rs 80. Local vendors blamed ‘rumours and fear psychosis’ for a marked reduction in demand.  Egg rates remained stable at Rs 68-70 per dozen registering a mere fall of Rs 2-3 over the weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chicken-prices-see-further-fall/articleshow/80222820.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Nagpur||Of 150km projects, NHAI completed only 68km but felled 10,341 trees||NAGPUR: At a time when the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has blamed forest department for delay in road widening projects, information under the RTI Act reveals that its projects where no forest land is involved are lagging behind. Of the total length of 150km under Nagpur project implementation unit (PIU-1), work on 68km has been completed for which the NHAI has felled 10,341 trees. Most of these projects were started 3-4 years ago. According to RTI query by Abhay Kolarkar, projects worth Rs3,236 crore are under implementation under PIU-1. These works include flyovers at Pardi, Butibori, Sakoli, Lakhni, Hinganghat-Nandgaon, and four-laning of Nagpur-Umred, Saoner-Dhapewada-Kalmeshwar-Gondkhairi roads and bypasses for Nagpur. The NHAI comes under the ministry of road transport and highways, headed by city MP Nitin Gadkari. The information sought between January 1, 2016, and November 30, 2020, reveals that even as the projects are incomplete, the NHAI has felled over 10,341 trees and more are likely to be felled. On the 68km road works completed, Rs1,552 crore, which comes to half of the project cost, has already been spent the RTI reply revealed. “As per the Indian Roads Congress’s SP-21 tree plantation guidelines, NHAI has to plant 999 trees per km, but the norm has not been followed considering the poor plight of plantations,” says Kolarkar. “Four days ago, Gadkari had a meeting with the state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asking him to expedite forest clearances and land acquisition processes. In the projects for which information was sought under RTI, no forest land is involved,” says Kolarkar. Construction of four-lane flyover on NH-53 at Pardi, integrated with ROBs and river bridge including approach ramps service road and inner ring road from Manewada to Kalamna and Prajapati Square to Vaishnavdevi Chowk is going at a snail’s pace. The 7.13km project worth Rs448 crore was started on March 31, 2016, but only 2.16km of work has been completed spending Rs179 crore. The project involved the felling of 504 trees. Similarly, of the four-lane stand-alone ring road and bypasses for Nagpur (outer ring road) with 33km length, only 16km has been completed. The project started on January 5, 2017. Of the awarded cost of Rs531 crore, Rs297 crore has already been spent. Besides, work on another outer ring road of 28km, only 7km has been completed. Of the project cost of Rs639 crore, Rs312 crore has already been spent. For both these projects, 1,376 trees were felled. Talking to TOI, project director (Nagpur) NL Yeotkar said, “The delay is due to problem with contractors on both the above projects. Now that things have been resolved, we plan to complete these projects by December 2021. Most of the works are related to ROBs and flyovers, which take time.” However, most of the flyover projects started in Lakhni, Sakoli, Butibori T-point, Hinganghat-Nandgaon junction, three-lane ROB at Saundad, like that was started in 2018, has not been completed yet. To this, Yeotkar says, “The Butibori flyover will be ready by March this year. Other flyovers will also be completed before this year-end. It is true that there is no progress on the flyover in Saundad.” On four-laning of Nagpur-Umred road, Yeotkar said, “Of the 41km, 22km has already been completed. The work was started in August 2019 and will be completed during the current year.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/of-150km-projects-nhai-completed-only-68km-but-felled-10341-trees/articleshow/80221282.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Indira Park steel bridge: 170 trees face axe in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: The lush greenery between Indira Park and RTC Crossroads is all set to vanish, with nearly 170 trees to be axed on this 1.5km stretch. Reason: A bi-directional steel bridge (elevated flyover) proposed from Indira Park up to Nagamaiah Kunta slum (near Hindi Mahavidyalaya, Nallakunta). A detailed joint inspection, on either side of the stretch, was carried out by engineering wing officials of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), forest department officials and members of the Tree Protection Committee (TPC). A nod from TPC, comprising officials and civil society members, is a must for any mass felling of trees. During the inspection, officials identified as many as 170 trees, aged between 10 and 30 years. No fruit trees have been found on the stretch. Most of the trees are Gulmohar, Ashoka, Pongamia, Child-life trees (Putranjiva roxburghii) and other species. “Enumeration of the trees has been completed and the TPC has given clearance for removal of the trees. The GHMC is trying to protect as many trees as possible, keeping in view the state government’s priority on protection of greenery. Trees will be translocated wherever possible,” a senior GHMC engineering official told TOI. Enumeration on trees at another flyover, proposed between Ramnagar Crossroads and Bagh Lingampally is yet to begin, said the official. Unhappy with the loss of green cover, environmentalists rued how that the city has already lost hundreds of trees as part of infrastructure projects such as metro rail, foot-over bridges, road widening and laying water and sewer lines. “In this pandemic situation, people have realised the importance of their health. Cutting trees is the main cause for increasing air pollution. It is disheartening that even though the value of the trees is well known, authorities are still going ahead and chopping them,” said Kaajal Maheshwari, founder, Citizens for Hyderabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indira-park-steel-bridge-170-trees-face-axe/articleshow/80221275.cms||Sunil Mungara
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Avian flu: Anxious pet parents in Mumbai keep birds in ‘home quarantine’; shops on alert||MUMBAI: Chinu, Manu and Pilu seemed to be living their best lives basking in the morning sun and fresh air from their fourth floor verandah and whistling to neighbouring squirrels and birds. Things changed this week as the cockatiel family joined its teleworking owners in living a lockdown life. “When bird flu hit Maharashtra, we got worried for Chinu, Manu and Pilu. We’ve stopped keeping them by the window to avoid contact with birds outside. It feels bad...we know what it’s like to live in quarantine due to coronavirus, but we have to keep them safe from the avian virus,” said Aniket Sawlekar from Panvel. Arrival of the avian flu in Mumbai has pet parents worried with veterinarians fielding calls from anxious bird owners like Sawlekar over the past two days about how to keep their feathered companion safe from the disease. “I’ve been getting calls from bird owners wanting to know if there’s a vaccine available for the bird flu, how deadly it is, what precautions to take and how to improve their birds’ immunity,” says Yuvraj Kaginkar, wildlife conservationist and avian vet who allayed some of their fears with claims that, “Chances of infection among housebound pet birds is low given that these viruses occur naturally among wild aquatic birds and migratory ones, often viewed as reservoirs for avian influenza A viruses.” Although there is no evidence of pet animals contracting the avian flu virus yet, Kaginkar warns, “If a pet bird spends time outdoors, it might come in contact with wild birds that shed the virus through their saliva, nasal secretions, and faeces and get infected through contact with surfaces contaminated by infected birds. To minimize the risk, it’s best not to allow pets outside without supervision or expose them to open air if one lives facing the sea coast or a creek.” Shiwani Tandel, a veterinarian from Prabhadevi who has been inundated with calls from bird owners since yesterday, agrees. “Bird flu has become a concern among pet bird parents but as long as pet birds are not exposed to wild birds or free flying birds, their pets are not at risk,” says Tandel adding that people who rescue birds can safely continue to do so. “But all rescued birds should be quarantined away from pet birds to ensure their safety.” The over 450 pet shops in the city are on alert, too. While many shop owners have kept their caged birds in secure isolation, there are others who are yet to take adequate precautions. Activists have asserted that the state authorities ensure that the Pet Shop Rules of 2018 that set new standards for animal housing and care across the country, are properly implemented. “During a survey of pet shops last year, it was noticed that several shop owners keep caged birds cramped in a single unit in a way that birds’ droppings fall into the feeding tray of another caged unit. Such unhygienic conditions are a breeding ground for zoonoses,” pointed out Ambika Hiranandani, animal rights lawyer and member of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. “Now, due to bird flu, the state animal welfare board and animal husbandry department are going to do region wise inspection of various pet shops.” Meanwhile honorary district animal welfare officer, Mitesh Jain has warned errant shop owners of legal action if cleanliness and safety of birds and animals is not maintained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anxious-pet-parents-keep-birds-in-home-quarantine-shops-on-alert/articleshow/80222829.cms||Mohua Das
January 12, 2021||Nashik||NMC makes plan to improve air quality||Nashik: Automated road sweeping machines, electric crematorium in all six divisions, installation of purifiers, charging stations for electric vehicles and awareness programmes are some of the major initiatives that the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will undertake under the central government’s National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) for cities, including Nashik. The central government recently gave Rs 20 crore to the civic body for undertaking various measures to improve the city’s air quality. According to the environment department, they recently had a meeting with the municipal commissioner and it has been decided that different departments will undertake the projects. Last year, the civic body had approved an action plan by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) for improving the air quality. After receiving the funds from the Centre, municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav had a meeting with the various departments to discuss the issue. “We have planned some projects for being implemented under the central government funds. We have plans to buy two mechanical dust sweeping machines for city roads. The process of buying mechanical sweeping machines is to be carried out by the solid waste department and the mechanical department of the civic body,” S Vanjari, NMC executive engineer, said. “Apart from this, the NMC also has plans to install air purifiers, manufactured by The National Environmental Engineering and Research Institute (NEERI) at all the major junctions in the city. It helps reduce the air pollutants in the air within the radius of 100 metre,” he said, “Initially, we had planned to install air purifiers at two locations under the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), but we will spend the money on projects at other locations,” he added. Other projects included in the blueprint are electric crematoriums and electric charging points for vehicles among others. When contacted, a senior officer from Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) P Joshi said, “The centre has given us funds to improve the air quality. Now, the NMC has to implement the projects. The central teams will inspect the works carried out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-makes-plan-to-improve-air-quality/articleshow/80219098.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||TRP scam: BARC ex-CEO named in second chargesheet||MUMBAI: The ex-CEO of Broadcast Audience Research Council, Partho Dasgupta, misused his official position, connived with other accused, including Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami, and thus manipulated TRP ratings, bringing Republic TV to the No. 1 position, a supplementary chargesheet submitted by the Mumbai police in the TRP scam said. The chargesheet, which runs into 3,600 pages, has shown Republic TV’s COO Priya Mukherjee, its chief financial officer Shiva Sundaram and employees Shivendu Mulherkar and Ranjit Walter, among others, as wanted accused. Apart from this, Amit Dave, Sanjeev Verma and other officials of Mahamovies channel are also shown as wanted accused. The city crime branch probing the TRP manipulation scam on Monday submitted the supplementary chargesheet in the case against Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani, former BARC COO Romil Ramgarhia and Partho Dasgupta. The Broadcast Audience Research Council or BARC measures viewership of TV channels, which is critical for broadcasters as the ratings have a direct bearing on the business they get from advertisers. Partho Dasgupta appears to be the kingpin of the racket, assistant police inspector Sachin Waze, who is investigating officer, said. The chargesheet stated that Dasgupta was CEO of BARC between June 2013 and November 2019 and manipulated TRPs of other channels too. Khanchandani is accused of using illegal means to manipulate and bring TRPs of Republic TV to the top, the chargesheet said. He is in the WhatsApp group in which there are “conspiracy messages with Priya Mukherjee and other accused (Multi System Operators) on use of dual promotional LCN to promote their channel on monetary consideration,” the chargesheet said. The chargesheet further stated that Ramgarhia was BARC COO from July 2014 to July 2020, and during his tenure, he misused his position and used illegal means to manipulate TRPs and helped Republic TV. There is a system in place to measure TRPs, and Ramgarhia connived with other accused and manipulated ratings, the chargesheet stated. Dasgupta bought expensive items, gold and silver jewellery from the ill-gotten money he got from the manipulation scam, the chargesheet said. Dasgupta has moved the sessions court seeking bail. His plea will be heard on Friday when the prosecution is likely to submit its reply. The court refused an oral request made by his defence for interim bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/trp-scam-barc-ex-ceo-named-in-2nd-chargesheet/articleshow/80221502.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Patna||Cash & jewellery worth Rs 17 lakh looted in Supaul||PATNA: Over a dozen criminals barged into the house of a PDS dealer in Supaul district in the wee hours of Monday and decamped with cash and jewellery worth Rs17 lakh. While fleeing with the booty, the dacoits hurled bombs causing injuries to the dealer’s neighbour. The incident took place around 2.30am when the inmates of the house owned by Dev Narain Choudhary were fast asleep. The dacoits, stated to be 13 in number, entered the house located at Ghurghur Chowk under Sadar police station area after breaking open the rear door. They held the family members captive at gunpoint and herded them into a room. Thereafter, the dacoits opened the almirah and collected Rs5 lakh, 200 grams of gold, 5kg of silver and some other valuables. The criminals threatened the family members with dire consequences if they raised an alarm. While fleeing, the dacoits hurled bombs near the house in which Choudhary’s neighbour Tribhuwan Sah received injuries in his hand. He was rushed to a private hospital in Supaul for treatment. He was out of danger. The injured Sah told the police that he came across the dacoits while going to a nearby field to answer the call of nature. “They lobbed bombs in a bid to keep me away from them. I received injuries in my hand,” Sah told this newspaper. Agitated over the incident, local residents blocked the Ramdutt Patti-Supaul road. The residents alleged that the incidents of house robbery have increased in the area falling under Sadar police station in the district. On getting information, SP Manoj Kumar visited the site and inquired about the incident. A sniffer dog was pressed into service to trace the dacoits’ route of retreat. A forensic team also visited the spot and collected samples from there. However, no breakthrough has been achieved so far. The SP said two live bombs were recovered from the spot. “Raids are on to nab the criminals involved in the incident,” he said, adding that on the victim’s statement, an FIR related to loot of cash and jewellery worth Rs17 lakh was lodged with the Sadar police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cash-jewellery-worth-rs17-lakh-looted-in-supaul/articleshow/80219590.cms||Ramashankar
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Dr Reddy’s seeks DCGI nod for Phase 3 trials of Sputnik V||HYDERABAD: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories on Monday said it has submitted the Phase 2 clinical trials data of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V to the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) for approval to continue with Phase 3 trials. The move comes after the independent Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) reviewed the safety data from the Phase 2 trials and recommended Phase 3 recruitment and continuation of the trial without any modifications, Dr Reddy’s Labs said. “DSMB concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study has met the primary endpoints of safety,” it added. The randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled Phase 2 study in India was conducted on 100 subjects after Dr Reddy’s partnered with Russian sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) for conducting clinical trials and distributing over 100 million doses in India. “The Phase 2 study in India showed a very good safety profile...reinforcing our confidence in the safety of Sputnik V, which has now been administered to over 1 million people in Russia and over 300,000 people in Argentina. We are working closely towards fast-tracking its launch in India,” GV Prasad, co-chairman and managing director, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories, said. RDIF CEO Kirill Dmitriev said the “positive” safety data from the Phase 2 trials in India confirms the safety profile of Sputnik V in international markets. Sputnik V, which became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19 after it was registered in August 2020, has shown an efficacy of around 91.4%, according to RDIF. The vaccine’s clinical trials are also underway in UAE, Egypt, Venezuela and Belarus, while it has been registered in Algeria, Argentina, Belarus, Bolivia and Serbia for inoculation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dr-reddys-seeks-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trials-of-sputnik-v/articleshow/80221320.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Dilip Chhabria now arrested in comedian cheating case||MUMBAI: City crime branch on Monday arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in a fresh case of cheating comedian Kapil Sharma of Rs 5.7 crore. Chhabria, arrested on December 29, 2020, in a car financing and dual registration racket, was sent to judicial custody last week. Police on Monday sought permission from 37th metropolitan court for his custody in the fresh case. Sharma had filed a complaint before EOW in September last year, alleging that despite paying him Rs 5.7 crore, he had not delivered a customised vanity van he had ordered in 2017, and was demanding more money and parking charges. Chhabria will be produced before the metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday. Assistant inspector Sachin Waze said Chhabria had demanded Rs 1.2 crore as parking charges. Police said six more people complained to crime branch about Chhabria.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dilip-chhabria-now-arrested-in-comedian-cheating-case/articleshow/80221480.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Nashik||Boy drowns at Dugarwadi waterfall||Nashik: An 18-year-old boy from Nashik Road area of the city drowned in Dugarwadi waterfall, around 40 km from the city, on Sunday afternoon. The deceased has been identified as Akash Rohidas Pagare. Constable Kailas Ahire from Trimbakeshwar police station said that the incident took place at around 2.30 pm. “A group of six youths had gone to Dugarwadi waterfall. The deceased did not know swimming and had refrained from entering the water. However, after his friends entered the water and having fun, Pagare also decided to join them. But he failed to gauge the depth and drowned,” Ahire said. “We got information about the incident at 3.45pm as the mobile phones of the youths did not have any network. They all ran towards a village that was around one hour away from the spot to seek help. A team of 11 personnel from Trimbakeshwar police and home guards rushed to the spot by 7 pm and fished out the body. It took the police nearly three hours to come out of the jungle,” he added. Ahire said that they have registered a case of accidental death. They have also checked the photos on the cellphones of the youngsters and taken their statements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/boy-drowns-at-dugarwadi-waterfall/articleshow/80219134.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||101 donations: Kolkata cops turn Covid saviour with plasma||KOLKATA: The city police has crossed a milestone in its fight against coronavirus. On Sunday, the number of plasma donors within the force surpassed the 100-mark. All the 101 donations made till Sunday were for common citizens treated across nine government and private hospitals in the city. The men in uniform have even formed a club to carry out donations seamlessly. “Of the 101 donations, not even one was for over 3,300 cops who got infected with Covid-19 during the period,” said a senior officer from the welfare cell that acted as the nodal agency to facilitate the donations. “Maximum donations were carried out in the past two months. Till mid-October, we had donated 53 times. As many as 48 donations have been made in the last two months or so,” the officer added. Times ViewIt is through such practices in the middle of so much despondency that a force integrates itself with the rest of the community. The institutionalisation of this practice — of putting cops on the list of donors — has been a great idea.Sources said these donations were mainly made through two different ways — someone from a patient’s family either directly reached out through social media with necessary documents or specific requests came from the administration of the various hospitals and the plasma bank at medical college. “Every cop who has recovered from Covid — essentially below 40-45 years, willing to donate plasma, has no co-morbidities and has spent a minimum four weeks of isolation after recovery — is being tested and a ready pool is being prepared. We now have a pool who can continue donations for the next couple of days,” said a senior officer from the welfare cell. But even the cops know their limits. “Not only has the donor to be completely fit at least 40 days ago for the antibody to grow, he has to be also without co-morbidity. The blood groups have to match. We are looking at young donors but our pool is fast drying up. Now, it will not be possible to help out everyone. While we are trying to help whenever someone is seeking help, it is time that the citizens come out as willing donors,” said an officer. “We request all those who have recovered with plasma donated by one of us to help spread Covid awareness. We are happy to help out in every possible way,” said joint CP (headquarters) Subhankar Sinha Sarkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/101-donations-cops-turn-cov-saviour-with-plasma/articleshow/80219978.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 12, 2021||Aurangabad||Jayakwadi, Salim Ali lake, Harsul lake under watch||Aurangabad: Key waterbodies like the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary, Salim Ali lake, Harsul Lake and Sawangi lake are under surveillance. Divisional forest officer Vijay Satpute said teams have been formed to keep an eye on the migratory birds at the Jayakwadi bird sanctuary. “Avian influenza causes mass bird deaths. We have not observed any such incident so far,” he said and added that the Gautala-Autramghat wildlife sanctuary and other forest reserves in the region are also under watch. The Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) too has sprung into action and has asked the ward-level officials to maintain vigil. The civic body wants surveillance in gardens and other bird habitats as well. The Salim Ali lake, Himayat Bagh and the Bamu campus are a few major bird habitats in the city. Environmentalist Milind Giridhari said people should inform the officials if they observe bird deaths. “One should not touch the dead birds with bare hands. An isolated bird death is not a problem, but mass deaths should not be ignored,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/jayakwadi-salim-ali-lake-harsul-lake-under-watch/articleshow/80219125.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Parents ask govt for school fee relief||HYDERABAD: Five lakh class X students and around 10 lakh Intermediate students will be appearing for SSC and Board of Intermediate Education examinations this year. The school managements, meanwhile, have welcomed the move. They said that soon after opening schools for high school students, the government should reopen schools for nursery to class 8 students. Parents said the CM should take a decision on school fee relief as the students have lost more than half of the academic year due to the pandemic. Student organisations demanded that all the students be vaccinated for Covid-19 before the schools and colleges are reopened. “Several states have seen a spike in Covid-19 cases after they had reopened. The government should first vaccinate all students to ensure safety of students instead of risking their lives,” said K Anand, general secretary, PDSU. After closing down educational institutions indefinitely in March 2020, online classes were launched by the managements of private educational institutions from June 2020, followed by digital classes by the state government in September. However, parents and students complained that online classes were ineffective and that students were unable to understand or concentrate during the online classes. Off late, demands and representations from private school managements and parents to reopen the educational institutions have been growing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/parents-ask-govt-for-school-fee-relief/articleshow/80221349.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Chhabria held in Rs5.7cr comedian cheating case||Mumbai: The city crime branch on Monday arrested car designer Dilip Chhabria in a fresh case of cheating comedian Kapil Sharma of Rs 5.7 crore. Chhabria, arrested on December 29, 2020, in connection with a car financing and dual registration racket, was sent to judicial custody last week. Police on Monday sought permission from the 37th metropolitan court for his custody in the fresh case. Sharma had filed a complaint before EOW in September last year, alleging that despite paying him Rs 5.7 crore, he had not delivered a customised vanity van he had ordered in 2017, and instead was demanding more money and parking charges. Chhabria will be produced before the 37th metropolitan magistrate court on Tuesday. Assistant inspector Sachin Waze said Chhabria had demanded Rs 1.2 crore as parking charges, which Sharma refused to pay. Police said six more people complained to crime branch about Chhabria. They expressed surprise as to why and how Chhabria has been running the racket and no agencies took action. Police said some financial institutions went by Chhabria’s name or ignored the manipulation, dual registration and turning of most loans as non-performing. Police are probing the role of RTO officials from Rajasthan, Odisha and Haryana and some other states where Chhabria’s Avanti cars were dual-registered. Police found that Dilip Chhabria Design Pvt Ltd (DCDPL) manufactured around 120 Avanti cars in three years and sold them in India and abroad on the basis of multiple registrations in states. Out of these 120 cars 90 were used for fraudulent financing by Chhabria’s company, posing as customers. Many loans taken from non-banking financial institutions were declared NPAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chhabria-held-in-rs5-7cr-comedian-cheating-case/articleshow/80220376.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 12, 2021||Kolhapur||Forum seeks deferment of KMC polls over merger of 42 villages||Kolhapur: A city-based forum on Monday submitted a proposal to the civic body, demanding that the upcoming Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) elections be deferred for few months till the plan of merging 42 villages in the civic limits is approved by the state government.Recently, urban development minister Eknath Shinde assured the civic body that the government will look into the merger demand seriously as without it the KMC is facing several challenges relating to development. Since 1947, the boundary of the KMC has not been altered and if the 42 villages, including industrial zones, are merged, then the area under the KMC’s jurisdiction will increase three-fold.Baba Indulkar, convenor of the forum, said, “Our demand is simple. The KMC should listen to the minister and submit the merger proposal to the government within a week. It should be done before the code of conduct for upcoming KMC election comes into effect. The election must be deferred so that the process of ward delimitation and reservation can be considered for the villages proposed to be added freshly.”Meanwhile, authorities have raised concern that for 17 of the 42 villages there is already independent body, Kolhapur Urban Area Development Authority (KUADA), that looks after the development of these villages due to which the government will not accept the proposal.The experts in the meeting said that despite three years of formation, the KUADA has not served any purpose as it has no staff to carry out various tasks. And once the merger takes place the development authority has to be scrapped.In the end civic chief Kadambari Balkawade said that she will need some time to study all the issues raised and will consult the forum while drafting the proposal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/forum-seeks-deferment-of-kmc-polls-over-merger-of-42-villages/articleshow/80219143.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Patna||Junior doctors’ stipend increased in Bihar||PATNA: The state government has increased the stipend of postgraduate medical students by Rs18,000 to 25000 effective from January previous year. As per a letter issued by health department additional secretary Kaushal Kishore, the government has increased the stipend of first-year students to Rs65,545 while second-year students will now get Rs75,399 and third-year students Rs82,938. Junior doctors at all the government medical college and hospitals in the state had gone on strike from December 23 demanding increase in their stipend. NMCH Junior Doctors’ Association president Dr Ramchandra Kumar thanked the government for its decision and requested to increase the stipends to interns, too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/junior-doctors-stipend-increased-in-state/articleshow/80219633.cms||---
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||BMC has property tax outstanding of Rs20k crore||Mumbai: BMC has a total outstanding property tax of nearly Rs 20,000 crore in the city. With the civic body facing a severe cash crunch this year due to Covid-19 and a slew of discounts to builders and contractors, BMC will soon attach and auction properties of defaulters. It missed its property tax collection target of Rs 5,300 crore this year, and so far collected only Rs 950 crore. It has time till March-end to recover Rs 4,300 crore. A senior civic official said most dues are from bulk generators like builders, hoteliers and commercial complex owners, in some cases since 2010. “We will impose penalties at 2% per month on outstanding amounts if they don’t pay by March. We have attached several properties and will begin auctioning them. We will first auction commercial spaces and land under construction,” said Dr Sangeeta Hasnale, assistant municipal commissioner (assessment and collection). BMC data showed that as on December 2020, total property tax it has to recover is Rs 19,950 crore. Officials said with octroi abolished property tax is the biggest source of income for BMC (24%). BMC has failed to achieve its target of property tax collection from 2017. Officials said they will soon publish an inventory of properties that will be auctioned. Officials said it had set a target of Rs 6,788 crore for property tax collection for this year. “But we collected around Rs 950 crore so far due to lockdown and lack of clarity on collecting taxes from below 500 sq ft homes. Now we will collect tax, except the general tax component, from below 500 sq ft homes. There was to be a revision in tax rates this year, but it was shelved by the state government, so our target came down by 17%. Our revised target is around Rs 5,300 crore,” the official explained. BMC estimates the city has over 4.2 lakh property-owners. Officials explained that BMC gives 90 days to defaulters to pay property tax after serving a notice. If they don’t pay up, BMC disconnects water supply. If owners still don’t pay, their properties are attached. BMC can initiate an auction on property within 21 days. BMC had announced it will reform its property tax collection mechanism and structure. “A large part of recovery amount is pending due to a dispute over capital value system. This also caused an increase in outstanding year-on-year. The existing rule has many discrepancies that have to be streamlined. So far we have not been recovering the penal amount, but we will have to start this year due to revenue loss from other sources,” the official explained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-has-property-tax-outstanding-of-rs20k-crore/articleshow/80220392.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 12, 2021||Delhi||How Delhi govt plans to take education in its schools to next level||NEW DELHI: Delhi government plans to work on raising the pass percentage of students in Class IX in government schools, improve the performance of 25% of Class VIII students who do not possess foundational competencies and increase enrolment in government institutions. These imperatives were highlighted in a report titled ‘School Education Reforms in Delhi’, launched on Monday. Alongside these challenges, the report observed that 95% of parents and teachers in a survey believed quality of education in the capital had improved after the reforms introduced during 2015-20. The Boston Consultancy Group’s report was launched on Monday, the first day of the international conference, Delhi Education, organised by the state government. Speaking at the event, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, said, “We have succeeded in creating excellent school infrastructure, imparting teachers’ training, and improving student performances. But the real success will come when every child leaves the school with a passion to do something for the country and commits to driving change.” The deputy CM hoped to soon see the positive impact of the happiness and entrepreneurship curriculum adopted by Delhi government schools. The keynote address of the seven-day conference was delivered by Lucy Crehan, author of Clever Lands. “No education system becomes top performing, let alone equitable, by focusing only on educating a minority of students to high levels,” noted Crehan. In a panel discussion, former directors of education appreciated the political vision behind the educational reforms. The big takeaways of the education reform, according to the report, were improved school infrastructure, filling of teaching vacancies, increased parental involvement through parent-teacher meetings and higher motivation among teachers due to training programmes. On the learning outcomes, the encouraging news was the rise in pass percentages in both classes X and XII and the 10-20% annual improvement in foundational competencies of students of Classes VI-VIII through schemes like Chunauti and Mission Buniyaad. The report, however, pointed out that 25% of students in Class VIII were still at learning levels of a Class II student. “To add to that, a majority of students who fail in Class IX have not been able to avail meaningful opportunities through the Patrachar scheme, which has seen a low enrolment of about 3,000 and pass percentage of 27-32%,” it added. The report attributed the dip in enrolment to the drop in the primary schools run by the municipal corporations. Students of these schools mostly moved to government schools after passing Class VI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-govt-plans-to-take-edu-in-its-schools-to-next-level/articleshow/80221740.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 12, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Medical colleges plan multiple vaccination session sites to maintain disease protocol||KOLKATA: With just a few days left for the Covid-19 vaccine rollout, medical colleges in the city are gearing up with multiple vaccination session sites. The state health department plans the rollout to begin from medical colleges that have better manpower and facilities for treatment in case of adverse events. Accordingly, all the five medical colleges are planning to have anything between five to 10 vaccination booths. “So far, the plan is to have six vaccination session sites under IPGMER (Institute of Post Graduate Medical Education and Research). While four will be on the SSKM campus, the other two will be at the Sambhunath Pandit Hospital premises,” said an official at IPGMER. During the dry run last Friday, all four vaccination booths at SSKM were activated for the drill. Close to 9 lakh healthcare workers of this multispecialty unit have been registered as beneficiaries for the first phase of vaccination. According to sources, each vaccination site will require a team of about eight people, including the crucial five — vaccinator officer and vaccination officers 1, 2, 3 and 4. While the vaccinator officer will be a qualified healthcare worker who has the licence to administer injections, the vaccination officers will include security personnel, police, home guards and NCC cadets to oversee crowd management, verification of beneficiaries and counselling them. “We are planning to have six or seven vaccination sites that can be scaled up to 10 if needed. We are working out the finalities, including the manpower,” said an administrator at Medical College & Hospital, Kolkata. Even as the Friday dry run in the city was initially planned in two medical colleges — IPGMER and NRS Medical College — the other three teaching institutes were also asked to take part in the drill as health officials felt that this was required as all of them will be having vaccination sites during the actual rollout. National Medical College Hospital has planned to have six vaccination sites. For adequate spacing, three booths have been planned on hospital campus while the other three will be opposite the campus that houses the principal’s office, auditorium and other administrative offices. Most medical colleges are likely to engage its security personnel besides roping in cops to work as vaccination officers. All these medical colleges will also have a committee to monitor adverse events. This committee comprises senior faculty members from various departments. As a part of an ongoing programme, more people were trained on vaccination at SSKM Hospital. Doctors from various teaching institutes took part in the training programme. “It was conducted by the district family welfare office, Kolkata, where experts from WHO imparted the training,” said Sanjib Bandyopadhay, community medicine expert from ID Hospital who attended the training on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/medical-colleges-plan-multiple-vaccination-session-sites-to-maintain-disease-protocol/articleshow/80219997.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 12, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra’s daily toll stays below 50, cases in Mumbai lowest in 57 days||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant dip in Covid-19 cases on Monday. Maharashtra reported 2,438 daily cases and 40 deaths, taking its total cases to 19,71,552 and the total fatalities to 50,101. The cases detected on Monday were the lowest since December 28 (2,498), and the deaths continued to remain under 50 for the last two days. Mumbai reported 434 cases and 7 deaths on Monday. The daily detections in the city were the lowest in 57 days. With this, the total cases in the city touched 2,99,326, very close to the 3 lakh mark, and the total fatalities stood at 11,193. The city has been reporting fatalities in single digits for the last three days. Officials said that the dip in cases was a result of low testing during the weekends. Senior officials from the state said that the Covid-19 fatalities in the state were under control, and the case fatality rate in the month of December was around 2%. “Even as the cases continue to decline, we have managed to keep the fatalities under control too,” said an official. Of the 40 deaths reported on Monday, 22 occurred in the last 48 hours and five were from the last week, officials said. The remaining 13 deaths were from the period before last week. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that the deaths have been added to the state tally on Tuesday. The state official also said that with the vaccine being rolled out this week, the machinery was focused on smooth rollout of the first phase. On Monday, the Mumbai circle reported the highest cases at 826 and 13 deaths. Pune circle, which till last month was recording a high number of deaths, saw four casualties on Monday and 432 cases. Within MMR, Thane city reported 114 new cases, taking the tally of infected people there to 56,767, while three Covid deaths took the virus toll there to 1,270. The recovery rate in Thane was 96%. There were 49 fresh cases from within NMMC areas on Monday, taking the total Covid count there to 51,788. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,070. The PCMC areas reported 39 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 28,045. With two deaths reported on Monday, the death toll there reached 614. Panvel City Municipal Corporation commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh has tested positive for Covid-19. “His wife and son had tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago and are under home quarantine,” said a PCMC official. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 64 fresh patients and no deaths. On Monday, the daily recoveries were higher than the daily detections. A total of 4,286 patients recovered on Monday, taking the total recoveries to over 18.6 lakh and the rate of recovery of the state to 94.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/states-daily-toll-stays-below-50-cases-in-city-lowest-in-57-days/articleshow/80228060.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 12, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily toll stays below 50, cases in Mumbai lowest in 57 days||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant dip in Covid-19 cases on Monday. Maharashtra reported 2,438 daily cases and 40 deaths, taking its total cases to 19,71,552 and the total fatalities to 50,101. The cases detected on Monday were the lowest since December 28 (2,498), and the deaths continued to remain under 50 for the last two days. Mumbai reported 434 cases and 7 deaths on Monday. The daily detections in the city were the lowest in 57 days. With this, the total cases in the city touched 2,99,326, very close to the 3 lakh mark, and the total fatalities stood at 11,193. The city has been reporting fatalities in single digits for the last three days. Officials said that the dip in cases was a result of low testing during the weekends. Senior officials from the state said that the Covid-19 fatalities in the state were under control, and the case fatality rate in the month of December was around 2%. “Even as the cases continue to decline, we have managed to keep the fatalities under control too,” said an official. Of the 40 deaths reported on Monday, 22 occurred in the last 48 hours and five were from the last week, officials said. The remaining 13 deaths were from the period before last week. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that the deaths have been added to the state tally on Tuesday. The state official also said that with the vaccine being rolled out this week, the machinery was focused on smooth rollout of the first phase. On Monday, the Mumbai circle reported the highest cases at 826 and 13 deaths. Pune circle, which till last month was recording a high number of deaths, saw four casualties on Monday and 432 cases. Within MMR, Thane city reported 114 new cases, taking the tally of infected people there to 56,767, while three Covid deaths took the virus toll there to 1,270. The recovery rate in Thane was 96%. There were 49 fresh cases from within NMMC areas on Monday, taking the total Covid count there to 51,788. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,070. The PCMC areas reported 39 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 28,045. With two deaths reported on Monday, the death toll there reached 614. Panvel City Municipal Corporation commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh has tested positive for Covid-19. “His wife and son had tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago and are under home quarantine,” said a PCMC official. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 64 fresh patients and no deaths. On Monday, the daily recoveries were higher than the daily detections. A total of 4,286 patients recovered on Monday, taking the total recoveries to over 18.6 lakh and the rate of recovery of the state to 94.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/states-daily-toll-stays-below-50-cases-in-city-lowest-in-57-days/articleshow/80222849.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 12, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra’s daily toll stays below 50, cases in Mumbai lowest in 57 days||MUMBAI: The state and the city reported a significant dip in Covid-19 cases on Monday. Maharashtra reported 2,438 daily cases and 40 deaths, taking its total cases to 19,71,552 and the total fatalities to 50,101. The cases detected on Monday were the lowest since December 28 (2,498), and the deaths continued to remain under 50 for the last two days. Mumbai reported 434 cases and 7 deaths on Monday. The daily detections in the city were the lowest in 57 days. With this, the total cases in the city touched 2,99,326, very close to the 3 lakh mark, and the total fatalities stood at 11,193. The city has been reporting fatalities in single digits for the last three days. Officials said that the dip in cases was a result of low testing during the weekends. Senior officials from the state said that the Covid-19 fatalities in the state were under control, and the case fatality rate in the month of December was around 2%. “Even as the cases continue to decline, we have managed to keep the fatalities under control too,” said an official. Of the 40 deaths reported on Monday, 22 occurred in the last 48 hours and five were from the last week, officials said. The remaining 13 deaths were from the period before last week. Dr Pradeep Awate, state surveillance officer, said that the deaths have been added to the state tally on Tuesday. The state official also said that with the vaccine being rolled out this week, the machinery was focused on smooth rollout of the first phase. On Monday, the Mumbai circle reported the highest cases at 826 and 13 deaths. Pune circle, which till last month was recording a high number of deaths, saw four casualties on Monday and 432 cases. Within MMR, Thane city reported 114 new cases, taking the tally of infected people there to 56,767, while three Covid deaths took the virus toll there to 1,270. The recovery rate in Thane was 96%. There were 49 fresh cases from within NMMC areas on Monday, taking the total Covid count there to 51,788. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,070. The PCMC areas reported 39 fresh cases on Monday, taking the total case tally to 28,045. With two deaths reported on Monday, the death toll there reached 614. Panvel City Municipal Corporation commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh has tested positive for Covid-19. “His wife and son had tested positive for Covid-19 a week ago and are under home quarantine,” said a PCMC official. Kalyan-Dombivli on Monday reported 64 fresh patients and no deaths. On Monday, the daily recoveries were higher than the daily detections. A total of 4,286 patients recovered on Monday, taking the total recoveries to over 18.6 lakh and the rate of recovery of the state to 94.7%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/states-daily-toll-stays-below-50-cases-in-city-lowest-in-57-days/articleshow/80228062.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 12, 2021||Bareilly||Bengaluru man who flew to UP to meet girl beaten, taken to police station||BAREILLY: A Muslim youth who flew down from Bengaluru to Lakhimpur Kheri to see a Hindu girl he had met online was beaten up, taken to a police station and detained overnight. While a local right-wing outfit insisted that anti-conversion charges be pressed against him, police took him into preventive detention on Sunday evening. He was released a day later on a personal bail bond. The man, 21, works as an engineer in Bengaluru. Around April last year, he had started talking to the girl, a teenager, online. It was her birthday, he wanted to see her. So he booked a flight, brought gifts — a soft toy, chocolates and sweets — and headed for her house from Lucknow, where he landed. When he got there, however, her parents asked him who he was. He told them his name. Neighbours gathered, and soon a group of right-wing outfit members joined. They started beating him up, one of them called 112 and informed the police. It was a case of “forced conversion,” they insisted. “When he was brought to the police station, he had all these gifts in hand. He had about Rs 1,500 and a flight ticket from Bengaluru to Lucknow on him. He said he is from Deoria and works in Bengaluru. Turns here " He was here to meet the girl,” Suneel Kumar, SHO of Sadar Kotwali, where he was detained, told TOI. “The girl’s family said they felt threatened by him. But they didn’t want to file a complaint.” The right-wing outfit did. Messages about the “plan” to convert a Hindu girl quickly started circulating by late evening. “The family didn’t want to press charges, so no FIR was registered. We challaned him under Section 151 of the CrPC (to prevent commission of cognizable offence). It was late at night, so we kept him here and presented him in the court of the sub divisional magistrate on Monday, who ordered his release on a personal bond,” Kumar said. As to why he was taken into detention at all, a senior police officer who did not want to be named told TOI, “We cannot confirm just with the ticket if he came to see the girl. He may have been here for other work. His detention was a preventive step as he may have stalked the girl and harmed her. He got bail because her family didn’t lodge a complaint.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/lovelorn-man-flies-from-bluru-to-meet-girl-on-bday-gets-beaten-up-by-right-wing-men-detained-by-cops-in-up/articleshow/80219132.cms||---
