January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Two cops held for taking bribe in Bengaluru; colleague tries to flee, hurt||BENGALURU: Sleuths from the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) said they caught a head constable accepting Rs 1 lakh bribe on behalf of a woman police sub-inspector (WPSI) on Tuesday and arrested both the personnel. The arrested cops are Soumya, a WPSI, and Jayaprakash Reddy, a head constable, both attached with Byappanahalli police station. According to ACB officials, the accused work in the crime wing. The duo learnt that a person residing in Chamarajpet had received a stolen mobile phone from an accused in a theft case. The cops contacted the wife of the receiver and demanded Rs 2 lakh bribe, if her husband was not to be arrested. The woman was not willing to give a bribe and approached ACB officials on Monday. ACB took up a case and laid a trap. The woman went to the police station on direction from ACB officials and gave Rs 1 lakh as advance to Reddy. A team of ACB officials swooped down on the police station and arrested Reddy and Soumya. Constable injured The ACB team’s presence at Byappanahalli station triggered a parallel drama. Alarmed by the sleuths, a constable tried to flee the station and was injured after he fell from the stairs. Police identified the injured constable as Kumar. “Kumar got scared on seeing the ACB officials. He was trying to escape when he slipped on the stairs and fell. He sustained injuries in both his legs,” a police officer from Byappanahalli station said. According to ACB officials, the injured policeman is not connected to the bribe case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/2-cops-held-for-taking-bribecolleague-tries-to-flee-hurt/articleshow/80238880.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Relief jets in and how: Now, time for Covid shots in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines arrived in Delhi on Tuesday morning with SpiceJet ferrying in 2,64,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine from Pune. The cargo arm SpiceXpress flight SG8937 landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport at 10.15am. The vaccines were specially packed in airtight containers sealed by the Serum Institute of India. The vaccines were immediately loaded on to a special temperature-controlled truck and transported to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. The cargo craft took off at Pune at 8.05 am. Spicejet executives said 22 boxes, each containing 1,200 vials of Covishield, were packed into the SpiceXpress craft that is capable of transporting extremely sensitive drugs, blood samples and vaccines in a temperature range of -40 degrees Celsius to +25 degrees Celsius. Each vial provides 10 doses of the vaccine. The white packets bore a logo with an image of an aeroplane against the Tricolour with the words, “May all be free of disease.” Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said, “I am very proud that India’s first consignment of the Covid vaccine was carried today by SpiceJet from Pune to Delhi. On Day One, SpiceJet is transporting four million doses of Covishield weighing close to 11 tonnes to Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna, Vijayawada and Delhi. As India gets ready for the biggest vaccination drive in its history, the SpiceJet family hopes and prays for a quick, complete and decisive victory in this fight against coronavirus.” Delhi International Airport Limited officials said instructions had been given to immediately transfer the vials to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. However, the airport is also capable of storing the vaccine at its two cargo terminals, which together have a combined capacity to hold 57 lakh vials each day. The storage facilities at the airport can keep sensitive drugs and vaccines at a temperature ranging from -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius. “We were coordinating with the airline and a temperature-controlled truck was ready to transfer the boxes soon after the flight landed,” said the airport official. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said, “On Tuesday, we received out first batch of Covid vaccines, but right through the pandemic period, IGIA has been relentlessly working for the timely and smooth supply of medical equipment and other relief material in and out of Delhi to various destinations in India.” He revealed that in addition to the temperature control facilities, there also were ‘cool chambers’ and ‘cool dollies’ to maintain the required temperature while transferring the vaccines to the cargo terminals. Jaipuriar added, “We have synergised and collaborated with the exporters, importers, logistics companies, freight forwarders, agents, government, airlines and cargo terminal operators to ensure faster turnaround of the vaccines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-jets-in-and-how-now-time-for-shots/articleshow/80239397.cms||---
January 13, 2021||World||Police officer escorting polio vaccine team shot dead in Pakistan's northwest||ISLAMABAD: Unidentified gunmen shot dead a police officer escorting a polio vaccination team in Karak district of Pakistan’s northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on Tuesday. According to police, the attack took place at 10:00am local time in Latumbar area, about 12 miles west of Karak town. “The attackers came on motorcycles and opened fire on him, while the polio vaccination team was in the van,” said a police officer. Last year, Karak and its adjoining districts saw 15 of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province’s 22 cases of polio, according to official data. The anti-polio drive in Pakistan has been fraught with grave risks, with militants claiming it to be anti-Islamic, affecting child fertility. At the same time, the anti-polio workers are suspected by people mostly in rural parts of the country to be spying for the American. This opposition to polio vaccination grew after the CIA had organised a fake inoculation drive which helped them track down the al-Qaida founder Osama bin Laden in the cantonment area of Pakistani city of Abbottabad. Large numbers of security personnel are now frequently deployed with vaccine teams – particularly in the restive northwest of the country. The ongoing polio effort aims to vaccinate more than 40 million children under the age of five across Pakistan with the help of around 285,000 front-line workers. With the latest attack, the number of people being killed for being part of polio vaccination teams and those providing them security since 2012 to rose to 102.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/police-officer-escorting-polio-vaccine-team-shot-dead-in-pakistans-northwest/articleshow/80239522.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 13, 2021||World||Pak court sentences three JuD leaders for terrorism financing||ISLAMABAD: A Lahore-based Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) on Tuesday convicted Yahya Mujahid, spokesperson of banned outfit Jamaat-ud-Dawa, in a terror financing case and sentenced him to 15 years in jail. The court also convicted Zafar Iqbal and Abdur Rehman Makki, two other leaders of JuD and key aides of the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks mastermind Hafiz Saeed, in the same case. Iqbal was sentenced to 15 and a half years and Makki to six-month imprisonment. The Counter Terrorism Department of Punjab had registered a number of cases related to terror financing against leaders of militant outfits who remained active in terrorist activities in India, especially in Jammu and Kashmir. The courts, however, convicted and sentenced them on charges not linked to any specific militant attack. Pakistan has intensified action against Punjab-based militant leaders in an attempt to meet the conditions set by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), a global terror watchdog, which will review Pakistan’s case next week. Pakistan is currently on grey list of the watchdog and trying to avoid being put on the FATF’s black list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pak-court-sentences-three-jud-leaders-for-terrorism-financing/articleshow/80239606.cms||Omer Farooq Khan
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Petition in Karnataka HC challenges ordinance on cow slaughter||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday sought the state government’s response to a petition challenging constitutional validity of the ordinance that bans cow slaughter. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, received the governor’s assent recently. A division bench headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka pointed out that as things stood, in the absence of supporting rules, even a farmer transporting cattle to his farm could be arrested and prosecuted. It sought advocate general Prabhuling K Navadgi’s response on this aspect. The hearing was adjourned to January 18 after Navadgi’s request. Social worker Mohamed Arif Jameel has filed the PIL against the ordinance, questioning its need when there is already a cow protection law. He claims the ordinance affects the rights related to means of livelihood and its provisions on search and seizure are arbitrary. He has expressed apprehensions that the ordinance may be misused to harass minorities over their choice of food and it could also become a tool for vigilante groups.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/cow-slaughter-law-pil-in-hc/articleshow/80239735.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chennai||No entry into Tamil Nadu beaches, zoos on Pongal holidays||CHENNAI: Considering the difficulty in ensuring social distancing, the government on Tuesday declared that Vandalur zoo, Children’s Park, Guindy National Park and the monuments in Mamallapuram will remain closed for visitors from Friday till Sunday. Beaches and other tourism spots are already out of bounds. A few departments, however, have not taken a decision in this regard, with a tourism department source saying there was no instruction on keeping the Muttukadu boat house or the Mudaliarkuppam water sports centre closed. “We have called for a meeting on Wednesday morning to chalk out the final plans to manage visitors on Kaanum Pongal,” he said, adding that they had begun receiving inquiries from last week. The horticulture department too is yet to decide on keeping the Semmozhipoonga or horticulture garden in Madhavaram open. Semmozhi Poonga in Teynampet received around 10,000 people on January 1. “Usually, people go to the beaches on the first of January. But since they were shut people flocked her in large numbers. We were surprised on seeing the turnout,” said L Venkatesh, a member of the managing staff at the botanical park. Now, with the beaches shut again, the facility is being spruced up. All eight washrooms have been repaired. But the worry is if the existing amenities are enough to cater to the large number of visitors expected. Greater Chennai Corporation officials too are in a quandary about keeping the parks open. A worker at the Anna Nagar Tower Park said two washrooms needed minor repairs for uninterrupted water supply and they also need more dustbins to collect garbage. On Tuesday morning, there were at least a hundred people at the park. “The numbers have been increasing since Sunday,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/childrens-park-zoo-mahabs-shut-from-jan-14-to-17/articleshow/80239778.cms||P Oppili
January 13, 2021||India||UK MPs suggest human rights conditions imposed in UK-India trade deals||LONDON: Several British MPs have called for human rights provisions to be included in any future trade deal with India, after debating in the House of Commons the persecution being experienced by minorities. MPs from various parties -- including the Conservatives -- took part in the backbench debate on Tuesday on the persecution of Muslims, Christians and other minority groups in India. Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) MP Jim Shannon called on the UK government “to ensure that robust human rights provisions are included in any future trade and investment agreement.” “Violations of freedom of religious belief lead to domestic conflict, which is good neither for India’s economic prosperity, nor for the chances of a stable, long-term trading relationship between India and the UK,” he said. The topics discussed included stigmatization of Muslims as “bio-terrorists” and “corona-jihadists” following an event in Delhi at the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the spread of anti-conversion laws, the rise of religious nationalist vigilante groups, growing mob violence, the “stripping of citizenship rights” via the NRC in Assam and CAA, the burning of bibles and attacks on Christians and the targeting of Sikhs in the farmers' protests. Shannon cited examples of attacks on Christians such as on February 3, 2019, when a 40-strong mob attacked a church in Karkeli village, near Raipur leading to 15 worshippers being hospitalised. “Much of the violence against minorities is not appropriately investigated by government authorities,” he said. “Powered by the anti-conversion laws and often with the police’s complicity, right-wing groups conduct campaigns of harassment, social exclusion and violence against Christians, Muslims and other religious minorities,” he said. Conservative MP Sir Edward Leigh said: “True friendship requires not turning a blind eye to each other’s faults, and we must protest persecution in India today.” Minister for Asia Nigel Adams said: “India faces challenges in enforcing its constitutional protections for freedom of religion or belief. We look to the government of India to address these concerns.” “In 2004, a Catholic, Sonia Gandhi, facilitated the handover of power to a Sikh, Manmohan Singh, enabling him to become Prime Minister, with his oath of office overseen by a Muslim President, APJ Abdul Kalam,” pointed out Conservative MP Theresa Villiers. But not all the MPs were comfortable with the UK Parliament debating India's internal matters. The High Commission of India in London had sent out briefs to those attending to try and address any "misinformation" ahead of the debate. Labour MP Barry Gardiner, who was awarded the Padma Shri in January last year, said he had been inundated with letters from Indian-origin constituents outraged the debate was going ahead. “Imagine the Indian Parliament debating the persecution of Black people in the UK when the Windrush scandal broke. The UK is the former colonial power, whose influence was not entirely beneficent, and certainly not above pitting one religious or ethnic group against the other. People in India might not regard our intervention as either welcome or appropriate,” said Gardiner. “I understand the optics of India’s former colonial rulers being seen to lecture them on human rights and democracy. However foreign affairs is still very much a matter reserved to this Parliament,” said SNP MP David Linden. Watch Minorities in India: Here’s what some UK MP’s had to say in Parliament||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-mps-suggest-human-rights-conditions-imposed-in-uk-india-trade-deals/articleshow/80239739.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||12k vaccines arrive, drive for health workers from Jan 16||CHANDIGARH: The city on Tuesday received 12,000 Covishield vaccines that will serve 5,400 beneficiaries. As the health workers fall first in the priority group, 9,165 of them from the UT health department, private hospitals and clinics will be sent messages on January 14 to come for the vaccination drive on January 16. These vaccines are not for the healthcare workers in PGI that has 11,000 registered employees. 12k vaccines arrive, drive for health workers from Jan 16The vials were flown from New Delhi to Chandigarh international airport and received by the director, health services (DHS), medical superintendent and deputy medical superintendent at GMH-16. “Eight sites have been earmarked for the vaccination drive, but for this lot we will operationalise six. We might get another lot before the immunisation day,” said UT DHS Dr Amandeep Kang. A meeting was also held on Tuesday with the adverse event committee, where the doctors from GMCH-32 and GMH-16 deliberated on how to facilitate vaccinated patients who need specialists’ care. “GMCH-32 will provide services of neurologist, cardiologist or other specialities,” said Dr Virender Nagpal, medical superintendent, GMH-16. The vaccine has to be given to the priority group within 10 days of its delivery. “The schedule will be fixed, so that by January-end, we cover all healthcare workers,” said the DHS. According to the factsheet provided by the Serum Institute of India, the most frequently reported adverse reactions were injection site tenderness or pain, headache, fatigue, myalgia, malaise, pyrexia, chills, arthralgia and nausea. When compared with the first dose, adverse reactions reported after the second ones were milder and less frequently reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/12k-vaccines-arrive-drive-for-health-workers-from-jan-16/articleshow/80239698.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 13, 2021||Chennai||Rahul Gandhi to watch jallikattu on January 14 in Madurai||CHENNAI: Former Congress president and Lok Sabha member Rahul Gandhi will visit Tamil Nadu on January 14 when the state celebrates Pongal, the harvest festival. He will watch jallikattu (a traditional bull taming sport) at Avaniyapuram near Madurai. “Rahul Gandhi is coming to Madurai on a one-day visit. Themed as “Rahul's Thamizh Vanakkam,” he will celebrate Pongal and watch jallikattu at Avaniyapuram,” Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri said in Chennai on Tuesday. The party is planning several more visits of Rahul in the run up to the assembly election. “Rahul visited Tamil Nadu six times during the last Lok Sabha election. Later, for the assembly election, he will be visiting the state several more times. Starting with the western region, Rahul will visit south, north and the Delta districts,” Alagiri said. He said the DMK-led alliance was a settled one with M K Stalin (DMK president) being the CM candidate. “Confusion still exists in the AIADMK alliance including about their CM candidate. Also, there are differences among leaders within the ruling party. We have already won the first round,” Alagiri said. The TNCC president, however, sought to brush aside reports that the DMK wanted to contest maximum number of seats and spare only a limited number of seats to the allies. “Leaders of every party, while addressing their cadre, will say such things to encourage them. When the seat sharing talks begin, each party will seek and get its share of seats based on its strength,” Alagiri said, while adding pressure could not be used in a stable alliance. “Problems actually exist in the AIADMK alliance. It is not so in our alliance,” Alagiri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/rahul-gandhi-to-watch-jallikattu-on-jan-14-in-madurai/articleshow/80239752.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Builders, maintenance agencies face graded penal action in case of defects in highway design, construction||NEW DELHI: The highway builders and maintenance agencies are now liable to pay a penalty of Rs 1 crore to Rs 10 crore and they will not be allowed to bid for any highway project for two years in case of any failure of structure or highway due to defects in design, construction or maintenance claiming any human life. The company concerned has to bear the expenses for carrying out rectification, according to NHAI. Even the consultants engaged in such works will have to cough up penalties and face debarment. In case of major failure causing death/s, the consultancy firms will have to pay Rs 40 lakh fine and the companies won’t be allowed to bid for two years. Their key personnel will not be engaged for any NHAI work for three years. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has notified a policy guideline on the standard operating procedure (SOP) to decide penal action in case of such failures. The NHAI had set up an expert panel to come out with an SOP after some instances of structure collapses including in Gurgaon, Kerala and Bihar. The penalties have been specified for three types of failures - minor failure without any casualties, major failure without casualties, and major failure leading to loss of human life. The penalties will be imposed after establishing the cause of the failures. In all the cases, the construction company will foot the bill for carrying out the rectification. As per the policy, in case of minor failure where none is injured, the construction and maintenance company will have to pay Rs 30 lakh and its key personnel will be kept in the watch list. The consultancy firm engaged during construction or maintenance will have to pay Rs 5 lakh. In the case of major failure where none is injured, the penalty will be Rs 50 lakh to Rs 5 crore on the construction or maintenance company. These entities will be barred from bidding for any highway project up to one year. The key personnel will be barred to be engaged in any NHAI work for two years. The consultancy firms will have to pay Rs 20 lakh as penalty and will be barred from bidding for one year. Their key personnel will not be allowed to work in any NHAI project for two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/builders-maintenance-agencies-face-graded-penal-action-in-case-of-defects-in-highway-design-construction/articleshow/80239899.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Choose AAP to get better civic services in Delhi: Atishi||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Tuesday said that people of Delhi should elect AAP in next year’s municipal elections to make the capital cleaner and the corporations corruption free. AAP has, so far, organised around 205 mohalla sabhas at various locations in 55 assembly constituencies in the city, where nearly 21,000 people have participated. Tuesday was the sixth day under the ongoing neighbourhood meeting campaign, organised by the party to expose BJP’s governance in the civic bodies. “People who attended the meetings shared their own experiences of facing corruption and agreed that the corporations have become a den of corruption. They said the civic bodies deserve an honest political party for its governance,” AAP said in a statement. The Kalkaji MLA said the Aam Aadmi Party government had delivered all its promises in the last five years, and that’s why people again voted for them in the 2020 assembly elections. “Despite the relentless work of the Kejriwal government, we could not fix the cleanliness of Delhi. Everyone knows that the responsibility of cleaning the city lies with the corporations, and for the past 15 years, BJP has been governing the civic bodies. BJP did so much corruption that the corporations have become bankrupt,” Atishi claimed. “AAP will continue the development works done by Delhi government in the corporations too,” she added. Meanwhile, Delhi BJP spokesperson Virender Babbar said the Kejriwal government had starved the municipal corporations of funds so that it could take political advantage. “Aam Aadmi Party has not paid around Rs 13,000 crore, which is outstanding to the civic bodies,” Babbar added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/choose-aap-to-get-better-civic-services-atishi/articleshow/80240099.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Discoms in Delhi pay up after notice from NTPC||NEW DELHI: ADAG group discoms in Delhi have paid up Rs 400 crore to "resolve" the matter of pending dues with Aravali Power Corporation Pvt Ltd (APCPL), a subsidiary of state-run generation company NTPC. "BRPL (BSES Rajdhani Power Ltd) and BYPL (BSES Yamuna Power Ltd) have resolved the matter with Aravali Power, paying Rs 352.27 crore and Rs 47.34 crore, respectively, as per the demand... BSES discoms are committed to supplying reliable and uninterrupted power to around 46 lakh consumers in Delhi," a BSES spokesman said. The NTPC had on January 2, 2021, served notices on the two BSES discoms, asking them to pay Rs 1,864 crore of overdue electricity payments or face corporate insolvency proceedings. APCPL, a joint venture of state-owned NPTC, Haryana Power Generation Corp Ltd (HPGCL) and Indraprastha Power Generation Corp Ltd (IPGCL), had slapped separate payment notices on BRPL and BYPL for defaulting on payments for the electricity they buy from its Jhajjar plant. It had sought Rs 999 crore from BRPL and another Rs 865 crore from BYPL. These dues accumulated for the electricity they bought up to March 2020. The dues after that are not being pursued because it has been classified as pandemic-hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/discoms-pay-up-after-notice-from-ntpc/articleshow/80240100.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delays take a toll, RFID Phase-II a non-starter||New Delhi: With the end of the year 2020, over 80% of the project execution period of the second phase of the RFID project, which involves installing this facility for collection of toll and other charges at 111 border points, has also lapsed. The erstwhile Environment Pollution (Prevention & Control) Authority (EPCA) had submitted a report in Supreme Court informing that Phase-II of the project would be completed between September 2020 and January 2021. On August 14, South Delhi Municipal Corporation, the nodal agency of the project, had announced that all toll plazas would get handheld devices to read RFID chips by November and infrastructure would be installed at the remaining 111 border points by January 2021. A senior corporation official said the deadline had been breached. “Under Phase-II, based on the Supreme Court’s order dated August 10, 2020, 10 more toll points were to be equipped with boom barriers and RFID infrastructure, while handheld devices were to be made available at 101 toll points. The matter is still in the consultation phase,” the official added. The 10 additional borders included Kundli-2, Loni Main, New Seemapuri, Chander Nagar, New Kondli, Noida Major, Pul Prahladpur, Bajghera, Dhansa and Jahroda. The same thing was reiterated in the budget proposal delivered by the commissioner on December 7, 2020. Another official added that the proposal to spend Rs 36 crore on the expansion of the project had not been approved by the standing committee in various meetings. The dissolution of EPCA had further raised a question mark on the future of the project. Explaining the rationale behind expansion of the project, officials stated that diversion of vehicles to other border points and old polluting vehicles trying to enter from non-RFID border points could reduce the gains made through the project. In their outgoing letter to the Union environment minister, EPCA members Sunita Narain and Bhure Lal had mentioned that expansion of the RFID project was one of the key works that needed to be expedited and implemented through the new air quality commission. In the meanwhile, the ongoing protest by farmers against the three central agri laws has resulted in a large chunk of traffic shifting away from the 13 major entry points to the capital that are RFID-compliant. The first phase of the project was executed at these 13 toll plazas, which received 85% of the city’s incoming commercial traffic. The cashless transaction was started on September 13, 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delays-take-a-toll-rfid-phase-ii-a-non-starter/articleshow/80240104.cms||Paras Singh
January 13, 2021||Noida||Pandemic-themed street art takes over NCR walls||Delhi’s first street art gallery, Lodhi Art District, has got some new murals amid the pandemic. While in the last three years, artists from across the world joined their Indian counterparts to paint murals in the district, in the pandemic, with restrictions imposed on travel, foreign artists couldn’t visit. So city artists painted these walls with messages of social distancing. These murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicThe murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicA tribute to frontline workersDue to the pandemic, graffiti artists confined themselves to sanctioned walls and urged people to wear masks through their art. Hanif Qureshi, Akhlaq Ahmed, Yogesh Saini and Munir Bukhari are some of the street artists who’ve either individually, or with their team, painted murals of frontline workers in masks, along with pandemic-themed messages. Artists pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonThe street artists wanted to pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonAkhlaq, who has collaborated with the Delhi Police, municipalities and NGOs to paint such messages across the capital, says, “In the initial months of the lockdown, there was no work, but after that, I collaborated with the Delhi Police, who sanctioned a wall of the New Delhi Police Station. I used the space to pay tribute to frontline workers. When a wall is sanctioned by authorities, we show them the messages that we’ll be painting before we start working. In the last few months, I have painted around seven-eight walls across the city.” A mural highlights the plight of migrant workers during the pandemicDelhi artists create art in other cities Hanif Qureshi of St+Art, along with his team, has painted COVID-themed murals in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Patna and several other cities. In Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad, artists have painted such murals on pillars of flyovers. Raju, who’s painted these pillars in Noida, says, “We started our work in July and we completed it in several areas.” Yogesh Saini, founder, Delhi Street Art, says, “We’ve painted graffiti in Khan Market, south Delhi and several other places. All artists wear masks, maintain social distancing and the best part is that in most of these areas people joined us to help.” Many pandemic-themed murals are visible on pillars of flyovers in NoidaMany artists have painted murals on pillars of flyovers, too, in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/pandemic-themed-street-art-takes-over-ncr-walls/articleshow/80236125.cms||Niharika Lal
January 13, 2021||Gurgaon||Pandemic-themed street art takes over NCR walls||Delhi’s first street art gallery, Lodhi Art District, has got some new murals amid the pandemic. While in the last three years, artists from across the world joined their Indian counterparts to paint murals in the district, in the pandemic, with restrictions imposed on travel, foreign artists couldn’t visit. So city artists painted these walls with messages of social distancing. These murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicThe murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicA tribute to frontline workersDue to the pandemic, graffiti artists confined themselves to sanctioned walls and urged people to wear masks through their art. Hanif Qureshi, Akhlaq Ahmed, Yogesh Saini and Munir Bukhari are some of the street artists who’ve either individually, or with their team, painted murals of frontline workers in masks, along with pandemic-themed messages. Artists pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonThe street artists wanted to pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonAkhlaq, who has collaborated with the Delhi Police, municipalities and NGOs to paint such messages across the capital, says, “In the initial months of the lockdown, there was no work, but after that, I collaborated with the Delhi Police, who sanctioned a wall of the New Delhi Police Station. I used the space to pay tribute to frontline workers. When a wall is sanctioned by authorities, we show them the messages that we’ll be painting before we start working. In the last few months, I have painted around seven-eight walls across the city.” A mural highlights the plight of migrant workers during the pandemicDelhi artists create art in other cities Hanif Qureshi of St+Art, along with his team, has painted COVID-themed murals in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Patna and several other cities. In Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad, artists have painted such murals on pillars of flyovers. Raju, who’s painted these pillars in Noida, says, “We started our work in July and we completed it in several areas.” Yogesh Saini, founder, Delhi Street Art, says, “We’ve painted graffiti in Khan Market, south Delhi and several other places. All artists wear masks, maintain social distancing and the best part is that in most of these areas people joined us to help.” Many pandemic-themed murals are visible on pillars of flyovers in NoidaMany artists have painted murals on pillars of flyovers, too, in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/pandemic-themed-street-art-takes-over-ncr-walls/articleshow/80236124.cms||Niharika Lal
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Pandemic-themed street art takes over NCR walls||Delhi’s first street art gallery, Lodhi Art District, has got some new murals amid the pandemic. While in the last three years, artists from across the world joined their Indian counterparts to paint murals in the district, in the pandemic, with restrictions imposed on travel, foreign artists couldn’t visit. So city artists painted these walls with messages of social distancing. These murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicThe murals at Lodhi Art District show how frontline workers have been on their toes during the pandemicA tribute to frontline workersDue to the pandemic, graffiti artists confined themselves to sanctioned walls and urged people to wear masks through their art. Hanif Qureshi, Akhlaq Ahmed, Yogesh Saini and Munir Bukhari are some of the street artists who’ve either individually, or with their team, painted murals of frontline workers in masks, along with pandemic-themed messages. Artists pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonThe street artists wanted to pay tribute to frontline workers through this mural in Sector 69, GurgaonAkhlaq, who has collaborated with the Delhi Police, municipalities and NGOs to paint such messages across the capital, says, “In the initial months of the lockdown, there was no work, but after that, I collaborated with the Delhi Police, who sanctioned a wall of the New Delhi Police Station. I used the space to pay tribute to frontline workers. When a wall is sanctioned by authorities, we show them the messages that we’ll be painting before we start working. In the last few months, I have painted around seven-eight walls across the city.” A mural highlights the plight of migrant workers during the pandemicDelhi artists create art in other cities Hanif Qureshi of St+Art, along with his team, has painted COVID-themed murals in Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Patna and several other cities. In Gurgaon, Noida and Ghaziabad, artists have painted such murals on pillars of flyovers. Raju, who’s painted these pillars in Noida, says, “We started our work in July and we completed it in several areas.” Yogesh Saini, founder, Delhi Street Art, says, “We’ve painted graffiti in Khan Market, south Delhi and several other places. All artists wear masks, maintain social distancing and the best part is that in most of these areas people joined us to help.” Many pandemic-themed murals are visible on pillars of flyovers in NoidaMany artists have painted murals on pillars of flyovers, too, in Noida||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pandemic-themed-street-art-takes-over-ncr-walls/articleshow/80235696.cms||Niharika Lal
January 13, 2021||Delhi||South Delhi corporation may stop service at Covid centre over ‘dues’||NEW DELHI: After allegedly not being paid Rs 3 crore by Delhi government, South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) has claimed that it is facing difficulty in continuing services like housekeeping and garbage disposal at Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre in Radha Soami Satsang Beas at Chhatarpur. During a press conference, SDMC mayor Anamika Mithlesh said the civic agency was already facing a financial crunch and couldn’t pay the huge cost incurred on providing the services at the temporary Covid-designated facility. “In May 2020, the Centre had decided to set up Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre. While SDMC was assigned the duty to provide housekeeping and sanitation services, during several meetings and inspections it was decided that Delhi government would bear the cost of housekeeping services,” said Mithlesh. The mayor added that the SDMC DEMS department had deployed 200 personnel through a private concessionaire to provide the services, but had not received any funds from the government till date. “We have written to Delhi government several times requesting for the funds, but have not received any reply,” she said. SDMC standing committee chairman Rajdutt Gahlot said that the civic agency was fulfilling its responsibilities with dedication, but due to funds crunch it was facing difficulties in providing the services. “Till October 2020, we paid nearly Rs 1.9 crore to the private concessionaire. Payment of about Rs 1 crore due from October to December is pending,” he added. Leader of the House Narendra Chawla said the corporation immediately needed funds to maintain the services without any interruption. “SDMC needs Rs 50 lakh to Rs 1 crore every month to provide the services efficiently. At the Covid facility, we look after sanitation, upkeep and maintenance, lifting of biomedical waste, etc,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/s-corpn-may-stop-service-at-covid-centre-over-dues/articleshow/80240167.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||386 new Covid cases, 16 more deaths in Delhi||NEW DELHI:: Three UK returnees, who tested positive for Covid-19 caused due to the mutated strain of the virus, have been discharged from Lok Nayak Hospital. They had no symptoms and tested negative for the infection, a source said. The hospital plans to discharge more patients with history of travel to the UK in the coming days. “We have 16 patients suffering from infection caused by the mutated strain. There are a few others with a history of travel to the UK. They don’t have any serious symptoms. Once they test negative and complete their quarantine period, we will discharge them,” a senior doctor said.  On Tuesday, 386 new cases were reported, taking the tally to over 6.3 lakh. The positivity rate stood at 0.51% With 16 fatalities, the death toll mounted to 10,707, the authorities said, The active cases tally dropped to 3,179 from 3,354 the previous day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/386-new-covid-cases-16-more-deaths-in-city/articleshow/80240169.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Review quota for Covid-19 ICU beds by January 18: Delhi HC to govt||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked Delhi government to review by January 18 the issue of reserving ICU beds in 33 private hospitals for Covid-19 patients. The court, which was informed that the government had now reduced the reservation to 40%, said it would continue hearing the arguments on January 19. It was hearing a plea by Association of Healthcare Providers (AHP), which has sought quashing of the government’s September 12, 2020 order to reserve 80% ICU beds for Covid patients. During the hearing, additional solicitor general Sanjay Jain, representing Delhi government, said not a single non-Covid patient had come to the court claiming that he or she were denied treatment at the hospital due to the reservation. “We have already brought it down to 40%. The September 12 decision was well-informed, not arbitrary and has not caused any financial loss to the hospitals,” he said. He was responding to the arguments of senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing AHP, that ICU beds were kept vacant and no payment was made by the government to the hospitals facing financial losses. “The government wants private hospitals to support and help or it wants them to be wiped out after sometime. How will the private hospitals survive when ICU beds are kept vacant for such long time? They will be shut down,” advocate Singh contended. He added that there was no validity or permissibility to continue with the September 12 order. The counsel submitted it was the state’s prerogative to provide medical support and private entities were required to join hands and help together, but “this cannot be done at the whims and fancies of the state, which has failed to perform its duty”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-to-govt-review-quota-for-covid-19-icu-beds-by-jan-18/articleshow/80240170.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||CCTVs, new roads & drainage: Mayapuri on road to recovery||NEW DELHI: Over the past few months, Mayapuri, where vehicles used to be illegally dismantled, has seen certain positive changes — installation of CCTV cameras, revamp of the drainage system and laying of roads, stated a report submitted by Delhi government to National Green Tribunal (NGT). The Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH), meanwhile, informed the green panel that a vehicle scrapping policy for older vehicles had been prepared and the draft had been sent to the Cabinet for approval. While the scrapyard was cleared out in 2018, Delhi government stated, teams from Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) inspected the area as recently as October 17, November 12 and December 4 last year, finding no illegal vehicle dismantling in open spaces of Mayapuri Industrial Area Phase-II. NGT, in 2018, had taken cognisance of TOI’s report “In factory setting, Mayapuri’s scraping through”, asking for all scrapyards in busy localities to be shifted immediately. “The news refers to the absence of policy and action for dealing with scrapped vehicles, which stand deregistered and cause consequent air pollution and environment degradation. The government has deregistered 40 lakh vehicles — 15-year-old petrol and 10-year-old diesel ones,” the green tribunal had observed. Delhi State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (DSIIDC) has been asked to revamp the roads and drains of the area, after considerable damage through the years. “DSIIDC has already started construction of cement concrete roads and drains and the same is in progress. Around 57,000 sqm cement concrete road has been constructed till date. Due to ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, the construction is expected to be completed by March 31, 2021,” stated the report. So far, 36 CCTV cameras have been installed on 15 poles, it added. “The CCTV system is fully functional and electronic footage is being recorded at the control room, which is installed on the premises of the Mayapuri police station.” MoRTH told the tribunal that it had submitted a note to the Cabinet on the creation of an ecosystem for scrapping older and polluting vehicles for transition to environment-friendly vehicles. “A suitable notification to amend the Central Motor Vehicles Rules, 1989 for inclusion of provisions regarding setting up, registration and operating of the vehicle scrapping facility is to be issued, based on the decision of the Cabinet,” it added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cctvs-new-roads-drainage-mayapuri-on-road-to-recovery/articleshow/80240679.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 13, 2021||Delhi||DDA approves allotment of 400sqm of land for Guru Ravidas Temple in south Delhi||NEW DELHI: Delhi Development Authority (DDA) gave the final approval to the allotment of 400 square metres land for Guru Ravidas Temple in Jahanpanah City Forest near Tughlaqabad in south Delhi at its meeting under the chairmanship of lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Tuesday. DDA will now send the proposal to the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs (MoHUA) for final notification. The temple was demolished by the land-owning agency on Supreme Court’s orders in August 2019 as the shrine to Guru Ravidas, revered by the Dalits, was located in a protected forest. The demolition had led to a massive outcry and protests were held by Dalit organisations in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana and other neighbouring states that have a large number of Guru Ravidas followers. DDA said in a statement on Tuesday that the apex court had ordered to allot 400 square metres of land for the construction of the temple. It said that the central government has formed an 11-member committee of devotees for the construction of the temple. As the land was located in Jahanpanah City Forest, the change of land use from “recreational” to “public” and “semi-public” and no-objection certificate were required from the forest department of Delhi government. DDA had initially approved the proposal for change of land use at its meeting on October 9, 2020, and had invited public objections and suggestions. On the recommendations of the board of enquiry, the land-owning authority approved the allotment and the proposal would now be sent to MoHUA for final notification. Meanwhile, giving fillip to the logistics industry, “warehousing” has been included in the wholesale trade with increased floor area ratio from 80% to 100% and ground coverage from 30% to 40% by amending the Master Plan for Delhi 2021. “With changing time and introduction of numerous online shopping sites, the demand for ‘warehouse to home’ model of business has increased the need of warehouses for various commodities. The approved proposal shall ease out the policy for warehousing,” DDA said. To facilitate construction of decentralised sewage treatment plants incorporating new technologies, so that untreated sewage is prevented from going directly into drains, the proposal to incorporate provision of STP, which will include sewage pumping station and effluent pumping station, was approved at the meeting. The authority also gave approval for facilitating CNG fuel stations and Electric Vehicle charging stations at the community centres located on roads with the right of way of 24 metres, as against the existing provision of minimum 30 metres, to promote green fuel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dda-approves-allotment-of-400sqm-of-land-for-guru-ravidas-temple-in-s-delhi/articleshow/80240682.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Good business, free food at Singhu border in Delhi: Hawkers couldn’t ask for more||NEW DELHI: Prince Arora, a hawker, had been selling slippers at Connaught Place for over seven years but his business was badly affected due to Covid-19 pandemic. However, Arora’s business was back on its feet recently after he started selling slippers at Singhu border. The farmers’ protest site at the border has become the most sought-after place among Delhi-based hawkers of late. They are not only earning profits here, but also getting free food. “After I heard that scores of people are present at Singhu border, I started selling slippers here. Even though I have reduced the price of a pair of slippers from Rs 150 to 80, my daily earning is similar to pre-lockdown days. Besides, I get to eat three meals along with tea and snacks,” said Arora. Aladin who sells dhols at the site said, “I usually roam around residential areas to sell my dhols to children and it is very tiring. At the border also, I earn more or less the same amount but I get to enjoy free delicious food here .” Mehboob, a street-vendor selling woollen items, said the coats were selling like hot cakes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/good-biz-free-food-at-singhu-hawkers-couldnt-ask-for-more/articleshow/80240870.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||If you want to shift to Ramlila Maidan, seek Delhi police nod: SC||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday issued notice to protesting farmers unions on a plea by Delhi Police seeking to restrain them from carrying out their proposed tractor rally on Republic Day. The apex court sought response from them by Monday. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde entertained an application filed by the Union ministry of home affairs through joint commissioner of Delhi Police (New Delhi Range) Jaspal Singh, who said that Republic Day celebrations, preceded by rehearsals by the armed forces and followed by Beating the Retreat and Martyr’s Day function, would be disrupted by such tractor rally and dent the prestige of the country in India and abroad. The ministry through solicitor general Tushar Mehta said, “It has come to the knowledge of the security agencies through various sources that the small group of protesting individuals/organisations have planned to carry out a tractor/trolley/vehicle march on Republic Day. The proposed march is slated to disturb and disrupt the august celebrations of the nation on Republic Day and would be bound to create a massive law and order situation.” The Union government said that the right to protest is always subject to the countervailing public order and the public interest. When senior advocate Vikas Singh, appearing for a petitioner, said the farmers should be allowed to protest at Ramlila Maidan for effectively registering their angst against the farm laws, the Supreme Court asked whether the farmers’ unions have made any application to the Delhi Police for this purpose. Attorney general K K Venugopal said allowing one lakh persons to enter the capital would be out of question as “one does not know what its fall out would be”. The apex court bench observed, “it is squarely within the domain of the police, which maintains law and order, to decide whether to permit the farmers to hold protests at Ramlila Maidan. Law and order issues cannot be handled by the courts. But, if the police permits protests to be held at Ramlila Maidan and imposes conditions, these have to be strictly followed by the protesters.” For full report, visit toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/if-you-want-to-shift-to-ramlila-maidan-seek-police-nod-sc/articleshow/80240876.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Loud & clear at Delhi's Singhu Border: Battle half-won||NEW DELHI: “The battle is only half-won and the fight needs to go on,” blared the loudspeakers at Singhu border on Tuesday afternoon after the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the three agri laws. The protesting farmers and union leaders echoed that they would not go back until the “black laws” were repealed. Several among them also expressed reservations about the formation of a committee to discuss the issue, citing examples like the handling of the protests at Shaheen Bagh. The Supreme Court order was met with mixed emotions of slight relief and a lot of caution and apprehension. Sukhbir Singh from Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee told the gathering that their struggle had reached a very important phase. “In the past several battles in Punjab’s history, victory was lost due to paperwork. We need to be very careful. The judicial process should not be used as a shield by the political system. The court should ask the central government why it is interfering with farming by treating it as a trade when agriculture is a state subject,” added Sukhbir. Taranpreet Singh from Moga in Punjab said that stays granted by courts were sometimes used for putting the matter in cold storage. “Just look at the Satluj Yamuna link canal issue. The courts stayed the construction in the 1980s, but that has not been able to solve the core dispute even after decades,” he added. Apprehensive that the stay would be used to slow the movement, Taranpreet said, “So many young and old people have gathered here. Should they simply go back because of the stay so that the government can implement these laws later? We have come quite ahead in this fight and a lot is at stake.” Sardar Arjinder Singh, another protester, said the stay would not ultimately translate to anything. “It can be taken back at any point,” he argued. While the initial reaction of the farmers’ unions was that they would study the stay order, there was no clarity on whether the protesters would remain at the borders till the laws were repealed. Many in the “tent city” developed on the Delhi-Chandigarh highway were found unaware of the developments and said they would do whatever their respective unions decided. Most farmers were adamant that they would only return if the laws were repealed. Jasbeer Singh, the head of a group of farmers, said that formation of a committee may not be the right way. “We have been holding protests for the past four months despite the summer heat, chilly winter and rain. People have sacrificed so much and over 70 people have died. Who will be accountable towards them?” he asked. “The formation of the committee should not be used to slow down the movement. They should repeal the laws and then form the committee of all stakeholders and experts. The court stay is not the final solution. We will go back happily once the agri laws are scrapped,” added Jasbeer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/loud-clear-at-singhu-battle-half-won/articleshow/80240878.cms||Paras Singh
January 13, 2021||Ghaziabad||Gurugram to Noida, farmers echo same sentiment||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: Farmers’ outfits camping at Delhi’s borders and on highways since the last week of November said only a repeal of the three new farming laws brought by the Centre would convince them to go home after the Supreme Court on Tuesday put the implementation of the laws on hold. At UP Gate on the Ghazipur border, where the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait group is leading the agitation, its leader Rakesh Tikait the farmers’ core committee would meet to decide the next course of action but rejected the idea of the protesters shifting to any other place. “Farmers are not going anywhere till the time the three laws are repealed. Why should we shift to Ramlila ground or any other place? Repeal the laws and we will go back home,” Tikait said. Tikait expressed disappointment about the members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee for discussions, saying all of them have been advocates of the open market system and the current legislations. “We have objections to the members who have been selected in the committee formed by the court. How can farmers have faith in individuals who have given their recommendations in favour of the three laws?” Tikait said, adding preparations would continue for the spectacle planned on Republic Day. At the protest sites, it was business as usual as reservations about the committee dampened the sense of achievement after the laws were put on hold. Jagat Singh Rathi (78), a farmer from Jangethi village in Meerut, said, “The Supreme Court is speaking in favour of us, but I’m not going anywhere. Even in the village, I will have to face the cold while working in the fields.” Jangethi had joined the UP Gate protest the day it began. The BKU factions protesting in Noida – BKU-Bhanu and BKU-Lokshakti, which have both moved the Supreme Court against the farming laws – said they wouldn’t budge from the protest sites at the Chilla border and Dalit Prerna Sthal. “Some members of the committee have already backed the farm laws. The laws should simply be repealed and the Swaminathan report recommendations should be implemented,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of BKU-Bhanu. Shyoraj Singh, national president of BKU-Lokshakti, said the court’s order was a victory for farmers and the outfit was ready to talk to the committee. The protest, he added, would continue. Referring to Delhi Police’s plea in the SC against the proposed tractor rally on Republic Day, stating that the march was slated to “disturb and disrupt” the parade as well as create a law and order situation, thereby causing embarrassment to the nation, the protesters asked if using water cannons on farmers and digging roads to stop them wasn’t national embarrassment as well. Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, who is spearheading the protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, said, “Staying the implementation of the three laws is not our demand. Our demand is for the laws to be completely repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/ggn-to-noida-farmers-echo-same-sentiment/articleshow/80240926.cms||Aditya Dev
January 13, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram to Noida, farmers echo same sentiment||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: Farmers’ outfits camping at Delhi’s borders and on highways since the last week of November said only a repeal of the three new farming laws brought by the Centre would convince them to go home after the Supreme Court on Tuesday put the implementation of the laws on hold. At UP Gate on the Ghazipur border, where the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait group is leading the agitation, its leader Rakesh Tikait the farmers’ core committee would meet to decide the next course of action but rejected the idea of the protesters shifting to any other place. “Farmers are not going anywhere till the time the three laws are repealed. Why should we shift to Ramlila ground or any other place? Repeal the laws and we will go back home,” Tikait said. Tikait expressed disappointment about the members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee for discussions, saying all of them have been advocates of the open market system and the current legislations. “We have objections to the members who have been selected in the committee formed by the court. How can farmers have faith in individuals who have given their recommendations in favour of the three laws?” Tikait said, adding preparations would continue for the spectacle planned on Republic Day. At the protest sites, it was business as usual as reservations about the committee dampened the sense of achievement after the laws were put on hold. Jagat Singh Rathi (78), a farmer from Jangethi village in Meerut, said, “The Supreme Court is speaking in favour of us, but I’m not going anywhere. Even in the village, I will have to face the cold while working in the fields.” Jangethi had joined the UP Gate protest the day it began. The BKU factions protesting in Noida – BKU-Bhanu and BKU-Lokshakti, which have both moved the Supreme Court against the farming laws – said they wouldn’t budge from the protest sites at the Chilla border and Dalit Prerna Sthal. “Some members of the committee have already backed the farm laws. The laws should simply be repealed and the Swaminathan report recommendations should be implemented,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of BKU-Bhanu. Shyoraj Singh, national president of BKU-Lokshakti, said the court’s order was a victory for farmers and the outfit was ready to talk to the committee. The protest, he added, would continue. Referring to Delhi Police’s plea in the SC against the proposed tractor rally on Republic Day, stating that the march was slated to “disturb and disrupt” the parade as well as create a law and order situation, thereby causing embarrassment to the nation, the protesters asked if using water cannons on farmers and digging roads to stop them wasn’t national embarrassment as well. Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, who is spearheading the protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, said, “Staying the implementation of the three laws is not our demand. Our demand is for the laws to be completely repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/ggn-to-noida-farmers-echo-same-sentiment/articleshow/80242880.cms||Aditya Dev
January 13, 2021||Noida||Gurugram to Noida, farmers echo same sentiment||GHAZIABAD/GURUGRAM/NOIDA: Farmers’ outfits camping at Delhi’s borders and on highways since the last week of November said only a repeal of the three new farming laws brought by the Centre would convince them to go home after the Supreme Court on Tuesday put the implementation of the laws on hold. At UP Gate on the Ghazipur border, where the Bharatiya Kisan Union’s Tikait group is leading the agitation, its leader Rakesh Tikait the farmers’ core committee would meet to decide the next course of action but rejected the idea of the protesters shifting to any other place. “Farmers are not going anywhere till the time the three laws are repealed. Why should we shift to Ramlila ground or any other place? Repeal the laws and we will go back home,” Tikait said. Tikait expressed disappointment about the members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee for discussions, saying all of them have been advocates of the open market system and the current legislations. “We have objections to the members who have been selected in the committee formed by the court. How can farmers have faith in individuals who have given their recommendations in favour of the three laws?” Tikait said, adding preparations would continue for the spectacle planned on Republic Day. At the protest sites, it was business as usual as reservations about the committee dampened the sense of achievement after the laws were put on hold. Jagat Singh Rathi (78), a farmer from Jangethi village in Meerut, said, “The Supreme Court is speaking in favour of us, but I’m not going anywhere. Even in the village, I will have to face the cold while working in the fields.” Jangethi had joined the UP Gate protest the day it began. The BKU factions protesting in Noida – BKU-Bhanu and BKU-Lokshakti, which have both moved the Supreme Court against the farming laws – said they wouldn’t budge from the protest sites at the Chilla border and Dalit Prerna Sthal. “Some members of the committee have already backed the farm laws. The laws should simply be repealed and the Swaminathan report recommendations should be implemented,” said Yogesh Pratap Singh, state president of BKU-Bhanu. Shyoraj Singh, national president of BKU-Lokshakti, said the court’s order was a victory for farmers and the outfit was ready to talk to the committee. The protest, he added, would continue. Referring to Delhi Police’s plea in the SC against the proposed tractor rally on Republic Day, stating that the march was slated to “disturb and disrupt” the parade as well as create a law and order situation, thereby causing embarrassment to the nation, the protesters asked if using water cannons on farmers and digging roads to stop them wasn’t national embarrassment as well. Swaraj India founder Yogendra Yadav, who is spearheading the protest at Jaisinghpur Khera, said, “Staying the implementation of the three laws is not our demand. Our demand is for the laws to be completely repealed.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/ggn-to-noida-farmers-echo-same-sentiment/articleshow/80242882.cms||Aditya Dev
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Lohri mood is alive & kicking at Delhi's Singhu Border||NEW DELHI: With disinfection of the surroundings with lime, fumigation of trolleys and langar pandals and fresh heaps of firewood being unloaded along the Delhi-Chandigarh highway, the preparations for Lohri and Makar Sankranti have already started at Singhu border. Both winter folk festivals are popular in Punjab and Haryana. For the protesters at Singhu border, this year’s Lohri will be celebrated away from their families. Sarabjeet Singh, an elderly farmer from Nabha who had come to the spot around two weeks ago, said he was protesting for the rights of his future generations. “I don’t have any problems staying away from my family because at the end we are doing this for them,” he added. The harvest festival is associated with bonfire and sharing jaggery, peanuts and gajak with a traditional meal of sarson ka saag and makke di roti. Langars distributing the eatables had started functioning at many points on Tuesday, while the firewood stockpile was being replenished. Karnail Singh from Hoshiarpur in Punjab said he would celebrate the festival with as much fervour as his fellow protesters. “Collection drives for eatables were held in our villages to replenish our reserves. Many protesters are being rotated so that work back home does not get affected. The festival tomorrow will be celebrated with burning effigies of the black laws,” he added. After their initial clash with police on November 27, farmers have spent over 47 days camping right outside the capital with eight rounds of discussions with the Centre, which have so far not yielded any results. During this period, the farmer groups adopted several innovative ways to highlight their issues. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee has announced that before the next round of discussions with the central government, copies of the three farm laws would be burnt on Lohri and Makar Sankranti to highlight their demand of repealing the controversial Acts. Basant Singh, who arrived at Singhu border just two days ago, said this would be a rare Lohri celebration away from home. He and Naresh Kumar, his neighbour in a trolley “house”, could be seen disinfecting the area with lime powder. “This will take care of the germs and mosquitoes,” Kumar said, while splashing another fistful of white lime powder. On Tuesday, activist Medha Patkar joined the farmers at Singhu border to express her solidarity with the movement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/lohri-mood-is-alive-kicking-at-singhu-border/articleshow/80240934.cms||Paras Singh
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Assent of SPPs for riots cases not binding, police tell Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police on Tuesday told Delhi High Court that its recommendations for appointing certain lawyers, including solicitor general Tushar Mehta, as special public prosecutors in cases pertaining to the northeast Delhi riots in February 2020 was not binding on the Aam Aadmi Party government. The submission was made by Delhi Police before Justice Prathiba M Singh during the brief hearing of a plea by Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association challenging the appointment of the special public prosecutors (SPPs) in the riots cases. Additional standing counsel Gautam Narayan, who appeared for AAP government, told the court that the list sent by the police was initially rejected by Delhi government, which had forwarded its own list of SPPs. However, the lieutenant governor intervened in the matter and did not agree with Delhi government’s list and in view of the difference of opinion, the matter was referred to the President of India who approved the list sent by the police, Narayan informed the court. Delhi government only issued the notification informing about the appointment of SPPs, and it had not appointed them, he added. Justice Singh noted the petition appeared to be in the nature of a PIL and directed the high court registry to list it before an appropriate bench on March 15. PTI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/assent-of-spps-for-riots-cases-not-binding-police-tell-hc/articleshow/80240941.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Covid norms see 1-way US fares fly past Rs 1 lakh||MUMBAI: Airfares to the US are at an all-time high for Indian passengers with the cheapest one-way fare for travel this month from cities such as Mumbai, Delhi and Bengaluru to places such as New York and San Francisco starting at over Rs 1 lakh. Though there are cheaper, or rather regular, fares available between India and the US, those are for flights with a transit halt in London, and so are not open to Indians. Under government guidelines for international travel, Indian passengers can board only direct flights to their destination — that is, they cannot board flights to the US that have a transit halt, say, in the Middle East or Europe (a transit halt within India is acceptable, though). “That norm has been enforced strictly in the past few weeks, which is why currently, the only two options for Indians travelling to the US are Air India and United Airlines,” said a travel industry insider. On Tuesday, the cheapest one-way fare on Mumbai-NewYork JFK/Newark flights for travel on most dates in January was Rs 1 lakh to Rs 1.4 lakh. Flying from Delhi was comparatively cheaper, with one-way Delhi-Newark fare starting at Rs 95,000. Air India’s recently launched Bangalore-San Francisco flights are a hit, with hardly any seats available for travel this month, except a few like a Rs 98,000 one-way fare for travel on January 14. Pre-pandemic, close to 50% of the India-US traffic flew via the Middle East and a smaller percentage via Europe, an aviation consultancy firm said. "With supply constrained due to the norms and demand up due to the spring semester, fares have shot up,” an official said. The worst hit are students bound to the US. “The only option for those who want to cut down the cost of flying to the US would be to pay Rs 40-50,000 extra and book a return journey, say, for December. That works out cheaper. Air India offers the option of a date change for a fee of Rs 7,000, while United allows it for free provided the fare is the same, which might not be the case if the student wants to fly back in December, but during lean months that arrangement would work out,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-norms-see-1-way-us-fares-fly-past-rs-1-lakh/articleshow/80241016.cms||Manju V
January 13, 2021||India||Need greater transparency in TRP measurements, says govt panel in report to I&B ministry||NEW DELHI: A four-member committee appointed by the government to review the ‘Guidelines on Television Rating Agencies in India’ in November last year has called for greater transparency in TRP measurement and for strengthening the ratings system. In its report submitted to Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar on Tuesday, the committee said the existing base of the TRP ratings system should be expanded considerably to prevent chances of manipulation. At present, data from only 44,000 homes in India is extrapolated to determine TRP ratings for TV channels. This was also referred to as “flawed” by a parliamentary panel on October last year. Sources said the committee, in its report, also laid emphasis on the need to look at technological solutions that universalise samples and capture the diversity and scale of TV viewing in India while taking into account ‘TV on mobile’, the new platform through which a large number of viewers are now accessing content. Javadekar said the ministry will study the recommendations of the committee in detail and is likely to send some guidelines and directions to the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) on the rating system. The expert panel, led by Prasar Bharati chief executive Shashi Shekhar Vempati, was set up in the backdrop of the ‘TRP Scam’ unearthed by the Mumbai police in October last year, which pointed to “fraudulent” manipulation of TRPs by three channels -- Republic TV, Fakt Marathi and Box Cinema. While the TV rating agency, BARC, imposed a three-month pause on rating individual news channels and said it would utilise the time to augment current standards of measuring and reporting data, there were calls for a thorough analysis of the system. In this context, the Vempati-led committee comprising Shalabh, professor of statistics at IIT Kanpur, Pulok Ghosh, who teaches decision sciences at the Centre for Public Policy, and Raj Kumar Upadhyay, executive director of Centre for Development of Telematics (C-DOT), was mandated with studying past recommendations by various expert groups on TV rating systems in India and revisiting I&B ministry’s existing guidelines on the subject and to bring them up-to-speed with latest technologies, make the process more robust, credible and transparent. Current guidelines on TV Rating Agencies in India were notified by the I&B ministry in 2014 following widespread deliberations but are considered obsolete in light of rapid technological advancements over the years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/need-greater-transparency-in-trp-measurements-says-govt-panel-in-report-to-ib-ministry/articleshow/80241061.cms||Swati Mathur
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 20-year-old accuses husband, his father of sexual assault||NEW DELHI: A 20-year-old woman alleged that her husband had sexually assaulted her when she was a minor and later married her. The woman and her husband are from different communities and had a court wedding in November last year. Recently the woman went to a police station and alleged that her husband and his father had assaulted her earlier, following which a case was registered. Police said, last Saturday the woman went to a police station and told cops that she was a minor when she met her husband through a common friend. Later the two got married. The woman alleged that even her father-in-law had assaulted her. Police said they have arrested the accused and his father. A case was registered under IPC sections and POCSO Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/20-yr-old-accuses-husband-his-father-of-sexual-assault/articleshow/80241330.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Govt aviation site carried map marked ‘Azad J&K’||MUMBAI: “Azad Jammu and Kashmir’’ (AJK) is not a term that one would expect to find on an Indian government website. But the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) website, until recently, had an investigation report which carried a map that identified a region in the western portion of larger Kashmir as AJK. The map was carried in the final investigation report into a “serious incident’’ which occurred in July 2019. A Vistara flight from Srinagar to Jammu was diverted due to poor weather and landed safely in Amritsar airport, but with only 460 kg of fuel left. During the landing process, the pilots had radioed the air traffic control about their low fuel emergency with a “May Day fuel” call. The AAIB initiated an investigation and released the final report recently. The report has the map showing a region west of Line of Control (LOC), labelled “Azad Jammu and Kashmir”. Though the caption read “Route followed by aircraft”, no flight path was marked out in the said map. In fact, the aircraft wouldn’t have crossed the LOC to fly over this region, which is Pakistan-Occupied Kashmir. TOI sought a statement from the civil aviation ministry on Monday, following which the said investigation report was pulled down. A revised report was uploaded with a rectified map that had the route taken by the aircraft from Srinagar to Jammu and then to Amritsar. A ministry spokesperson said: “There was an error and it has been rectified.” Capt Amit Singh, an air safety expert, had tweeted the said controversial picture late on Saturday night. “Heads should roll for this blunder, don’t you agree?,” his tweet read. Speaking to TOI, Capt Singh said: “The quality of investigation reports are so poor that no stakeholder can derive any benefit from them.” Heads should roll for this blunder,don't you agree?AAIB has published this figure in the VT-TTN incident report to… https://t.co/hQh0F4BINX— Amit Singh (@flyingamit) 1610210328000It’s not the first time that investigation reports have blunders. On June 9, 2010, TOI had carried a report titled “Mangalore crash report gets runway wrong”. The initial report into the Mangalore crash, uploaded on the ministry of civil aviation website, had erroneously marked the crash site at the end of runway 27, instead of runway 24. Following the TOI report, the map was rectified. Capt Mohan Ranganathan, an air safety expert who had pointed out the error had said: “It reflects how casual the investigation team has taken the crash that killed 158 lives”. About the latest report, showing Azad Jammu and Kashmir, Capt Singh said that only the link to the report says its the revised version.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-aviation-site-carried-map-marked-azad-jk/articleshow/80241314.cms||Manju V
January 13, 2021||India||Man who lost leg in crash gets 52 lakh, including 1 lakh for leave loss||MUMBAI: Awarding a total compensation of around Rs 52 lakh to a 41-year-old senior business analyst from Chembur who lost his right foot after his long-distance luxury bus collided with a stationary tempo while he was on his way to Bangalore in 2012, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal factored Rs 1.1 lakh towards loss of leave, which could have been used for other purposes. “Applicant must have had at least 30 days of medical or sick leave to his credit, which he availed for treatment. The applicant also utilized 14 days’ privilege leave for treatment. This prevented him from availing paid sick and privilege leave for other purposes,” the tribunal said. Gurunath Shetty had submitted a plea against bus-owner VRL Logistics, it’s insurer, The United India Insurance Co Ltd, and tempo owner, Namakkal Transport Carriers Pvt Ltd and it’s insurance provider, ICICI Lombard Gen Ins Co Ltd in March 2013. The compensation included Rs 2 lakh toward “loss of amenities” following the accident around 4am on October 29, 2012. “From the evidence it is apparent that because of injuries, now, applicant cannot do many activities a normal person can do. Thus, enjoyment of the life and married life of applicant has suffered a lot. For many years he will have to bear the life without the amenities. The injuries to legs may shorten his life,” the tribunal said. The compensation will have to be paid by the tempo owner, bus service and their insurance companies, with the tribunal fixing 70% of the composite negligence on the latter for driving at high speed and losing control, and 30% on the former for stalling in the middle of a highway at night without proper indicators. “The bus driver could have avoided the accident by using the remaining road of 10-15 ft wide to the west, had he been alert to see the halted tempo from a reasonable distance with the help of headlights, but for the very high speed at night. Such driving at night is nothing but an unwanted risk. The bus driver contributed more in causing the accident,” the tribunal said. Shetty said after being treated at a hospital in Kolhapur, he was moved to the city on October 30, 2012. He was discharged on November 27, 2012. Shetty said he had spent over Rs 18 lakh on treatment and suffered a permanent disability. His leg had to be amputated below his knee. At the time of the accident, Shetty said, he was earning Rs50,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/man-who-lost-leg-in-crash-gets-52-lakh-including-1-lakh-for-leave-loss/articleshow/80241404.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 13, 2021||Business||Need fair-play and level-playing field: Huawei India CEO||NEW DELHI: Weeks after the government took steps to designate a ‘trusted source’ criteria for procuring infrastructure for mobile services, Chinese telecom major Huawei has approached top echelons of the government to get a “fair chance and level-playing field” in the Indian telecom sector, including participation in the 5G business. The company is looking to file application for the infrastructure modernisation programmes initiated by state-owned BSNL and MTNL, and said it is awaiting criteria for being categorised as a ‘trusted source’ in the telecom space. Huawei has been doing business in India for over two decades and is a major supplier to top operators such as Bharti Airtel and Vodafone Idea. The company said that its operations here are “complaint with all the rules and regulations” that have been mandated by the government. “We need a fair opportunity to do business in India. We have followed the rule book and law of the land when doing business in India, and expect fair-play and a level-playing field, just like others,” Huawei India CEO David Li told TOI in his first interview after assuming charge during the corona period last year. TOI has learnt that the company’s representations have been sent to various wings of the government, including the Prime Minister’s Office, the National Security Advisor’s office, and the home and telecom ministries. Li confirmed the representations but did not provide details on offices they were addressed to. Spiralling tensions between India and China have impacted business relations between the two countries and the government here has taken action against a number of Chinese companies, including top app makers, after accusing them of engaging in activities prejudicial to sovereignty and integrity of India, defence of India, security of state and public order. Huawei has faced the heat over allegations of data law violations, including possible leakage of information of Indian citizens and enterprises with elements in China. Li denied any such report, and said the company pays utmost respect to data privacy laws. “No data gets compromised ever. In any case, we have no access to data. Our networks are fully compliant with security standards and international certifications.” The company is bullish on India, despite the recent troubles due to diplomatic tensions. “India is a strategic long-term market for us. We have faith in the Indian government and believe in PM Narendra Modi’s vision and Digital India initiative.” The company has been selling telecom network equipment in India and also has a R&D centre in the country, which is the largest outside home market China.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/need-fair-play-and-level-playing-field-huawei-india-ceo/articleshow/80241476.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 13, 2021||India||In 8-point action plan against terrorism, Jaishankar slams Pak, takes a dig at China||NEW DELHI: Describing terrorism as the greatest threat to mankind, foreign minister S Jaishankar on Tuesday proposed an eight-point action plan at the UNSC to ensure effective action against the menace of terrorism. Even without naming either Pakistan or China, the minister slammed the former for aiding terrorism and took a dig at the latter as he said that there can be no double standards on the issue of terrorism and that the practice of blocking requests for designation of terrorists “without any rhyme or reason” had to end. China had earlier at least on four occasions blocked a UN ban on JeM chief Masood Azhar even though he headed an organisation already designated by a UNSC sanctions committee. The minister accused Pakistan of providing 5-star hospitality to the 1993 Mumbai blasts accused. In an intervention at a UNSC debate on combating international terrorism, Jaishankar called upon the council to first summon up the political will to combat terrorism, saying there must be no ifs and buts in this fight. “Nor should we allow terrorism to be justified and terrorists glorified. All member states must fulfill their obligations enshrined in international counter terrorism instruments and conventions,” he said. Second, he said, it was important to not countenance double standards in this battle as there are no good or bad terrorists. He said those who propagate this distinction have an agenda and those who cover up for them are just as culpable. Thirdly, he called for a reform of the working methods of committees dealing with sanctions and counter terrorism, saying transparency, accountability and effectiveness were the need of the day. He said blocking listing requests only eroded the collective credibility of the members. “Four, we must firmly discourage exclusivist thinking that divides the world and harms our social fabric. Such approaches facilitate radicalisation and recruitment by breeding fear, mistrust, and hatred among different communities. The council should be on guard against new terminologies and misleading priorities that can dilute our focus,” he said. He called upon countries to walk the talk against terrorism and commit to zero tolerance to the menace. The minister also said that enlisting and delisting individuals and entities under the UN sanctions regimes must be done objectively, not for political or religious considerations, and that linkages between terrorism and transnational organised crime must be fully recognised and addressed vigorously. “We, in India, have seen the crime syndicate responsible for the 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts not just given state protection but enjoying 5-star hospitality,” he said, without naming Dawood Ibrahim, the main accused in the blasts, or Pakistan. Jaishankar said the FATF should continue to identify and remedy weaknesses in anti-money laundering and counter-terror financing frameworks and the enhanced UN coordination with FATF could make a big difference. Lastly, he said, adequate funding to UN counter-terrorism bodies from UN regular budget required immediate attention. Hitting out at Pakistan again, Jaishankar said that while some states lacked the legal and operational frameworks and technical expertise needed to detect, investigate, and prosecute terrorist financing cases, there were others clearly guilty of aiding and supporting terrorism, and wilfully providing financial assistance and safe havens. “While we must enhance capacities of the former, the international community must collectively call out the latter and hold them accountable,” said the minister. Jaishankar was participating in a UNSC open debate on “International Cooperation in combating terrorism 20 years after the adoption of 1373”. UNSC Resolution 1373 against terrorism was passed in the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks on the US. This was the first time that the minister made an intervention in the UNSC after India assumed membership on January 1 this year. Watch EAM S Jaishankar takes a dig at China, slams Pak for aiding terrorism||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-8-point-action-plan-against-terrorism-jaishankar-slams-pak-takes-a-dig-at-china/articleshow/80241500.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Separatists funding farmers stir? SC seeks affidavit||NEW DELHI: The SC on Tuesday sought an affidavit from the Union government after verifying allegations by Indian Kisan Union that the congregation of protesting farmers is being financed by banned Vancouver-based secessionist organisation ‘Sikhs for Justice’, which is also doling out money to attract volunteers for the agitation. When attorney general K K Venugopal said that the government too apprehended this, a bench led by CJI S A Bobde asked the Centre to verify the allegation and file its response in the form of an affidavit. Venugopal said the government would verify it from intelligence bureau reports and submit an affidavit. Appearing for a citizen of Delhi seeking freeing of the highways of blockades caused by protests, senior advocate Harish Salve said activists of banned organisation Sikhs for Justice have infiltrated the agitation and are giving Rs 10,000 to each volunteer for joining the farmers’ protest. When the bench asked whether there was any mention of this charge in any petition, Indian Kisan Union through senior advocate P S Narasimha pointed out that its petition had mentioned this. Salve said no person should be allowed to misuse judicial process to achieve a political objective. The SC said in its order: “Laudably, the farmers have so far carried on the agitation peacefully. But it was pointed out in the course of hearing a few persons who are not farmers have also joined, with a view to show solidarity with the farmers. An apprehension was expressed that the possibility of some persons creating trouble cannot be entirely ruled out.” Indian Kisan Union alleged in the SC that the farmers’ stir was being financed by banned secessionist outfit Sikhs for Justice, a claim backed by the AG.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/separatists-funding-farmers-stir-sc-seeks-affidavit/articleshow/80241641.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Supreme Court puts new agri laws on hold, forms panel to break impasse||NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday suspended implementation of the new farm laws and set up a committee to examine the legislations to see which aspects require a re-look, even though farm unions opposed to the laws refused to work with the panel. Though lawyers representing the unions skipped the hearing, the court was in a determined mood, saying no power could deter it from setting up a committee to scrutinise the laws that seek to encourage private trade and contract farming and remove stock limits on food grain. The panel has two months to submit its report to the court. The unions criticised the committee, saying it comprised persons who have already announced support for the new laws. While they said the panel’s composition proved their apprehensions, the unions had on Monday evening itself announced they wouldn’t accept an SC-mandated committee. Interestingly, the unions are open to continuing stalled talks with the Centre with the next meeting scheduled for Friday. Representatives of all farmer bodies, “…whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws shall participate in the deliberations of the committee and put forth their view points,” a bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said while suspending the laws. The committee is to hear all stakeholders, including the government, and determine “which provisions of the three farm laws required deletion” in the interest of farmers. Though it opposed suspension of the laws, the Centre would be relieved the committee’s inherent mandate is to suggest changes and deletions rather than scrapping the laws altogether as demanded by the protesting unions. The bench also ordered that "the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system in existence before the enactment of the farm laws shall be maintained until further orders. In addition, farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, i.e., no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the laws".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-puts-new-agri-laws-on-hold-forms-panel-to-break-impasse/articleshow/80241657.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Farmers protest: CJI irked by absence of unions’ counsel||NEW DELHI: Four well-known lawyers - Dushyant Dave, Prashant Bhushan, Colin Gonsalves and H S Phoolka - on Tuesday did a vanishing act before the Supreme Court less than 24 hours after promising to get back with the response of farmer unions on their willingness to appear before the proposed committee on farm laws. Bhushan, Gonsalves and Phoolka had told a bench headed by CJI S A Bobde on Monday that Dave was leading the quartet and would apprise the SC about the views of the farm unions which had engaged him as counsel. Dave, who had initially informed the court that the farmers would not hold a tractor rally on the Republic Day, had sought time till Tuesday for taking instructions from the farmers. None of the four logged in to the video-conference hearing in virtual court number 1 till the end of the nearly one and half-hour long proceedings on Tuesday. It was then the turn of the CJI to vent his anguish at the lack of courtesy on the part of four seasoned lawyers who, it was felt, could at least appear before the court, as promised, and apprise it about the stand of the unions. Read AlsoNot catering to everyone’s idea of a good panel: CJI S A BobdeUndeterred by the boycott of proceedings by protesting farmers’ unions, the Supreme Court on Tuesday suspended implementation of the three contentious farm laws and set up a four-member expert committee to examine the laws in detail for determining which provisions passed muster on the count of"Members of the bar, who are first officers of the court and then the counsel for their clients, are expected to show some loyalty (towards the court). You will appear before the court when it suits you and not come if it does not suit you. You cannot do that," the CJI said. Read AlsoSupreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms panel to hold talksThe Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of all three farm laws, passing orders on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the laws. The Supreme Court has also appointed a committee to examine farm laws. The court said that all parties can give response to theThe CJI recalled that on Monday Dave fairly said that his clients are not going to hold tractor marches. "It is then we said why can't the farmers not appear before the committee when they have agreed to meet representatives of the government. If you (farmers) want to solve the problem, you can do it by talking and negotiating. Otherwise, you can go on agitating for years," he said. Appearing for a citizen of Delhi who wants roadblocks due to protests to be cleared and farmers be given a designated place, senior advocate Harish Salve said, "Nobody should use the judicial process to achieve a political objectives. They thought there would be suspension of farm laws and at the same time they would not participate in the committee proceedings. What the Supreme Court had said is that it will keep implementation of the laws in abeyance to build confidence and make the process move forward through the committee." The CJI-led bench said, "We want to solve the problem (arising from the enactment of the farm laws). We want to know the ground situation. That is why the committee is being set up. It will talk to all stakeholders and give us a report. Based on the report, we will proceed (to hear the petitions) and determine the validity of the report." "The government has a vested interest to say that it will support the farm laws. So someone sensible should go before the committee and tell his grievances against farm laws," the CJI said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-cji-irked-by-absence-of-unions-counsel/articleshow/80241714.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 13, 2021||India||Not catering to everyone’s idea of a good panel: CJI S A Bobde||NEW DELHI: Undeterred by the boycott of proceedings by protesting farmers’ unions, the Supreme Court on Tuesday suspended implementation of the three contentious farm laws and set up a four-member expert committee to examine the laws in detail for determining which provisions passed muster on the count of farmers’ welfare and give a report to the court in two months. A bench comprising Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian said the committee will hear all stakeholders, including the government. The committee comprises agricultural economists Pramod Kumar Joshi (director of South Asia, International Food Policy Research Institute) and Ashok Gulati (who served as chairman of the Commission for Agricultural Costs and Prices), Anil Ghanwat (head of farmers’ outfit Shetkari Sangathan) and Bhupinder Singh Mann, who heads Bhartiya Kisan Union and is chairman of an umbrella body, All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC). Read AlsoSupreme Court stays implementation of farm laws, forms panel to hold talksThe Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the implementation of all three farm laws, passing orders on a batch of petitions challenging the constitutional validity of the laws. The Supreme Court has also appointed a committee to examine farm laws. The court said that all parties can give response to theWhen some counsel said the composition of the committee should be acceptable to all, the CJI said, “We are not catering to everyone’s idea of what is a good committee. We will decide the composition of the committee to help us decide the issue.” The bench also ordered that “the minimum support price (MSP) system in existence before the enactment of the farm laws shall be maintained until further orders. In addition, the farmers’ land holdings shall be protected, i.e. no farmer shall be dispossessed or deprived of his title as a result of any action taken under the farm laws”. “This committee shall be provided a place as well as secretarial assistance at Delhi by the government. All expenses for the committee to hold sittings at Delhi or anywhere else shall be borne by the central government. Representatives of all farmers’ bodies, whether they are holding a protest or not and whether they support or oppose the laws, shall participate in the deliberations and put forth their view points,” the bench said. Read AlsoHow Supreme Court countered Centre's plea against stay on implementation of farm lawsNEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Tuesday rejected the Centre's plea against putting the three new farm laws on hold and stayed their implementation for the time being. It also formed a four-member committee of experts to resolve the impasse between the government and protesting farmers. What theThe committee shall give its report within two months from the date of its first sitting, the bench said while asking it to hold its first sitting before January 22. The bench expressed the hope that the agitating farmers would end their protests and go back to attend to their livelihood while awaiting the outcome of the committee report and the court’s decision. “While we may not stifle a peaceful protest, we think that this extraordinary order of stay of implementation of the farm laws will be perceived as an achievement of the purpose of such protest at least for the present...” the bench added. “Before the committee, do not present arguments on legislative competence of Parliament to enact the laws. The committee will tell us about the ground reality and what the farmers want. We will decide the validity of the laws,” the bench said, adding, “No power can stop us from forming the committee. All farmers who want to solve the problem arising from the farm laws would appear before the committee and express their grievances.” “When we suspend the implementation of a legislation, it cannot be an empty suspension. That is why the committee is set up. The agitating farmers have a voice. There are many others who say they are not speaking for all farmers. The committee will take opinion of all farmers and tell us about the ground situation,” it said. “We do not want to hear arguments that farmers do not want to go before the committee. If they want a resolution of the problem, they will go before the committee, which will decide which part of the farm laws are to be retained and what are to be deleted,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/not-catering-to-everyones-idea-of-a-good-panel-cji/articleshow/80241726.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 13, 2021||India||All 4 members back agri laws, will proceed with R-Day rally: Protesters||NEW DELHI/ BATHINDA: Farmer unions opposed to the central farm laws on Tuesday said the stay on implementation of farm legislations was not a solution as it could be undone any time and therefore they would continue their protests on two key demands — repeal of laws and a legal guarantee to MSP — and go ahead with a march in Delhi on Republic Day. Union representatives criticised the composition of the committee, saying all four members are pro-farm laws and against the repeal demand. They ruled out any truck with the SC-appointed panel even if it is expanded to include wider representation, underlining that they would rather engage with government to get the laws repealed. They made it clear that the unions would participate in talks with the government on January 15. “We won’t accept any committee formed by the SC for mediation. We knew that the government will get a committee formed through SC to take the burden off its shoulders. That’s the reason we issued a statement last night, saying we won’t appear before any committee,” said Darshan Pal, chief of Krantikari Kisan Union. One of the four members, BKU’s Bhupinder Singh Mann led umbrella body, AIKCC, had even met agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on December 14, 2020 and submitted a memorandum in favour of the farm laws. The agriculture ministry had then while referring to the farmers’ support issued a statement, saying how more than 7,000 organisations under the umbrella of the All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC) will “rise up to support the recently enacted farm Acts”. The other member of the committee, Anil Ghanwat, is chief of the Shetkari Sanghatana - a farm outfit of Maharashtra - which is also part of the pro-farm laws group, AIKCC. “Everybody knows about the pro-government approach of the committee members. They had been writing in support of the farm laws. It seems to be a ploy of the government that instead of forming a committee on its own, it has made the apex court do so, but we will not fall in the trap. We will not accept any committee...,” said farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal echoing Pal. “The composition of the committee gives you a glimpse of what’s wrong in this process,” said Avik Saha of Jai Kisan Andolan. “The SC shortlisted eight farm organisations out of 32 Punjab bodies and impleaded us. Our lawyers had represented us in that capacity only,” a leader said. Farmer representatives Prem Singh Bhangu, Jagjit Singh Dallewal and Jagmohan Singh said the government wanted to put their demand of repealing the laws into cold storage by forming a committee. “We’ve made it clear we do not need any mediation from a panel. The matter should be discussed in Parliament,” they added. Reacting to the SC order, unions’ umbrella body, Samyukta Kisan Morcha, issued a joint statement saying suspending the implementation of the laws as an interim measure is welcome but “is not a solution and the farmer unions have not been asking for this solution, given the fact that the implementation can be reinstated at any time .” The Morcha was also critical of the composition of the committee and said, “It is clear the Court is being misguided by various forces even in its constitution of a committee.” "Instead of creating a positive atmosphere for the talks, this will only provoke the farmers who are demanding nothing less than repeal of the farm laws," said P Krishnaprasad, AIKS secretary and member of the working group, All Indian Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) - umbrella body of over 450 anti-farm laws organisations from across the country. “The Supreme Court orders on formation of committee and farmers reaction on its constitution have not only exposed the trust deficit between government and farmers’ unions but also reflected limitation of role of judiciary in arbitration. After decision to continue agitation by farmers’ groups in Delhi, it is almost certain that the protests will now spread to other parts of country,” said Sudhir Panwar, farmer leader from Uttar Pradesh and ex-member, Planning Commission of the state. Farmers announced the tractor rally will be taken out in a peaceful manner on January 26 and modalities announced after January 15, indicating the protest will be intensified as “farmers sitting at Delhi borders have declined to go back”. Copies of farm laws will be burned on Wednesday on Lohri, as decided earlier. On their plan for Republic Day, farmer leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said, “It will be completely peaceful. We have been peaceful all through our protests and we will remain peaceful.” The farmers’ unions had on January 2 announced to hold the march in Delhi only after conclusion of the official Republic Day function. “It seems the the government has briefed the SC wrongly,” said Avik Saha, working group member of the AIKSCC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/all-4-members-back-agri-laws-will-proceed-with-r-day-rally-protesters/articleshow/80241732.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 13, 2021||India||Karnataka HC sends notice to law min on validity of contempt Act||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday ordered notice to the ministry of law and justice on a PIL challenging the constitutional validity of Section 2(c)(i) of the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971 on the grounds that it violates Article 19 and 14 of the Constitution, is incurably vague and manifestly arbitrary. The petition, jointly filed by journalists N Ram and Krishna Prasad, former Union minister Arun Shourie and senior advocate Prashant Bhushan, is likely to be heard on February 22. Section 2(c)(i) defines criminal contempt as publication or doing of any act that “scandalises or tends to scandalise, or lowers or tends to lower the authority of, any court”. A division bench also ordered notice to the Attorney General of India as the constitutional validity of this central legislation is facing challenge. The SC had in August allowed Ram, Shourie and Bhushan to withdraw their challenge to the clause with the liberty to approach any appropriate judicial forum, except the top court. They had said that they were withdrawing the plea as several petitions on the issue were pending before the SC. “The petitioners are concerned about Section 2(c)(i) and the chilling effect it has on the freedom of speech,” they have stated in their PIL before the HC. According to them, the provision does not amount to a reasonable restriction under Article 19(2) of the Constitution as it fails the test of over-breadth, abridges the right to free speech and expression, in the absence of tangible and proximate harm. They contended that the offence of “scandalising the court” is rooted in colonial assumptions and objects, which have no place in legal orders committed to democratic constitutionalism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-hc-sends-notice-to-law-min-on-validity-of-contempt-act/articleshow/80241844.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Clean environment invites birds and butterflies back to city this winter||Cyclone Amphan wreaked havoc on the city’s biodiversity by uprooting hundreds of trees. People thought that it would take years for Kolkata to overcome the loss. However, according to city environmentalists, the lockdown and the consequent decrease in human activity led nature to recover faster than anticipated. Migratory butterflies make their presence feltEnvironmentalists, especially the butterfly enthusiasts in the city have noticed that compared to previous years, the pollution level is much lower now and because of that, many rare butterflies have started nesting in their gardens. “Though the pollution level increased in October and November, it is still lower than usual. A few migratory butterflies like Gowdy baron have also appeared in my garden. You can also find other varieties, like lesser grass blue, common blue Apollo, common mime, common Mormon and common baron,” said Somenath Pal Das, adding that butterflies, being extremely sensitive to climate change, are markers of a good environment. Bird sighting gone upMeanwhile the birders are also excited about the number of sightings taking place in and around the city. On Sunday, a group of birders, lead by senior birder Shubhankar Patra, conducted a preliminary census of migratory birds that appeared this year at Santragachi Lake and the result was quite surprising. “Despite the rising temperature, we have counted 6431 birds at the lake. Though it was a preliminary count, the number was no less than that for sure. I think that’s a significant rise as the average number of birds at the lake usually varies between 3000 and 4000,” Shubhankar added. Birders have also spotted several rare species of birds in Rajarhat and Rabindra Sarovar area, including violet cuckoo and spotted crake. Lockdown, monsoon and no firecrackers helped birds breedAccording to ornithologist Sumit Sen, if the birds are appearing it means they are getting good food and shelter. “By the first week of January, about 40% of the green cover destroyed by Amphan was back. Also, trees have been replanted and existing trees have also grown in the last eight months,” he said. Environmentalist Subhash Dutta informed that after May 20, south Bengal has seen a good monsoon and that prompted a good growth of trees. Besides, due to the lockdown and the ongoing pandemic, Kolkata Municipal Corporation skipped the pre-Puja pruning which helped a lot. “The parks and lakes have not been cleaned for several months and there has been massive undergrowth. Muted Durga Puja and Kali Puja celebrations was also another reason. Without firecrackers and lights, the birds and insects could breed peacefully,” added Sumit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/clean-environment-invites-birds-and-butterflies-back-to-city-this-winter/articleshow/80237050.cms||Bishwabijoy Mitra
January 13, 2021||Rajkot||Community leader’s son booked for abetting suicide||Rajkot: Son of a community religious leader was booked on charges of abetting the suicide of a married woman along with five-year-old son in Vadinar town of Khambhaliya taluka of Devbhoomi Dwarka district late on Monday night. Vadinar Marine police booked Baudin Pirzada, son of religions leader Sadrumiya Pirzada, for threatening and abetting the suicide of 27-year-old Shirin Jabbar Chamadiya on January 9. Shirin was found hanging at her house in Vadinar on January 9 in the morning by her in-laws. Her husband is currently working on a port in Dubai for the past one month. According to police, deceased’s father Karim Sanghar (52) found call recordings on her mobile phone where Baudin is heard threatening Shirin for a relationship with him. Baudin is also heard threatening to kill Shirin’s father, brother and defaming her entire family if she did not concede to his demands. Based on these recording, Karim lodged a complaint against Baudin and police booked him under Indian Penal Code (IPC) section 306 (abatement to suicide) and 506 (criminal intimidation), said police sub-inspector A I Chavda of Vadinar marine police station. Police said that Shirin had come in contact with Baudin three years ago when he used to visit her house for his father’s religious work frequently. About eight months ago, the duo had eloped but Shirin had returned within a day to her husband’s house. However, she forgot her mobile phone with Baudin. Shirin’s husband and in-laws had pardoned her she was back to living with them. However, Baudin wanted to take advantage of Shirin’s mobile phone and created a fake Instagram account in her name and uploaded her pictures with nasty comments. Baudin also sent the pictures to Shirin’s relatives. On July 8, 2020, Shirin had lodged a complaint against Baudin with Vadinar marine police following which he was arrested and then later released on bail. But Baudin continued to harass Shirin and kept threatening her to get into a relationship with him. Police said that Shirin was on phone with Baudin till 2.30 am on January 9, just before she ended her life. The call recording showed the Baudin was threatening and abusing Shirin which forced her to take the extreme step, said PSI Chavda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/community-leaders-son-booked-for-abetting-suicide/articleshow/80238224.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||RJD slams BJP over split remarks||PATNA: The NDA leaders’ claim that RJD will split after Makar Sankranti took a bitter turn on Tuesday as RJD made acerbic personal statements against the BJP and JD(U) leaders. BJP state incharge Bhupendra Yadav on Sunday said RJD was facing a tough challenge to avert a split after Makar Sankranti and JD(U) MP Rajiv Ranjan Singh Lalan’s on Monday endorsed him by saying it was possible for the former to get it done. “Agar wo jab chahe to puri ki puri RJD BJP mein mil jayegi (Whenever he wants, the RJD will merge with the BJP),” Lalan said Reacting to their statements, RJD state chief Jagdanand Singh said, “Is it necessary to reply anyone barking on one pretext or the other?” RJD also made sarcastic remarks through a tweet on the comments made by the rivals. Jagdanand’s remarks, however, suggested that RJD was upset over the claim of Bhupendra and Rajiv. “If you can save the party, save it,” Bhupendra had challenged the RJD leadership. The JD(U) MP went a step further and said, “Agar wo (Bhupender) jab chahe to puri ki puri RJD BJP mein mil jayegi (whenever he wants, RJD will merge with BJP),” Lalan said. JD(U) national spokesperson K C Tyagi also aired the same view. “Agar wo kah rahen hain to kuch sachchaee hogi (there must be some truth if he is saying so),” he said. In reply, RJD claimed that it was the NDA which will break up after Makar Sankranti. “The NDA is going to face desertion after ‘kharmas’,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwari said. Meanwhile, leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav raised the issue of giving central university status to Patna University. “If they are so powerful, why are they not according central university status to Patna University?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rjd-slams-bjp-over-split-remarks/articleshow/80238800.cms||Ramashankar
January 13, 2021||Business||Cibil’s sandbox contest to promote lending by fintechs||Mumbai: Credit bureau TransUnion Cibil has launched a sandbox contest to get fintechs find solutions for problems in delivering small loans and make it easier for regulated entities to lend in this space. The move comes at a time when app-based lenders are facing heat on account of illegal practices by unregulated lenders. A sandbox allows pilot projects by providing a limited easing of regulatory restrictions that come in the way of new products or services. The TransUnion Sandbox Experience is designed for the fintech lending ecosystem to drive financial inclusion and access to credit by catalysing innovation. This sandbox experience contest, the first of its kind customised for the industry, will be held from January 12 to 15 and over 200 fintechs are set to participate. Each competing team has to pick one of the problem statements on which they will be able to do model development across a 72-hour period. The first prize is a cash award of Rs 6 lakh and second prize is Rs 4 lakh for the winning teams across each track. “The power of credit information analytics has proven its efficacy by enabling the quick and smooth implementation of government relief schemes like the moratorium, emergency credit line guarantee scheme and by helping find and fund good borrowers,” TransUnion Cibil MD & CEO Rajesh Kumar said. According to Kumar, the fintech lending industry is providing access to finance through approximately 13 million loans to the tune of Rs 23,000 crore, as of 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cibils-sandbox-contest-to-promote-lending-by-fintechs/articleshow/80241260.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 13, 2021||Patna||New Bihar Congress incharge lauds Tejashwi||PATNA: State Congress incharge Bhakta Charan Das on Tuesday said he would start visiting different divisions and districts from January 21 to understand the ground issues before forming a new organisational committee. Das also praised leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, saying the latter has the potential to lead Bihar. “An organisation is formed in agreement with people. I will identify people with calibre before including them in the organisational committee,” Das said, adding he has prepared a road map for Bihar. “Few people had left the party. There are weaknesses in the Congress. However, we have to convert our weaknesses into strength,” Das said. Asked about the party’s poor performance in the recently concluded assembly elections, Das said, “The party’s poll performance was below par due to various factors. However, I will not list the factors right now.” Bhakta did not miss the opportunity to lash out at PM Narendra Modi over three newly enacted agrarian laws. “While Congress leader Rahul Gandhi stood with the truth and supported farmers’ stir, the PM kept telling lies,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/new-bihar-congress-incharge-lauds-tejashwi/articleshow/80238844.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||SSB closes border with Nepal in Pilibhit||Pilibhit: A day after eight Nepalese barged into the house of one Balveer Singh, 35, at Sundar Nagar village, under Madhotanda police station, and attacked him, the Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) has suspended all cross-border movement in the Sunder Nagar-Boondibhurh stretch in Pilibhit district. For the time being A probe had been ordered by SP Jai Prakash Yadav. Police said Singh had visited Nepal’s Kanchanpur district three days ago and had a spat with some locals there. He was allegedly drunk at that time. Though reason for the confrontation is not known, some villagers alleged that Singh was involved in human trafficking. “We are coordinating with our Nepalese counterparts for the prosecution of the assailants and over suspected women’s trafficking, if any,” said SP Unyal, assistant commandant of SSB’s 49th battalion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/ssb-closes-border-with-nepal-in-pilibhit/articleshow/80237977.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 13, 2021||Patna||Heritage sites in Saran to be developed: DM||CHHAPRA: Saran DM Nilesh Ramchandra Deore has resolved to develop uncared cemetery and Mausoleum of Dutch Governor Joan Van Horn at Karinga and excavation site at Chirand to attract tourists. The cemetery is situated at about 3km west of Chhapra-Jalalpur road at Karinga village, while Chirand is situated about 11km east of the town on Chhapra-Patna road. After his recent visits to the two sites, the DM tweeted to Ambassador of Netherland and Union foreign ministry about need for restoration of the monument at Karinga. He said this structure is standing here for the last three centuries as this town was in possession of Dutch till 1770. It was an attraction for Dutch traders. In reply to the DM’s tweet, Marten van den Berg, Dutch Ambassador to India, Nepal and Bhutan said, “There are cultural ties between India and the Netherlands. We need further information on the matter.” Earlier in 2015, the then Saran DM Deepak Anand had sent a proposal to the state tourism department for development of Karinga as a tourist centre and a senior technical officer of state archaeological directorate had also submitted a report after visiting the site. Chirand, on the other hand, is located on the bank of the Ganga. During excavation in 1969-70, Neolithic period tools and utensils were recovered from here. Historians had suggested that people residing at Chirand were followers of Buddhism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/heritage-sites-in-saran-to-be-developed-dm/articleshow/80238189.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: I-T searches unearth Rs 160 crore unaccounted deals of C5 Infra||HYDERABAD: Income tax department’s searches on C5 Infra Private Ltd, a construction company with its office in Begumpet, yielded Rs 160 crore worth of unaccounted financial transactions. The IT department said that it had fixed tax liability after the documents regarding accommodation entries of more than Rs 160 crore were found in the searches. Searches were carried out on C5 Infra and related companies on January 7 in 19 locations in Hyderabad and other areas of Telangana. C5 Infra carried out earth works of Kaleshwaram irrigation project. The accused company was using bogus sub-contractors and shell entities providing fake input tax credit (ITC). The accused civil contractor was generating cash through the use of bogus sub-contracts and bogus billers. The search has also covered a network of individuals running the racket of entry operation and generation of huge cash through fake billing. The IT department in a note said: “Several shell entities were used by the searched entry operators for layering of unaccounted money and cash withdrawals against fake bills issued wherein bogus ITC was passed on. Statements of these entry operators, their dummy partners and employees, the cash handlers of the beneficiaries have also been recorded, clearly validating the entire money trail.” The department also identified the modus operandi to generate huge unaccounted cash and unearthed entire network of the entry operators, intermediaries, cash handlers, beneficiaries and the firms and companies involved. “A forensic analysis of digital data, including pen drive and retrieved mails, has given clinching evidences in this regard.. The assessee company has also admitted the same in its statement on Rs 160 crore unaccunted money transactions,” it said. Searches were conducted at C5 Infra office in Madhupala Towers of Greenlands in Begumpet and also on the residences of directors — Juvvadi Madan Mohan Rao and Nishanth Chennadi. The department also conducted searches on Poulomi Estates Private Limited, which is also promoted by Madan Mohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-t-searches-unearth-rs-160cr-unaccounted-deals-of-c5-infra/articleshow/80240086.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 13, 2021||Chennai||Four TN passengers electrocuted after bus touches power cable||THANJAVUR: Four passengers were electrocuted and three others suffered electric shock when a private bus they were travelling in came in contact with a low-lying power cable near Thiruvaiyaru in Thanjavur district on Tuesday. The accident happened when the driver, while attempting to allow a truck honking from behind to overtake the bus, lost control and the vehicle drifted into a pit dug up on the side for road widening work and came in contact with a live power line. The deceased have been identified as M Kavitha, 26, of Varagur, R Kalyanaraman, 55, of Varagur Agraharam Street, and M Ganesan, 35, of Karuppur (all from Thanjavur district) and T Natarajan, 45, of Vilappankuruchi village in Ariyalur district. Three people, who suffered electric shock, were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Thanjavur. The private bus was heading towards Thanjavur from Grand Anaicut (Kallanai) via Thiruvaiyaru with 40 passengers. When it was nearing Senthalai village near Thirukattuppalli, the driver tried to give way for a truck coming from behind and turned his vehicle to the left. The driver suddenly lost control of the bus and the vehicle fell into a crater dug up to widen the road. Thanjavur collector M Govinda Rao and superintendent of police Deshmukh Shekar Sanjay visited the accident spot and the government hospital at Thirukattupalli and consoled the relatives of the deceased. The Thirukattuppalli police have registered a case. Further inquiries were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/four-tn-passengers-electrocuted-after-bus-touches-power-cable/articleshow/80240139.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||Patna to have 16 Covid-19 vaccination centres on Day 1||PATNA: The state capital will have 16 vaccination centres to begin the immunisation process for Covid-19 on Saturday. DM Chandrashekhar Singh addressing a press conference ahead of the arrival of the 54,900 vials of Covishield vaccine, said, “The count of these centres will go up to 31 from the second day as 15 more places would be activated where health workers would be vaccinated.” The DM said PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS are three government hospitals along with three private ones where the drive would get initiated on Saturday. “The sub-divisional hospital at Barh, Danapur and Mausarhi, health centres at GGS Patna City, Bakhtiyarpur, Bihta, Dhanarua, Fatuha, Maner and Phulwarisharif are the other government places where vaccination would begin,” he said. Singh said more than 38,000 health workers including auxiliary nursemaids and others have got themselves registered for vaccination. The DM said vaccination doesn’t mean one should stop taking precautionary steps like social distancing, wearing masks and washing hands. “All precautionary steps would have to continue even after vaccination as it takes 45 days for building of antibodies as per experts. People must avoid all kind of rumours,” he added. Singh said after the first round of vaccination, outreach programmes would get initiated for all other areas. “The district administration has made all required arrangements for transporting vaccine in temperature-controlled containers,” he said. In reply to TOI’s query, Singh said the district administration has a storage capacity for 10,58,834 doses of Covid-19 vaccine at present. He said magistrates are deployed at the storage facility in NMCH security. The district immunisation officer Dr AP Vinayak and ICDS district programme officer Priyamvada Bharti, who were also present at the presser, said those who have high blood sugar level or pressure as co-morbidity must bring down the parameters to normal range only after which they should go for vaccination. Both officers said after vaccination, the person would be kept under observation for 30 minutes. “There would be ambulances and other facilities at these centres for taking anyone to hospital after vaccination if required,” they said. Both officers also clarified that people may develop mild symptoms just like those develop after taking other vaccines but one must not worry about it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-to-have-16-covid-19-vaccination-centres-on-day-1/articleshow/80238454.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Business||Payment gateways still charge for UPI, RuPay||MUMBAI: Most payment gateway service providers are continuing to charge merchants a fee for enabling and using the Unified Payments Interface (UPI) and RuPay cards despite a government notification making it illegal to do so. According to banking sources, the Central Board of Direct Taxes has directed query to payment service providers on their position with regard to charges for UPI and RuPay card transactions. This comes as a follow-up to the board’s order in August 2020 asking banks to refund any fees collected for payments using RuPay or UPI. In December 2019, the government had issued a notification designating RuPay debit cards and the UPI as prescribed electronic modes of payments, against which banks and service providers cannot impose any charges. Bankers have largely been critical of the ban on charges as there is no move to compensate those who provide the payment infrastructure. The RBI has only last week announced the setting up of a payments infrastructure development fund. However, this will be used to compensate those who rope in retail shopkeepers and other essential services in small towns and the northeast. According to payment gateway service providers, it is possible to offer free services to small merchants. But, they add, there is a big cost involved in processing payments made to large online merchants. The government notification makes it clear that no charge of any kind can be imposed for facilitating UPI and RuPay debit card transactions.While most banks had said that zero fees would slow down merchant acquisition, Paytm had used this as an opportunity to incentivise merchants to on-board them on its network. A spokesperson confirmed that Paytm still does not charge merchants for facilitating UPI and RuPay debit card payments online. With the Budget around the corner, there is fresh lobbying by banks to lift the ban on charges. The National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) too is in support of the ban being lifted. Last June, at a fintech event, NPCI MD & CEO Dilip Asbe had said that the merchant discount rate (merchant fees) are needed because it funds the acceptance, servicing and acquiring of infrastructure for UPI in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/payment-gateways-still-charge-for-upi-rupay/articleshow/80241228.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 13, 2021||Patna||Three special trains for pilgrims to Patna Sahib station||PATNA: Three special passenger trains will be run to facilitate the pilgrims’ visit to Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Patna Sahib gurdwara on the occasion of the 10th Sikh Guru Shri Guru Gobind Singh’s 354th birthday anniversary being celebrated. Railways has already given temporary stoppages of at least 14 special passenger trains for two minutes at Patna Sahib station from January 12 to 26. According to ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar, railways has decided to run a daily special train (03005/03006) between Howrah and Amritsar from January 18 to 22 and another from Kolkata to Nangal Dam (02325/02326) from January 21. Another special passenger train (02317/02318) will run between Kolkata and Amritsar from January 20 to 22 with stoppage at Patna Sahib station. “Railways is also running a special daily passenger DEMU (05591/05592) between Darbhanga and Harnagar from January 12 while two other MEMU special trains (03691/03692-03693/03694) have been introduced on the Gaya-Dehri-on-Sone and Dehri-Pt Deendayal Upadhyaya station routes from Tuesday. Railways will run a special intercity express special (03303/03304) between Dhanbad and Ranchi from January 15,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-special-trains-for-pilgrims-to-patna-sahib-station/articleshow/80238812.cms||Kumod Verma
January 13, 2021||Business||Don’t wait for a perfect plan or resources, take action now!||Every day is a new day, with the promise of the opportunity to reflect, renew and reset. Nevertheless, the month of January — named after Janus, the god of gateways and beginnings — has this strong universal association with that sense of reflection to take stock, recrafting a renewed vision, and resetting to power ahead. If there is one lesson from the lockdown, it is about how closely life and work are interrelated. So, here is my five-step approach that might be useful as you reflect on career and life for the year ahead: 1) Gratitude and power: I love to start with a pause every January, looking at life’s journey so far in the rear view. Looking back helps us realise that much of what we have today in our career and life were items on our wish list a decade ago. This is not only a powerful pause for gratitude, but also an affirmation that we have the capability to realise our dreams. Having faith in our potential is seminal to manifesting the life and career of our dreams. 2) Repaint your dream: As we progress in life, our dreams and aspirations evolve too. Take the time to recraft and reimagine your dream — both from a long and short -term horizon. If there were no constraints, what would your dream career look like? How will you live and what will be the life’s work you would be known for? One of the powerful benefits of this reflection is clarity on the “north star” towards which we are headed and why it matters to us. Next, imagine yourself 10 years from now, looking back at 2021. What do you see? What would you like to see? Is your 2021 plan directionally aligned to your dream life/north star? For most of us, each day comes with its own limitless pushes and pulls on time, attention, and effort. If your time is invested in just trying to stay afloat in that raging ocean, that’s one way to live. However, if you have clarity of purpose, you can be the captain who steers their ship. 3) Assess the ‘now’ and build that road: Having a realistic sense of our current reality is as crucial an element of reflection as the compelling purpose and dream we shaped in step 2 earlier. My approach for this involves three anchors — self, career, and relationships. With those three in frame, some questions we can ask ourselves to get a sense of current reality include: * What are your signature strengths? What will be your signature value proposition that leverages those? * How does my current job align with my vision? What does it prepare me for? What can I learn now that excites me? * What lessons have I learnt in my career journey so far that I can distil for use in the next leg? * What does my network of mentors, enablers, partners look like? Am I investing in them as much as I seek their investment in me? How strong are my key life relationships (friends, family, stakeholders) and how can we nurture those? * Am I leaving a legacy not only in my work but in the lives of those that I touch? What am I doing well, and what could be different? What do I want to jump-shift? Once we have clarity on where we are headed and why, coupling that with where we are and our strengths today point us towards non-incremental shifts we now need to propel growth. 4) Take charge of your destiny: Everyone wants to be happier, more productive, more energetic, and in the process, shape an amazing career. Most people also know how to achieve that, but not many actually end up achieving it. In most cases, what differentiates the successful vs the rest is how we commit to action. That said, one of the common mistakes many of us make is to pause action till the plan is perfected, or wait for time and resources to take that big step. Research shows that plans work when action starts ‘now’. How big or small the action is, ‘does not’ matter, but taking that first step quickly can make a significant impact. Investing some effort ‘daily’ towards input parameters that fuel your shift can not only enable progress but also fill you with tremendous fulfilment. Have you started taking action in these early days of January already? If not, take that one step today. If there is one thing I would love for you to take from this article — it is just this. 5) Soak in the ‘now’: This step is a relatively recent addition to my annual ritual. Very often, our mind is so focused on the future that living in the now gets forgotten. As you act, give this current moment your all. If you are learning, learn. If you are speaking or writing or delivering your sales plan, just do it with everything you have — heart, mind and soul. That in itself will fill your day with pride and success. And while you make the time to invest in your network, do set that time aside for a date with yourself. Self-care is not selfish, and a ritual of investing in me-time can fuel you with all the energy needed to propel growth in other dimensions of life and career. Periodically taking stock is critical to ensuring we are progressing in the direction we want to go. It only takes one or two hours for us to undertake this ritual for renewal and then to follow it up with small daily actions to make a difference that you’ll thank yourself for later.  (The writer is director - human resources, Mondelez India)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dont-wait-for-a-perfect-plan-or-resources-take-action-now/articleshow/80241560.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Nizam jewellery tax issue still unresolved||HYDERABAD: Najaf Ali Khan, grandson of last Nizam of Hyderabad, said that the Nizam’s Jewellery Trust income and wealth tax issue has not been settled so far. “Twenty-six years have passed but Nizam Jewellery Trust income and wealth tax issue has not been settled,” Khan said. “In 1950’s, Nawab Sir Mir Osman Ali Bahadur Nizam VII created various trusts. One such trust was the Nizam Jewellery Trust, which is being administered by it trustees, who were empowered to sell the jewellery. Trustees included Prince Muffakham Jah and a government nominated trustee from the finance ministry at the level of joint secretary,” Khan told TOI. He notified that after a prolonged litigation and with the intervention of the Supreme Court, the Central government had agreed to purchase the items of jewellery for an amount of Rs 206 crore in January 1995. When the trustees were about to hand over the jewellery to the representative of government, the Income Tax Department raised a total demand of Rs 30.50 crore towards arrears of income tax and wealth tax, which later resulted in refunds. These refunds were wrongly adjusted on the instruction of trustees of the said Trust, Khan alleged. “On December 23, 2020, we wrote a letter to the Finance Minister, requesting her to conclude the said issue and for a one-time solution and settlement as we are regular taxpayers. We hope the Finance Minister will look into our issue and give necessary direction to the concerned officers,” Khan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nizam-jewellery-tax-issue-still-unresolved/articleshow/80240090.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 13, 2021||Business||India Inc most resilient in tackling Covid: Study||Chennai: While Asian businesses have been largely nimble in responding to the pandemic, India Inc braved the Covid-19 crisis much better than countries worldwide, and is also most bullish about embracing digital tools. Only 36% of companies in India experienced “slightly negative to a very negative impact” on their business performance in 2020 compared to the Asia Pacific (APAC) regional average of 44%, a study by IT major Cognizant has found.47% of US enterprises, 46% in the UK, and 42% of Chinese firms said their business was negatively impacted due to Covid-19.Indian companies are also among the most bullish worldwide in incorporating digital ways of working as 52% of them -highest among APAC countries- agreed that the pandemic has accelerated the adoption of new, digital ways of working practices.Indian companies currently generate 12% of their total revenue from digital channels, the highest in the APAC region, the study said. By the end of 2023, Indian firms aim to take digital-driven revenues to 17%.Businesses in APAC and the Middle East have reached a point of clarity in terms of the real purpose of digital tools, the study noted. “Although the digital revolution is 74 years old, it’s kicking into second gear now…The work ahead will be all about striking a balance between machine-driven and human-centric work. Even when machines can do everything, it will still be people who are the ultimate X factor,” Manish Bahl, assistant VP, Center for the Future of Work, Asia Pacific, Cognizant, said. Indian enterprises believe that decision-making (62%), analytical skills (54%), learning capabilities (55%), strategic thinking (54%), and communication (54%) will be the top five skills that will be more critical in 2023 than they are today. Further, companies also said machines will augment humans by taking over data-oriented tasks, and the top three tasks that machines will pick up by 2023: include the ability to analyse large data sets (25%), evaluate options to take decisions (23%), and execute routine, rules-based decisions based on inputs (23%). For this study, Cognizant’s Center for the Future of Work surveyed 4,000 executives (1,200 from Asia Pacific and the Middle East including 160 in India) across 23 countries and 14 industries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/india-inc-most-resilient-in-tackling-covid-study/articleshow/80239891.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Patna||Covid vaccination: Officials on toes in districts as D-Day nears||KATIHAR/BIHARSHARIF/GAYA: Necessary arrangements have been made in all districts for Covid-19 vaccination which will begin on January 16. Eight places have been earmarked in Katihar district for vaccination, DM Kanwal Tanuj said on Tuesday. These places are Katihar Sadar Hospital, Barsoi, Manihari, Kadwa, Korha, Kurshela, Falka and Devkhaura. “Vaccine will be administered to 100 beneficiaries every day, but only to those who have already registered for the process,” he said. The DM said 16,469 health workers, including doctors, nurses and housekeepers in hospitals, have been identified for the vaccination in the first phase beginning on January 16. “In government sector, around 14,830 health workers have been enrolled for the vaccination, whereas 1,845 personnel have been shortlisted in the private sector,” Tanuj said. In Nalanda, 5,505 government healthcare and frontline workers and their 334 counterparts from private institutions have been shortlisted for the vaccination in the first phase. Nalanda DM Yogendra Kumar Singh said 10 sites, including Biharsharif Sadar Hospital, Vardhaman Institute of Medical Sciences, Pawapuri, seven primary health centres and a private hospital have been selected for the vaccine drive. “Altogether 5,505 government healthcare and frontline workers and 334 from private institutions will be administered the first dose of the vaccine on January 16,” the DM said. Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh said the beneficiaries will receive two shots of vaccine at an interval of 28 days and they will be alerted through messages. In Gaya, 14 health centres, including two private ones, have been identified for the first phase of vaccination. Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said in the first phase, 16,596 healthcare workers will be vaccinated, including 7,878 in government health facilities, 6,939 integrated child development scheme (ICDS) workers and 4,779 in private health centres. Altogether 14 centres have been made in Gaya district for vaccination, including community health centres at Bankebazar, Baractatti, Belaganj, Bodh Gaya, Khisersarai, Manpur, Paraiya, Wazirganj; primary health centre at Sherghati, Prabhawati Hospital and Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital in Gaya town. “For day-to-day monitoring of vaccination, a control room will be made functional at block and the district headquarters. Proper arrangements have been made for disposal of the biomedical waste at the vaccination centres. There is sufficient arrangement to store around 16 lakh vaccines at the cold chain points in the district,” the DM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vaccination-officials-on-toes-in-districts-as-d-day-nears/articleshow/80238474.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||Orwell’s bust vandalised at his Motihari birthplace||MOTIHARI: The bust of George Orwell, the celebrated English author of classics such as Animal Farm and 1984, at his birthplace in Motihari town was vandalised by some miscreants on Saturday. The bust was recovered from a well nearby on Monday after a hectic search by police and local admirers of Orwell. East Champaran DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok inspected the house where Orwell was born in 1903. He took action against four home guards, who were on duty for the security of the house which has been declared as a ‘protected site’ by the state art, culture and youth affairs department. An FIR has been lodged at the town police station against unknown persons. The DM said the incident has been taken with utmost seriousness and tight security arrangements will be made for the safety of Orwell’s birthplace. Orwell’s father Richard Blair ICS served as the opium inspector at Motihari. On June 25, 1903, Blair’s wife gave birth to a boy at his official residence in the Miscot locality of the town. Christened Eric Arther Blair, the boy went to England six months later with his mother and never came back to India. Eric went on to gain fame with his pen name George Orwell. Rotarian Deopriya Mukharge, chairman of George Orwell Commemorative Committee said the bust was installed by the Rotary Laketown International Club, Motihari in 2010 at the birthplace of the globally acclaimed writer. “The tiled house where he was born is still intact and neglected. The fence wall was constructed by the state government in the last 10 years after its declaration as a protected site. This site has not been developed by the government and it is still dilapidated and deserted. It reminds the visitors of Orwell’s ‘Animal Farm’ in which the pigs were the allegorical characters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/orwells-bust-vandalised-at-his-motihari-birthplace/articleshow/80238203.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||Ruckus at Congress meeting as two groups clash||PATNA: A meeting of the state Congress farmers’ cell on Tuesday turned into a battleground after two groups clashed hurling chairs and abuse at each other. The ruckus unfolded in the presence of the newly appointed state incharge Bhakta Charan Das, who was present on the dais along with state president Madan Mohan Jha, Congress Legislative Party Leader Ajit Sharma and other senior party members. The programme was organized to discuss the plight of farmers, especially in the context of the three newly formulated laws and to prepare a strategy to gherao Raj Bhawan on January 15 in Patna. Sources present in the meeting said a Congress farmers’ cell member Rajkumar Sharma intervened during the ongoing programme alleging that he was not being allowed to speak. He even accused that tickets were sold and dedicated workers are being ignored. This irked another group, which led to the spat. Even on Sunday, a few party members complained to Das about tickets being given to parachute members. However, Das while interacting with the media said the person involved in the ruckus was not associated with the party. “This was intentionally being done. I don’t know who the person was. But if he calls himself a Congressman, let me tell say that this is not the Congress culture. People in the Congress party should understand the culture of sacrifice. How Sonia Ji sacrificed the prime minister’s chair and how Rahul Ji is working as a common worker.” Earlier Das had said, “At present, I am trying to identify all those who are undisciplined. If they don’t listen, then action will be taken against them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ruckus-at-congress-meeting-as-two-groups-clash/articleshow/80238856.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 13, 2021||Patna||PPU VC lays stress on infra development||PATNA: Acting vice-chancellor (VC) of Patliputra University (PPU) Surendra Pratap Singh on Monday held a meeting with principals of all colleges affiliated to the university to discuss various issues related to resumption of academic activities, holding pending university examinations and releasing results on time. Officials of the university also attended the meeting. The VC focused more on infrastructure development in the colleges and NAAC accreditation. Principal of M D College, Naubatpur, Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha called for digital tracking of files in the university and colleges. “Innovative practices are required to get better NAAC score,” he added. J N Lal College principal Sanjoy Kumar raised the issue of acute paucity of teachers in the college. “Departments of mathematics and physics do not have a single teacher. There is hardly four non-teaching staff in the college to manage the college counters and office work,” he said. A N College principal S P Sahi, College of Commerce, Arts and Science principal Tapan Shandaliya, B D College principal Pravin Kumar and Ganga Devi Mahila College principal Rita Kumari Singh also called for academic development in the colleges. Meanwhile, Patliputra University Teachers’ Association (PPUTA) has described the move of the university to transfer principal of M D College, Naubatpur, Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha as “arbitrary”. The university had earlier notified Anjum Ashrafi of the B S College, Danapur as professor incharge of M D College. PPUTA president A K Singh Thakur said the university should withdraw the controversial notification as it has not mentioned new place of posting or acceptance of premature retirement petition of Sinha. Sinha said he had applied for premature retirement on health grounds in October 2020, but the university has not responded yet. PPU registrar Jitendra Kumar said the university has kept Sinha’s transfer notification in abeyance. “He can continue as principal of M D College till disposal of his premature retirement petition,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ppu-vc-lays-stress-on-infra-development/articleshow/80238822.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Business||A ruling ‘unites’ foodies with single GST rate||MUMBAI: Be it a school kid in Ahmedabad whose favourite tea-time snack is a plate of Dhoklas or a senior citizen in Bengaluru who can’t do without his staple breakfast of piping hot Rava-Idlis, an advance ruling, issued by the Gujarat bench, has ‘united’ foodies across India with a single goods and services tax (GST) rate. Despite various products of instant flour mixes falling in different sub-headings, fortunately the GST rate was the same at 5%. On the flip side, the Authority for Advance Ruling did not agree with the submission of the applicant that a nil rate should apply as his instant flour products were nothing but grain and pulse flour mixed with spices, condiments and flavours. In this case, a businessman who manufactured and sold varied types of instant mixed flour under the ‘Talod’ brand name sought an advance ruling to determine the GST rates on his products and also on chutney powder, which was provided free with a few products — such as the Bhajiya mix. The instant mixed flour sold by him was used by customers to prepare a range of Indian dishes such as Khaman, Gota, Handwa, Dhokla, Rice Idlis, Rava Idlis, Dahiwada, Bhajiya, Upma and so on. The ingredients differed from product to product. To illustrate the Dhokla mix, flour consisted of Udad dal, Chana dal, Sugar, Salt, Sodium Bicarbonate, Citric acid and Asafoedtida. The ingredients of the Rava-Idli mix were Gram dal, Udad dal, Rava, Citric acid, Salt, Green Chilli, Curry leaves, and Mustard seeds. The advance ruling bench has to delve deeply into the classification and sub-headings. While products such as the Dhokla mix, Dahi wada mix, Bhajiya mix and Idli mix fell under one sub-heading; Rava-Idli mix, Upma mix and Muthiya mix fell under another subheading. This despite the fact that all products were essentially flour and spices. The saving grace, there was no difference in the GST rate, which was the same at 5%. As regards Chutney powder, which was supplied free with a few flour mix categories, the AAR held it to be a ‘mixed supply of goods’ — this too had a GST rate of 5%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/a-ruling-unites-foodies-with-single-gst-rate/articleshow/80241214.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||Cabinet nod for ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ at govt hospitals in Bihar||PATNA: There is good news for patients undergoing treatment at government-run hospitals. The state cabinet on Tuesday cleared the health department’s proposal to run ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ at such hospitals across the state to provide hygienic and nourishing food to in-house patients. The cabinet meeting chaired by CM Nitish Kumar approved the proposal to set up the ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ units in hospitals in all districts and sub-divisions where the food would be cooked by women associated with self-help groups (SHGs). ‘Didi ki Rasoi’ run by Jeevika Didis was initially started on an experimental basis in Vaishali district. Later the facility was expanded to Gaya, Saharsa, Purnia, Buxar, Sheohar and Sheikhpura districts under Bihar Rural Livelihood Promotion Society (BRLPS). Authoritative sources said around 1.20 crore ‘Jeevika Didis’ are associated with 10.2 lakh women self-help groups. Sources said the CM during a review meeting had directed to expand the project to other districts as well. The cabinet also approved the transport department’s proposal to allow diesel-run auto-rickshaws in the areas falling in the state capital and also in Danapur, Khagal and Phulwarisharif Nagar Parshad for the financial year 2021-22. Earlier, orders were issued by the state transport department to impose a ban on plying of diesel-run autos under PMC areas with effect from January 31 to improve the air quality and reduce pollution in urban areas. Similarly, plying of autos was to be banned in Danapur, Khagaul and Phulwarisharif Nagar Parshad with effect from March 31, 2021. With the cabinet’s seal on the transport department’s proposal, the diesel-run autos will ply till March 31, 2022. In another important decision, the cabinet gave clearance to the appointment of 3,883 permanent employees in the state revenue and land reforms department. A senior officer of the revenue and land reforms department said the appointments will augment the documentation of land records in the state. He revealed that while system analysts and programmers will be deputed at the headquarters, data entry operators will be posted in circle offices. The cabinet also decided to release Rs 300 crore from the state contingency fund for the implementation of the CM potable water scheme for fiscal 2020-21. The potable water scheme is being implemented by the state public health and engineering department. The cabinet also gave its nod to the water resources department’s proposal to release Rs 456 crore from the state contingency funds for the prestigious Ganga Water Lift Scheme. The department will ensure the supply of clean drinking water of the Ganga in Patna to Rajgir, Gaya and Bodh Gaya towns under the scheme. The cabinet also gave clearance to the formation of the Bihar Judicial Officers Conduct Rules, 2021, replacing the Bihar Judicial Officers Conduct Rules, 2017. The meeting also approved the home department’s proposal to fix the tenure and age of the chairman and the members of the central selection board (constable recruitment). Later briefing the media, principal secretary of the cabinet secretariat department Sanjay Kumar said altogether 14 proposals were passed at the meeting of the state cabinet on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cabinet-nod-for-didi-ki-rasoi-at-govt-hospitals-in-state/articleshow/80238148.cms||Ramashankar
January 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar: School director evades arrest in girl’s rape case||MOTIHARI: The director of a private school at Dhaka in East Champaran is evading arrest in a rape case lodged on the statement of a 15-year-old girl student of Class X. Police on Tuesday arrested his sister and sent her to central jail at Motihari for her complicity in the crime. Dhaka police stations SHO Jay Prakash Singh said the victim lodged a case against the director of her school, alleging that he had raped her several times in his office chamber during the last one year. The victim narrated her ordeal to her mother on January 9 and a case was lodged on January 10. She alleged in the FIR that the sister of the director, who is also a teacher in the school, always pressurized her to go to his chamber. The director threatened her of dire consequences if she told anyone about it. After the news of the case lodged by the girl against the school director went viral on the social media, a large number of locals ransacked the school on Monday. The police reached the site and controlled the situation. “A police team is camping in the school to avoid further attack,” said Shivendra Kumar Anubhawi, the SDPO of Sikarahana. The girl’s medical examination was conducted at Motihari sadar hospital and police are waiting its report. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/school-director-evades-arrest-in-girls-rape-case/articleshow/80238182.cms||Chandra Bhushan Pandey
January 13, 2021||Patna||Three-day bird festival in Jamui from Friday||PATNA: With a view to creating awareness among the people about resident and migratory birds, a three-day festival, christened ‘Kalrav’, will be organized at Nagi and Nakti bird sanctuaries in Jamui district from January 15 to 17. Hundreds of bird lovers, ornithologists, and conservationists will participate in the festival which will be inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar on January 16. He will also open the newly built Bird Sensitization Centre in Jhajha. Jamui divisional forest officer Satyajeet Kumar told this newspaper on Tuesday, “Although more than 25,000 migratory birds visit the Nagi-Nakti wetlands every year, they are yet to catch the attention of outsiders. Hence, a memorandum of understanding has been signed between the state forest department and the Bombay Natural History Society for promoting bird tourism.” He added, “Activities like race, quiz for schoolchildren, cycle rally, ‘kho kho’, ‘kabaddi’, boating, birdwatching and painting competition will be conducted during the festival. There will also be stalls selling bamboo handicrafts, sikki grass crafts, marble sculptures and souvenirs.” The main programme will be organized at the Nagi Bird Sanctuary and other events at the Nakti sanctuary. The state joint director of the Zoological Survey of India, Gopal Sharma, appreciated the forest department’s initiative, saying, “The three-day ‘Kalrav’ will create awareness among the people and provide protection to thousands of migratory birds visiting the region. Such festivals are being organized in states like Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Nagaland and Goa.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3-day-bird-festival-in-jamui-from-friday/articleshow/80238831.cms||B K Mishra
January 13, 2021||Patna||PMCH, NMCH and AIIMS-Patna get ready for Covid vaccination drive||PATNA: With the arrival of the much-awaited consignment of vaccines against the pandemic Covid 19, the three important hospitals in the state capital designated as vaccination centres completed their preparations for the mega immunisation drive to be launched on January 16. The front line healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, paramedics and other staff of these hospitals would be vaccinated in the first phase. The PMCH, the largest hospital of the state has created five vaccination centres for its 3,600 doctors and staff, said its superintendent Dr Bimal Karak. He said the guidelines issued by the government would be followed strictly. The five vaccination centres are in Tata ward, Hathuwa ward, cottage and surgery and paediatrics department. “A rehearsal for the vaccination was organised in cottage, surgery and paediatrics departments,” added Karak. The PMCH principal Dr VP Choudhary said separate teams were constituted for each vaccination centre. “Those doctors or staff who would be on leave or in home-isolation after being tested positive would be vaccinated later when they resume their duties,” he added. Altogether 2,500 health workers including doctors, paramedics, sanitation and other employees and medical students will be vaccinated at the Nalanda medical college and hospital ( NMCH) in the mega vaccination drive bring launched from January 16. “All arrangements have been made and three vaccination centres set up in preventive clinic and the ground and first floors of the de-addiction clinics at the campus,” said the NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh. He added that three teams, each comprising one doctor and five paramedics, were constituted for every vaccination centre. He further said as each centre would vaccinate 100 persons in a day, altogether 300 would be given the vaccine against the pandemic Covid 19 every day. NMCH had been a dedicated covid hospital for months and it also has a distinction by having the state vaccine house with five walk-in cooler rooms in its premises where the Covishield vaccines have been stored. Similar preparations have been made to vaccinate about 3600 doctors, nursing and other employees at AIIMS - Patna. “ We already have a well-planned system for vaccination and we would create vaccination centres in our rooms for this drive,” said the medical superintendent Dr CM Singh. “About 400 healthcare workers would be vaccinated there every day,” he said, doctors, vaccinators and other staff would be assigned duty for the mega task being launched against the pandemic. The AIIMS-P, too, served as a dedicated Covid hospital for months and it also as one of the institutions selected by the central government for the trial of vaccines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pmch-nmch-and-aiims-patna-get-ready-for-covid-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80238554.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Must adopt mix of old, new concepts to take education forward||By Prof B S Murthy The Technical education institutes such as universities, IITs, RECs (NITs) started in India largely based on the ancient Gurukul model. Here, the teacher and students stayed more or less together, physically, until the students acquired the necessary knowledge to take on the technological challenges of the country in particular and the world at large. In technical education, teaching had two main components: theoretical concepts and the application of those concepts. The theoretical concepts, to a large extent, were taught traditionally in a chalk and talk mode, supported by modern tools such as power point projections, animations, etc. The application knowledge was imparted through tutorials and lab classes, involving demonstrations, hands on experiments, etc. This system of teaching had many positive aspects. Students learnt from the teacher through direct contact both inside and outside the class room, with many students even developing a deep interest in the subject, thanks to this personal interaction. Laboratory classes and hands-on learning made students very strong in applying the classroom knowledge to actual problem-solving. In addition, campus stay in this model also helped a student to grow into a confident individual through peer learning and co-curricular activities. Students learnt values in life and evolved into a well-rounded human through close interaction with faculty. In the post-pandemic period, education has shifted online. Though online teaching was available in the pre-pandemic period too, it was used very rarely, particularly when the teacher was at a far distance and wasn’t able to physically reach out to the students. Now, the pandemic has forced both teachers and students adopt to online mode of teaching. As “necessity is the mother of invention”, people quickly adopted to this mode and it is now referred to as the “new normal”. The positive aspects of online education include the reach it has given everybody. Today, a teacher can reach out to a large number of students, cutting across geographical boundaries. It has also given teachers’ opportunities to develop virtual laboratories. But it has also thrown up some challenges – especially in the Indian context. The network connectivity is significantly different in different parts of India, which makes it difficult to reach out to every student. The economic standards being vastly different among students in the country, the tools needed for online learning such as a computer/laptop/tablet are not easily affordable by every student in India. Also, evaluation of learning being exam-based in the country so far, institutions have to adopt innovative ways of evaluating students, which in a way gives a lot of opportunity for introspection to evolve a holistic approach to look at learning outcomes. But with commitment from the government, industry and institutions, I am sure these challenges can be overcome soon. I would personally feel, strongly, that technical education, for that matter any education, should not be made completely online and a hybrid model combining the positive aspects of both the models should be adopted as the way forward. (The author is Director of IIT-Hyderabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/must-adopt-mix-of-old-new-concepts-to-take-education-forward/articleshow/80240123.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Knives out in Cong as two senior most members engage in tug-of-war over declaration of CM candidate for 2022 assembly polls||Dehradun: Former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat’s tweet saying the Congress brass to announce the CM face for 2022 assembly elections has stirred a hornet’s nest within the party. A day after the tweet, Indira Hridayesh, leader of Opposition and senior Congress leader, suggested Rawat to take up such issues with the party high command rather than taking to social media while adding that the ex-CM’s move was against party lines. “Let me be very clear on the issue. We contest the election under a united banner. When the party comes in majority, the high command takes a call on the chief minister’s name. The views of elected legislators too plays a crucial role,” Hridayesh, who has also served as state finance minister, told TOI. She was of the view that such issues should be raised on the party platform rather than on social media. “But if Harish Rawat still has any problem, he should talk to the national leadership and ask them to name a CM face,” added the leader of Opposition. In no mood to relent over the issue, Rawat mentioned that it is time to change tradition and naming CM face has brought good results for the party in different states. The former CM in his Facebook post on Tuesday wrote that Pritam Singh – the state Congress chief – was the “Senapati” (general) for the party and “I would like to request him to name the CM face. I would also welcome the name of Indira Hridayesh.” He requested the party to remove him from the list of those being considered to lead the group “as a person needs some time to be free from all barriers. Rawat further wrote that the 2017 assembly poll debacle was a blot on his name and he would work for the party to revive its golden days. Meanwhile, party insiders did not fail to mention that Rawat himself was the CM face in 2017 polls “but the party was reduced to just 11 MLAs and he himself suffered defeats in two assembly constituencies.” They further claimed that the Congress came to power in 2002 and 2012 when the party did not have any CM face but “fought as a unit”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/knives-out-in-cong-as-two-senior-most-members-engage-in-tug-of-war-over-declaration-of-cm-candidate-for-2022-assembly-polls/articleshow/80237973.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||INTACH offers to support sanctuary||Vadodara: The Indian National Trust for Art and Heritage Culture (INTACH), Vadodara chapter, has offered assistance to the government authorities for converting the Sundarpura forests into a black buck sanctuary. The organization on Monday wrote to the government and insisted that the big piece of land should be conserved and designated as wildlife conservation park. “We have such rich biodiversity adjacent to our city. With efforts from the concerned government departments, we can easily conserve it and even turn it into a black buck sanctuary. So we decided to offer our help by bringing in other stakeholders and expertise,” said Sanjeev Joshi, convenor, INTACH, Vadodara. TOI had on December 10 reported about how the city couldn’t be the second home to the black bucks due to the bureaucratic delays over last three decades. “It is reported that in the 70’s & 80’s, almost 300-400 Black Buck (Antilope Cervicapra) were thriving in the vicinity of this Sunderpura-Dhaniavi area. We can still turn back the wheels very easily since the 102 hectares land for the deemed conservation park- is very much available there under your jurisdiction-which is over 1 sq km of land area/space,” the letter written by INTACH to the PMO, CMO and district collector read. “This is a large area and there is an urgent need to protect the area by fencing it first to prevent encroachments. Later the forest department can be roped in as custodians of the land even if the revenue department wants to retain the ownership of the land. Remote sensing can also be done,” Joshi told TOI. The forest department has been since last three decades writing to the revenue department seeking possession of Sundarpura forests that is located about 20 km from the city. The forest that was once home to hundreds of black bucks apart from rich flora and fauna is now losing its rich biodiversity due to lack of any protection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/intach-offers-to-support-sanctuary/articleshow/80237543.cms||Tushar Tere
January 13, 2021||Patna||Oppn doubts impartiality of panel formed on farm laws||PATNA: The opposition parties in Bihar gave a mixed response to the Supreme Court’s decision to suspend the implementation of the three farm laws and also raised doubts over the neutrality of the four-member expert committee to break the deadlock over the contentious legislations. RJD national vice-president Shivanand Tiwari said, “We welcome the reservations expressed by the apex court against the new farm laws, but it should have rather repealed the Acts. The laws were enacted in utmost haste through ordinance without any debate in Parliament. It is to support the interest of multinational corporations, which want to control the agriculture sector of the country.” Speaking on the committee formed by the SC, Tiwari told TOI: “It is known to most people that except Bhupinder Singh Mann, the three other members are supportive of the new laws. They have written columns in support of the new legislations. There is a clear element of doubt with regard to the functioning and outcome of this committee.” Apart from Mann, the three other committee members are agriculture economist Ashok Gulati, Pramod Kumar Joshi (former director, National Academy of Agricultural Research Management) and Anil Dhanawat. Bihar Congress president Madan Mohan Jha also questioned the ‘impartiality’ of the committee. “We welcome the Supreme Court decision as it has given time to the government to take appropriate steps to address the farmers’ woes with regard to the new laws. However, our own opinion is that these contentious legislations should be repealed,” Jha told TOI. BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo), on the other hand, said the reluctance of farmers’ associations to end their agitation despite the SC order is unfortunate. “The formation of a committee to end the impasse is a welcome step. However, it is unfortunate that the farmers have still not called off their strike and are still adamant on holding a tractor rally in Delhi on Republic Day,” SuMo tweeted. JD(U)’s secretary general K C Tyagi suggested that the committee could have included one or two experts, who have been openly critical of the farm laws, so as to maintain balance. “JD(U) had supported the three farm bills in Parliament. But we are of the view that there should be a middle path in the light of the farmers’ concerns. Based on talks with the agitating farmers, the government was ready to make certain amendments, but it could not resolve the matter. Now, it is imperative for the government to take all necessary steps to break the deadlock,” Tyagi said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-doubts-impartiality-of-panel-formed-on-farm-laws/articleshow/80238157.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 13, 2021||Patna||Katihar farmers happy to sell paddy at MSP||KATIHAR: A majority of farmers in Katihar district were upbeat as their paddy was being procured by the Primary Agriculture Co-operative Society (PACS) at the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. Katihar DM Kanwal Tanuj said paddy procurement is the top priority. “In 2019-20, around 24,000 metric tonne (MT) paddy was procured against the target of 30,000MT. However, this year, the target has been doubled to 60,000MT,” he said and added, “Till January 8, altogether 20,428MT paddy has been procured, which is 20 times more than the 900 MT procured during the corresponding period last year.” Last year, only 101 PACS had been activated for paddy procurement while 134 PACS/VMs (vyapar mandis) have been made operational in the district this year. Procurement is in full swing in all the blocks of the district whereas Amdabad, Sameli and Pranpur didn’t procure the produce last year. Timely payment to farmers is also the top priority of the district administration. The DM said kisan salahkars (farmers’ advisers) surveyed panchayats and villages during the special drive between December 29 and January 1, 2021. Ajit Kumar, a farmer under Phulwaria panchayat, said he sold around 70 quintal paddy to PACS. “We are happy as the paddy was purchased by the PACS at the MSP,” he said. Surendra Kumar, another farmer of the panchayat, said, “Money is credited in my Aadhaar-linked bank account through the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme.” But Dilip Kumar rued his lot for not selling his produce to PACS. “I sold 50 quintal paddy at the prevailing market rate of Rs1,400 per quintal,” he said. Prabhakar Kumar, a senior official at Katihar Krishi Vigyan Kendra, said the MSP for paddy procurement is Rs1,868 per quintal. “Pressure is on PACS to procure paddy from farmers at MSP,” he said. An officiating PACS chairman, preferring anonymity, said: “The process of procuring paddy from farmers should have been started in October, but it got delayed.” He added: “Poor and marginal farmers of the district didn’t have the storage facility and they dispose of their produce at a much less price. They didn’t wait for the MSP announcement by the government and sell their produce at a much lower rate.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-farmers-happy-to-sell-paddy-at-msp/articleshow/80238220.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar records 344 new Covid cases||PATNA: The state recorded 344 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, the state’s Covid tally has increased to 2,57,335 and toll reached 1,443 on Tuesday. However, with 2,51,858 recoveries, there were 4,032 active cases in the state on Tuesday. As per the state health department, two more Covid patients died in Patna, taking the district’s toll to 400. Saran and Purnia districts recorded one death each. At AIIMS-Patna, a 65-year-old woman from Darbhanga has succumbed to the virus. Hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said six patients were admitted to the hospital and nine discharged on Tuesday. “Among the 129 Covid patients undergoing treatment at the hospital, 53 are in the ICU, including the 22 who are on ventilator, and five on high-flow nasal cannula. At Nalanda Medical College and Hospital, four patients were admitted and four discharged on Tuesday. Of 344 new Covid-19 cases in the state, Patna accounted for 135. The district’s Covid tally has now risen to 50,896. However, with 48,842 recoveries and 400 deaths, there are 1,654 active cases in the district. Among other districts, Begusarai recorded 31 fresh cases, Muzaffarpur 13, Jehanabad 13 and Rohtas 12. State health minister Mangal Pandey said 214 people recovered from the virus in the state in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery rate to 97.87%. Altogether 95,345 samples were tested across the state in the last 24 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-344-new-covid-cases/articleshow/80238614.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar to interact with Bihari diaspora in US||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar will interact with the Bihari diaspora in the US through virtual mode on January 16 to share the story of Bihar’s triumph and how he scripted the state’s turnaround in 15 years. The live interactive session has been organized by Bihar Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA), in association with Consulate General of India, New York. The session is schedule to be held for one hour, starting at 7:30pm as per Indian time (9am EST) on Saturday. It will be streamed live of Facebook (www.facebook.com/bjanaus/live). Elaborating on the upcoming event, former minister and JD(U)’s national general secretary Sanjay Kumar Jha told TOI: “It is perhaps for the first time that CM Nitish will be interacting with such a large group of natives of the state outside the country. Tens of hundreds of people from all 50 states in the US are expected to interact with CM Nitish in the live session. BJANA had expressed the desire for such an interaction with the CM with the motive to strengthen the bond of people with Bihar and Jharkhand origin with their native states.” Jha claimed that the CM has been requested to share the journey of development of Bihar under his regime over the last 15 years. “While the CM will speak about the works done by the government in the last 15 years, the participants will also be able to give suggestions as well as volunteer to contribute to the development of Bihar.” He added: “We have been told that few universities in the US want to study the works done in Bihar in the field of women empowerment and prevention of climate change through programmes such as Jal Jeevan Hariyali.” The official website of BJANA states that the primary objective of the association is to carry out, promote and coordinate philanthropic, educational and voluntary activities serving physically and economically disadvantaged people in Bihar and Jharkhand and to integrate Indian communities across North America, who have origins in the two Indian states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-interact-with-bihari-diaspora-in-us/articleshow/80238779.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Tech-tonic shift: Online teaching meant lot of unlearning||By Geeta Jois The “The development of the nation is intimately linked with understanding and application of science and technology by its people.” This quote by Dr Vikram Sarabhai is apt in these times of a pandemic, which has forced teachers to unlearn a lot of, and relearn new teaching tools and approaches. During the lockdown, teachers across the country and the world found themselves scrambling to be equipped with new skillsets, changed lesson plans and ways to keep students engaged. This was so different from the vibrant atmosphere that teachers experienced in a physical classroom. Face-to-face teaching is vastly different compared to the virtual set-up. We had to get used to the new normal, and it felt as though we will not have any control on the teaching-learning process. I encouraged teachers to do an exploratory action research, to find answers to the many problems that they were facing in a virtual classroom. Mentoring teachers to bring about a big change in their classrooms was quite challenging, as the teachers worried that the workload would hamper their regular classes. We convinced them by sharing information about the varied resources available, that would make their classrooms more interactive, and teaching easy. Tech-enabled virtual classrooms brought about a transformation in learning and enhanced regular classroom-based pedagogy. Technology aided lessons surprised teachers and students with the flexibility and learning support it offered, compared to the traditional format. This action research culminated with a virtual dissemination, where the teachers shared their findings. Mentoring teachers gave an insight into the resilience of teachers, who are always ready to learn new and innovative methods to keep their students engaged in active learning. As blended learning and hybrid classrooms are the new catch words, this was a good exercise for the teaching community. As Charles Darwin said “…the species that survives is the one that adapts to change”. We teachers have proved that we can survive change. (The writer is a teacher by profession)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tech-tonic-shift-online-teaching-meant-lot-of-unlearning/articleshow/80240164.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||21 culverts to be repaired on Ambil Odha, another stream||Pune: Around 21 culverts on the Ambil Odha, damaged during two consecutive monsoons, and a stream along the Sinhagad Road would be strengthened and repaired at an estimated cost of Rs40 crore. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the tendering process for repairing the culverts used by residents of the nearby areas. The repair works are expected to get over within two years. About 10 culverts are on the Ambil Odha and another 11 are on the water stream in the Sinhagad Road-Hingne area. The culverts along Ambil Odha have been identified in the section starting from Gujarwadi up to Mitramandal Chowk. The location of the culverts in the Hingne area begin from the Sinhagad Road and stretch up to Dandekar bridge. The civic administration identified the culverts based on the survey of a private firm after flooding and water accumulation in Pune’s southern areas. Many culverts were washed away, while the road surface was heavily damaged, necessitating their repair and strengthening. According to the residents of the nearby areas, the existing culverts are not strong enough to cater to the increased traffic. Sanjay Gholap, who often travels on Satara Road, said, “Many small bridges are located in Mitra Mandal, Aranyeshwar, Padmavati and Lake Town on the nullah. Repairs of all these bridges are overdue to prevent accidents.” An official from the civic administration said, “There is a plan to construct ‘Box’ culverts at all the locations. Some culverts require major repairs and strengthening. A plan has been drafted. Separate tenders are being floated for the culverts along the Ambil Odha and the stream along Sinhagad Road-Hingne area. The works are expected to get over in 18 to 24 months.” The Ambil Odha had witnessed heavy flooding in September 2019 following downpour in the Katraj ghat area. In 2020 also, same locations along the Ambil Odha and the Sinhagad Road area experienced flooding though the damage caused was less than the previous year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/21-culverts-to-be-repaired-on-ambil-odha-another-stream/articleshow/80240154.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 13, 2021||Pune||India’s biggest vaccine rollout begins as SII ships 55L doses||May all be free from disease” — with this slogan printed on each box, the shipment of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield set out from Pune to other parts of India on Tuesday morning, kickstarting the biggest rollout of a vaccine in the country’s history.Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata and Hyderabad, the four major regional depots for vaccines, received their quantum of Covishield doses within 10 hours since their dispatch began from the SII premises at 4.30am on Tuesday. Overall, 55 lakh of the total 1.1 crore doses were dispatched from the SII premises till 5pm on Tuesday, officials confirmed. “The transport exercise for the remaining doses will continue till Wednesday evening,” a senior SII official said. Covaxin doses will reach Hyderabad airport early Wednesday morning after which they will be shipped to around 11 destinations across the country, including Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Patna, Lucknow and Jaipur, sources in Bharat Biotech and the aviation industry confirmed to TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/indias-biggest-vaccine-rollout-begins-as-sii-ships-55l-doses/articleshow/80241320.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Landour cantonment mulling establishing a museum; director Vishal Bhardwaj offers to make a documentary||Mussoorie: Plans are afoot to set up a museum at Landour cantonment near Char Dukan in Mussoorie. The proposal to establish a museum and a book club was put forward in a meeting held on Monday. It was also decided to erect a statue of Major Vibhuti S Dhoundhiyal at the entry point of the cantonment. He was martyred in an anti-terrorist operation in Kashmir in 2019. Speaking to TOI, Badal Prakash, vice-president of Landour cantonment, said, “During the meeting, the board members discussed setting up a museum along with a book club where the rich history of the cantonment can be shared with the visitors.” The board also decided to remove plastic garbage bins from the cantonment and replace them with iron-made bins. Other decisions taken in the meeting include better traffic management within the cantonment. Meanwhile, famous director Vishal Bhardwaj — who has a house in Landour – offered to make a documentary on Landour cantonment. He had earlier participated in an online discussion held prior to the Cantonment board meeting. Notably, Landour cantonment spans across 1,070 acres. The earliest houses to be built in Mussoorie were in the Landour cantonment. During the British regime, the entire area belonged to the Army and just 78 civilian houses were built here. Today, the cantonment has become a much sought-after tourist destination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/landour-cantonment-mulling-establishing-a-museum-director-vishal-bhardwaj-offers-to-make-a-documentary/articleshow/80237990.cms||Anmol Jain
January 13, 2021||Kozhikode||Tiger attacks another forest staff, enters Bandipur||KOZHIKODE: The stray tiger that has been spreading panic at Kolavally near Kerala-Karnataka border in Wayanad for the last seven days attacked another forest staff even as attempts by forest department to tranquilize the tiger did not succeed on Tuesday. The tiger crossed the Kabini river and has entered the Bandipur Tiger Reserve (BTR) in Karnataka. Though the forest veterinary surgeon managed to fire the tranquilizer dart at the tiger at 2pm, the animal did not get sedated and it ran around for 15 minutes. Forest watcher Biju was attacked by the tiger while tracking it after the tranquiller shot was fired; he sustained bite injuries in his hand. He has been admitted to the DM WIMS Medical College at Meppadi. Chief conservator of forests (northern circle) D K Vinodkumar said the tiger, which had remained elusive on Monday, was spotted lying near an abandoned house on Tuesday morning. “We were able to fire the first tranquilizer shot at 2pm and the dart hit the animal. It ran for 15 minutes after that and attacked a watcher who was tracking it. Finally the tiger hid inside a bush but we couldn’t fire the second tranquilizer shot as there was no line of sight,” Vinodkumar said. He said after around 40 minutes, the tiger became active and started running and charged at the tracking team which was pursuing it as many as six times. “We tried our best to pursue the tiger but could not fire the second tranquilizer dart. Finally it crossed the river and moved to the Bandipur Tiger Reserve. We have informed the director of BTR and they will commence operation to tranquilize the animal on Wednesday,” he added. Forest department officials said the tiger is suspected to have sustained injuries. Forest staff are patrolling along the banks of Kabini river to monitor the tiger it if comes back to the area. Chethalath forest range officer T Sasikumar was attacked by the tiger which had strayed to the human habitations near Kolavally six days back during the search operation on Sunday. He is also admitted at the DM WIMS Hospital at Meppadi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/tiger-attacks-another-forest-staff-enters-bandipur/articleshow/80238004.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Ludhiana||Manpreet launches OTS scheme for dues recovery||Ludhiana: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Tuesday officially launched the One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme for the recovery of outstanding dues 2021.Manpreet was accompanied by food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla, Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee president Sunil Jakhar, besides several others. Earlier, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh was supposed to preside over the function, but he cancelled his plans. According to sources, the CM skipped he meeting as the Supreme Court’s verdict on the farming laws was due to be announced on Tuesday and he was keeping a close watch on the verdict. Launching the OTS, Manpreet said, “The One Time Settlement (OTS) scheme is a gift from the CM to our traders and industrialists and it will the give much needed boost to the industrial units of the city, which have braved the trying times of Covid-19. I am indebted to the industry of Ludhiana, especially hosiery and cycle industries, in ensuring the numero uno status of Ludhiana on the scale of progress. The performance of the other ministries reflects that of the finance ministry. Despite the Covid-19 pandemic and Centre's stoppage of Punjab's share of GST and RDF (rural development fund), the state has not gone into overdraft.” PPCC chief Sunil Jakhar said, “It is nothing less than a shock that the agricultural policies are being framed by those who know nothing about agriculture. Nearly 2,000 amendments have been made till date in the GST regime, which was touted by the Centre as its most shining initiative. Despite the central government holding on to Rs 8,000 crore GST share and RDF share of more than Rs 1,000 crore, the state government is committed to further propelling the industrial sector of Punjab towards prosperity.” Joining through video conferencing from Jalandhar, industries and commerce minister Sunder Sham Arora said that at the time of taking over the reins of the state, the state government had promised to transform Punjab into an industrial powerhouse, which had been largely fulfilled. School education and PWD minister Vijay Inder Singla said, “It is a big occasion for the small businessmen of the state, who have always thrived during Congress rule.” General Secretary of CICU Pankaj Sharma pointed out that Punjab had seen the ease of doing business and speedy clearances of projects during present dispensation with 60 clearances granted in one go. Chairman of Hero Cycle Industries Pankaj Munjal elaborated about cycle business and said that the Covid-19 pandemic made people aware about their health concerns, which saw a surge in the cycle market. Prominent among those present on the occasion included MLAs Surinder Dawar, Sanjeev Talwar, Kuldeep Singh Vaid, former minister Malkit Singh Dakha, political secretary to CM Captain Sandeep Singh Sandhu, mayor Balkar Sandhu, LIT chairman Raman Balasubramaniam and PAU VC Baldev Singh Dhillon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/manpreet-launches-ots-scheme-for-dues-recovery/articleshow/80238886.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Youth uses ‘intimate video’ to blackmail girlfriend, rapes her with 4 friends, all booked||BAREILLY: Five youths including the “boyfriend” of a girl, 18, have been booked for allegedly raping her over a period of several months in Bareilly. According to the allegation, the youth filmed some intimate moments with the victim and later used it to blackmail her into submission. The accused’s four friends also raped the girl for several months. Two days ago, the youth uploaded the videos on social media platforms, prompting police to take a note of it. Police have registered an FIR at Bahedi police station in Bareilly against five persons under the sections of gang-rape and IT act on the complaint of the girl. Police have also recovered the video and sent it for forensic testing. Teams have been made to arrest the accused who are absconding. Police said that the girl, in her complaint, said that she was in a relationship with one of the accused, Faiz Sheri, who had made the intimate video. Later he misused the video and blackmailed her with the help of his four friends, who repeatedly gang-raped her for several months. Recently, the girl asked Faiz to marry her. But he refused and shared the video on social media groups. Bareilly SSP Rohit Singh Sajwan told TOI, “The accused and the victim belong to the same community and live in the same village. We have booked the accused under IPC sections 376-d (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 67 of the IT Act. We will also add section 354c (voyeurism) as the main accused has shared the video of the girl with others and misused it for sexually assaulting her.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/youth-uses-intimate-video-to-blackmail-girlfriend-rapes-her-with-4-friends-all-booked/articleshow/80237998.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 13, 2021||Pune||Forest dept, NGO treat & release leopard cub||Pune: Officials of the Junnar forest division and NGO Wildlife SOS provided medical treatment to a four-month-old male leopard cub before releasing it back into its natural habitat at Ghulepat village near Otur in Junnar tehsil, about 110km away from the city. Earlier this month, the residents of Ghulepat village had found the leopard cub in a semi-conscious state. Subsequently, the cub was taken to the Leopard Rescue Centre at Manikdoh in Junnar. Nikhil Bangar, representing the rescue centre, said that after the medical examination, the cub was found to be suffering from an infection that required urgent treatment. “The cub was weak and dehydrated. We administered antibiotics and fluid therapy to ensure safe recuperation,” Bangar added. Forest officials suspect the cub might have been separated from his mother as villagers told them that they have sighted the female leopard in the area often in the last few days. “We have released the cub in the same area so that it can reunite with its mother. It is essential for cubs in the wild to be reared by the mother for the initial few years to ensure they learn survival skills,” said officer Yogesh Ghodke of Otur forest range.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/forest-dept-ngo-treat-release-leopard-cub/articleshow/80240174.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Body found in under-construction site’s bathroom in Sadashiv Peth||Pune: The decomposing body of an unidentified woman, around 35 years old, was discovered at a construction site in Sadashiv Peth on Monday afternoon. “The body was found in a bathroom in the under-construction building around 4.30pm. We could not establish her identity,” senior police inspector Vijay Tikole of the Vishrambaug police said. Police have registered a case of accidental death, he added. “The forensic experts have reserved the cause of death after performing a post-mortem on Monday night. They said she may have died on January 6,” he said. “The woman was in a nightgown and is not a local resident,” he added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/body-found-in-under-construction-sites-bathroom-in-sadashiv-peth/articleshow/80240176.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: For the last mile, it’s all about Net connectivity||MUMBAI: With 72 hours to go before the largest ever adult vaccination drive kicks off on Saturday, districts in the state are busy with last-mile preparations. Across Maharashtra, the vaccination drive would be carried out in 511 centres, including 119 rural hospitals, 83 sub-district hospitals, 69 medical colleges, 43 municipal hospitals, 23 primary health centres and 22 district hospitals, among others. At the district hospital in Jalna, which has been selected as one of the two model centres in Maharashtra that would launch the drive on January 16, the focus is on having seamless internet connectivity. The centre has been asked to facilitate a system for two-way interaction for which the minimum internet speed requirement is of 5 Mbps. “We have a Wifi connection that provides a speed of 40 Mbps. We also have the required laptop configuration and web camera needed that the Centre has specified,” said Dr Vivek Khatgaonkar, district health officer. The hospital is also keeping a second set of computers and a webcam ready to tackle any glitch should PM Narendra Modi interact with any of the beneficiaries. The district has six centres where 12,500 beneficiaries would be vaccinated. For the two primary health centres where the drive would be carried out, Khatgaonkar said they have been asked to procure dongles too as a backup. Officials of most districts said that since the Covid-19 vaccination was entirely technology-driven, they have chosen centres with good network connectivity and power supply. Dr R D Bhoye, civil surgeon of Nandurbar district said they have shortlisted 7 centres and 11,500 healthcare workers are registered to be vaccinated. Of the 7 centres, only one is a PHC, while the remaining 6 are rural and civil hospitals. “We did a thorough check before finalising centres. Rather than setting up internet connection at centres, we set up centres where there was data connectivity,” said Bhoye. A senior official from the district said the government has ensured internet connectivity in tribal-dominated talukas like Akkalkuwa which are surrounded by the backwaters of Narmada dam. “But we have been told that the offline uploading of data will be allowed so that will be helpful,” the official added. In Gadchiroli too, officials said they have set up five centres for nearly 10,000 beneficiaries. Their main site is the district hospital, three are sub-district hospitals of Armori, Aheri and Kurkheda, and the fifth site in a rural hospital in Chamorshi. The district has got 37 refrigerators which have been installed. “As far as internet is concerned, we are fine. The hospitals have generator backups as all have multiple labour rooms,” said Dr Anil Rudey, civil surgeon, Gadchiroli. While urban areas in Palghar district like Vasai-Virar and Palghar city are geared up, officials are worried about the tribal areas of Jawahar and Mokhada where poor connectivity is still an issue. A health official said with 16,000 health workers in the district to be immunised, many will have to travel long distances to vaccination centres. As of now, the centres have been set up in areas having good network.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/for-the-last-mile-its-all-about-net-connectivity/articleshow/80241329.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Fight will go on till laws are repealed: Farmers’ groups||Pune: Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana leader Raju Shetti and some other farmers’ outfits have expressed apprehensions over the panel formed by the Supreme Court to resolve the impasse over the farm laws between the Centre and farmers’ unions protesting at Delhi border. The apex court has stayed the implementation of the new farm laws till further orders and has constituted a four-member committee. “It (SC stay) has crushed the expectations of the farmers. The committee appointed by the court has members who had earlier voiced their support to the farm bills,” Shetti said in a social media post. Farm activist and head of Annadata Shetkari Sanghatna, Jayajirao Suryavanshi, said they were happy with the SC decision to stay the controversial law, but added that they did not have any hope from the committee. Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Sanghatna’s head Deepak Joshi said the committee should comprise former Justices of the HC and SC. Elsewhere, farmers’ associations said they would continue their fight till the Centre repeals the three farm laws. “The Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of all the three farm laws of the centre, which is really a big achievement and this decision has taken the fight of the farmers one step forward. This has also increased the confidence of the farmers,” said Ajit Nawale, state general secretary of All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS). He added, “These three farm laws were made in favour of the corporate so that they would earn huge profit and loot farmers. They would have a monopoly on food safety. Our fight will continue until these three farm laws are abolished and proper implementation of the minimum support price.” Sandeep Jagtap, state president, Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana, said the Centre did not tackle the agitations of the farmers properly and tried to create a difference among the farmers’ leaders. “We are confident that these three farm laws would be cancelled immediately,” said Jagtap. Shankar Darekar, state president, Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, said that their fight against the union would continue until the three farm laws are repealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fight-will-go-on-till-laws-are-repealed-farmers-groups/articleshow/80237156.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Amaravati||Andhra Pradesh: Will cut off supplies if dues not settled, warn discoms||AMARAVATI: Power distribution companies (discoms) in the state have begun issuing notices to clear dues or face disconnection of supply. Eastern Power Distribution Company Limited (EPDCL), Central Power Distribution Company Limited (CPDCL) and Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (SPDCL) are waiting for the green signal from the government to cut off power supply to local bodies. Sources said the discoms have been struggling with poor revenue since the outbreak of Covid-19 as revenues from industrial and commercial segments have nosedived to an all-time low. Although commercial establishments have resumed operations, consumption is yet to reach peak due to poor business turnovers. Similarly, industrial units are yet to reach their full operational capacity after the lockdown, resulting in fall in revenues of discoms. The discoms are managing their finances based on collection from domestic supplies which is not enough to meet their requirements. The government’s decision to waive minimum monthly charges to several commercial establishments including movie theatres has also hit revenues of discoms. In this context, the discoms have set their focus on collection of old dues from government agencies, including local bodies. Sources said village panchayats alone owe nearly Rs 3,000 crore to the discoms as the local bodies have not made payments to the power utilities for the past 12 months. Sources said some village panchayats have not cleared dues even for nearly 18 months. Small municipal towns and nagar panchayats were also unable to clear the dues for the past several months due to their revenue losses, sources said, and added that discoms were yet to recover nearly Rs 1,000 crore from small municipal bodies and nagar panchayats. “We have been continuing the supplies to the local bodies as supply disconnection would impact drinking water supplies and street lighting. However, it is becoming increasingly difficult to continue supplies without getting the monies from the local bodies,” said a senior official with a discom. Sources said the government had directed the panchayats to clear the dues when the Finance Commission grants were released a few months ago. However, special officers of gram panchayats have utilised the resources for the containment of Covid-19. With district collectors directing the panchayat officials to focus on sanitation, spraying of bleaching and sodium hypochlorite in containment areas, most of the grants were spent on managing Covid-19 containment operations. “We are waiting for the release of another spell of grant to clear the power dues,” said a district panchayat officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/will-cut-off-supplies-if-dues-not-settled-warn-discoms/articleshow/80238041.cms||Samdani MN
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccine roadshow in Kolkata after 1,600km aerial journey from Pune||Kolkata: Very rarely have placid boxes stirred so much emotions as they did on Tuesday, right from the airport where they arrived by a cargo flight to the streets of Kolkata through which they were escorted by police patrol cars to warehouses, where curious onlookers gathered to catch a glimpse of the parcels containing Covid-19 vaccines, believed to be the elixir of life. At 1.42pm, a Bombardier Q400 SpiceJet turboprop aircraft touched down in Kolkata, carrying 83 boxes that contained vials with nearly 10 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines for Bengal and the Northeast. When the plane came to a halt at Parking Bay 11 near the cargo terminal, loaders waiting in the wings swung into action. In 20 minutes flat, the boxes were offloaded from the plane and put onto three trucks. While 25 boxes were placed in a truck headed to the Government Medical Store Depot in Hastings, the remaining 58 boxes were loaded onto two other trucks that had arrived from the Central Family Welfare Store in Bagbazar. “We made special arrangements for the three trucks to enter the tarmac so that the boxes could be transferred quickly,” said Kolkata airport director Kaushik Bhattacharjee who was at the site to oversee the smooth operation. “May all be free from disease. One step closer! The consignment from Pune carrying #COVID19 vaccines has arrived at #KolkataAirport. Consignment handed over to the State Health Department in the shortest possible time to maintain the cold chain,” Kolkata Airport tweeted. As word of the vaccine’s arrival at the airport spread, people began to crowd outside Gate 3. Among them was Tala resident Avishek Banerjee. “I had come to pick up my wife who was returning from Delhi. When I heard the vaccine had reached the airport, I went over to the cargo area to have a look,” he said. A number of policemen and airport officials not on duty in the area also gathered for a closer look of the vaccines being transported. “I managed to take some photographs and shared it with my family and friends. This is the talking point of the day,” said an airport official. The two state vans exited the airport around 2.55pm and made the journey to the Bagbazar warehouse. Escorted by police pilot cars, the trucks zipped through signals and made the 9km journey in 35 minutes. The other truck, also with a police escort, headed for the warehouse in Hastings. Outside the Bagbazar depot, police had a tough time keeping a crowd at bay. When the trucks arrived, some of the onlookers went on to take selfies and groupfies with the depot as the backdrop. “It’s a strange feeling. The vaccine is so near and yet so far. We don’t know when we will get it, but at least, there is hope. It can end the pandemic in the coming months,” said Pappu Shaw, a third-year student of Maharaja Manindra Chandra College who was found taking photos outside the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-roadshow-in-kolkata-after-1600km-aerial-journey-from-pune/articleshow/80239049.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rename Chaugan Stadium after BJP neta: Poonia||Jaipur: State BJP president Satish Poonia has shot a letter to chief minister Ashok Gehlot urging him to rechristened the name of Chaugan Stadium after three-time BJP state president and former cabinet minister Bhanwarlal Sharma on Tuesday. Poonia said that Sharma had keen interest in sports since childhood and was a good swimmer, wrestler and football player. “His spent his serving the people of the state and has always stood by poor and disadvantaged people,” said Poonia. He further added that considering his achievements in political and social life, the Chaugan stadium which is an iconic place in Jaipur should be named after him. He was six-time MLA from Hawa Mahal constituency. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rename-chaugan-stadium-after-bjp-neta-poonia/articleshow/80240192.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: To acquire 293 acres, Kiifb gives Kinfra Rs 346 crore||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala infrastructure investment fund board (Kiifb) has made available Rs 346 crore with the state industrial infrastructure development corporation (Kinfra) to acquire 292.9 acres of land for development of the Kochi-Bengaluru industrial corridor. The money will be used to acquire land at Kannambra, Palakkad. In addition, Kiifb also cleared the acquisition of 1,351 acres of land at Ozhalapathy and Puthussery for which Rs 1,038 crore will be spent. Kiifb CEO K M Abraham handed over the amount at an event held here in the presence of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Industries minister E P Jayarajan and finance minister T M Thomas Isaac were also present. Under the project, industrial estates, hubs and clusters, with state-of-the-art infrastructure, would be established along the corridor. It will contribute substantially to the development of manufacturing units in the region and transform the Kochi-Palakkad region into a major manufacturing hub in South India. Direct and indirect employment generated through the establishment of industrial ventures will be manifold which will initiate the trend of reverse migration. Kiifb has a total outlay of Rs 12,710 crore for the project. The government, through a cabinet decision, accorded sanction for the project proposal and approved land acquisition with financial aid of Kiifb on government guarantee. The development plan incorporates nine mega industrial clusters focusing on food, light-engineering, gem and jewellery, plastics, e-waste and other solid waste and other solid waste recycling, oil and gas, electronics, IT, logistics and automotive sectors. The participating states will appoint separate nodal agencies and through a state support agreement (SSA) provide support for the project, including acquisition of land required for the project. Through a proposed shareholders’ agreement, the nodal agencies along with National Industrial Corridor Development and Implementation Trust (NICDIT) – an apex body under the control of department of industrial policy and promotion (DIPP) -- will form a special purpose vehicle for development of the corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/to-acquire-293-acres-kiifb-gives-kinfra-rs-346-crore/articleshow/80238047.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Rajkot||Goldsmith booked for fleeing away with gold||Rajkot: A goldsmith from West Bengal was booked on Monday in Junagadh for stealing gold worth Rs 8.2 lakh from his employee.The jeweller Sunil Rajpara, who owns a shop at Chhaya Bazaar in Junagadh, told police that the accused Rajesh Ali Sheikh fled with gold weighing 165.4 grams on January 9. Rajpara had given the gold to Sheikh to make ornaments. Initially, Rajpara searched for Sheikh after he fled with gold, but when he could not trace Sheikh, he approached police. An offence was registered against Sheikh at A Division police station. “The accused is from Hooghly district in West Bengal. We will be sending a team there to arrest him,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/goldsmith-booked-for-fleeing-away-with-gold/articleshow/80237979.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||No ramps for the elderly & physically-challenged at most Ganga ghats, including Har-ki-Pauri||Haridwar: With days to go for the 2021 Kumbh Mela to begin on Makar Sankranti, and Haridwar decking up to receive millions of pilgrims and tourists, local residents have started questioning the lack of facilities for elderly and physically-challenged pilgrims who want to take a holy bath in the Ganges. They have pointed out that there are no facilities for the infirm at most of the ghats along the river in Haridwar, including the main ghat, Har-ki-Pauri. There are 107 ghats in the designated Mela area identified by the Mela administration, but only a few have ramps for the infirm. Recently, Kumbh Mela police announced it would reserve a stretch of the Ganga banks for the elderly and physically-challenged pilgrims, but residents said without the facility of ramps, executing this plan properly would be a big challenge. Vibhas Mishra, the president of the Vyom Foundation, which works for children in Haridwar with special needs, told TOI, “A big amount from the Kumbh Mela budget is being spent on developing the river banks in Haridwar, but it’s unfortunate that facilities for infirm pilgrims are not available on the riverbanks, including at Har-ki-Pauri. Neither Mela administration nor the Uttarakhand irrigation department is concerned about building ramps.” Seven new river banks have been built out of the Kumbh Mela budget by the Uttarakhand irrigation department, but not a single one has a ramp. The department couldn’t even say if there were any riverbanks with ramps. Mela police have now announced it will make arrangements for elderly and special-needs pilgrims. Mela CO Prakash Deoli told TOI, “It’s true there are no ramps on many riverbanks, including at Har-ki-Pauri, but during the fair, we’ll not let the elderly to bathe at Har-ki-Pauri. We’ll reserve some other riverbank with temporary ramps for them.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-ramps-for-the-elderly-physically-challenged-at-most-ganga-ghats-including-har-ki-pauri/articleshow/80238053.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Amritsar||Pakistan court orders 2-year jail for man who led attack||AMRITSAR: A Pakistan anti-terrorism court in Lahore on Tuesday sentenced three accused in the mob attack in January last year on Gurdwara Nankana Sahib, the birthplace of the first Sikh master, Guru Nanak Dev, to varying jail terms. Mohammad Sultan Sheikh, counsel for the accused, told TOI that an anti-terrorism court of Judge Ejaz Ahmad Bhuttar, Lahore, sentenced Muhammad Imran to two years’ imprisonment and his younger brother Salman and cousin Muhammad Ahmad Raza to six months’ jail each while acquitting the other accused, Zulfiqar, Irfan, Adil Javed, and Muhammad Aslam. Mohammad Imran is the elder brother of Mohammad Hassan who had allegedly forced a Nankana Sahib Sikh girl Jagjit Kaur to convert to Islam and married her against her and her parents’ wishes in August 2019. After the incident, Jagjit’s brother Manmohan Singh and other family members had lodged a complaint against Hassan which led to strained relations between Sikhs and Muslims of Nankana Sahib and a mob attack on Nankana Sahib. Pakistan Punjab’s governor Chaudhary Mohammad Sarwar had to intervene to bring a truce between the two families. Judge Ejaz stated in his verdict, "You may belong to any religion or caste or creed that has nothing to do with the business of the state. We are starting with this fundamental principle that we are all citizens and equal citizens of the state." The judgment also refers to the Babri Masjid case verdict "passed by a learned court of the Republic of India in which the said court made a decision in order to satisfy the collective consequences (sic) of general people of Indian society".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/pak-court-orders-2-yr-jail-for-man-who-led-attack/articleshow/80238944.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Drive against cyber crimes in Ajmer||New SP of Ajmer Jagdish Chandra Sharma has started a campaign against cyber and social media crimes and asked people not to upload any photograph with weapons or tag any gangster on social media. He also advised people to inform police immediately about cyber crimes. The district police will issue posters and material educating people about such crimes. The first poster was released by Ajmer SP stating that anyone running Facebook or any social account in a fake name is liable for punishment. The poster also stated that posting any photo with weapons on social websites is a crime and the user is liable for prosecution. District police also advised people to inform them if they get any call from sub-inspector of CBI or any other agency saying that there is a case registered against them. These are fake calls and informing police helps in investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/drive-against-cyber-crimes-in-ajmer/articleshow/80240212.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||19 pvt hospitals among 60 centres finalized for Covid vaccination||Nagpur: After the initial reluctance, 19 private hospitals have agreed to host Covid-19 vaccination centres on their premises. In all, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has finalized 60 centres, including 19 private hospitals, for the purpose. As reported by TOI on Tuesday, vaccination will kick-off from eight centres in the city on January 16. Vaccine will be administered to pre-registered health care workers at these centres on January 16 and 17. The NMC is expecting to vaccinate all health care workers in six working days, followed by front-line workers. Thereafter, people above 50 years of age and those below 50 but having comorbidities will be covered. Vaccination will be carried out between 9am and 5pm on four days — Mondays, Wednesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. Regular immunization drives will be carried out on Tuesdays and Fridays. Sunday will be a holiday. NMC’s additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi told TOI, “Vaccination will be done at all 60 centres from January 18 onwards. Around 25,000 health care workers, from government as well as private hospitals, will be administered the vaccine in the initial stage. Staffers at 16 private hospitals have already undergone training and those from the remaining ones will be trained on Wednesday.” “NMC will deploy one policeman at each centre and provide the vaccines at the doorsteps. First, these private hospitals will administer vaccine to their own staffers, who have already been registered with the civic body. Then, we will link health care workers of other private hospitals to these centres,” he said. Initially, only two private hospitals — Kingsway and Kunal — had accepted the NMC proposal to host the centre. In view of the poor response, the civic body had identified its schools and community halls for carrying out the drive. Joshi said, “Private hospitals have experienced staff and all necessary facilities. Had the vaccination drive been operated in schools and community halls, preparations to host the vaccination centres would have been needed to start from the scratch and hence the idea was dropped.” Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) will have four vaccination centres and it will be the only one to host multiple centres. Other government hospitals — IGGMCH, AIIMS, Ayurvedic Hospital, Ajni Railway Hospital, Government Ayurvedic College, Daga Maternity Hospital and ESIC Hospital — will have one centre each. The NMC has identified its 26 hospitals, urban primary health centres (UPHCs) and dispensaries for carrying out the drive. As reported by TOI on January 4, regular patients visiting UPHCs and dispensaries are likely to be affected during the vaccination days. People, especially from slums, depend on UPHCs and dispensaries for their medical needs. The NMC is yet to plan alternate arrangements at UPHCs and dispensaries for such patients. As per government guidelines for the vaccination, none other than beneficiaries will be allowed at the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-pvt-hospitals-among-60-centres-finalized-for-covid-vaccination/articleshow/80238960.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||After six-day search, body of Captain Gupta found in lake||Jodhpur: Six-day-long search operation for Captain Ankit Gupta of 10 Para Special Force came to an end when his body was finally found by divers on Tuesday afternoon. ACP Neeraj Sharma said that the body was recovered from the deep waters at about 3pm and was immediately taken to the Military Hospital. Gupta had jumped into the lake during an exercise with some fellow personnel from a helicopter on last Thursday afternoon. While others resurfaced immediately after jumping into the water, Gupta failed to show up, thereby triggering a search operation. Six-day long search operation in the lake was one of the longest of its kind in which special camera team, MARCOS from Navy, NDRF, SDRF, civil defence team, private local divers as well as divers and experts from army and police tirelessly embarked upon a mission to search the drowned officer day and night. Sub inspector from Rajiv Gandhi Nagar police station Manoj Kumar said that about 250 divers and experts with 15 boats were the part of this search operation but the thick moss and complex rocky formations at the bottom of the lake apart from aqua vegetation and sticky sand constantly thwarted the efforts of his search. On the fifth day of the search on Monday, a team of 20 experts with special cameras had also been roped in to enable viewing through the murky water of the lake. Besides, huge compressors had also been roped in to stir the water in anticipation of surfacing of the body through waves caused by air infused through the pipes with pressure. An officer, seeking anonymity, said that though the hopes of finding Gupta alive had been turning bleak day after day but still every new day of search began with renewed vigour and determination. Gupta hailed from Gurugram and had been married just over two months. He had straight reached Jodhpur from his wedding vacations to join the exercise. His family members and wife had also reached Jodhpur the second day of the incident to oversee the search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/after-six-day-search-body-of-captain-gupta-found-in-lake/articleshow/80240214.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Surat||GujCTOC case on three Nagori gang members||Surat: Police arrested three members of Ashraf Nagori gang on Tuesday and slapped provisions of Gujarat Control of Terrorism and Organised Crime (GujCTOC) Act on them. While the key accused Nagori is still evading arrest, this is the third case to be registered under GujCTOC in Surat.Police arrested Mohammad Arif Ismail Nagori, Wasim Mustufa Qureshi and Abdulsamad alias Malbari Gulam Shaikh. The gang leader Mohammad Ashraf Ismail Nagori and his aide Mohammad Firoz alais Gazni Farid Ansari are yet to get arrested. So far 12 offences of various types of crime have been registered against the gang and its members since 2013 in different police stations of the city. Cops were collecting details of Nagori gang’s past criminal records since the last few weeks. The gangsters have been arrested for attempt to murder, extortion, possessing arms, dealing in arms and attack. “Police are focusing on cracking organised crime and gangs one by one. We want the youth to work for the betterment of society and not get trapped by such hoodlums,” said Ajay Tomar, city police commissioner. All three GujCTOC cases have been registered under Tomar as police commissioner. So far Asif Tameta gang and Lalu Jalim gang have been booked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/gujctoc-case-on-three-nagori-gang-members/articleshow/80238009.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Land acquisition for Bhogapuram airport to conclude by mid-February||VISAKHAPATNAM: The process of land acquisition for the proposed greenfield airport project at Bhogapuram in Vizianagaram district is likely to be completed by mid-February. The Vizianagaram district administration has acquired 2,552 acres for the project and needs to acquire another 198 acres. Meanwhile, a group of farmers in Bhogapuram and Polipalli villages have approached the court to stall the land acquisition process. Vizianagaram district joint collector GC Kishore Kumar told TOI that some farmers have challenged land acquisition and the administration is waiting for the court nod to acquire around 124 acres of land. The administration has issued a fresh notification to acquire over 75 acres. If all goes according to plan, the administration will acquire 198 acres within four to five weeks, he added. A few months ago, the government had released over Rs 110 crore for fresh land acquisition around the Bhogapuram airport area as an approach road of over 5 kilometres, providing connectivity to National Highway (NH)-26, had to be constructed. The district administration has held meetings with officials and representatives of farmers to overcome hurdles in land acquisition. The GMR Group had inked an agreement with the government to develop Bhogapuram International Airport near Vizag city. The greenfield airport is expected to provide air connectivity to north-coastal Andhra Pradesh. The government is also planning to lay roads to facilitate connectivity to Vizag city from the airport and provide metro rail connectivity to the airport from Vizag city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/land-acquisition-for-bhogapuram-airport-to-conclude-mid-feb/articleshow/80238060.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Chancellor’s nominee to MU steps down from all posts||MUMBAI: The chancellor’s nominee to Mumbai University, also one of the longest-serving senate members, mysteriously resigned from all non-statutory committees of the varsity. Deepak Mukadam, who was on nearly 15 panels, submitted his resignation to the vice-chancellor. Mukadam, a CA and an industrialist, has cited “family commitments” as the reason for stepping down. But many in the know said he was frustrated with the alleged systemic failure, administrative inaction and a complete paralysis in decision making on campus, apart from political interference. MU sources said he had raised some grave issues regarding orders that came from Mantralaya that were not in alignment with the university’s policy. When he refused to sign the reports, he is said to have been pressured to do so. In fact, in the past six months, he had expressed displeasure over political interference which was not appreciated by MU authorities who looked at him as a “problem case”, said a senate member. Mukadam was unavailable for comment. “I did my best to do justice as a member of several committees, either as a member or as chairman,” he wrote in the resignation (a copy is with TOI). Known as a “numbers man”, Mukadam has often worked to garner funds and recover arrears of the varsity. MU authorities confirmed they had received the resignation. It could not be verified if vice-chancellor Suhas Pednekar had accepted it or not.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chancellors-nominee-to-mu-steps-down-from-all-posts/articleshow/80241369.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Govt to encourage students for research on Vedas, says Gehlot||Jaipur: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday said the government was promoting the work of Vedic Education and Sanskar Board to encourage students to carry out research on the Vedas. He said the Vedas were a treasure of the principles of good governance and by adopting those, the concept of public welfare state could be conceived. Gehlot was addressing a virtual Ved Sammelan organised on the occasion of National Youth Day on the theme of ‘Vedic Vimars for Public Welfare State and Governance’ at chief minister’s residence. He said Vivekananda Jayanti was declared as National Youth Day when Indira Gandhi was the Prime Minister. “Ayurveda and Sanskrit universities were established in the state at the time of the Congress government. Now, we are taking forward the work of Vedic Education and Sanskar Board. The state government will encourage students doing research in the field of Vedic literature,” said Gehlot. He said unemployment was the biggest challenge for the youth and we needed to work towards uplifting the youth to get them out of the negative mindset. Arts and culture minister BD Kalla said the presence of 25 Ved Schools and Sanskrit Education Directorate based on Guru-Shishya tradition in Rajasthan shows that the state government is working with a positive mindset towards the preservation of Vedic traditions. Meanwhile, NSUI, the student wing of Congress, organised a protest in Rajasthan University on Tuesday against the rising unemployment amongst youth of the country due to the Central government’s policies. The student leaders polished shoes of the people, depicting that without eligible jobs, youth of the country have no option than to do menial jobs. Ramesh Bhati, spokesperson of NSUI said, “It is the policy of the Central government because of which we are all suffering. We want change of policy and on Youth Day, we expect the government to take up this issue seriously.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-to-encourage-students-for-research-on-vedas-says-gehlot/articleshow/80240243.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Collector assures relief for crop loss due to rains||Trichy: Trichy district collector S Sivarasu assured farmers in the district that appropriate steps would be taken to provide adequate compensation for crop loss caused by the recent rains. Replying to the farmers who unanimously appealed to the collector to compensate them for crop loss during a grievance meeting held on Tuesday, Sivarasu said that assessment of crop damage was going on. The meet attended by farmers and leaders of farmers’ associations was held through video conferencing.The farmers stressed the need to release water to Cauvery from Mettur reservoir even after January 28, the customary date for closing the shutters for delta cultivation. Usually, a small quantum of water is released from the Mettur dam into the Cauvery to cater to the drinking water needs after the delta cultivation is over. The farmers requested that a same quantity of water be released to irrigate the summer crops such as banana, black gram, sesame and vegetables grown in the district.The farmers also appealed to the administration to open direct procurement centres (DPCs) to facilitate farmers involved in samba paddy harvest in the district. The collector asked the farmers to identify and prepare a list of water bodies and canals which should be desilted in their respective areas so that the execution of kudimaramathu works can be commenced well in advance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/collector-assures-relief-for-crop-loss-due-to-rains/articleshow/80241370.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai man gets 10 years for eloping with & ‘marrying’ minor niece||MUMBAI: Pointing out that there was no proof of any custom that permitted marriage between a man and his niece within their community, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court on Monday convicted and sentenced a 23-year-old city man to 10 years of rigorous imprisonment for eloping and getting sexually involved with the 16-year-old who had run away from home after being scolded for getting up late for college in 2016. The accused was found guilty of charges for “aggravated sexual assault”, rape and kidnapping. “The evidence on record reflects that the victim was a minor and was disturbed when she left the house. The accused, who is a maternal uncle of the victim, instead of counselling her and talking with her parents, eloped with her. Therefore, it can be very well held that he kidnapped the victim,” the court said. The accused was also fined Rs 25,000, of which Rs 15,000 will have to be given to the minor as compensation after the end of the appeal period. The girl and her father both deposed during the trial. The father said on September 23, 2016, after his wife scolded their daughter, she left for college but did not return home. The family then went to the police and registered a complaint. The girl told the court that day, she went to Bandstand, Bandra (West), alone and called the accused. She complained to him that she did not want to study further due to the pressure. The girl further deposed that she asked the accused to take her to Pune to “settle down”. The accused took her to Pune and they got “married”. She said they stayed there for a month and during that period they had a sexual relationship. The girl also deposed that she was brought back to the city by her parents. Her statement was then recorded by the police as well as by the magistrate. In her cross-examination, the girl said she was in love with the accused and had got married willingly. She further stated the police report was lodged under pressure from her family members and she never had any grievance against the accused. The girl said the sexual relationship was consensual. The court though said, “The victim was below the age of 18 years at the time of the incident. Considering the factual aspect, age of the accused and nature of the offence, I find that the sentence will meet the ends of justice.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-gets-10-years-for-eloping-with-marrying-minor-niece/articleshow/80239845.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 13, 2021||Kochi||Dist admn pin hope on budget to put Ekm back on dvpt track||Kochi: Stakeholders and experts in the district are pinning their hopes high on the state budget for 2021-22 to be presented by finance minister T M Thomas Issac on Friday. Since the assembly election is around the corner, they expect the budget will be a blend of populist and development schemes since the government had already announced Covid package. Various departments and organisations have already sent their proposals, with several demands in their respective sectors, to their head offices, which would submit the same to state government to find a place in the budget. Economist and member of the district planning committee Martin Patrick is of the opinion that the budget would put thrust on Ernakulam’s infrastructural development. “The government had already announced Covid packages, welfare measures and distribution of kits. So, we do not expect more announcements on that line. Kochi mayor had mentioned about a skywalk for the city and the finance minister is expected to mention it in the budget. The government is also likely focus more on tourism sector which will help Ernakulam to get a package. Food processing is another sector which will get boost in the budget. Fish farming and aquaculture would also get priority in the budget since Ernakulam has immense scope for increase productivity,” said Patrick, who also warned that any development activity should keep in mind ecological balance. Meanwhile, pineapple farmers in Vazhakulam too expect big in the budget. It was one of the sectors which suffered big dent during Covid-induced lockdown. “We submitted our proposals to the government demanding to increase the support price from Rs.15 to Rs.20 per kg. Vazhakulam agro processing company of the government has remained non-functional for the past two to three years. Government should resume its operation besides giving support for exporting pineapple,” said Jose Perumbilikunnel, president of all Kerala pineapple merchants association. However, some people said the budget should put more thrust on Ernakulam’s public transport system. “There is no need of more flyovers or metros which only cater to a small number of financially sound people. As per a survey conducted by centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR) years ago, it was found that salary of 60% to 70% of respondents working in the city were hovering around Rs.15,000 to Rs.22,000. It means they can’t afford metro’s fare. What we need is an affordable public transport system. Authorities should strengthen public transport to ensure more people come to Kochi. If people stop coming, the city would die affecting the whole state,” demands Dr D Dhanuraj, chairman of CPPR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/dist-admn-pin-hope-on-budget-to-put-ekm-back-on-dvpt-track/articleshow/80238087.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Be careful while flying kites: Discom||Jaipur: Jaipur Vidut Nigam has appealed to the people to take special precautions while kite flying on Makar Sankranti.Managing director of Jaipur discom A K Gupta warned that Kite made of aluminium foil and metal powder coated thread (manja) should not be used because they act as electric conductors and could lead to electrocution if it comes in contact with live electric wires. He said manja made of metal powder comes in to contact with electric lines generates high voltage could also result in damage to electrical system as wellHe said special care should be taken if electric lines are passing very close to the houses. While flying kites if the kite is stuck in the electric wires, do not try to pull it off or use a metal rods etc to redeem the kite. Complaints related to disruption in power supply on Makar Sankranti could be registered on number 0141-2203000 and toll-free number 18001806507, he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/be-careful-while-flying-kites-discom/articleshow/80240261.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Shift all anganwadi centres on rent to schools: CS to officials||Jaipur: Chief secretary Niranjan Arya on Tuesday directed officers to shift anganwadi centres operated from rented buildings to schools or government buildings. He directed officers to address cases of violence against women lodged in women’s helpline 181 in the state. Addressing a review meeting of the department of women and child development at the secretariat, the chief secretary sought detailed information on the operation of the 61,613 anganwadi centres. He asked officials for shifting 17 per cent of the state’s anganwadi centres being run from rental buildings to schools or departmental buildings. He asked officials to shift the centres at the rate of 1 per cent per month. He also ordered completion of drinking water facilities in anganwadi centres and inspect the functionality of toilets. Arya appreciated nutritional channels being developed as an innovation in anganwadi centres and said that there should be wide publicity for this initiative. He said children will get nutritious food with vegetables being grown in nutrition gardens on vacant land of buildings. He instructed officers to include more women in the chief minister’s Rajshri Yojana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/shift-all-anganwadi-centres-on-rent-to-schools-cs-to-officials/articleshow/80240239.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||NMC medical officer alleges staff issued Covid -ve reports sans testing||Nagpur: A medical officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), who is a MBBS doctor and also in charge of Urban Primary Health Centre (UPHC), has reportedly alleged that staff issued negative reports of Covid-19 to some people who were not tested. A major flaw which has come to fore is that the civic body does not have count or cross-check of result sheets at its 53 testing centres. The civic body had started six testing centres from beginning of August. Later, Rapid Antigen Test and collection of samples for RT-PCR was started at NMC’s 47 UPHCs, diagnostic centres and dispensaries. Hundreds of people benefited from these centres as testing was done free of cost and without any hassles. An official group on social media was created for the pandemic, with one group for medical officers. Sources from NMC told TOI, “One of the medical officers posted a few messages in the group complaining of some problems being faced at his UPHC on Sunday evening. The medical officer posted a message that staff issued negative reports to some people without testing. Then, one of the additional municipal commissioners in the group asked the medical officer to come and meet him at around 12 noon on Monday. Later, the medical officer deleted the messages from the group.” The additional municipal commissioner, on the condition of anonymity, confirmed to TOI the allegations of the medical officer. “I didn’t think any such thing will happen in our centres. Medical officer should have submitted a written note to us if he had any such issues. We did not receive any such complaint since we started the centres. I will talk to the medical officer and conduct an inquiry,” he said. For last one month, school teaching and non-teaching staff have been made to mandatorily undergo tests. It is also reportedly mandatory for police personnel. Many private offices and commercial establishments too are asking for tests. TOI visited some centres on Tuesday. All 53 centres have sheets in which name, age, sex, address, date of sample collected, result etc are mentioned. Stamp of medical officer is applied on it. The medical officer signs on it before issuing the result sheet. However, there is no numbering on the sheet. All centres have huge number of sheets issued since beginning. It has also come to fore that NMC has never verified number of result sheets issued against the number of tests.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-medical-officer-alleges-staff-issued-covid-ve-reports-sans-testing/articleshow/80239010.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Nashik restaurants see rise in demand for mutton, fish dishes||Nashik: The avian influenza scare has fuelled the demand for mutton and fish dishes in the various restaurants and eateries across Nashik city. “The outbreak of the bird flu in many places has sparked panic among many of the city’s residents, though there has been no case of avian influenza in the Nashik district so far. But there has been an impacted on chicken consumption and the demand has reduced,” said Sanjay Chavan, the president of Association of Bars, Hotels and Restaurants (ABHAR). “While the demand for chicken has dropped, customers are now shifting to other non-vegetarian dishes on the menu. Therefore, the impact on the overall business is not much. However, it will take around 8 days to assess the exact impact on the business,” said Chavan. “We have reported a 40% drop in the demand for chicken dishes on the menu. Four out of every 10 customers are now ordering mutton, fish or even vegetarian dishes. The demand for mutton and fish dishes have increased,” said Mosam Kokani, who is linked to one of the well-known non-vegetarian restaurants in the city. “The sale of poultry in the retail market has been affected. Chicken prices have dropped from Rs 165 per kg to Rs 145 per kg in the retail market now. Moreover, the volume of chicken sales has also dropped by around 40% over last week,” said Sahabad Pathan, the owner of a retail chicken shop. “However, some regular customers are still buying chicken as usual,” he added. “I eat chicken regularly and I bought chicken today (Tuesday) as usual. Actually, there is no bird flu outbreak in Nashik district. Moreover, we cook the chicken at a very high temperature. Therefore, there is no need to panic,” said Pratik Chilekar, a customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-restaurants-see-rise-in-demand-for-mutton-fish-dishes/articleshow/80237193.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 13, 2021||India||Covid vaccine recipients may not be able to pick & choose||NEW DELHI: Even as the government plans to roll out the Covid vaccination drive with Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, recipients may not have an option to choose which one they want to be inoculated with. “Many countries across the world are using more than one vaccine. There is no such option available to any of the beneficiaries in these countries,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said, indicating that this might be the case in India as well. Covid vaccination in the country is voluntary though whether healthcare and frontline workers have such an option could be a matter of rules. Outlining the dosing pattern, the health ministry said there will be a gap of 28 days between two doses of vaccine and its effectiveness will begin 14 days after the second dose. Both NITI Aayog member-health Dr V K Paul and Bhushan cautioned on the need to maintain safe behaviour even as they highlighted that India’s positivity rate last week was a low 2% and that only Kerala and Maharashtra have more than 50,000 active cases. Read AlsoAir India carries first consignment of Bharat Biotech Covid vaccine from Hyderabad to DelhiAfter Serum Institute of India, the first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccines - Covaxin - developed by Bharat Biotech was flown from Hyderabad to Delhi on Wednesday, reported ANI. They are being carried by Air India.Both the vaccines — Covishield and Covaxin are being locally manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. On January 3, the drug regulator had announced grant of emergency use authorisation to both the jabs based on their safety and immunogenicity data. Paul said both the vaccines have been tested on thousands of people and are the safest. Read Also'Sarve Santu Niramaya': First flight with Covishield vaccines leaves Serum Institute; dispatch under wayA decisive phase in India's fight against coronavirus began in the wee hours on Tuesday as the first consignment of Covishield vaccines left Serum Institute of India for Pune airport, four days ahead of the nationwide inoculation drive launch.“We should have no doubt that the two vaccines approved are the safest of the vaccines. Both the vaccines have been tested on thousands of people and side-effects are negligible. There is no risk of any significance,” he said. Hence, it is imperative to maintain Covid-19 appropriate behavior before and after one gets vaccinated, officials said. Watch Covid-19: Recipients won't get to choose vaccine, govt hints||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/covid-vaccine-recipients-may-not-be-able-to-pick-choose/articleshow/80241918.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 13, 2021||Goa||‘Repair Goa-Belagavi highway immediately’||Margao: Curtorim MLA Aleixo Reginaldo Lourenco has written to public works department (PWD) minister Deepak Pauskar to repair the Goa side of the Goa-Belagavi NH 4 via Chorla Ghat. In the letter he stated that the 15km stretch on the Goa side is in a run-down state with potholes making it hazardous for all vehicles. “It is risky to travel for the elderly, children, pregnant women and sick people, especially those having orthopaedic problems,” the letter reads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/repair-goa-belagavi-highway-immediately/articleshow/80241402.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||ACB arrests section engineer of RIICO for accepting bribe||Jaipur: A team of Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Tuesday arrested a section engineer of RIICO posted at Jaipur for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 3,500. The accused had already taken Rs 1,500 from the complainant in lieu of transferring the name of a factory to apply for loan.  According to the ACB officials, the accused identified as Jodha Ram(51) had demanded a bribe of Rs 5,000 from the 66-year-old complainant. “Bribe was demanded to transfer the name of a transformer factory situated at Sarna Dungar area. The complainant had applied for it on December 22 yet the transfer was not made. The accused officer had already taken Rs 1,500. But thereafter the complainant approached us,” said a senior officer of ACB.  Based on the complaint, a trap was laid in which the accused was arrested. A case under appropriate sections of Prevention of Corruption Act was lodged against the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-section-engineer-of-riico-for-accepting-bribe/articleshow/80240295.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Trips to Tirupati overshadow leisure getaways||TIRUPATI: As life returns to normalcy across the country, recent trends in the travel industry and statistics of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) indicate that many would prefer to go on a pilgrimage to Tirupati rather than a leisure trip elsewhere. Pilgrim footfall to the temple in January 2020 was 22,09,735 and 21,28,099 in February 2020. In March, before the Tirumala temple closed down indefinitely for devotees, about 14 lakh devotees visited the hill town. When the Lord Venkateswara temple reopened amid stringent Covid-19 measures in June, only 1.88 lakh devotees were allowed to worship at the temple against the monthly average of 20 lakh devotees before the outbreak. Since then, pilgrim influx to Tirumala has gradually been on the rise, show TTD data available with TOI. While 2.29 lakh devotees worshipped at the hill temple in August 2020, 2.53 lakh devotees went on pilgrimage in September. The number doubled in October, with 5.49 lakh devotees offering prayers to Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala. In November, pilgrim influx further shot up to 8.47 lakh and crossed the 12 lakh-mark in December, coinciding with the auspicious Vaikunta Ekadasi eve. The TTD management has brought back pilgrim footfall to the hill town to about 40,000 devotees a day at present, keeping in place Covid-19 protocols. The temple’s average monthly Hundi income, which ranges between Rs 85 crore to Rs 100 crore and fel to a record low during the lockdown, is also returning to pre-pandemic levels. With pilgrim worship resuming near-normalcy levels at Tirumala, the travel industry which was also hit by the pandemic is doing brisk business. AbhiBus, a leading online bus travel aggregator, has witnessed a 136% month-on-month increase in bus bookings to Tirumala in December with over 50,000 online bookings. AbhiBus’s chief operating officer Rohit Sharma pointed out that bus bookings for Tirupati overtook bookings to Goa in December 2020. While a 60% rise was observed in bookings to Tirupati, bus bookings to Goa rose by only 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/trips-to-tirupati-overshadow-leisure-getaways/articleshow/80238084.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nylon manja slits 23-year-old’s throat||Nagpur: Pranay Thakre, 23, an engineering graduate, was heading towards his residence at Dnyaneshwar Nagar in Manewada on his bike when his throat was slit by a nylon manja on Tuesday near Jattarodi chowk. Thakre, whose mother passed away a couple of months ago, had gone with his father Prakash, an electrician, to the collector’s office. A cop, who witnessed the incident, said it happened a flash, leaving no scope to help. Thakre’s uncle too is in the police department. Police said the manja came down from some high-rises in Dhantoli. It got stuck around Thakre’s neck just below the helmet. The string also got stuck with another bike coming from the opposite site. As the biker from the opposite side continued to surge ahead, the manja slit Thakre’s throat. Thakre’s father, who was behind his son on another bike, initially had no idea that it was his son and also did not stop to see the crowd gathered at the accident spot. After reaching home, Prakash realized that he did not see his son. He immediately returned to spot but by then, Imambada police had shifted his son to GMCH where the doctors declared him brought dead. Dr Avinash Gawande, medical superintendent of GMCH, said the victim was already dead by the time he was brought to the hospital. Imambada police have registered an offence of causing death due to negligence against unidentified persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nylon-manja-slits-23-year-olds-throat/articleshow/80239062.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Compensate for crop loss: TTV tells govt||Thanjavur: Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T T V Dhinakaran has urged that the state government to take the steps to provide compensation for farmers who lost their samba paddy in the rain that has been lashing across the delta districts. In a statement on Tuesday, he said that apart from the cyclone, farmers in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Pudukottai and Cuddalore lost about 50,000 acres of samba paddy in the rain. The government should take steps to assess the extent of the damage caused by the rain and should announce compensation. This apart, officials from the agriculture department should be pressed into action to help the farmers drain water from paddy fields.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/compensate-for-crop-loss-ttv-tells-govt/articleshow/80241371.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Maha poultry farms reduce production of broiler birds||Nashik: Roughly 50,000 poultry farms in Maharashtra, including 20,000 in Nashik district alone, have reduced the production of broiler birds by around 50% after the fall in poultry consumption due to the avian influenza scare. Speaking to TOI, Udhhav Aher, the secretary of the Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Welfare Association, Maharashtra, said the poultry farms in the state have reduced production of broiler birds by 50% over the past five-six days. “They will continue with the current 50% production target of the broiler birds for the next few days — until the present stock of chicken is cleared. The poultry farms will increase or decrease the production only after assessing the scenario after a week,” said Aher. “The wholesale price of the chicken had declined from Rs 90 per kg to Rs 55 per kg over last week. However, the price has slightly improved to Rs 60 per kg in the past four days,” he said. “After the Covid-19 outbreak, the wholesale prices of chicken were badly hit. But the present rates are much better than they were earlier. Therefore, we are expecting the rates will improve again gradually,” said Aher. There are around 50,000 poultry farm units in the state that collectively produce nearly 4 crore broiler birds each month. It takes around a month to grow a bird which may weigh 2-2.2 kg. There are 20,000 poultry farm units across Nashik district, with monthly production of 1.5 broiler birds. Nearly 45% of the produce is consumed in Mumbai, 20% in Gujarat, 10% each in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka. Rest of the birds are consumed in rest of Maharashtra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-poultry-farms-reduce-production-of-broiler-birds/articleshow/80237195.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Man who faked death gets 7-year jail term in Pocso case||MUMBAI: A 27-year-old man who had submitted a fake death certificate in a bid to escape prosecution in a case under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act was convicted and sentenced to seven years imprisonment on Tuesday for sexually assaulting a three-and-a-half year old girl from his neighbourhood in 2015. The accused had been granted bail during pendency of the trial in August 2015 and subsequently absconded. Special public prosecutor Geeta Sharma said the court had issued a non-bailable warrant against him after he remained absent during the trial. “However, a lawyer came today court (in 2018) on the instructions of the brother of the accused and claimed he had died. The lawyer produced a death certificate and requested the court to abate the case against the accused,” Sharma said. When an accused dies during the pendency of his case, criminal proceedings against him end. The prosecution and police head constable Nilesh Talekar, the court ‘karkoon’ in the case, began to verify the claim. During verification, the accused was found in Noida. He was then brought to the city. In January 2019, he was once again arrested and taken into custody. Sharma added she has sought permission from the court so that an additional FIR can be registered against the accused for offences including cheating and forgery. The child and her mother were among the 10 witnesses who deposed. The child identified the accused as the man who had sexually abused her. The mother told the court that on the afternoon of April 7, 2015, the child was playing outside the house. However, when she did not return home on time, the mother began to look for her. The mother said she heard her daughter’s cries coming from a nearby home. She said the door was locked. When she knocked, the accused, who was wearing only a towel, opened the door. The woman said she found the child crying and shouting on the bed. At home, she found her daughter's inner wear was soiled. Suspecting the child was sexually assaulted, the mother went to the house of the accused and confronted him. The child’s parents then filed a police complaint against the accused, who was arrested the same day. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-who-faked-death-gets-7-yr-jail-term-in-pocso-case/articleshow/80241379.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Applications for BDU VC post received, scrutiny to begin soon||Trichy: As the last date to file applications for the post of vice chancellor (VC) in Bharathidasan University ended by 5pm on Tuesday, the VC search committee is likely to initiate scrutiny of the received applications in a few days. The search committee has ruled out any extension to submit the applications. “There is no requirement for any extension,” said one of the senior members of the committee adding that they have received significant number of applications, which includes eminent academicians. “But we have not received as many applications as last time,” said the member without revealing the numbers. A total 241 applications were received last time during the selection of vice chancellor in BDU in 2017. The search committee had asked for valid proof of all the academic and administrative experience that the candidates claim in the application. “Validity of the application prepared by the committee is apt. It will only allow people of eminence, who have really achieved, academically and scientifically, can go into the selection process. It makes sure that only merit finds a place,” said a member. The committee is adhering to all the norms fixed by the governor and the government of Tamil Nadu for the selection process, added the member.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/applications-for-bdu-vc-post-received-scrutiny-to-begin-soon/articleshow/80241392.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Woman arrested with 592gm gold at airport||Jaipur: A 44-year-old woman passenger who arrived at the Jaipur airport from Sharjah was arrested by the sleuths of customs department on Tuesday for allegedly smuggling gold in paste form. She had concealed the gold in a special pocket made in her underwear. 592 gram of gold worth Rs 30,00,500 was seized from her possession. Sleuths of the customs department posted at the Jaipur airport had a specific input that a woman from Sharjah is coming with gold. “Initially, her baggage was checked and thereafter a plastic pouch having 637 gram of paste concealed in her underwear was found. Therafter when the 637 gram was melted, we found 592 grams of gold,” an officer said on condition of anonymity.  In the investigation so far, it was found that she was asked to keep the packet with the paste and take it to Jaipur. “Initially, the weight of the paste was 637 gram and after its processing and conversion into gold bar, the pure gold was 592 gram which is worth nearly Rs 30,00,500.  In the initial interrogation, it was found that the packet was given to her by her boyfriend living in Dubai. “Her male companion has borne her expenses. She is a resident of Mumbai. The companion had stated that a person will be found outside Jaipur Airport, who will recognize her and take the packet from her,” the officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/woman-arrested-with-592gm-gold-at-airport/articleshow/80240342.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur coaching institutes demand reopening like Pune||Nagpur: Coaching institutes in city have demanded permission to reopen, just like their counterparts in Pune. TOI had reported about Pune civic body giving permission to coaching institutes for reopening. Rajnikant Bondre, president of Association of Coaching Institutes (ACI), said, “We will be meeting with mayor Dayashankar Tiwari and put our stand forward. There can’t be two separate laws in the state. If coaching institutes can reopen in Pune, then under which law can it remain closed in Nagpur, which is not a containment zone?” The Pune civic body’s action is, however, a bit surprising because the state government has not given any specific permission for reopening. As per rules, the state government first notifies which activities are allowed outside of containment zones, and then local authorities concerned can take the call. When ACI members approached Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) earlier this month, they were told that state government had not allowed coaching institutes to operate yet. Bondre said, “We will ask the mayor to simply follow the guidelines that Pune civic body is following. Whatever the law is, I am sure Pune civic officials must have studied it carefully and then taken a decision. This means there is some provision in the existing laws for local authorities to take a decision.” Sameer Phale, treasurer of ACI, said coaching institutes were among the safest places for students. “We have a controlled environment where seating arrangement can be made according to guidelines. Students appearing this year for competitive exams are 17 or 18 years old, and hence wise enough to understand the guidelines and follow them,” said Phale. Panini Telang, joint secretary of ACI, said, “Our students are extremely disciplined. They do what they are told and follow every rule sincerely. These students are there for their academic future, therefore nobody is messing around.” ACI members had told TOI that they were exploring legal options if the government continues to ignore their plea for reopening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-coaching-institutes-demand-reopening-like-pune/articleshow/80239080.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 13, 2021||Nashik||18-yr-old caught with swords, choppers||Nashik: The crime branch unit II has nabbed an 18-year-old and seized three swords and three choppers from him on Monday. The suspect has been identified as Anuj Gangaprasad Vishwakarma. He was handed over to the Indiranagar police station. He has been arrested him under sections of the Indian Arms Act and the Bombay Police Act. A release by the crime branch unit II stated that as per police commissioner Deepak Pandey’s instruction on taking action against criminals who are found in illegal possession of arms, DCP (srime) Sangramsinh Nishandaar had directed all the crime branch officials and personnel to step up their intelligence collection and take action. Accordingly, the crime branch unit 2 personnel had stepped up vigil to check criminals, who are found carrying arms with them. On Tuesday, the crime branch personnel received information that a person was arriving at a certain wedding lawn with arms in his possession. The police laid a trap and arrested the youth and found three swords and three choppers in his possession. The Indiranagar police are investigating from where he procured the sharp weapons and for what purpose.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/18-yr-old-caught-with-swords-choppers/articleshow/80237202.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Work on biomedical waste unit nearing completion||KOCHI: Work on the first common biomedical waste treatment facility (CBWTF) at Ambalamedu is nearing completion and is likely to be commissioned by February end. The facility is being built by Kerala Enviro Infrastructure Ltd (KEIL) a special purpose vehicle under Kerala State Industrial Development Corporation Ltd. Chief executive officer of KEIL N K Pillai said that most of the equipment needed for the unit have arrived. “Erection and commissioning of the equipment is going on. We are experiencing some delay from vendors because of the blockade on the Delhi border due to farmers’ strike,” Pillai said. KEIL is also readying a fleet of 10 medium and large vehicles for transporting the biomedical waste from hospitals and clinics from the regions allocated to it. The commissioning of the facility, with a capacity to treat 16 tonnes of waste per day, would ease the load on IMAGE plant in Palakkad, the sole unit for the entire state. The Covid-19 situation has resulted in an increase in load of biomedical waste and despite the capacity expansion, IMAGE is finding it hard to handle the quantum of waste generated across the state. A key decision regarding sharing of the load needs to be taken by the state government for streamlining biomedical waste management in the state. KEIL is hoping to cater to the needs of the neighbouring districts of Alappuzha, Kottayam, Idukki and Pathanamthitta apart from Ernakulam. The Bio-medical Waste Management Rules, 2016, mandates the occupier (healthcare facility) to ensure treatment and disposal of generated bio-medical waste through a CBWTF, located within 75km. Setting up a third plant in south Kerala would be ideal in terms of logistics, said Pillai. Ernakulam, as of 2019, has the highest number of private hospitals in the state (1,790), followed by Thiruvananthapuram (1,500) and Malappuram (1,462). Ernakulam also accounts for 36 government healthcare institutions, including 35 hospitals and one medical college.  Idukki has around 361 private hospitals, while Alappuzha has 694, Kottayam has 781 and Pathanamthitta has 515.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/work-on-biomedical-waste-unit-nearing-completion/articleshow/80238118.cms||Binu Karunakaran
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Senior cops, babu at home in quarters after term get notice||MUMBAI: High-ranking IAS and IPS officials are at the receiving end for their failure to vacate official quarters even after their transfer from Mumbai or retirement from service. If a senior bureaucrat is to be believed, the general administration department has served notices on Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta, his Nagpur counterpart Amitesh Kumar and Nagpur municipal commissioner B Radhakrishnan for their failure to vacate the official quarters even after their transfer from Mumbai. As per rules, an official can retain the quarters in Mumbai for three months after transfer outside Mumbai. An IPS officer of the 1992 batch, Gupta was principal secretary (home) before his transfer to Pune as police commissioner in November 2020, while Amitesh Kumar, an IPS officer of the 1995 batch, was joint commissioner (intelligence) before his appointment as commissioner of police, Nagpur. Radhakrishnan was appointed Nagpur municipal commissioner on August 20, 2020. The bureaucrat said it is expected that the transferred officials will vacate their Mumbai quarters within three months. “We have issued notices to erring officials, we expect that they will adhere to rules so that officers in waiting can get accommodation,” he said. While Raghakrishnan did not respond, both Gupta and Amitesh Kumar confirmed that they have received the notice from the general administration department. Amitesh Kumar said he will vacate the quarters within a week, while Gupta said he was unable to vacate owing to the pandemic. The bureaucrat added that after the central government enacted new rules on allotment of quarters for government servants in 2017, the state government too has taken a firm stand against erring officials. “It was found that senior bureaucrats and IPS officials are reluctant to vacate the official quarter even after retirement. We have decided to impose a penalty of Rs 150 per sq foot per month for failure to vacate the quarters. It’s a huge embarrassment for the government to serve notices to the high-ranking officials who were additional chief secretary or director general of police. If they do not vacate, we have no option but to evict them with the help of the police,’’ the bureaucrat said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sr-maha-cops-babu-at-home-in-quarters-after-term-get-notice/articleshow/80241427.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Now, governor’s visit delays discharge of seven rescued babies||Nagpur: Parents of seven infants, which were saved from Bhandara district hospital fire on January 9, have been asked to wait for some more days before their babies can be discharged. The hospital administration made a U-turn a day after assuring them that the babies would be discharged on Tuesday. It is learnt that the hospital withheld the discharge of the babies after the administration was informed about Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari’s visit on Wednesday. The governor is likely to visit the hospital around 9.30am. He has reached Nagpur on Tuesday and would be on a tour of Vidarbha till January 17. One of the parents said they were surprised when a nurse told them that “some more VIPs are expected to visit and they will have to stay till then.” The families belong to different villages in Bhandara district. Civil surgeon Pramod Khandate told TOI that paediatrician has advised some more days of hospitalization for the babies. “The babies are still underweight and can’t be discharged at the moment,” he said. On Monday, Khandate had told TOI that the parents would be allowed to go the next day. The parents had been demanding discharge complaining inconvenience following heavy movement of VIPs at the hospital since the January 9 tragedy, which left 10 babies dead in the fire at Sick Newborn Care Unit. The parents have accused hospital administration of forcibly holding them back to show off the rescued babies. “Some of us were to be discharged on January 9, but since the incident took place, we stayed on. Now, it is clear that they only want us to be used for publicity. We want to go back home,” they said. A bevy of cabinet ministers and politicians has been frequenting the hospital since January 9. State chief minister too visited the hospital and two villages on January 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/now-governors-visit-delays-discharge-of-seven-rescued-babies/articleshow/80239093.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Murder accused sent to 3-day police remand||JAIPUR: A day after the brutal murder of a 44-year-old teacher who stayed alone at her residence in Shipra Path, police on Tuesday said they would investigate if the family members of the arrested accused had harboured him after the crime. Accused 19-year-old Krishna Kant was produced in a local court on Tuesday before being sent on a three-day police remand. “Remand was necessary to find out various things. We have to find out if his family members were aware of the murder conspiracy and had harboured the accused after he executed the crime. To make it a water tight case, several evidences and scene recreation and other things will be done,” said Mahaveer Singh Rathore, circle inspector, Shipra Path. Police said in order to mislead them, the youth was inciting the locals saying if the police failed to crack the murder case, the body of the deceased woman would not be allowed to be taken. “It was also found that the accused had stolen the deceased’s mobile, two purses and some gold jewellery from the house,” said an officer. Police investigating the case further said the family members of the accused would also be questioned in this case. “Were they aware of the murder? Have they facilitated the accused in damaging some of the evidence from the crime scene? These are some questions to be asked. If any minor involvement of the family members is found, they will certainly be booked for criminal conspiracy and harbouring the accused,” said Ajay Pal Lamba, additional commissioner of police (crime) said. Senior officers said the accused had shown no signs of regret so far. “Even if he had done it in a fit of anger, he had not shown any signs of regrets so far,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-accused-sent-to-3-day-police-remand/articleshow/80240359.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kochi||‘Industry & trade bodies must aid upkeep of Kochi walkways’||KOCHI: Social activists and city residents want local bodies like Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) and Kochi corporation to rope in public sector companies, industry associations or trade bodies for time-bound maintenance and upkeep of walkways. Social activist Ranjith Thampy said agencies like Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) and Cochin Smart Mission Ltd (CSML) have developed walkways at many places in the city. Citing the pathetic case of ‘streetscape’, he said the city needs a well-drafted plan for upkeep of walkways. The streetscape has been in a run down condition ever since KMRL’s maintenance contract expired. He said the 750m-long walkway used to be a favourite place for walkers. “If local bodies do not have enough funds and technical expertise, they can seek support from other organizations. GCDA or Kochi corporation can approach Indian Oil Corporation, Kerala Management Association (KMA) or other similar companies or trade bodies to take up such initiatives,” he said. Residents of Panampilly Nagar also demand a permanent system for maintenance of walkways. Deepak D Shah, a Panampilly Nagar resident said while bushes, shurbs and the thick undergrowth prevent people from walking on ‘streetscape’, it is vendors who occupy the walkway on Panampilly Nagar avenue road. “Waste is thrown everywhere. Plastic waste end up in the canal. Huge amounts have been spent to develop these spaces. It looks like all money and effort have turned futile,” he said. Activists and residents say each time they find a walkway in dilapidated condition, they are left with no choice but to come out and fight with authorities. Thampy said in the case of Marine Drive walkway, he had to approach the high court. “When it came to Queen’s walkway on Chathiyat Road, Ernakulam MP Hibi Eden and collector S Suhas had to step in to carry maintenance and repair work. I hope the new mayor will take the initiative to draft a comprehensive plan for maintenance of walkways and other public spaces in the city, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/industry-trade-bodies-must-aid-upkeep-of-city-walkways/articleshow/80238145.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Passenger demand outstrips special services for Sankranti||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: The pandemic has failed to dampen the festive rush ahead of Sankranti this year. Till Tuesday, the Southern Central Railways (SCR) announced 106 train services from 20 trains to cater to the passenger rush. The Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) has already announced 3,607 bus services. Apart from this, the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) announced 1,800 special services. Out of 20 trains, 15 depart from or arrive in Hyderabad, Secunderabad or Lingampalli with destinations in Andhra Pradesh being Kakinada, Tirupati, Vizag and Narsapuram. The cash-strapped APSRTC is banking on earning a reasonable amount of revenue during the Sankranti season as prices for festival special buses will be one-and-a-half times more than the regular fare. Officials from both Railways and government buses added that demand is more than what is being catered to at present. Keeping in mind safety of passengers, Railway officials said the unreserved segment will not resume for the time being. They also warned that unconfirmed tickets will stand cancelled by default. Toll plazas too have witnessed a hike in revenue. In Vizag city, Dwaraka bus station and Visakhapatnam railway station saw a heavy rush of passengers. Cashing in on the demand, private travellers overcharged passengers, said Visakhapatnam divisional transport commissioner for Road Transport Authority (RTA) GC Raja Ratnam. “We have booked total 27 cases during our special raids on Monday. Five cases were booked against buses for collecting excess fares,” Raja Ratnam told TOI. According to APSRTC deputy chief traffic manager Ch Venkata Rao, the fare on a scheduled RTC bus is Rs 980 per passenger from Vizag to Hyderabad. The charge on a special bus is 50% higher than the normal fare, that is, Rs 1,430 per passenger. “We are authorised to collect the extra fare on special buses. Passengers are opting for our services since RTC follows Covid-19 protocols,” Venkata Rao told TOI, adding the state operates nearly 4,000 special buses during Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/passenger-demand-outstrips-special-services-for-sankranti/articleshow/80238129.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Social activist Poonam Ankur Chhabra files complaint against Facebook CEO||JAIPUR: Social activist Poonam Ankur Chhabra has filed a complaint against Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg accusing him of conspiring to remove her page from the social media site. The complaint filed at Bagru police station said the social media platform induced her to run advertisements on her page. The complainant alleged that she was offered by unidentified persons that they will bring Facebook advertisements of different companies on her page which will generate revenue. The victim was convinced by the idea and clicked on the link given to her and lost her page. “The victim’s page had 0.28 million followers and she was running it to raise awareness to curb liquor addiction and its ill effects.” police said. “We approached FB security team to restore the page. Such kinds of incident happens when someone tricks Facebook page admin in the name of posting advertisements and generating revenue. The person in question asks page admin follow a few steps and later the admin gets a notification that she was removed from admin rights,” said Mukesh Choudhary, cybercrime consultant at Jaipur police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/complaint-against-facebook-ceo/articleshow/80240388.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Civic bodies plan vaccination drive for staff||JAIPUR: Both the civic bodies in the city, JMC-Heritage and JMC-Greater, have started charting out plans for the vaccination drive for their staff members. JMC-Heritage has decided to start the drive in three phases. In the first phase, they will vaccinate the sanitation staff and health workers since they have been in the forefront of the war on the virus. JMC-Greater has sent an order to all zonal deputy commissioners to come up with a database on the number of sanitation staff who will be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/civic-bodies-plan-vax-drive-for-staff/articleshow/80240377.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh: Ex-intelligence chief rebuts articles of charge||VIJAYAWADA: Former intelligence chief A B Venkateswara Rao on Tuesday denied all charges served to him by the state government as “false” and “far from truth”. The government suspended him for violation of All India Service rules during procurement of surveillance equipment when he was head of intelligence wing. The said procurement never happened as it was cancelled by the then DGP. In an interim and point by point rebuttal to the articles of charge served by the government, Rao said he was neither part of the purchase committee or technical committee, but being the head of the user agency to the equipment, he only sent proposals which were scrutinised at various levels and approved by the DGP’s office. As the purchase order was given by the DGP’s office and scaling down of specifications was done based on the suggestions of the technical committee, Rao said he cannot be held responsible. Denying the charges of causing financial loss to the tune of Rs 10 lakh to the government which the State Trade Corporation of India Limited (STCIL) deducted towards processing fee after the tender was cancelled, he stated that he was not party to the MoU entered with the STCIL and therefore cannot be held responsible for the financial loss caused out of decisions which he did not take. Rao also denied the charges of him trying to benefit his son through the tender. He stated his son did not have any business interests with the police department or with any government department. As he was not a dependent on him since 2014, the articles of charge served on him of trying to benefit a family member was without any valid grounds, he stated. Though the rules mandate that 30 days should be given to respond to a charge memo, the government has given him only 15 days, he said, adding that all relevant documents were not supplied to him based on which the charges are framed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-intel-chief-rebuts-articles-of-charge/articleshow/80238147.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 13, 2021||Goa||Cong is fuel which BJP uses to run its party: AAP||Panaji: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) lashed out at state Congress president Girish Chodankar for accusing them of being BJP’s B team. Speaking to reporters, AAP convener Rahul Mhambre said, “Congress is like the fuel which BJP uses to run the party. Whenever BJP is short of MLAs they look towards Congress to purchase MLAs. This is a case not just in Goa, but throughout India, be it Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka or Manipur.” “Girish himself said in an interview that Congress is open for an alliance with AAP. It is only after AAP rejected the alliance offer outright that Girish started hurling baseless allegations at AAP. It is a clear case of sour grapes,” he added. Mhambre pointed out towards the hypocrisy of Congress where sons of two current Congress MLAs are in BJP. “Congress has been claiming that they are against the IIT project in Melauli, then why is the senior most leader of Congress, Pratapsingh Rane, silent on it? It is only because his son, who is in BJP is vehemently supporting it,” Mhambre said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cong-is-fuel-which-bjp-uses-to-run-its-party-aap/articleshow/80241460.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Samples of five more dead birds test negative||CHANDIGARH: In a major relief for the city, samples of five more dead birds have tested negative for avian influenza. To date, the UT forest and wildlife department has received reports of eight birds. The report was sent by Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (RDDL), Jalandhar, said UT deputy conservator of forests (DCF) Dr Abdul Qayum. The five birds included two crows, one common coot and one peacock. Earlier on January 8, the first set of birds (common coot and pigeon) was sent from Chandigarh to RDDL for testing. Their reports too had come negative. To date, the department has sent 21 samples for test. Different teams of the UT forest and wildlife department continued the surveillance exercise in the regulatory end of the Sukhna Lake, Nepli and Kansal range of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, Nature Trail of the Sukhna Lake forest and other parts of the city for search and rescue of the diseased and dead birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/samples-of-five-more-dead-birds-test-negative/articleshow/80239114.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kochi||Call for registration of apartments in Kerala||KOCHI: As disputes between individual flat owners and apartment owners’ associations continue to surface, the All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Apex Association wants the state government to immediately initiate steps to facilitate the registration of apartments under Kerala Apartment Ownership Act, 1983. Apartments are currently being registered under Travancore-Cochin Literary Scientific and Charitable Society Act. “Not registering apartments under the Kerala Apartment Ownership Act, 1983, amounts to injustice to flat owners. It is enacted for the purpose of providing ownership of individual apartments in a building and to make such apartments heritable and transferable property,” said advocate Jacob Mathew Manalil. He said that when it comes to disposition of the property, the Act will ensure that the flat owner gets the amount equivalent to the undivided share of the property. Meanwhile, the All Kerala Apartment Owners’ Apex Association said that though it is mandatory for individual associations to file annual financial reports and conduct annual general body meetings, no agency is checking or monitoring these aspects. “In Kochi there are over 500 housing associations. I don’t think even a 10% of them stick to the rules. It is high time that government steps in and enforce the rule. Though there is a check for exploitation of flat owners by building contractors and estate agents, once building is completed and possession handed over to the association it becomes free for all affair. Vested interests in management committees are taking undue advantage of the weakness of members. There is no uniform bylaw and each association is adopting bylaws as per their needs. That is why single women and bachelors are finding it difficult to get accommodation in apartment complexes,” said V K Shankarankutty, president of the apex body. He said that annual financial reports are to be submitted within the prescribed time limit and annual general body meeting to be conducted and adopted before the report is submitted. Government should ensure that accounts are audited either by registrar’s office staff or panel of auditors appointed by the registrar. If any adverse remarks and financial fraud is detected, the registrar should be able to take over the administration of the society and expenses such as salary and other expenditure of the administrator will be borne by the society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/call-for-registration-of-apartments/articleshow/80238152.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Cov-survivor cops among team guarding vaccines at warehouses||Kolkata: Among the 30-odd uniformed men guarding the Covid vaccines at the Government Medical Store Depot in Hastings and theCentral Family Welfare Stores in Bagbazar were those who have defeated Covid and will be among the beneficiaries slated to get the jab in the initial phases. Lalbazar’s welfare cell, the nodal office keeping a hawk eye over the distribution of vaccines from Kolkata to north Bengal and the Northeast, said at least four cops on duty had won the Covid battle. The Shyampukur police station, primarily in charge of guarding the Bagbazar depot, was among the worst hit in the first months of Covid outbreak, with 33 personnel contracting the virus. The Hastings PS lost constable Krishnakanta Barman to Covid. Having defeated the virus, the Covid survivors on Tuesday said they did not mind the brief wait for the vaccine, happy that healthcare workers, who had saved their lives, would get the shot first. “At the hospital, I saw the bravehearts work for hours but never failed to have a word of encouragement for us. There can be no doubt they should be the first recipients,” said an officer from Shyampukur police station. Sub-inspector Paritosh Chatterjee from the Shyampukur police station, who has also survived the virus attack, claimed he was not allowed to talk to reporters. But his colleagues said Chatterjee had decided not to answer any phone call till hi duty was over. “He is one of the key men representing us at the Bagbazar depot. He said he would not take phone calls till the deliveries to MR Bangur (for South 24 Parganas), Barasat, Tamluk and Asansol were completed,” said an officer. At Hastings, which saw no movement of vaccines on Tuesday evening, many cops remembered Burman, who stayed at the barracks. “His death was a supreme sacrifice as he fought Covid from the front. A spate of deaths in July—Burman’s being one of them—led the top brass to call for breaking up the barracks into smaller units. From 350 active cases, the number in the force is 23 now,” said his colleague deployed at the depot. Till date, Kolkata Police have reported 3,432 cases and 21 deaths. The last cop to lose his life was police driver Samar Kumar Ghosh attached to the Jorabagan police station. Cops from this police station, too, were at Bagbazar. “We urge citizens not to let their guards down now, and follow all protocols,” said Samar’s colleague.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cov-survivor-cops-among-team-guarding-vaccines-at-warehouses/articleshow/80239226.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu: 9,000 more birds culled at Panchkula farm||PANCHKULA: The local administration culled 9,000 birds at Narender Poultry Farm on Tuesday to contain the spread of avian influenza. This was the fourth day of its drive in Barwala. So far, 29,000 birds have been culled. This was the third infected poultry farm. DC M K Ahuja said 10 more samples from poultry farms falling under the 10-km area of infected sites were taken and sent to the laboratories on Tuesday. As many as 40 rapid response teams are involved in the entire operation. The first phase of the operation ended on Monday at Sidharth and Nature poultry farms with the culling of 20,000 birds. District development and panchayat officer (DDPO) Kanwar Daman Singh, the nodal officer for bird flu, and members of all the teams have been quarantined at four schools in Raipur Rani. The animal husbandry department on Saturday had started the culling process of over 1.66 lakh birds from poultry farms whose samples had tested positive for the flu. The reports had come positive from National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory (HSADL), Bhopal, on the night of January 7. But the local administration had failed to impose restrictions in the affected areas immediately. Over 4.37 lakh poultry birds have died in the area so far. The team working on the ground found that the deaths had been taking place since December last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/9000-more-birds-culled-at-pkl-farm/articleshow/80239140.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||HC stays order of giving college land to two departments||CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Tuesday stayed the Haryana government’s order of giving 1.77 acres of land of Government College, Sector 1, Panchkula, to the state’s Real Estate Regulatory Authority (RERA) and Lokayukta for construction of their office buildings. While staying the order till the next date of hearing, the high court issued notice to the Haryana government, Haryana Shehri Vikas Paradhikaran (HSVP); director general, higher education, Haryana; principal, Government College, Panchkula; state’s Real Estate Regulatory Authority; and Lokayukta. In a petition, college student Priya Rani had sought quashing of September 18, 2020, orders wherein 1.77 acres measuring plots carved out from the land in possession of Government College, Sector 1, Panchkula, had been allotted to RERA and Lokayukta for construction of their respective buildings. The petitioner had also sought directions to the state government to remove encroachments from the college land.  The Haryana government had allotted 14.88 acres of land in Sector 1, Panchkula, for establishment of the college. The petitioner had submitted that out of the 14.88 acres, a portion of the land was being used for police post (ACP office) and a temple, and no action had been taken against them.  The petitioner submitted that on September 18, 2020, the Haryana government had decided to allot 1.77 acres to RERA and Lokayukta for construction of their buildings out of about 12 acres in possession of Government College (2.88 acres is already encroached upon). The principal and other members of the teaching staff have been requesting the authorities not to cut the land of the college, as space is already scarce due to encroachments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-stay-on-hry-order-of-giving-2-depts-1-77-acres-of-college-land/articleshow/80239165.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Avian flu in 16 districts, 626 birds die in a day||JAIPUR: Suspected avian influenza claimed the lives of 626 birds on Tuesday, the highest so far. According to the report released by the animal husbandry department, 349 crows, 52 pigeons, 22 peacocks and 203 other birds died. With this, the death toll of birds since December 25 stands 3,947 till date. As per the records, the highest number of bird deaths have been recorded in Jaipur. An official said, “A total of 686 birds have died in Jaipur followed by 433 birds in Jhalawar. Udaipur has not reported a single bird death yet.” Chittorgarh has the highest number of bird positive reports. So far, 223 birds have died in Chittorgarh, out of which nine samples of birds was sent to Bhopal lab for examination. All nine samples were found infected. An official informed bird flu had spread in 16 districts. “Five samples of birds sent from Jhunjhunu district turned positive today, whereas samples sent from Bharatpur and Jodhpur tested negative.” Samples from districts such as Jhalawar, Kota, Baran, Sawai Madhopur, Jaipur, Chittorgarh, Banswara, Hanumangarh, Dausa, Pali, Sirohi, Pratapgarh and Jaisalmer have already tested positive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/avian-flu-in-16-dists-626-birds-die-in-a-day/articleshow/80240406.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||MKSS tractor rally to create awareness on agri laws reaches city||Jaipur: The tractor yatra to Shahjahanpur by the Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS) on creating awareness about the three farm laws reached Jaipur from Bhim on Tuesday. The MKSS held a virtual Janta Parliament also with political leaders to build consensus on the farm laws.Mukesh Goswami of MKSS said that they had been receiving huge response from the people at every village and town they are holding addresses. “The idea of the tractor rally is spread awareness on the three draconian laws in the language which is easy for villagers and farmers to comprehend. We have created songs, skits and puppet shows in different dialect to make them understand the implications of these laws in a nutshell,” said Goswami.The tractor rally has entered Dudu early in the day and entered Bagru for a night halt before they hit the Jaipur city on Wednesday.The MKSS has been supporting the farmers agitation since beginning and have been campaign at Shahjahanpur border. The activist has started their rally from January 9 and likely to reach the border on January 14. They will camp in Jaipur for two days JanuaryMeanwhile, Nikhil Dey of MKSS in his address at Janta Parliament says that they will be forming district wise committees—Save Farmers, Save Nation which will spread the message of how the farm laws can collapse the existing system and the PDS. “On January 26, we will run a campaign asking people to pledge that they will not stop until the three laws repealed and also demanding an immediate session of Parliament,” said Dey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/mkss-tractor-rally-to-create-awareness-on-agri-laws-reaches-city/articleshow/80240404.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh gets 2 bids, to reinvite tenders||CHANDIGARH: The UT administration has received only two bids, including a conditional one, for running a mid-air restaurant at a height of 165 ft in the city. As response is not good, it now plans to re-invite tenders for this project.  The UT had recently shortlisted open space at Leisure Valley, Sector 10, for providing the mid-air restaurant. Earlier, it was planning to provide the facility either at Leisure Valley or Sukhna Lake or Kaimbwala or new lake in Sector 42. A senior UT official said, “The Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation Limited (Citco) had invited bids for licensing out open space (approximately 500 sq yards) at Leisure Valley for running and managing the hanging restaurant on revenue sharing basis. Citco has received two bids, including a conditional one. As response is not sufficient, Citco is now planning to re-invite bids.”  As per the proposal, the restaurant will be at a height of 165 feet, hanging from a crane. The proposed restaurant will have a capacity of 24 persons at a time. If the UT administration gives permission, then the company can also consider serving beer and wine in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-gets-2-bids-to-re-invite-tenders/articleshow/80239131.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Fake IG financing illegal liquor business arrested in Mohali||MOHALI: The Punjab excise department, along with the Mohali police, has arrested a man, who was allegedly financing an illicit liquor trade in Zirakpur. Gurpreet Sidhu, who has a dual citizenship of UK and Europe, was apprehended from Ludhiana. He was impersonating as an inspector general of Punjab Police. His associates used to fill cheap liquor into scotch bottles. “After his arrest, his residence was raided. We have recovered uniforms of Punjab Police, shoulder patches of IG and DIG ranks, bulletproof jacket, walkie talkie, imported pistols, 13 air pistols, 28 pistol cylinders, police beacon lights, 32 bore revolver and 30 mobile phones,” said Rajat Agarwal, excise commissioner, Punjab. “During his interrogation, the name of Ashu Goel, a liquor contractor of Sector 29, Chandigarh, came to light and that he was operating an illegal godown. Raids were conducted and around 1,966 cases of liquor of various brands such as Old Monk, Chivas Regal, Red Label, Blue Label, and Gold Label were found without hologram. The godown was sealed in the presence of Chandigarh excise and police officials,” added Agarwal. Officials said the case came to the fore when early on January 5, on a tip-off that a man named Jatinderpal Singh, alias JP, would receive a consignment of empty bottles, he and his aides — Jatinder Singh, Karan Goswami and Vijay — were arrested while they were unloading cartons. “The consignment contained 10 empty bottles of Red Label and 80 of Black Label along with 55 of its mono cartons. Also, 35 lid caps, 30 labels and 100 unused caps of Chivas Regal were seized,” a cop said. Later, raids were conducted at JP’s residence in Zirakpur and more recovery was made. Officials said a special investigation team (SIT), led by Mohali SSP Satinder Singh and comprising SP Sartaj Singh Chahal, DSP Bikramjeet Singh Brar and inspector Onkar Singh Brar has also been formed to probe into the matter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/fake-ig-financing-illegal-liquor-business-arrested/articleshow/80239141.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Bereaved mothers need counselling for long time: Experts||Nagpur: After women and child welfare minister Yashomati Thakur directed her department to ensure continuous counselling of the 10 mothers who lost their babies in Bhandara fire incident, experts supported the move. However, they also added that some of the women might need help from professional psychologists. As per the directives given by the state ministry of women and child development, Anganwadi workers, ASHA workers, and Auxiliary Nurse and Midwife (ANMs) have been directed to take responsibility of continuous counselling of the bereaved mothers. “Any person dealing with a loss needs help to recuperate and deal with the loss. Counsellors are best trained to help such people,” said Dr Vaidehi Marathe, gynaecologist and president of Nagpur Obstetric & Gynaecological Society. “But, I don’t think Asha workers, or ANMs are given this training of counselling,” she noted. Psychiatrist Dr Suleman Virani, secretary of Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS), Nagpur, said that there could be long-term effects of such trauma. “It may cause severe distress as depression, anxiety, obsessive compulsive disorder, social phobia, post-traumatic stress, and suicidal ideations in some cases. Professional psychiatric help is available at district hospitals,” he said. Maya Parmeshwar, president of Maharashtra State Anganwadi Karmchari Sanghatana, an association of anganwadi workers, said they have basic training in providing emotional support to needy. “Anganwadi workers are trained how to handle women with perinatal loss. In villages, family support also plays an important role in recovery and rehabilitation of such women,” she said. A senior professor from GMC’s nursing college said that nurses (ANMs) are trained in mental health and they can also manage the situation. “First year course of community health nursing has ‘mental health’ as a separate subject. ANMs can provide good support to the bereaved mothers. In case they require further assistance, doctors may refer them to experts,” she said. Various studies on perinatal loss state that death of an infant impairs a mother’s day-to-day functioning, they report changed appetite and sleep patterns, decreased social participation, decreased marital satisfaction, and increased isolation. “In villages, there is social pressure to forget the baby who died, move on, and try to have other children. So, continuous monitoring and support through health workers is must for these women,” said Samidha Deshmukh, a social worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bereaved-mothers-need-counselling-for-long-time-experts/articleshow/80239149.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan high court order on sexual abuse at workplace||JAIPUR: Rajasthan high court has said obscene messages sent to an employee posted in another state even after office hours will come under the category of sexual harassment at workplace. The single bench of Justice SP Sharma’s order followed a petition seeking quashing of chargesheet filed against the general manager of Bank of Baroda, Sanjiv Mishra, for sending obscene messages to a former subordinate woman officer posted in another state after working hours. The petitioner contended that according to Bank of Baroda Officer Employees’ (Discipline and Appeal) Regulations, 1976, inquiry could have been initiated only when the petitioner commits any sexual harassment at the workplace. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hc-order-on-sexual-abuse-at-workplace/articleshow/80240429.cms||Joychen Joseph
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||New office bearers at CII’s Yi, IWN||Jaipur: Jaipur chapter of Young Indians (Yi), part of CII, announced new office bearers. Arpit Patni, V-P of Prem Cargo was nominated as chair, while Prateek Agarwal, proprietor of Prateek Minerals, was selected co-chair. Addressing a meet, both Patni and Agarwal shared their vision of inclusive growth of Jaipur Chapter. Pallavi Mishra and Tanuja Agarwal have been announced as chairwoman and vice-chairwoman, respectively of the CII- Indian Women Network (IWN), Rajasthan chapter for 2021-22 at the body’s annual session on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/new-office-bearers-at-ciis-yi-iwn/articleshow/80240472.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19 vaccination in Jaisalmer: Health workers, security forces in 1st phase||JAISALMER: Jaisalmer health department has started preparations on a war footing to administer vaccine to health workers and security forces in the first phase. Vaccine will be administered to around 4,500 health workers deployed in remote areas of the district. Meanwhile, preparations have been started to administer vaccine to BSF jawans, officers, army, air force and other forces. All security forces have made their lists and sent them to their headquarters and health department. Air force has been put on alert to transport the vaccine and the consignment of vaccine will be delivered here on the notice of 8 to 10 hours.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/health-workers-forces-in-1st-phase/articleshow/80240456.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Over 5.4 lakh Covishield and 60,000 Covaxin doses to reach Rajasthan today||JAIPUR: While a few states have already received the Covid-19 vaccines, Rajasthan will start receiving its supply on Wednesday. According to the ministry of health and family welfare, the state will receive 5,43,500 doses of the Covishield vaccine, supplied by the Serum Institute of India (SII), and 60,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. “We will receive it on Wednesday. Preparations have been completed for vaccination in the state,” said Siddhartha Mahajan, health secretary. In the initial phase, priority beneficiaries, including healthcare workers, central government officials and armed forces, will be inoculated. The Centre has asked the state to ensure quick transport to the last mile of cold chain points as per the beneficiary load. “We are ready to launch the drive from January 16,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, family welfare, who inspected the state-level vaccine storage centre at Sethi Colony in Jaipur. “We have prepared our cold chain for vaccine storage. We will quickly and safely transport the same,” said Dr Ola. Health secretary Mahajan has written to all district collectors, superintendents of police, chief medical health officers to ensure safe transport across the state. The vaccine will be handed over to state authorities at Jaipur airport and received in the presence of chief medical health officer and senior officials of the Rajasthan Administrative Services. It will then be transported to the state vaccine store under police escort. Health department officials will take charge of the storage at the state-level centre. The vaccine will be taken to various district headquarters in a van with two drivers, deputy chief health officer or block chief medical health officer under police escort. It will be supplied to cold chain points from district storage centres. At all cold chain points, it will remain under police protection. In Jaipur, which has one of the three state-level vaccine storage centres, the facility can store 24,000 litres of the vaccine under 2 degrees to 8 degrees Celcius, required for proper storage. “Since it's the first phase of vaccination, we need to be extra alert," a senior health department official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-5-4-lakh-covishield-and-60kcovaxin-doses-to-reach-raj-today/articleshow/80240464.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||NGO to feed JJ hospital patients’ kin||MUMBAI: City NGO Fazlani Aishabai Abdul Lateef Charitable Trust will provide two meals daily to relatives of patients at state-run JJ Hospital. Accompanied by Congress MLA Amin Patel, trust chairman Abdul Kader Fazlani met medical education minister Amit Deshmukh on Monday and sought permission to implement the scheme. “Amit Deshmukh has agreed in principle and lauded Kaderbhai Fazlani’s wish to feed patients’ relatives nutritious and hygienic food. This will not be a langar but only relatives with valid passes issued by the hospital will be given food twice a day,” said Patel. Fazlani said he had been thinking of doing something like this for quite some time. The patients get food from hospitals but their relatives are left to fend for themselves. “I have seen relatives of many patients eating a vada pav for lunch or dinner. Two square meals a day in Mumbai costs Rs150-200. The poor cannot afford it,” said Fazlani. He added that he had asked for space at the hospital for use as an eating area. Initially, 250-300 people will be fed twice. The food will be supplied by a caterer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngo-to-feed-jj-hospital-patients-kin/articleshow/80241465.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Clubs violating hookah ban order to lose licence: Chandigarh adviser||CHANDIGARH: Tightening the noose around hotels, restaurants and clubs violating hookah ban orders, UT adviser Manoj Parida on Tuesday said that offenders will now lose their licence. Last month, the UT had decided that violating clubs will be closed for three days. The orders were issued under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. But some clubs continued to violate the directions. To date, the UT has taken action against three to four clubs by closing them for three days. FIRs were lodged against club owners and managers in over 20 cases.  Parida said, “Officers have been asked to take strict action against violators. The UT has banned till February 11 serving and consumption of hookah in the city hotels, restaurants and clubs under Section 144 of the CrPC to control the spread of coronavirus. As some clubs are continuously violating orders, it has been decided to cancel their licence.”  On December 30, the UT had issued new orders under Section 30 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, stating that no hookah shall be served for smoke/consumption in hotels, restaurants, bars, taverns, among others, to avoid its hazardous effects and in larger public interest. In case of violation of orders, the premises serving the hookah shall be closed immediately for three days and apart from that the person/owner/manager shall be liable for punishment under various provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, the order read. “The sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of the division concerned shall ensure proper implementation of this order through the incident commanders and other agencies such as police, health, among others, of the Chandigarh administration,” the order stated.  On December 14, the UT administration had extended the order till February 11.  Punjab had banned hookah bars in 2018 In 2018, the Punjab government had decided to impose a permanent ban on hookah bars in the state. The proposed amendment was approved by the state assembly in March 2018 and later in November 2018, President Ram Nath Kovind had given assent to a Bill from Punjab to check use of tobacco. Punjab was the third state in the country after Gujarat and Maharashtra where hookah bars or lounges were banned through law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/clubs-violating-hookah-ban-order-to-lose-licence-adviser/articleshow/80239198.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: 2 snatchers involved in 45 cases in judicial remand||CHANDIGARH: After their two-day police remand ended, two snatchers, on Tuesday, were produced before a local court that sent them in 14-day judicial custody. The police claimed to have solved five snatching cases committed in the city with their arrest. The accused confessed to their involvement in 40 more cases in Panchkula and Mohali. Vishwajeet Singh of Zirakpur and Sanjay Verma of Derabassi were arrested near Hallomajra with a snatched cellphone and a stolen motorcycle on January 10. Later, police recovered eight snatched mobile phones, two purses, Aadhaar, PAN and ATMs cards and other documents from them. During interrogation, the accused revealed that they sold three snatched mobile phones to drug peddlers in Lucknow.  Both are addicts. After committing snatchings, they used to buy drugs by selling mobile phones to smugglers, said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-snatchers-involved-in-45-cases-in-judicial-remand/articleshow/80239206.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||High alert sounded across Uttarakhand a day after bird flu is confirmed||DEHRADUN: A day after Uttarakhand became one of the 10 states to have confirmed cases of avian influenza (bird flu), the state forest department sounded “high alert” across all protected areas like wildlife sanctuaries, tiger reserves, wetlands and zoos. The animal husbandry department announced a ban on poultry from all affected states (including Delhi, Haryana, UP and Himachal Pradesh). People have also been discouraged from visiting the zoos in Dehradun and Nainital. Being the only protected area in the state to have recorded deaths of the spotted dove, Rajaji Tiger Reserve is also on high alert. The forest and animal husbandry departments have assigned nodal officers to heighten surveillance and for rapid retrieval of carcasses. Speaking with TOI, animal husbandry minister Rekha Arya said, “We have put an indefinite ban on poultry from all affected states, especially Haryana.” A special session, where scientists will sensitise poultry farmers on dos and don’ts, is scheduled on Wednesday. On Monday, tests at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, had confirmed two positive cases of avian influenza in Dehradun and Lansdowne forest divisions. According to state forest department data, a total of 553 birds died from January 8 to January 12. On Tuesday, 78 birds were found dead. Carcasses of nine cranes and two owls were collected and buried in accordance to safety protocol. The animal husbandry department said it had randomly collected 770 samples of poultry in the state (470 from Garhwal and 300 from Kumaon) so far, but was yet to send any for tests. “The samples from Garhwal have been stored at our Rishikesh laboratory and those from Kumaon are in a Rudrapur facility. We will soon send them to IVRI, Bareilly. We are still in the process of collecting samples,” said KK Joshi, director, animal husbandry department of Uttarakhand. In an alarming development, migratory birds were found dead for the first time in the state. Seven carcasses of the Red-crested Pochard of Asan wetland were found from two reservoirs in US Nagar area. Requesting anonymity, a forest official said, “The carcasses were found in a decomposed state from Haripura and Baur reservoirs of US Nagar. Prime facie, bird flu doesn’t appear to have caused the deaths. However, the samples have been sent to IVRI Bareilly as a precaution.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/high-alert-sounded-across-ukhand-a-day-after-bird-flu-is-confirmed/articleshow/80238173.cms||Shivani Azad
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Submit detailed report on electric poles on roads in city: HC||Nagpur: After its repeated directives didn’t lead to removal of the electric poles from the middle of city roads, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Tuesday, directed the NMC and MSEDCL to submit a detailed report on an affidavit on how many of them are remaining and in which areas. The new division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor further directed amicus curiae Shreerang Bhandarkar to verify contents of the report submitted by both entities and inform the court within two weeks. The court was hearing a suo motu PIL (No 98/2018) based on TOI’s reports on electric poles standing right in the middle of roads, due to expansion. The first PIL was filed by NGO Janmanch in 2005 in this regard, and since then HC had passed repeated orders while warning both NMC and MSEDCL to remove the ‘death traps’ that had caused many accidents in the night and also killed my riders. However, hardly anything has improved after one and half decades. Till today, the roads are being mindlessly laid without removing these poles by the civic body. TOI recently carried a report citing roads in Godhni area. Even in a newly laid stretch between Futala square to Ambazari lake, the poles came into the middle after road widening and concretization, but both entities failed to remove them. On Tuesday, both respondents played the same tactics of passing the buck on each other and wasting the court’s time. NMC in its affidavit blamed MSEDCL for not granting permission to it to remove the poles or make alternate adjustments, according to Bhandarkar. In one of the hearings in March last year, a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote sternly directed both respondents to sit together and prepare an action plan in this regard which would be implemented with a deadline. The bench also asked them to submit the plan within a week having details of expenditure involved in shifting of poles and for completion of work. However, hardly anything moved till date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/submit-detailed-report-on-electric-poles-on-roads-in-city-hc/articleshow/80239221.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 13, 2021||Goa||Drugs worth Rs 2 lakh seized in Mapusa||SALIGAO: Mapusa police on Monday arrested Shubham Chowgule, a resident of Sakhali, and seized around 2.1kg of ganja worth Rs 2.1 lakh from him in a narcotics raid. According to Mapusa police inspector Tushar Lotlikar, the suspect alighted from a bus at Karaswada at around 1.50pm, when the police carried out their raid and found Shubham in possession of the narcotic substance. Further investigation in the case is being carried out by police sub-inspector Ashish Paraber under the supervision of the Mapusa police inspector.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/drugs-worth-rs-2-lakh-seized-in-mapusa/articleshow/80241475.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||‘Farm laws made in haste, attitude of Centre negative’||Jaipur: The Supreme Court’s decision to suspend the three central farm laws till further orders and setting up a committee to vet it invited positive reaction from political parties and farmer organisations. Some farmer unions said it as partial success of their struggle, but they insisted that they would continue the struggle till the laws were repealed. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot said the Supreme court observations and order on the farm laws has put a question mark on the functioning of the central government. He said the order substantiated the argument by farmers and political parties that the laws was made in haste and had a very destructive impact on farming. The attitude of the government has been very negative and the court tried to rectify this error. BJP state president Satish Poonia expressed hope that the Supreme Court order would lead to a peaceful end to farmers’ agitation. He said the Modi government had taken many initiatives for the welfare of the farmers in the last six years and the committee constituted by the court would weigh both the views- in favour and against the laws - and find an amicable solution. Pradesh Kisan Sangarsh Samiti convenor Himmat Singh Gurjar said, “Forty-nine days later, incomplete justice has been received and the passion for obtaining full justice is intact… Had the Modi government done this job, then perhaps it would have shown its greatness.” He said the fight will continue till the laws are withdrawn.Kisan Mahapanchayat national president Rampal Jat said he would be able to react only after reading the copy of the order of the Supreme Court. Transport minister Pratap Singh Khachariyawas said that the decision was a slap on the face of the Modi government. The minister said the farmers sat for more than 45 days in bitter winter, but BJP leaders lied continuously. “While the farmers demanded the withdrawal of all the three laws, the government kept saying they had accepted all the demands,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/farm-laws-made-in-haste-attitude-of-centre-negative/articleshow/80240433.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Officials go to arrest CA in Juhu for GST fraud, his wife booked for abusing them||MUMBAI: About four hours of drama ensued at a housing society in Juhu where officials of Central Goods & Services Tax (GST) had gone to arrest a chartered accountant, Nilesh Jagiwala (30), for violating a bail condition on Monday. Jagiwala’s wife Tanira refused to let the officials enter the house and search the place, and allegedly abused them. The GST officials later filed an FIR against her at Juhu police station for use of criminal force used to deter a public servant from discharging duty and criminal intimidation. The police registered a case against Tanira late on Monday for the investigation and will act against Tanira accordingly, said an official. Last September, GST (Belapur Commissionerate of Navi Mumbai) had arrested Nilesh in a Rs 541 GST fraud case along with his father Yogesh. It was alleged that the two had opened several shell companies and committed the GST fraud through fake invoices. The two were later released on conditional bail. Recently, GST officials approached the court, seeking cancellation of Nilesh’s bail for violating the condition. Last month, the court cancelled the bail and asked Nilesh to surrender before the court within two weeks. As Nilesh failed to do so, the court issued an arrest warrant against him. On Monday, around 4.30 pm, four GST officials, including women personnel, landed at Jagiwala’s home. Tanira told them that Nilesh was not at home and his phone was switched off. GST officials asked her to allow them to search the house but Tanira refused. The GST officials came downstairs and waited at the building gate. Later, the officials sought help from the police to look for Nilesh in the house. The GST officials, along with the police, again went to the house around 7.30 pm, asking Tanira to allow them to search the house. They told her that they suspected that Nilesh was at home. GST officials alleged that Tanira started to abuse them and even pushed one of their officials in order to prevent the team from entering the house, thereby prompting the GST officials to file a police case against her. Meanwhile, Nilesh, continued to remain untraceable, said the officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/officials-go-to-arrest-ca-in-juhu-for-gst-fraud-his-wife-booked-for-abusing-them/articleshow/80241477.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Pilgrims, tour operators welcome resumption of issuing Umrah visas||Mumbai: Pilgrims and tour operators have welcomed resumption of issuing Umrah visas from Friday, after a nearly 10-month suspension. But tour operators demanded that regular flights between India and Saudi Arabia should start under air bubble arrangements. Saudi Arabia allowed resumption of Umrah visas for international pilgrims on November 1, 2020, but it had not resumed visas for Indian pilgrims and scheduled flights from India to the Saudi kingdom have been suspended. Haj involves rituals performed over five days annually, but Umrah, also called lesser pilgrimage, can be performed multiple times through the year. “It is good news that now Umrah visas for Indian pilgrims are being issued but unless flights under air bubble arrangements between India and Saudi Arabia don’t start, it will not make sense,” said Yusuf Ahmed Kherada of Al Khalid Tours and Travels. Some NRIs are travelling to Saudi Arabia via Dubai. It is not feasible for Umrah pilgrims to travel to Saudi Arabia via Dubai as it will increase costs and require a 14-day quarantine in Dubai, which no Umrah pilgrim will agree to. Imran Alvi of Alvi Tours & Travels said Umrah pilgrims had desperately wanted resumption of visa issuance so they could travel to Islam’s holiest places in Saudi Arabia. Though Umrah is performed near the holy shrine in Mecca, most Umrah pilgrims also travel to Medina to visit the Prophet’s mausoleum there. Before Covid-19 halted Umrah, around seven lakh Indians would perform Umrah pilgrimage annually. “I want to visit Mecca and perform Umrah soon. It is such a holy trip that brings many blessings,” said a Central Mumbai resident. India has air bubble arrangements with 22 countries. These are special arrangements through which flights are allowed for a short period before normal commercial flights resume between two countries. Mohammed Wajihuddin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pilgrims-tour-operators-welcome-resumption-of-issuing-umrah-visas/articleshow/80239999.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Lowest daily Covid infections in 199 days, state reduces virus tests||Jaipur: The state on Tuesday reported 293 fresh Covid infections, the lowest daily spike in the past 199 days. On June 27, the state had reported 284 cases, followed by 327 cases the next day. While the daily count of infections is going down, the number of tests done has also been reduced. In January so far, over 2,45 lakh samples have been tested. The daily average samples testing is 20,442, which was 27,538 in December. The highest number of samples tested was reported in December with 8.53 lakh, followed by September (8.04 lakh), August (7.87 lakh) and July (7.02 lakh). A health department official said they are continuously monitoring the situation. Active cases have also dipped to 6,200 as recovered cases have risen to 3,04,779 with 675 more persons being declared free of the virus. Jaipur is currently having highest number of active cases at 1,243 followed by Kota (550), Jodhpur (509) and Ajmer (395). In the last 24 hours, three persons died taking the fatality toll to 2,739. The total number of infections currently stands at 3,13,718. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (63), Kota (41), Ajmer (25), Bhilwara (23), Nagaur (20), Udaipur (19), Jhalawar (18), Jodhpur (18), Sriganganagar (10), Dungarpur (8), Bundi (7), Banswara (6), Rajsamand (5), Alwar (4), Sikar (4), Dholpur (3), Jaisalmer (3), Baran (2), Sawai Madhopur (2), Barmer (2), Bharatpur (2), Bikaner (2), Pali (2), Chittorgarh (1), Sirohi (1), Tonk (1) and Karauli (1). Jodhpur reported its 297th Covid death, Nagaur reported its 95th Covid-19 fatality and Baran reported its 34th Covid-19 fatality.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/lowest-daily-covid-infections-in-199-days-state-reduces-virus-tests/articleshow/80240473.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Healthcare hubs for farmers at protest sites||Jaipur: Amid chilly nights and pandemic, state’s farmers have been agitating near NCR against the three farm laws. The health department has issued directions to its officials to develop healthcare facilities where farmers have been protesting. A medical van will remain stationed and medicines will be made available to farmers in case they fall sick. Also, transportation facilities will remain available for hospitalisation.Health secretary Siddhartha Mahajan said, “Directions have been issued to ensure healthcare facilities along NCR bordering areas where farmers are protesting.”The orders have been issued to prevent spread of Covid and to ensure that guidelines issued by the Centre from time-to-time on Covid prevention were being followed. Also, samples for Covid test will be taken from suspected cases. The health department issued directions to deploy a mobile medical unit and a mobile medical van so that farmers requiring medical attention should get medicines. Ambulances will be made available on requirement in case someone requires need to be admitted to a hospital. He suggested that a kiosk with medical facilities can also be installed in the area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/healthcare-hubs-for-farmers-at-protest-sites/articleshow/80240475.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Child raped & left for dead, gets a hospital bed after four days||BAREILLY: Allegedly raped by a youth, 20, who strangled her till she passed out and left her for dead, an 11-year-old girl spent another four agonizing days at her home before a child helpline team and a local MLA noticed her plight and got her admitted to a government hospital in UP’s Shahjahanpur. The Class IV girl was allegedly raped on the evening of January 7 in a field. Her family found her later that night, soaked in blood and with serious injury marks on neck. The girl’s father, a farmer, said that she was taken to the district hospital for medical examination and sent back home on January 8. The doctors didn’t bother to examine her further, he said. On Tuesday, the child-line team saw her plight and rushed her to the hospital where she was admitted after “MLA’s intervention”. Abha Saxena from the child-line team told TOI, “We had gone to check the condition of the girl in her village and found that she had severe injuries on her neck. Shockingly she was discharged after a medico-legal examination from the hospital. We took her to the community health centre in our vehicle. On Tuesday, her condition worsened and she was brought to the hospital by MLA sir.” Roshanlal Verma, three-term MLA from Tilhar constituency, said, “It is clear negligence on the part of the doctors. I will speak to chief minister Yogi Adityanath to ensure action against those responsible for it. The chief medical superintendent of the women hospital is saying that she was not aware about the case. If anything happens to the girl then the district hospital will be responsible for it.” The hospital’s CMS, Dr UP Singh, said, “The girl was immediately admitted after MLA Verma brought her to the hospital. She is under constant observation and we have taken opinion from an orthopaedic surgeon regarding the injuries on her neck. Some tests will be done on Wednesday to know about her exact condition. She might have fallen unconscious because of weakness and stress due to the assault. However, she has shown good improvement after the treatment started here.” The CMS of the hospital’s women section could not be contacted. When asked about the allegation against the staff, CMS Singh said, “The principal of the medical college would look into the allegations after receiving a formal complaint.” (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/girl-11-raped-left-for-dead-gets-a-hospital-bed-after-4-days-on-mlas-intervention/articleshow/80238180.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: It’s getting hot in winter! Temperature crosses 35°C||MUMBAI: The city’s maximum temperature further increased on Tuesday, touching 35.3 degrees Celsius, beating last year’s temperature high for January. The maximum temperature at the Met’s Santacruz observatory was 35.3 degrees Celsius. The highest January temperature last year and in 2019 was 34.5 degrees and 35.5 degrees Celsius respectively. Colaba recorded a maximum temperature of 32.8 degrees Celsius. Minimum temperatures too were higher than normal. Santacruz and Colaba recorded a minimum of 22.5 and 23.4 degrees Celsius respectively.  The city on Monday recorded its highest minimum January temperature in a decade. IMD officials attributed the warm conditions to easterly winds. The higher temperatures also resulted in the overall air quality index (AQI) improving to 218 on Tuesday, according to the System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR). An AQI that ranges anywhere between 201 and 300 is considered ‘poor’ and it can put the elderly at a health risk and causes slight discomfort to healthy individuals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/its-getting-hot-in-winter-temp-crosses-35c/articleshow/80240541.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: BTP MLA Ramprasad Dindor ‘slaps’ doctor for bribe demand to deliver child||UDAIPUR: Bharatiya Tribal Party MLA Ramprasad Dindor allegedly abused and slapped a gynaecologist at Sagwara government hospital in Dungarpur district on Tuesday. The MLA accused the doctor of demanding a bribe from a patient. A video of the MLA allegedly slapping the doctor later went viral on social media. Following the incident, doctors protested and boycotted work for a few hours. As the situation grew tense, circle inspector from Sagwara police station went to the hospital and spoke to the doctors. An FIR has been registered and an investigation is underway. MLA Dindor, however, refused to have slapped the doctor and said he only spoke for the public good and advised the latter to behave well with patients. According to sources, differently abled Prabhu Nanama had complained to the MLA that gynaecologist Rohit Labana had demanded a bribe to carry out the delivery of his baby at the hospital. Dindor went to the hospital and asked the staff to call the doctor. When Labana went to meet the legislator, they had a heated argument and, in the spurt of the moment, the legislator slapped the doctor, said sources. “I have been getting frequent complaints of doctors demanding money from poor people in lieu of treatment at the hospital. When a disabled man complained that a doctor had demanded Rs 5,000 for a delivery case, I went to the hospital to know the truth. I only spoke for the public good and there was no intention of disrespecting the doctor. I told him to behave well and I didn't slap him,” Dindor said. As tension grew, the MLA went away while doctors stopped work and protested against the incident. Medical officer Rajaram Meena said he was informed of the incident. CI Ajay Singh Rao reached the hospital and met the doctors’ delegation to find out about the incident. “We have registered a case against the MLA under sections 332, 353, 504, 506, 186 of the IPC and provisions for the protection of healthcare personnel from violence, hurting, intimidation in discharge of duty within the premises of a healthcare facility,” Rao said. Watch Rajasthan: BTP MLA allegedly slaps doctor for bribe demand||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/btp-mla-slaps-doc-for-bribe-demand-to-deliver-child-in-dungarpur-dist/articleshow/80240480.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||Apex court vacates stay on Chandigarh power department’s privatisation||CHANDIGARH: The Supreme Court on Tuesday vacated the stay by the Punjab and Haryana high court on the privatisation of the UT electricity department. The SC order came on a petition filed by the Chandigarh administration against HC’s order of staying the directive of the UT administration, wherein it had floated a tender for privatisation of the electricity department. Apex court vacates stay on Chandigarh power department’s privatisationUT adviser Manoj Parida said power department privatisation would be put on fast track now. On December 1, the high court had stayed the privatisation till the next hearing and issued a notice to the Union government, the UT administration and the UT chief engineer on a petition filed by Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of the UT Powermen’s Union. While challenging the UT’s decision to float a tender for privatisation, the petitioner had submitted that the electricity rates were less in Chandigarh in comparison with the neighbouring states and still the department was in profit. Despite the good financial state, the UT administration wanted to privatise it, he said. The UT administration had challenged the stay order in the apex court. The administration, in its tender, had proposed to give licence to a distribution company, to be finalised after the bidding process, for 25 years under the power department privatisation project. Recently, the UT had written a letter to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) and submitted the roadmap for the department’s privatisation. For the project, 14 private firms, including CESC Limited, Torrent Power Limited, Sterlite Power, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited and NTPC Electric Supply Limited, had bought request for proposal (RFP) documents. The UT told JERC that they had decided to formulate a company first, which will take over the assets of the power department. It was also decided to create a trust to manage the pension obligations of the government employees, who will be moved to the private company. The administration had sought the advice of the power regulatory body on the principles of the reorganisation and transaction of the electricity department. Despite protests by the powermen, the administration, on the directions of the Union government, had started the process and appointed Pawan Kumar Sharma, executive engineer, UT electricity department, as the nodal officer. In May 2019, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said electricity distribution companies in union territories (UTs) would be privatised. Earlier, the UT had engaged a government-owned power finance corporation limited to unbundle the department and transform it into a corporate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/apex-court-vacates-stay-on-power-depts-privatisation/articleshow/80239215.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-positive travellers from abroad can opt for 2 private hospitals||MUMBAI: People arriving from South Africa, Europe and Middle East who are found positive or have symptoms can now opt to get admitted in either of two private facilities, Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines and P D Hinduja in Mahim. BMC said the patients have to be charged according to capped rates of the 80:20 scheme. Civic chief I S Chahal issued an order on Tuesday allowing positive non-UK returnees to get hospitalised in private hospitals as many travellers demanded to stay in private facilities. State-run G T Hospital used to be the only centre where such patients could be hospitalised. Travellers from SA, Europe and Middle East are kept under institutional quarantine after arrival. If found symptomatic on arrival or positive on RT-PCR test on the seventh day, they are to be shifted to a hospital. “The travellers have to pay as per the schedule of 80:20 scheme. Hospitals have to maintain records and a separate isolation facility for these patients,” Chahal said in the order.  For those unable to afford hotels for quarantine, BMC has provided Richardson & Cruddas jumbo centre. BMC brought the seven-day institutional quarantine policy for travellers from these countries from December 23 after newer, more infectious strains were detected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ve-travellers-from-abroad-can-opt-for-2-private-hosps/articleshow/80241493.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||FIRST SHOTS LAND FOR FINAL ASSAULT ON COVID||Ahmedabad: The first batch of Covishield, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, arrived at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel airport of Ahmedabad at 11am on Tuesday. The consignment consisted of 2.76 lakh shots, said state health department officials.The consignment was received amid fanfare as the boxes were applied tilaks by a doctor and Gujarat deputy CM Nitin Patel broke a coconut on the truck carrying the vaccines, at the city airport.The state will also get 2.65 lakh vials of the vaccine on Wednesday, taking the total to 5.41 lakh. It will cover the first phase of the vaccination drive, to be rolled out from January 16, in which 4.33 lakh healthcare workers will get their first shot.The state government had earlier announced that 4.33 lakh healthcare workers will be the first to get the vaccine. These workers include doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, staff deployed at various government and private hospitals, and those on field duty in the war against Covid-19.“PM Narendra Modi will interact with the healthcare workers getting the vaccine at 287 centres on January 16. Special arrangements have been made at civil hospitals in Ahmedabad and Rajkot,” said the deputy CM. “We will be reviewing the implementation and also send the feedback for the later phases. The vaccines have been provided to the state free of cost by the central government.”Patel said that the Covid-19 situation is much better in Gujarat now (compared to what it used to be after Diwali). “About 80-90% of the designated beds for Covid-19 are empty now,” he told the media. “Measures such as the night curfew had to be implemented to ensure that positive cases are controlled.”He added that no government functionary —including the CM, cabinet ministers, MLAs, or MPs — will get the vaccine shot in the first phase. “It’s our way of showing respect to the Covid warriors who have tirelessly served the patients during the pandemic,” Patel said. “In the second phase, we have included frontline workers such as police who have ensured the implementation of stringent protocols.”Senior state health department officials convened a meeting on Tuesday, developing the transport and distribution plan. The calibration of the necessary software and application will take place during the next couple of days, said officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-shots-land-for-final-assault-on-covid/articleshow/80239233.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jaipur||Startups bet on healthcare sector||Jaipur: Covid-19 has thrown open new opportunities for youths looking to kick off their entrepreneurial journey. The fact that Rajasthan has incubated startups like Med Delivery, MedCords, Karma Healthcare, and LifCare which have raised different rounds of funding is encouraging youths to create innovative solutions in the healthcare segment. “The pandemic has certainly exposed gaps and opportunities we did not foresee earlier. The youth are now aware that the sector can provide them scale if they develop the right solution,” said Mahavir Sharma, president of TiE Global at an event organized by IIHMR University Jaipur. Sharma said the investor appetite in the sector has also increased after the outbreak of the pandemic. “Investors are expecting more ideas in the healthcare sector after the pandemic and good ones will get funding,” added Sharma. Sharma was addressing the youths who pitched their innovative ideas at the university’s ‘Global Health and Innovation Conference.’ Innovation in healthcare is happening but they are catering to a fraction of people in the vast country. Chintan Bakshi, CEO of Startup Oasis, said, “We need more ideas and entrepreneurs who can eliminate gaps and inefficiencies, and reach rural areas where the need is immediate. In Rajasthan, we have the genesis of about four successful startups. The ideas we come across in the state need mentoring but they are maturing.” Shreyans Mehta, Co-Founder at MedCords, which recently raised funding, said, “Personalised healthcare services in the past six years in Rajasthan have seen a big shift. Our effort has been to create a health record for every family member who collaborated with the National Digital Health Mission. Better recording of patient healthcare data can be beneficial for offering personalized patient care.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/startups-bet-on-healthcare-sector/articleshow/80240509.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Pharma executive loses Rs 2 crore in ponzi scheme||AHMEDABAD: A pharma executive from the Bapunagar on Tuesday filed a complaint with the economic offences wing of CID (crime) alleging that a resident of Visnagar in Mehsana cheated him, his family members and friends of Rs 2.09 crore after promising him 5% to 10% monthly returns on his investments in a multi-level marketing scheme. In his FIR, Harshad Patel, 33, a resident of Jay Bajrang Society and a senior executive in the quality assurance department of Zydus Cadila Healthcare Limited in Changodar, stated that Tribhovan Patel, a resident of Vasantnagar in Visnagar, took the money from him between August 2017 and January 2019. Harshad said a common friend introduced him to Tribhovan, who was running a company called Gurudev Investment. Tribhovan called Harshad to various business meetings in Nikol and Bapunagar. At those meetings, he was told he would need to invest first and then make agents who would get him others to invest in the company. The main investors and others who invest under them would the promised returns, the FIR stated. “I met various agents at those meetings who told me they had earned huge sums and bought land from their earnings from Tribhovan’s company. This got me to invest in the firm and I also made my friends and family members invest in it, in the hope of good returns,” Harshad stated in the FIR. He further stated that after he and his family members and friends invested a huge amount in the firm, they did not get any returns from Tribhovan and his aides, who were mainly Tribhovan’s family members. Harshad said that when he and others began demanding their money, Tribhovan gave them the excuse that Rs 27 crore of theirs was stuck with SEBI and once it was cleared, they would get their money. As his money was not returned, Harshad filed an application with CID (crime) to lodge an offence and the agency filed a complaint of cheating, breach of trust, abetment and criminal conspiracy against Tribhovan and his aides.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pharma-executive-loses-rs-2cr-in-ponzi-scheme/articleshow/80239232.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Chandigarh||19 cartons of vaccine arrive by Pune flight||Mohali: The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine arrived at Chandigarh airport from Pune on Indigo flight 6E-6515 at 12:45pm on Tuesday. Of the 19 boxes, 18 were handed over to the department of health and family welfare, Punjab, and one was received by GMH-16, Chandigarh, said Ajay Bhardwaj, chief executive officer (CEO) of Chandigarh International Airport Limited (CHIAL). Each box contained approximately 12,000 doses. The movement of vaccines was handled by CHIAL, Indigo, CISF, the state police and the state health authorities, he added. Bhardwaj said, “All the protocols for handling the vaccine movement were followed. After receiving them, three vehicles of the state health authorities moved out with a police escort.”Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said after a long wait, first batch of Covishield was received by the EPI officer of the health and family welfare department, Punjab. Five vaccination sites per district were selected for the launch and 100 beneficiaries will be allocated for each site. He said sessions from two sites—District Hospital in Mohali and GMC, Amritsar—will be live-streamed to the Centre, he added. He said it has been stored at State Vaccine Store, Sector 24, Chandigarh, and would be made available at regional, district and block stores as per SOPs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-cartons-of-vaccine-arrive-by-pune-flight/articleshow/80239231.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||HC slams NMC on bad roads in Wathoda, disposes of PIL||Nagpur: A public interest litigation (PIL) filed by residents of Wathoda highlighting pathetic condition of roads was on Tuesday disposed of by the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court after Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) informed the court that it had started concretizing work on all three roads passing through the area. After the petitioners brought to fore pitiable condition of roads in areas like Sangharsh Nagar, Chandmari Temple Road, Bidgaon T-point and Bhandewadi dumping yard, the HC had, during the last hearing, directed the civic body to commence the pending works and submit a detailed reply. “We are constrained to issue these directives after watching the road photographs. Those depict an extremely sorry state of affairs. It’s beyond our imagination as to how much pain the residents of concerned localities must have been experiencing every time they are required to use these barren pieces of land and not roads as they appear to be in the photographs,” a division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote had observed. “If these barren pieces are used as roads, the only option available to the user would be to choose between a small pit and bigger pothole. We hope that at least now the NMC authorities would awaken and get on with the job without wasting any further time,” the bench had said. On Monday, a new bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor stated that since the petitioner’s purpose is solved, there’s no need to keep the PIL by Chandrashekhar Pillai and other residents pending. The petitioners pointed out that the NMC had proposed work of widening, concretization and asphalting of three stretches of road from Sangharsh Nagar and going up to dumping yard and then to Chandmari Temple, stretching further to Bidgaon T-point and then leading to Wathoda crematorium. The work was pending for work orders since October 30, 2019, after lowest bid was submitted by contractor SK Gurbaxani. NMC counsel Girish Kunte however pointed out that the government failed to release funds for the project as assured by it. “We’re of the view that unless actual work is commenced, the NMC must not entertain any hopes for receipt of funds in its hands. When the government committed itself to fund the project in its entirety, there is no reason for the corporation to dither and apprehend that the funds may not be actually available to it while its liability to pay the contractor for the works carried out increases,” the judges had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-slams-nmc-on-bad-roads-in-wathoda-disposes-of-pil/articleshow/80239245.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||AMC sends notice to CIMS for inflating its bills||Ahmedabad: The Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation has issued a show-cause notice to CIMS hospital in Sola for several alleged irregularities and overcharging of patients. The hospital allegedly even admitted asymptomatic Covid patients to high-dependency units (HDU). The AMC earlier fined the hospital Rs 5 lakh for overcharging a patient admitted in the non-requisitioned quota. The notice said that once the bills were submitted, they were checked by a health officer of the AMC and then by resident doctors and assistant professors. The AMC stated that the amount charged needs to be reviewed and the amount claimed will have to adjusted in accordance with the AMC circular fixing charges for the non-requisitioned quota and AMC quota. The AMC, in a seven-page show-cause notice which is with TOI, states that hospital in daily reports did not mention the vital stats of patients and did not write clinical notes in the files. The notice states that instead of being admitted to the isolation ward, certain patients was admitted to the HDU or the ICU with ventilators. The hospital did not even transfer the patient to the isolation ward later but continued to treat him in the ICU with a ventilator. This caused financial losses to the AMC. The corporation listed four patients where such irregularities were found. The AMC stated that in several asymptomatic patients were admitted to the HDU for three to five days. These patients should have been kept in observation for a couple of days and should have been shifted to the isolation ward. The AMC has listed 12 patients who were kept in HDU for long periods. The notice further stated that patients that were referred by SVP Hospital for specific wards but were admitted to higher category wards. This not only caused a financial burden to the AMC but also put the patients in stress and put them at the risk of infection from other patients. Three such cases have come to the AMC’s notice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/amc-sends-notice-to-cims-for-inflating-its-bills/articleshow/80239287.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Ammonia levels in Yamuna spike again, to hit Delhi's water supply||NEW DELHI: With levels of ammonia reaching more than seven times the maximum treatable limit in the Yamuna on Tuesday, Delhi Jal Board has issued an advisory stating that water supply may be hit from Wednesday morning onwards. “As the level of ammonia pollutant in the Yamuna at the Wazirabad pond is high and on an increasing trend on Tuesday, water production has been curtailed from the treatment plants at Wazirabad, Chandrawal and Okhla. Water supply shall be affected in the morning of January 13 and in the evening of January 13 till the ammonia level reduces to a treatable limit,” the advisory read. Some of the areas that are likely to be affected include Civil Lines, Hindu Rao Hospital, Kamla Nagar, Shakti Nagar, Karol Bagh, Paharganj, Old & New Rajinder Nagar, Patel Nagar, Prem Nagar, Inderpuri, Kalkaji, Govindpuri, Tughlaqabad, Sangam Vihar, Ambedkar Nagar, Prahladpur, Model Town, Punjabi Bagh, Jahangirpuri, Moolchand, South Extension, Greater Kailash, Burari and others. When ammonia levels increase, the water supply in many areas, which are directly not under the command area of the affected treatment plant, is also sometimes impacted as the system is interconnected, a senior DJB official said. “When the ammonia level increases at one point, we are forced to divert the raw water from other sources to dilute the pollutant level. The maximum treatable limit of ammonia is 0.9 ppm so the raw water dilution is carried out to reduce the concentration. This helps in minimising the overall impact,” the official said further. DJB has stated that Central Pollution Control Board and the Haryana irrigation department have been informed about the situation. Rise of ammonia and industrial pollutants in the river is a recurring problem with over 20 episodes of ammonia levels increasing several times higher than the acceptable limit having been noticed in the last two years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ammonia-levels-in-yamuna-spike-again-to-hit-water-supply/articleshow/80240563.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Civic chief slashes allocation for development works by half||Nagpur: The ruling BJP in the Nagpur Municipal Corporation received a jolt after municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B on Tuesday slashed the allocation in civic body’s budget under five heads including roads and ward work funds by half. Against the sanctioned amount of Rs 127.52 crore in standing committee Vijay Zalke’s budget for these five heads, the civic chief allocated Rs 63.76 crore. This will affect various works pertaining to basic amenities.The decision was taken by the municipal commissioner against the backdrop of poor financial condition of the civic body and due to poor tax recovery, failure to achieve revenue target and finding new income sources.Already, corporators are complaining about lack of funds and development works in their wards and expressed anguish over the civic chief not releasing funds even after implementing standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke’s Rs2,731 crore budget. Apart from receiving no special grants from state government, Covid-19 crisis hit NMC’s own revenue generation too. The cut will impact cement and tar roads construction and maintenance, sewage, stormwater drains and other types of infrastructure works. BJP leaders are likely to create pressure on the civic chief to take back the decision.“Except these heads, no other heads will be started considering the financial position. These heads also only 50% funds have been allocated,” Radhakrishnan told TOI.The civic chief said there were two reasons behind the decision. “One is the financial crunch and second is implementation period. It is already mid-January and we hardly have two months to implement these works. We cannot carry forward and spillover the things, like in the past,” he said.“So much of spillover results in too many liabilities that restricts next year’s planning,” the civic chief pointed out. Mayor Dayashankar Tiwari put up a brave front. “From zero development works, at least the NMC has started with works under five heads,” he said. Zalke said he would request the civic chief to reduce the cut. “The cut is the result of less recovery by NMC officials against whom action should be initiated,” he stated.Independent corporator Abha Pande said taxpayers will be deprived of development works and added the cut will impact non-BJP corporator wards more. “The ruling party will ensure disbursement of funds in their prabhags,” Pande said. She said that citizens were being made to suffer due to BJP’s failure.Congress corporator and leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve said the party will demand implementation of all works. “Civic chief should have sought the general body’s approval before taking the decision,” he said.Funds sought from govt forroad works: Civic chiefNMC commissioner Radhakrishnan B in his affidavit before Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court admitted the corporation was already undergoing financial crunch and Covid-19 pandemic worsened it. It was submitted in the PIL filed by Wathoda residents, who moved the HC alleging civic body’s apathy in repairing bad roads in their area and delaying new road projects.“NMC is already facing a financial crunch and unable to generate funds. Additionally, corona pandemic, has caused severe financial constraints, which has weakened the financial condition of NMC, which may kindly be taken into consideration,” the civic chief said in the affidavit while replying on HC’s poser on non-sanctioning of funds for laying new roads.Tendering unconditional apology after HC hauled up the NMC administration for incomplete road projects that led to suffering of the Wathoda citizens, Radhakrishnan informed that they had sought funds from the Maharashtra government and prayed for directives for releasing amounts as per progress of road works. Else, the work would be further delayed.Cut by halfHeads—Budget allocation---After 50% Cut (in Rs crore)* Public works in wards---45.57 ---22.78* Pandit Dindayal Upadhyay Road works---42.28— 21.14* For Nagpur city----8.44 ---4.22* Other works---13.92---- 6.96* Road improvement and construction—-17.31---8.65NMC RevenueMonths--- 2019--- 2020April---135.86---122.90May---454.82---203.97June---130.54---140.36July---155.48---143.05August---142.82 ---134.65September---152.52---141.14October---131.12 ---151.97November---207.57---210.13December---177.71 ---145.02Total---1688.44 —1393.19(Amount in Rs crore)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/civic-chief-slashes-allocation-for-development-works-by-half/articleshow/80239241.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand reports 184 new cases, 11 deaths||Dehradun: With 184 new cases of Covid-19 being reported in the state on Tuesday, the novel coronavirus total reached 93,961. Eleven patients succumbed to Covid here in the last 24 hours taking the total number of fatalities to 1,589. Abhishek Tripathi from Covid-19 control room informed TOI that 12,587 samples tested negative on Tuesday while among the 184 positive cases, 89 cases were reported from Dehradun alone. “Nainital reported 43 new Covid-19 cases followed by 18 in Haridwar, 9 in Udham Singh Nagar, 6 in Pauri, 4 each in Almora and Uttarkashi, 3 in Tehri, 2 each in Rudraprayag, Bageshwar and Chamoli, and 1 each in Pithoragarh and Champawat,” Tripathi added. Among the 11 Covid-19 deaths, 4 patients died at Sushila Tiwari Medical College Haldwani, 1 at AIIMS Rishikesh, 2 at Doon Medical College, 2 at Kailash Hospital, 1 at Sri Mahant Indiresh Hospital and 1 at Kashipur’s Ujala Hospital. The death rate in the state has increased to 1.6%. With 276 new recoveries reported on Tuesday, the state’s recovery rate reached 94%. A total of 88,472 patients have recovered from Covid-19 in Uttarakhand so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-reports-184-new-cases-11-deaths/articleshow/80237297.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat HC raps officials for externing father and son||AHMEDABAD: The Gujarat high court came down heavily on the authorities for externing a man and his son from Navsari district by siding with a private building contractor in order to facilitate his construction activity. On Monday, Justice Paresh Upadhyay lambasted the sub-divisional magistrate for working as an agent of the contractor and criticized the government secretary for treating the issue casually. The HC quashed the one-year externment of the father-son duo saying it was misuse of power in a private dispute between two individuals and societies. The HC said the duo is eligible for compensation because they were wrongly forced to stay away from home during the Covid-19 pandemic. This case involved Digesh Solanki and his father Harishchandra Solanki, a retired police officer. They are the the secretary and chairman of Jal Kamal Society at Vejalpore in Navsari. They got into a tiff with a private contractor, who was constructing a residential society nearby. They were irked with plying of heavy vehicles carrying construction material because the society road got damaged. The contractor and his employees lodged two FIRs against the Solankis for assault, criminal intimidation and obstruction. On the basis of these FIRs, the magistrate called them and asked them to settle the dispute. On their refusal, proceedings for externment began and they were externed for one year on February 4, 2020. The Solankis appealed before the secretary saying the SDM was not even present when they were summoned and he still passed the order. However, the secretary upheld the externment decision in September. The externed persons moved the HC through advocate Zubin Bharda. After hearing their case, Justice Upadhyay was furious and said, “In totality, on facts this court finds that the exercise of power by the externing authority (SDM), was not bona fide, it was more to facilitate a private commercial activity of a private individual. The impugned externment orders cannot be said to have been passed in good faith, and therefore, while setting aside the impugned orders, the aspect of compensation to the petitioners is kept open.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/hc-raps-officials-for-externing-father-and-son/articleshow/80239240.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||CM to hold special meet on Bhandara hosp fire inquiry status today||Mumbai/Pune/Nagpur: Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Wednesday hold a special meeting to discuss the status of inquiry into the Bhandara district general hospital fire which left 10 premature babies dead at its Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) on January 9. The incident would also be discussed in Wednesday’s cabinet meeting, senior officials told TOI. The government also denied that any “preliminary report” was submitted to it, and extended the inquiry report deadline. Health minister Rajesh Tope said, “The inquiry committee has not submitted any report yet. Let them take some more time and they should not be in any hurry, as they have to diligently carry out the investigation and then submit the report. We should expect the same within the next two to three days.”In his order dated January 9, health commissioner N Ramaswamy had asked the panel to submit a report in three days. “The report is expected in two days. Today all experts were there and they will submit the report after carrying out a detailed assessment,” he told TOI.Ramaswamy also said that the health department was working on ensuring preventive measures across all hospitals.Senior officials said, “The CM would also seek details of what remedial measures have been taken after the incident in the special meeting.”The 8-member inquiry panel led by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar couldn’t submit the report on Tuesday, which was the fourth day of the probe.Speaking to TOI, Kumar said, “We are all working on it. Entire day, we were at Bhandara hospital. We will complete it in next few days.” Asked if any extension has been given, Kumar said instead of rushing with the report it is better to do it properly. “Why this tragedy took place and what systems should be put in place are also being looked at. There is no harm in taking some more time,” he said.Regarding filing an FIR, Kumar said it was not the panel’s mandate. Once completed, the report would be handed over to the principal secretary (public heath).State fire director and deputy BMC commissioner (disaster management and fire safety) PS Rahangdale, who is guiding the panel on technical issues, told TOI that the report may take more time. “The investigation will take time. Deputy chief fire officer (Mumbai) Rajendra Choudhary, divisional fire officer Parab and Nagpur’s CFO Rajendra Uchake were with me today at Bhandara. We almost accomplished our mission. There are some details we have sought. Our report will be combined with the Kumar panel,” he said.Principal secretary (public health) Pradeep Vyas, Ramaswamy and Rahangdale visited the Bhandara hospital for the first time on Tuesday. The probe is being handled by director of health services Dr Sadhana Tayade at the hospital level. A panel member told TOI that the high profile visits slowed down the recording of statements, which went on beyond 9pm on Tuesday. A day earlier, nurses and doctors were quizzed by Dr Tayade and other members including GMCH’s paediatric head Dr Dipty Jain, PWD’s Hemant Patil, CFO Rajendra Choudhary and collector’s representative.The inquiry panel observed that the seven inborn babies may not have survived but for the heroic efforts of two security guards, a telephone operator, civil surgeon’s office attendant and a male ICU nurse. The member said Baban, Manoj Chilkar, male nurse Ajit Purjekar, security guards Gaurav Rehpade and Shivam Madwi recorded statements. “We applauded their efforts. No one exactly knew the way to inborn section. These men helped make a way for escape,” the member said. Regarding media reports that a preliminary inquiry report was submitted to the government, the member said it was a cabinet note sent at the start of the probe. “Pictures of burned radiant warmers and intact electrical wiring were attached to the note,” the member said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cm-to-hold-special-meet-on-bhandara-hosp-fire-inquiry-status-today/articleshow/80239249.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 13, 2021||Rajkot||Man running online sex racket arrested||Rajkot: A man from Jharkhand, who was running an online sex racket, was arrested by the Rajkot police on Tuesday. Rakesh Kumar alias Ajay Singh (32) was nabbed from Mohana village of Kodarma district in Jharkhand after his name cropped up when cops busted a sex racket in a guest house near Rajkot state transport bus stand on January 6. One girl from Mumbai was rescued and a man from Rajkot, Bharat alias Ravi Gohel was arrested for operating the racket. During interrogation, Bharat told the police that the racket was being operated online by Rakesh while he was merely a coordinator. Police traced Rakesh to Kodarma and he will be brought to Rajkot for further questioning. It is suspected that Rakesh was operating a nation-wide sex racket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-running-online-sex-racket-arrested/articleshow/80238242.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Margao’s new waste plan gets housing societies’ OK||Margao: Moves by Margao Municipal Council (MMC), to take all housing cooperative societies across the city on board its decentralized waste management plans, has had its desired effects. MMC chief officer Agnelo Fernandes told TOI that a number of societies have given their NOCs for installation of a suitable waste disposal facility, in accordance with their respective needs. A meeting was held with representatives of the societies recently, he said, and their cooperation in that regard was sought. “The NOCs have been forwarded to the directorate of municipal administration (DMA). Once the DMA gives its approval, a suitable technology will be selected and the facility installed. Maintenance of the facility will be the responsibility of the respective societies,” Fernandes said. Pointing out that post-installation maintenance was crucial for successful implementation of any waste management system, Fernandes said, “MMC will ensure its projects and facilities are operated by the best team of experts in compliance with the Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 and guidelines pertaining to bulk waste generators.” Explaining the concept, he said: “In order to follow waste management rules by bulk waste generators, as per central guidelines and municipal bye laws, MMC will introduce sustainable waste management practices in the residential societies of Margao and Fatorda. A decentralized approach is to treat the wet waste at its source of generation. Following evaluation of waste generated, availability of space and cost of operation, a suitable technology will be suggested. Currently, technologies available are portable biogas, organic waste convertor (mechanical composting) and drum composting, along with operation and maintenance.” Further, stating that segregation was the key to successful waste management practices, Fernandes said that cash awards will be instituted to encourage people to segregate recyclable dry waste. “That means societies can earn from their recyclable waste.” Societies or contractors engaged in treatment of the decentralized units will have to submit a work completion report every half yearly which will mention quantum of waste generated, waste treated, waste sent for recycling and other waste handling. “This will ensure updated information and functioning of decentralized units,” Fernandes said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/margaos-new-waste-plan-gets-housing-societies-ok/articleshow/80241497.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||IndiGo’s manager at Patna airport shot dead||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead IndiGo airline’s station manager at Patna airport in front of his apartment on Shankar Path at Punaichak under Shastri Nagar police station area in the state capital at around 7.05pm on Tuesday. The reason behind the murder could not be ascertained. The deceased was identified as Rupesh Kumar Singh (42). He had returned from the airport after duty and just stopped his SUV in front of the apartment Kusum Vilas for the guard to open the main gate when criminals pumped at least six bullets into his chest from the window of the driving seat. “He was lying motionless on his driving seat wearing the seat belt when police pulled him out and rushed to a private hospital where he was declared dead,” said a policeman at the hospital. The locality where the killing took place has the residences of VIPs, busy market and government offices. Police sources said six empty cartridges were recovered from the spot. They said either criminals had followed him from the airport or were waiting near his residence. IG (central range) Sanjay Singh, SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, City SP (central) Vinay Tiwari, Sachivalaya DSP Rajesh Singh Prabhakar along with other policemen rushed to the spot. IG Singh said a team has been formed to investigate the murder and arrest the killers. “There was no eyewitness to the incident and reasons behind the killing is still not clear,” Singh said, adding CCTV camera footages were being screened. He said Rupesh was head of the IndiGo airline at Jayaprakash Narayan international airport in Patna. Meanwhile, Vikash Sinha, a resident of the same apartment, said Rupesh had returned from a short trip to Goa on Sunday with his family. “He was friendly and of helpful nature. He had never discussed about any issues. He had purchased the new SUV a day before last year Dhanteras. He was a native of Jalalpur in Chhapra,” Sinha said. Another neighbour Shubham Kumar said they used to play cricket every day on the road in front of the apartment. “The road has a dead end. Incidentally, we didn’t play on Tuesday due to cold. We heard six to seven gunshots,” he said. Subham said Rupesh had two children — one daughter studying in Class IV and a son, who had just started his schooling. The CCTV cameras of the apartment were non-functional.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indigos-manager-at-patna-airport-shot/articleshow/80239326.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||BJP’s first core panel meet of 2021 on Jan 16||Dehradun: The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will hold its first core committee meeting of 2021 on January 16. The meeting will be chaired by state president Bansidhar Bhagat while all senior leaders of the party, including chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat, will participate in the meeting in which performance of MLAs will be analysed. Bhagat will also analyse which dignitary has followed the guidelines shared by the national president in his visit to the state in the first week of December. “We have already prepared a plan and points that will be discussed in the meeting. As seniors of the party will be together, agendas and plans for elections will also be discussed,” said Bhagat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjps-first-core-panel-meet-of-2021-on-jan-16/articleshow/80237316.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Uttarayan: Pols lose pole position due to curbs||AHMEDABAD: ‘Amdavad ni Uttarayan’ is quintessentially celebrated on the terraces of centuries-old heritage homes in the pols of the city. These sites draw throngs of local residents as well as people from all parts of Ahmedabad, year after year. However, due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the restrictions imposed by the state authorities on large gatherings and flying kites in public places, the living heritage of the city will lack some colour this year. “I normally go to a pol with my friends to enjoy Uttarayan every year,” said Bhargav K, a city-based software engineer. “However, this time neither are terraces available nor do I find it safe to venture out in a big group.” Bhargav added: “I’d rather enjoy flying kites at home with family members. A few friends from the neighbourhood might join in.” In the run-up to Uttarayan, terraces are usually up for grabs and the rents soar as the festival nears. “At least 1 lakh people celebrate Uttarayan in the pols every year,” said Jaival Bhatt, a resident of Khadia. “However, this year, due to the pandemic, people have limited the celebrations to their families.” Bhatt went on to say: “Pol residents will not rent out terraces and thus, there will be about 10,000 people celebrating the festival in the area.” This year, inquiries are few and most Uttarayan haunts, including havelis and heritage properties, have not rented out terraces. The thriving local economy of the pols during Uttarayan — which includes snack and sweets business and kite trade — has been hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/uttarayan-pols-lose-pole-position-due-to-curbs/articleshow/80239257.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Driver who fought off coronavirus ferries vials of hope||KOLKATA: Debaprashad Basu contracted the novel coronavirus in May last year, when cases were still low in the state. On Tuesday, the 63-year-old Dum Dum resident wore a proud smile as he drove the van into the Central Family Welfare Stores at Bagbazar, carrying a consignment of vaccines from the airport on Tuesday. Basu was one of the two drivers who transported the state’s first lot of Covid-19 vaccines to the Bagbazar warehouse. “I feel privileged to have been assigned the task of driving a vaccine van from the airport. Being a Covid survivor, I know how a patient suffers, not to mention the trauma and anxiety. This vaccine is supposed to be a weapon against the virus and I am happy to be part of the system that will reach the shots to beneficiaries,” Basu told TOI. Basu had tested positive for Covid in mid-May during an assignment to deliver vaccines for routine immunisation in Alipuduar. He was brought back to Kolkata and admitted to ID Hospital . With no co-morbidity, Basu was discharged after eight days to be home quarantined for two weeks. His family, too, spent days under institutional quarantine. “Luckily, I returned home in good health. But I have seen people, including those in my known circles, die of Covid. I hope the vaccine will end the pandemic,” said the Covid survivor. Basu was instructed on Monday to report to work early on Tuesday for an important assignment. Basu had guessed it would be to fetch the vaccines from the airport and so, he reached the state health transport department in Sealdah by 10am. “I have been driving vaccine vans for a few years. But it was a different feeling on Tuesday, when a pilot car escorted us. That showed how important the vaccines were. I was excited but I did not let the emotions overwhelm me as my duty was to ferry the vaccines to the Bagbazar depot safely,” he said. On Wednesday, Basu is slated for a 700-km drive to north Bengal with the vaccines. He is happy healthcare workers will be the first beneficiaries. “I have received a message, confirming I will be vaccinated in the first phase. I am happy for the state acknowledgement for Covid warriors. But before that, I have to ensure each vaccine vial I am assigned to reaches its destination safely,” Basu said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/driver-who-fought-off-virus-ferries-vials-of-hope/articleshow/80239259.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||Farmers block crushing at Barkhera sugar mill to demand clearing of arrears||Pilibhit: Farmers of over 20 villages attached with Barkhera sugar mill of Bajaj Hindusthan Group blocked the mill’s wheel to protest against the non-payment of cane price arrears. They have been staging a dharna at the mill gate since Monday under the aegis of Rashtriya Kisan Majdoor Sangathan, demanding immediate clearance of cane price of both last season and this. District cane officer Jitendra Kumar Sharma rushed to the spot to negotiate with the farmers and find a way out.According to district cane department records, the mill owes farmers Rs 45.28 crore from the previous season and Rs 108.23 crore from the current season.“The sugar mill is openly violating provisions of the UP Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, as well as orders of Allahabad high court, both of which direct sugar mills to ensure payment of cane price within 14 days from the date of procurement. In case of delay, it is imperative upon the mills to pay interest at 12%,” said Phool Chandra Acharya of village Jyoraha Kalyanpur, a local farmer leader.He said the mill management has told protesting farmers that previous year’s sugar stock has been sold out, and arrears of the last crushing season would be paid-off through the sale proceeds of current year’s sugar stocks.“The state sugar administration has a provision of tagging 85% of the total sugar stocks to pay-off farmers against procured cane. This indicates the mill misappropriated the amount of sugar sale earmarked for clearing our arrears, by adopting unfair means,” Acharya alleged.The mill’s vice-president J S Jadav could not be contacted, despite repeated phone calls from TOI to seek his version. Farmers said they will not lift their dharna till their demands are met.District cane officer (DCO) Jitendra Kumar Mishra said the farmers had obstructed the weighing of sugarcane at the mill gate, which resulted in suspension of cane crushing at the mill.“We’ve given a written undertaking to farmers that the previous year’s arrears will be cleared by January 20, while the mill will pay the current year’s dues by February 10. Despite this, farmers are adamant about continuing the protest,” the DCO said.The farmers rejected the DCO’s assurance outright, countering that unless their arrears are cleared, they would be forced to take bank loans to meet their agricultural investment needs for the next season, while the mill was utilising their money in violation of legal norms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/farmers-block-crushing-at-barkhera-sugar-mill-to-demand-clearing-of-arrears/articleshow/80236714.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Muslim man beaten in Sola||Ahmedabad: A labourer from Chanakyapuri was allegedly beaten by four men after they asked him about his origin and he could not give them an answer they deemed proper. In his FIR with Sola police, Arafat Shaikh, 23, a resident of Cheharnagar and a daily wage labourer who has been staying here with his wife here for eight months, stated that the incident took place on Monday. “When I was having tea at a shop in the Chanakyapuri vegetable market at 2.30pm on Monday, two men asked me where I had come from. I asked them why they were asking me that. They then began abusing me,” states Shaikh in the FIR. Shaikh alleged that they then got more aggressive and phoned someone. After a few minutes, two more men came on a motorcycle with sticks. The four then beat Shaikh with sticks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/muslim-man-beaten-in-sola/articleshow/80239251.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||5,000 poultry birds culled in Latur district, 6k more soon||Pune: Between 4,000 and 5,000 poultry birds were culled in Ahmedpur in Latur district till 3pm on Tuesday, according to the district’s administration. Estimates from the animal husbandry department showed that around 6,000 more birds were expected to be culled in the district over the next couple of days. Culling in Parbhani is expected to start on Wednesday, state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI on Tuesday. Of the 97 bird samples sent to the animal husbandry department from 13 districts in the state, 18 samples have so far tested positive, officials said. “As per protocol, all poultry birds within a 1km radius of the infected poultry farms will be culled — that’s approximately 10,000 birds in Latur district. However, only surveillance will continue in Mumbai, Ghodbander (Thane district), Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. An estimated 5,500-8,000 birds are to be culled in Parbhani. The exact number will be known once the process is complete, officials said. “These are the tentative numbers sent by the district administration. Since the culling will be done among backyard poultry, the numbers could vary till the operation is complete,” Singh added. Latur district collector Pruthviraj B P said the infection was found at Kendrewadi in Ahmedpur and Sukni in Udgir. “Till 3pm on Tuesday, around 4,000-5,000 birds were culled in Kendrewadi. There are approximately five places with poultry birds in this radius. The count is still on,” Pruthviraj said. He said that birds closest to the infected cases would be culled first, followed by those are farther away, but within the radius. “On Tuesday, we prioritized culling in farms that showed signs of infection,” the collector said. Anoop Kumar, principal secretary of the state animal husbandry ministry, said they were considering empowering district collectors to issue culling orders to speed up the process. “Also, the disease investigation laboratory in Pune will be upgraded to Biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) to test for virus strains in samples, like the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) In Bhopal,” Kumar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/5000-poultry-birds-culled-in-latur-district-6k-more-soon/articleshow/80240550.cms||Neha Madaan
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||+ve travellers from SA, Europe, Mideast can opt for 2 pvt hosps||Mumbai: People arriving from South Africa, Europe and Middle East who are found positive or have symptoms can now opt to get admitted in either of two private facilities, Bombay Hospital in Marine Lines and P D Hinduja in Mahim. BMC said the patients have to be charged according to capped rates of the 80:20 scheme. Civic chief I S Chahal issued an order on Tuesday allowing positive non-UK returnees to get hospitalised in private hospitals as many travellers demanded to stay in private facilities. State-run G T Hospital used to be the only centre where such patients could be hospitalised. Travellers from SA, Europe and Middle East are kept under institutional quarantine after arrival. If found symptomatic on arrival or positive on RT-PCR test on the seventh day, they are to be shifted to a hospital. “The travellers have to pay as per the schedule of 80:20 scheme. Hospitals have to maintain records and a separate isolation facility for these patients,” Chahal said in the order.  For those unable to afford hotels for quarantine, BMC has provided Richardson & Cruddas jumbo centre. BMC brought the seven-day institutional quarantine policy for travellers from these countries from December 23 after newer, more infectious strains were detected. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ve-travellers-from-sa-europe-mideast-can-opt-for-2-pvt-hosps/articleshow/80240004.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Patna||54,900 Covishield vials land in Bihar||PATNA: The first batch of 54,900 ‘Covishield’ vials landed here from Pune on Tuesday to start the Covid vaccination process at the 300 centres across the state on January 16. Each vial has 10 doses. The consignment was transported from the airport in three refrigerated vans to a special temperature controlled storage facility at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) in Patna with heavy police escort. The vaccines will be sent from NMCH to 10 regional centres for further distribution in different districts. State health minister Mangal Pandey, who was present at the city airport along with department’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit and other officials, said primarily the health and frontline workers would get the shots from the consignment available to protect themselves from the Covid-19 infection. “We have received 54,900 vials of Covishield. Each vial contains 5 millilitres of vaccine and only 0.5ml is administered in one dose,” Pandey explained. The minister said the vaccination drive in the state would be launched at the IGIMS in Patna at around 10.45am on Saturday in the presence of CM Nitish Kumar. “Around 4.77 lakh frontline workers in the state have registered themselves on CoWIN portal for vaccination so far,” he said. The beneficiaries will have to get the second dose of the vaccine after 28 days. It will be the responsibility of the district administration concerned to keep the vaccines stored safely. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said though there are 5.49 lakh doses available, only 2.5 lakh people would be administered the shots from this consignment as one dose of Covishield has to be kept for the second round use by the beneficiaries after 28 days. “There will be some wastage too,” added Manoj. Earlier, he had said the state will also get 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech. When asked about the next batch of consignments, Pandey told TOI that the central government would inform the state as per requirement and availability. Amrit said those who have registered for vaccination would receive notification via SMS on January 16. “January 25 is the last day to get registered for the first phase of vaccination drive,” he added. Pandey said 100 people at each of the 300 centres in the state would be administered the shots on the first day of vaccination programme. The 300 centres include government medical college and hospitals, sadar and sub-divisional hospitals, primary health centres and private medical institutes. “Special syringes required for the vaccination have already been supplied to these centres,” he said. “It’s a historic day for the country, our scientists and Bihar, too, that an indigenously manufactured vaccine would be given to the people for fighting Covid-19. This a step towards PM Narendra Modi’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ vision,” Pandey said. In reply to comments made by the opposition leaders on the vaccine, Pandey said he doesn’t know if they have any knowledge of health or medial science, but the vaccine has been developed as per international standards after three phases of trial.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/54900-covishield-vials-land-in-bihar/articleshow/80239253.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 13, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Home guard jawan fires at Munger cops, gunned down||PATNA: Police neutralized a home guard jawan in a shootout assuming him to be a Maoist on the Bariyarpur police station premises in Munger early Tuesday morning. The deceased, Mohammad Zahid (48), was posted at the same police station only four days back. He hailed from Bakarpur in Munger. Police said Zahid went rogue under depression and started firing from his service rifle from the police station washroom towards barracks and other installation in the darkness. Assuming that it was a Maoist attack, policemen returned the fire, said Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon. He said since Zahid was killed in a police encounter, a report would be sent to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). “The body inquest was done by deputing a magistrate. Postmortem was videorecorded and conducted by a medical board as per the NHRC guidelines. An FIR has been lodged against Zahid and further investigation was on,” he said. “Police made announcements on megaphone asking him to surrender and identify himself. He was pinpointed inside the washroom after searching every room and corner of the police station in the dark around 2am,” he told TOI. Dhillon said the guard had fired ten rounds out of the 50 rounds allotted to him. He said Zahid’s service rifle, 40 live cartridges and his cellphone were recovered from the spot. “Mein kukhyat hu.. Aaj mein tum sab ko bhoon dalunga.. (I am notorious… I will shoot you all down today…),” Dhillon quoted Zahid as saying when he was asked to identify himself and surrender. The SP said his utterances gave an impression that Maoists had attacked the police station. An SOS was sent to five adjoining police stations from where policemen reached Bariyarpur. Dhillon said whenever any policeman attempted to move towards him, Zahid opened fire. He said Zahid was under depression for personal reasons and taking medicines. “He had married twice. His first wife is from Munger but they didn’t have cordial relation. He again married a woman from Bhagalpur around 15 years back,” he said. Dhillon said Zahid’s second wife, along with their 13-year-old son, had reached Bariyarpur police station on Monday to take him back for treatment. “He had refused. The family has been asked to produce relevant documents regarding his medication,” he said. He said Zahid had gone to sleep after dinner at around 8pm. The SP said Zahid is seen in the CCTV camera footage rushing out of his room in civil uniform with his rifle and additional cartridges at around 11.45pm. “He was then spotted taking position behind a tree and trying to aim at a policeman passing by. From there he went to the bathroom complex,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guard-jawan-fires-at-munger-cops-gunned-down/articleshow/80239283.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||IMD forecasts wind will favour kitists||Ahmedabad: The India Meteorological Department (IMD) in its forecast on Tuesday said that north-easterly winds with speeds of 8 to 10 kmph are likely to prevail over Ahmedabad. According to experts, 9 to 12 kmph winds are the best for kite-flying as they give adequate lift for easy launch of the diamond-shaped kites that are the most common in Gujarat. The IMD forecast also said that there will be no large change in minimum temperatures for the next 48 hours. ‘Thereafter, there will be a rise in minimum temperature by 2-3 degrees celsius during the subsequent three days,’ indicating warmer days ahead for the region. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/imd-forecasts-wind-will-favour-kitists/articleshow/80239272.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Allotment list for engineering undergrad courses out today||PUNE: Thousands of students who have applied for admissions to undergraduate engineering courses will get their first allotment list on Wednesday. Students who accept the allotted seat and go ahead with the admission can click on the freeze option, while those who do not must click the not freeze option for betterment. With more students scoring higher marks compared to the last year, the first cut-off scores are expected to go up. The students must accept the offered seat through his/her login, report to the allotted institute, confirm the admission by submitting the required documents and pay fees from January 14 to 16. The student needs to self-verify the seat allotment and if there is an error in the claims made by the student (marks, reservation, gender) then they need to immediately report the grievance through their login by online mode. Those students who are allotted their first preference as submitted by them in their option form get their choice ‘auto-freeze’. They need to pay the seat acceptance fee online through their login and they would not be considered eligible for the subsequent centralised admission process rounds whether they accept the seat or not. Students who have been allotted preference other than their first, but want to go ahead with the admission, need to self-freeze the allotment through their login, accept the seat and pay the seat acceptance fees through online mode. These students also will not be eligible for subsequent rounds after this. However, if a student has got the allotted seat other than their first preference, and wants to try again in the second round, he or she needs to accept the seat by choosing not freeze option and pay only the seat acceptance fee online. All students who have opted to freeze and accept their allotment must report to the allotted institute for confirmation of admission within the stipulated time. After the first CAP round ends, the provisional vacancy list for the second CAP round will be made available online on January 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/allotment-list-for-engg-undergrad-courses-out-today/articleshow/80240578.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Probe launched into viral video of abusive cop||MUMBAI: The Dongri police have begun a probe into a video of an off-duty police constable abusing the staff of a hotel that went viral on Monday. The constable, Ankush Hule, who is posted at the Dongri police station since the past three-and-half years can be seen abusing the staff of the hotel at Reay Road, using vulgar language and making obscene gestures. He seemed to be under the influence of alcohol. “We have subjected him to medical examination to find out if he was drunk,” said a senior police officer. Another senior officer on Monday night said that Hule was subjected to medical examination and disciplinary action was being contemplated against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/probe-launched-into-viral-video-of-abusive-cop/articleshow/80241506.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Wife withdraws plea seeking to be guardian of royal scion||MUMBAI: Former MP Ratna Singh on Tuesday withdrew her petition before Bombay HC to be appointed legal guardian of her ailing husband and caretaker of the properties inherited by him. Justice Nijamoodin Jamadar was informed by her advocate Anand Mishra that his client, Rajkumari Ratna Singh, is withdrawing the plea and seeks liberty to file a fresh one under Article 226 for similar relief. Singh was thrice Congress MP from Pratapgarh, Uttar Pradesh. She joined BJP in October 2019. Singh’s husband Jai Singh Sisodia, a descendant of a royal family in Rajasthan, is admitted to a rehab centre in Vasai. Her petition said he is “an alcoholic, drug addict and has severe medical conditions” including cancer. She also said he “sold properties and valuables to buy drugs” and, to safeguard the properties, it is necessary to appoint her his legal guardian. Singh had filed the plea under the Guardians and Wards Act which is applicable to minors. At a previous hearing, the court suggested she withdraw and file it afresh under Article 226 which gives HC wide powers to grant relief. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia opposed granting Singh liberty to move a fresh plea. Justice Jamadar, however, granted Mishra’s request.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-mp-pulls-plea-seeking-to-be-guardian-of-royal-scion/articleshow/80241498.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Arvind Kejriwal applauds fellows of CM’s urban leadership programme||NEW DELHI: Congratulating the fellows of the Chief Minister’s Urban Leaders Fellowship (CMULF) programme, announced two years ago, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Tuesday that he hoped that it had sensitised the participants towards resolving the problems of common people. At its concluding session, Kejriwal also appreciated the fellows for their diligence and hard work. “I hope your journey of these two years was useful. I got a chance to hear your experiences... It is very nice to know that you all have worked hard to make these (Delhi government’s) flagship schemes successful,” he said. “The name of the programme suggests that it is a leadership programme, and I hope that it has sown a seed of leadership within you. I also hope that it has motivated you to become a better human being. You all were working on the critical policies for the people, to resolve the problems of the general public.” Minister of administrative reforms Kailash Gahlot was also present at the meeting, along with several Delhi government officials. The urban leadership programme had 30 positions, out of which 10 were for associate fellows and were open for young professionals under 35 years of age.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/kejriwal-applauds-fellows-of-cms-urban-leadership-programme/articleshow/80240595.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||Tramautised husband of Badaun victim referred to mental hospital||BAREILLY: The husband of the 50-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped, brutalised and left to die slowly has not been able to come to terms with what happened to her. As his condition deteriorated, he was referred to the mental hospital in Bareilly on Tuesday. “On Monday afternoon, he was asleep in his room. He woke with a start, screaming and asking for his wife. He went around looking for her, from room to room. When he couldn’t find her, he picked up a pan with charcoal embers and ran outside. We managed to bring him inside but he started banging his head against the wall,” his son-in-law told TOI. Over the course of their marriage, he had leaned on her completely. When he fell ill a few years ago, she took over — providing for the family, bringing up the children and taking care of him. Last Sunday, hours after she left home to offer prayers at a temple, she was dropped home in a dying state by the three men accused of raping and killing her — a priest and his two aides. “He has been in shock since he saw her blood-soaked body,” his son-in-law said. On Monday afternoon, they called the police and asked for help. “We sent an ambulance with a police team. He was taken to the district hospital first but there was no psychiatrist there. He was then taken to Bareilly,” Badaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI. “At the mental hospital in Bareilly, the doctor told us he is in post-traumatic shock. He needs to be put under medication for 15 days,” the son-in-law added. “He has been sent back with a prescription and medicines,” Dr CP Mall, who attended to him, said. The first dose of medication calmed him and he was taken back to the district hospital for treatment of his head injuries. “There, he underwent a CT scan,” the son-in-law said. The sedatives will continue. Police have spoken to the family about providing mental health support. A forensics team from Lucknow, meanwhile, visited the two villages — where she was from and where she was allegedly raped — to reconstruct the events. The SSP said, “We expect to share the findings soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/tramautised-husband-of-badaun-victim-referred-to-mental-hospital/articleshow/80242152.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Student numbers grow on second day back||AHMEDABAD: The number of students going to school after classroom studies resumed on Monday rose on the second day, and a significant rise is expected after Uttarayan. In Ahmedabad, the number of students attending school has gone up from 28% on Monday to 35% on Tuesday, said R C Patel, district education officer for Ahmedabad city. The trend in rural Ahmedabad has been the same, where the figure went up from 29.7% on Monday to 35% on Tuesday. The arrival of vaccine doses in the state has given some hope to the public, but it may take longer for it to reach school and college students. Overall, the number of students attending classes across the state rose from 38% on Monday to 42% on Tuesday. Students of Classes X, XII and final-year undergraduate and postgraduate students headed to class on Monday after nine months following the lockdown. School authorities welcomed students at the gates with thermal scanners and hand sanitizer, in line with the guidelines laid down by the state government. Masks and hand sanitizer have been made mandatory. The government made it clear that attendance is not mandatory and online classes will continue. Schools, colleges and university campuses across the state were shut after the pandemic broke at the end of March. Classes have been held online since then. Though the government had earlier decided to reopen secondary schools and colleges after the Diwali vacation last year, it dropped the idea following a sudden spike in cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/student-numbers-grow-on-second-day-back/articleshow/80239295.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||E-W tunnelling: Sealdah flyover to remain closed from Friday night||KOLKATA: The traffic department on Tuesday issued a notification, mentioning that the Sealdah flyover will remain closed from 11pm on Friday till 6am on Tuesday to facilitate East-West Metro tunnelling. On Tuesday afternoon, Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC), the implementing agency of the project, which will eventually link Sector V in Salt Lake with Howrah Maidan, and Kolkata Police released the traffic diversion plan. This is the second time the flyover is being closed for tunnelling. It was blocked for two-and-a-half days from October 2 when Urvi was building the other tunnel. The duration of closure was less during the first stint. Now cops are bracing for a tough time as local trains have resumed services and there are more cars and buses plying. Around 60 cops will be engaged to implement the diversions. The last 800m of the westward tunnel of the corridor is being built. The flyover must be closed for safety while the 450tonne tunnel boring machine (TBM) digs 20m below the ground. Operations of the TBM, nicknamed Urvi, had to be suspended on Tuesday (January 5) — a day after the digging started — because it would have hit the flyover on Monday night but KMRC didn’t have the permission for the flyover closure. Digging resumed on Saturday. Going by the TBM’s digging schedule, KMRC and contractors ITD ITD-Cementation, had sought a five-day flyover closure from Monday (January 11), but were instead offered the period between January 22 and January 26, which included a weekend and a holiday. A TBM once started can’t be stopped. So, KMRC asked for an earlier closure date. The machine was on static motion for four days while KMRC pursued for closure permission from Friday. The flyover will be out of bounds to vehicles during the daytime on January 16, 17 and 18 while the TBM gets five nights and three days to cover the 25m across the flyover. Currently, 7km of the corridor – from Sector V to Phoolbagan – is functional. Railway minister Piyush Goyal, inaugurating the Phoolbagan station last October, had announced a December 2021 commissioning date for the entire 16-km corridor. Urvi on October 9, last year, completed one leg of the East-West Metro tunnel between Esplanade and Sealdah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/e-w-tunnelling-sealdah-flyover-to-remain-closed-from-friday-night/articleshow/80239282.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 13, 2021||Delhi||3 held days after woman fell off rick trying to resist snatchers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Three days after a woman fell off a moving e-rickshaw and was severely injured while trying to save her purse from three snatchers in northwest Delhi’s Azadpur, police on Tuesday said the three accused have been nabbed. They have been identified as 21-year-old Ajay and his associate, Vaibhav, 20, both residents of Model Town. The third person is a juvenile, police said. A country made pistol and a knife used to threaten the targets and four stolen two-wheelers along with 11 mobile phones and some cash were recovered from the trio. The snatched purse was also recovered. The incident took place last Friday when a 34-year-old woman was travelling in an e-rickshaw to reach her home in Burari. The moment she reached near Azadpur flyover U-turn, three men on a bike tried to snatch from her a purse in which she was carrying some cash and documents. As the woman tried to save her purse, the men pulled her down and she fell off the moving vehicle, injuring herself seriously. The woman had then reported the matter to police and she was taken to a hospital. Deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Vijayanta Arya said a case of robbery was registered and CCTV footage from the spot was checked to identify the accused. “Following three days of investigation, our men received an input that the suspects would visit the same spot in search of other targets. A trap was laid and they were held. The motorcycle on which they were travelling was found to be stolen,” Arya said. During interrogation, the accused disclosed their involvement in Friday’s incident, the DCP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/3-held-days-after-woman-fell-off-rick-trying-to-evade-snatchers/articleshow/80240630.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||CCP may have more wards in Taleigao than in Panaji||Panaji: As the state election commission and department of urban development are gearing up for the municipal polls, checking of around 350 electronic voting machines (EVMs) for elections to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) has commenced. Voting for the other municipalities will be done through ballot paper. However, the major development will be the change of profile of CCP, though the government is yet to give its nod to the proposal by minister Jennifer Monserrate and Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate to include Taleigao within CCP’s jurisdiction. Villagers say that the issue should have been discussed at the Taleigao gram sabha. Expressing surprise at the latest move, a resident said that only recently authorities were justifying the need for a huge panchayat ghar complex at the cost of the paddy fields, thereby denying locals to continue the tradition of farming. Political observers have questioned the timing of this move, with weeks to go before the corporation goes to polls. Presently there are nine wards in Taleigao and 21 in Panaji. If the Monserrates have their way and increase the wards from 30 to 50, then there will be 29 wards in Taleigao and 21 in Panaji. A political observer said another reason for the move could be for the Panaji MLA looking to develop Taleigao by utilising Smart City funds. A Taleigao farmer said that CCP should first put its own house in order. “CCP has failed to resolve the monsoon drainage problem, and the creek is in shambles. CCP should first prove that it can take care of Panaji city,” he said. No gram sabha resolution has been passed, and the pros and cons have not been explained to the public, he said, questioning the Panaji legislator’s move. “Taleigao is the second richest panchayat in Goa and we need to use funds judiciously for sustainable development. The little fields that are there are precious to us. Taleigao was under the Panaji municpality. In 2002, when Monserrate contested the election on UDGP ticket, he promised to bring Taleigao back under the panchayat. He won, joined BJP and Parrikar promised he would do the job. In 2004, Taleigao was reverted back to a panchayat. People were happy as house taxes, etc, were reduced. Now, the same man wants to take Taleigao back to CCP for what?” he asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ccp-may-have-more-wards-in-taleigao-than-in-panaji/articleshow/80241503.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Pune||Biker injured after crashing into 4-wheeler||Pune: A 19-year-old youth riding a motorcycle fractured his right leg after he entered the wrong side of Pune-Solapur road and hit a car near Manjri petrol pump around 11.10am on Monday. The youth, Abhishek Lokhande, from Yavat is recuperating in a private hospital. Assistant inspector Navnath Bhosale of the Hadapsar police said on Tuesday, “The car driver, Rushab Shah (25) from Kalyan, left Akkalkot in Solapur district and reached Pune on Monday. He was passing via Solapur Road when Lokhande, riding the motorcycle at high speed, came from the wrong side of the road. Lokhande lost control over the vehicle and hit the car coming from the opposite side. He fell off the bike near a parked container and fractured his leg.” He said, “The car driver, Shah, lodged an FIR unde relevant sections of IPC and Motor Vehicles Act. We shall take action against Lokhande and file chargesheet against him.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/biker-injured-after-crashing-into-4-wheeler/articleshow/80240605.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Post-Covid, plasma apheresis units in Gujarat rise from 13 to 28||AHMEDABAD: With convalescent plasma therapy being used in the Covid-19 treatment, the number of plasma apheresis units set up by different blood banks in the state has more than doubled. “There were 13 plasma apheresis units in the state before the pandemic. The number has jumped to 28 after the Covid-19 outbreak to meet the requirement of plasma used in convalescent plasma therapy,” said Food and Drug Control Administration Commissioner (Gujarat) H G Koshia. Apheresis is a medical procedure in which blood is drawn and separated into components using a cell-separating machine. Some components like plasma or platelets are retained while the rest is returned to the donor by transfusion. Most of these units were installed in state-run large blood banks during 2020. Permission was also granted to some private blood banks. “Setting up of apheresis units requires approval from the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) as well as the state FDCA,” Koshia added. There are as many as 162 bloods banks in Gujarat. “Due to the increase in apheresis units, there was no shortage of plasma and we could meet the requirement,” he added. While convalescent plasma therapy was widely in use for the treatment of Covid-19 till recently, a couple of months ago, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) had warned against indiscriminate use of the therapy to treat Covid-19. According to Koshia, Gujarat has achieved self-sufficiency in several areas related to Covid-19 control and management. The state has seen noticeable increase in new players entering hand sanitizer production and masks as well as producing medical grade oxygen. There was also an unprecedented rush of companies to manufacture hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), azithromycin tablets, vitamins, zinc sulphate, and enoxaparin injections. The number of hand sanitizer makers jumped from 228 before the pandemic to 624 now. Similarly, medical oxygen producers’ number surged from 31 to 61 during the same period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/post-covid-plasma-apheresis-units-in-state-rise-from-13-to-28/articleshow/80239296.cms||Kalpesh Damor
January 13, 2021||Pune||Car hits truck to avoid collision with vehicle||Pune: Three persons travelling in a car were injured after the driver lost control and hit a truck after crashing into the barricades at Ravidarshan Chowk on Pune-Solapur Road around 5am on Tuesday, to avoid head-on collision with a vehicle plying on the wrong side of the road. The car was en route to Chikhali from Hadapsar when a speeding vehicle (white car) plying on the wrong side of the road hit the car on the left side. The car driver was alert enough to swerve right to avoid a head-on collision, but he ultimately lost control, hit the barricades and then collided with a moving truck to save a motorcyclist, police said. The driver, his mother-in-law and sister in-law sustained minor injuries, while his two friends escaped unhurt. The car driver, building contactor Sandip Bhujbal (35), told TOI, “We were heading to our residence in Chikhali from Osmanabad and were passing via Hadapsar when a vehicle, driving on wrong side of the road, suddenly came in front of my car. I reacted to the situation instantly and swerved right to avoid a head-on collision; but was hit on the left side. I thus lost control and hit the barricades. In quick succession, I hit a moving truck to avoid knocking a motorcyclist in front of me.” “A CCTV camera has captured images of the errant vehicle proceeding in the direction of Solapur. I have registered an FIR against the vehicle driver with the police under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and Motor Vehicles Act,” he added. Assistant sub inspector Navnath Bhosale of the Hadapsar police said, “We are checking CCTV cameras to identify the registration number of the vehicle to establish the identity of the owner/driver for taking action.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/car-hits-truck-to-avoid-collision-with-vehicle/articleshow/80240604.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kochi||Kerala HC backs CBI probe into Life Mission||KOCHI: The Kerala high court on Tuesday dismissed petitions filed by Life Mission CEO and Unitac Builders to quash the first information report of the CBI on alleged violation of foreign-contribution regulation in the Wadakkancherry project of the mission. Allowing the Central Bureau of Investigation to continue with the investigation, Justice P Somarajan said the facts of the case prima facie show a clear conspiracy to divert funds from the deal between the UAE Red Crescent Authority and Life Mission to third-party contractors Unitac Builders and Sane Ventures so as to receive kickbacks and to avoid CAG audit. Calling the scam an intellectual fraud, the court said the Life Mission CEO cannot escape the criminal liability. However, it observed that the chief minister and other ministers who form the political executive may not be responsible for the fraud played by senior IAS officers and other officers of the non-political executive. “In the instant case, it appears that all these mischief were done at the time of implementation of part of project ‘Life Mission’ by the permanent members attached to it – the IAS officers with Swapna Suresh, Sandeep Nair, Sarith, Santhosh Eappen and their allies. The mere fact that policy decisions were taken by the chief minister, the ministers or the legislature, may not by itself be sufficient to extend criminal liability against them for the wrong done by the non-political executive attached with the project and their allies,” it said. The court also pointed out that the agreements between Santhosh Eappen, managing director of Unitac and Sane Ventures, and UAE Consulate General, Trivandrum for construction did not have the state government or its agencies as parties even though a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between State of Kerala, represented by Life Mission CEO, and UAE Red Crescent Authority to provide assistance of AED10,000,000 (around Rs19.93 cr) prior to them. The agreements were signed for building an apartment complex to house flood victims at a cost of AED70,00,000 (around Rs13.94 cr) and a hospital complex for AED30,00,000 (around Rs5.98 cr). A sum of Rs14.5 cr was transferred by the UAE Consulate to the companies’ accounts. A kickback of Rs3.8 cr, converted to US dollars, was handed over to Khalid of the UAE Consulate by Santhosh Eappen as directed by Swapna, Rs68 lakh was transferred to ‘ISOMO’ trading company of Sandeep Nair for liaison work while five iPhones were also given to Swapna, the judgment said. “The typical nature of facts involved in the instant case would reveal a high profile intellectual fraud played in furtherance of MoU so as to avoid audit by CAG and to get kickbacks and gratifications. The very nature of the mischief done in furtherance of MoU would suggest involvement of highly educated professionals – a mastermind behind it,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/hc-backs-cbi-probe-into-life-mission/articleshow/80238227.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||School kids feel a vast difference in the new normal||Ahmedabad: Schoolchildren had mixed feelings of joy and fear, while happy to be back at school, the fear of Corona still lingered. There was a lot more confusion for educators, who are simultaneously taking online and in-person classes. Baishakhi Ray, an educator, said, “We have not broken the tradition of morning prayer and we still do it virtually. But, I notice a big change during the recess. The corridors that were abuzz with children talking and sharing tiffins are now silent. Each student is silently eating her own lunchbox with no communication.”Amli Singh, a Class X student, said, “Earlier, a half an hour recess was too short, now even a 20-minute break seems long. In two days, I felt that I ate my tiffin in 7-10 minutes, and the rest of the time, I was sitting by myself. This loneliness at school was pinching. ”For Shlesha Joshi, a Class X student, the joy of being at school, superseded everything else. She said, “We have to wear a mask and sanitize ours hands, and the freedom to be ourselves is missing as we are strictly bound by SOPs. But then, I am happy to see my friends in person. Even if we are at some distance, we can connect in person.”They say, “Silence is Golden”, but it turned killer for some Class X and XII students, who stepped inside school premises after more than ten months. “The silence was killing as we walked towards our class guided by our teachers with hands soaked in sanitizer,” says Harshvardhan Shukla a student of Class X. Another student Parth Shah, a Class X student, adds, “My excitement fell as all I could feel was the pin-drop silence and see masked faces. The smiles that we used for communication with teachers and batchmates were hidden behind masks.”Even educators were uncomfortable with masks. Anita Desai, an educator, said, “We have to be loud due to social distancing, but with a mask on, we have to speak even louder to be sure that children can hear us properly.” Bhavna Upadhyay, a maths educator, added, “The mask is indeed troublesome, but following all guidelines is essential as they are board class students and we cannot leave put their health at risk.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/school-kids-feel-a-vast-difference-in-the-new-normal/articleshow/80239299.cms||Ragini Bharadwaj
January 13, 2021||Pune||Kalyaninagar residents meet civic officials over waterlogging issue||Pune: About 40 residents of Kalyaninagar met representatives of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) to discuss the long-pending civic issues last week. The residents sought solutions to waterlogging issue that crops up particularly in the monsoon months. The civic body has said that construction work on the new pipeline will begin from May. The civic body has agreed to lay pipes of 1,600mm diameter from Palace View society until the river to improve the water carrying capacity and prevent water logging in the area.The meeting was held last week at Kalyaninagar Joggers’ Park. Corporator Yogesh Mulik and civic officials were present during the session.Ajay Bulbule, a local resident, said, “The problem has been studied by PMC and a 6.25 sq metre hydraulic pipe system is being put in place from Palace View society up to the river. The new system would not pose any problems for the next 30 years bringing local residents much-needed relief.”Many residents have faced issues crossing the spot during the rainy season. When the situation gets severe, there have been cases of vehicles breaking down too. Bulbule explained, “Flash floods, like that witnessed last week, reminded residents of the overflowing nullah that caused severe damage in 2019 at areas along Sinhagad Road. We don’t want a repeat of the situation here. Hence, residents have collectively come together and a supportive corporator has also been keenly following up on the issue in tandem with the civic body.”Mulik, who was also present at the meeting last week, said, “The new pipeline would increase the carrying capacity by almost double and take care of excessive rains in the future. The construction will start in May and it would be completed in nearly four to five months.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/kalyaninagar-residents-meet-civic-officials-over-waterlogging-issue/articleshow/80240629.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Sonu Sood’s hotel is ‘illegal’, sans approvals: BMC informs court||MUMBAI: The civic body says that actor Sonu Sood’s plea for protection against demolition of his Juhu property is a “mala fide attempt and an abuse of process’’ to protect “an ex-facie illegal commercial hotel which has been constructed and modified’’ contrary to sanctioned building plan by him. The hotel is in “violation of provisions of Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act and Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act and is operating in absence of any licence,” the BMC said in an affidavit filed in Bombay high court on Tuesday through senior counsel Anil Sakhare in response to Sood’s appeal and interim application for relief against action. BMC said Sood has made “baseless allegations of harassment and malafides” against it. It said the actor moved court in haste as a “strategy” and was indulging in “hair- splitting” when he himself has been unable to show any documents to prove permission. Sood has “not disputed that there is no permission of change of user and that there is no licence to run the commercial hotel”, in ‘Shakti Sagar building of six floors. Sood has filed an appeal against dismissal of his plea by the city civil court on December 19, 2020, for protection from demolition notice issued last October. The city court said, “illegality has been detected and crystallised” by the BMC officer and hence the notice was proper. The HC on Monday granted Sood and his wife Sonali, who is the co-petitioner, protection from any coercive steps till January 13 when it is scheduled to hear the matter. BMC’s reply said the hotel is running “without payment of water and assessment charges at commercial rates in serious violation of non-payment of public revenue”. Sood’s plea is that BMC’s notice and order were “issued at behest of a complainant” and that the notice is not supported by inspection report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sonu-soods-hotel-is-illegal-sans-approvals-bmc-informs-court/articleshow/80241504.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||55-year-old woman arrested with children for south Delhi jewellery theft||NEW DELHI: A 55-year-old woman has been arrested along with her daughter and son for allegedly stealing from a jewellery shop in south Delhi’s Chhatarpur on the Christmas. The woman is said to be involved in a murder and several robbery and theft cases. Police claimed three other family members — the woman’s husband and two elder sons — were also involved in the murder case. The woman has been identified as Mithlesh, a resident of Madangir in south Delhi, her daughter Durgeshwari (21) and son Chirag (19). While Mithlesh was earlier arrested in the murder case, Durgeshwari and Chirag have been arrested for the first time. Several gold jewellery items — seven pairs of earrings, a mangalsutra, a bangle and a ring — and a scooter used in the crime have been seized. Shambhu Dayal, who runs a jewellery shop in Chhatarpur, reported on December 25 that two women came to buy earrings but left without buying anything. “Later, he realised that one box of earrings was missing. On checking the CCTV footage, he found that the two women had stolen the box that contained gold earrings weighing 50 grams,” deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Thakur said. A series of CCTV footage revealed that the trio had crossed the Delhi-Gurgaon border on a red scooter and took a detour via Sikanderpur in Gurgaon to mislead police, said the DCP. The scooter was finally spotted in Madangir’s F block and all three were arrested. They allegedly told police that their entire family of eight people were involved in many criminal cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/55-year-old-woman-arrested-with-children-for-s-delhi-jewellery-theft/articleshow/80240654.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Six lure youths with Russia job offer, held||MUMBAI: The city crime branch arrested a gang of six who, under the pretext of employment in Russia, allegedly duped more than 40 youngsters across the country. A crime branch team led by inspector Sanjeev Gawde raided an office at Bangur Nagar in Goregaon and seized 41 passports, fake Russian visas and other fake documents and arrested six persons. “The accused mostly targeted the illiterate and poor from Bengal and charged between Rs 80,000 and Rs 1 lakh for a job in Russia... They did not have any permission from the governments of India or Russia,” said Gawde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-lure-youths-with-russia-job-offer-held/articleshow/80240681.cms||S Ahmed Ali
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Man held in Delhi for molesting, robbing teen||NEW DELHI: Eighteen days after a teenager was robbed and molested by a vagabond in the high-security Chanakyapuri area, a 27-year-old man has been arrested for the crime. The 17-year-old girl, who lived with her aunt in Gaya in Bihar, had come to Delhi to meet her parents. She was carrying her academic documents and Rs 4,000 in cash. After arriving at New Delhi Railway Station, she was inquiring about how to get to Delhi Junction Railway Station when she ran into the man who told her that she could take a train from platform 10. When she reached the platform, she saw the same man again and he told her that the train would come very late. He asked her to accompany him in a bus as he was also going there. They boarded a bus running on route number 729. They got down at Sardar Patel Marg bus stand from where the man took her inside a forested area claiming that it was a shortcut to the station. He then robbed her bag at knifepoint and also tore her clothes in a rape bid. The teenager, however, fought back and managed to escape. With the help of a passerby, she approached police who took her statement and filed an FIR under IPC sections of abduction, robbery and molestation, apart from Section 8 of Protection Of Children from Sexual Offences Act. DCP (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said, “The accused was unknown to the victim and she had no other information. The case was totally blind. Four teams were formed under ACP Pragya Anand to crack the case.” Footage from 160 CCTV cameras from Sardar Patel Marg and New Delhi Railway Station was analysed, profiles of 400 criminals were scanned and dossiers of around 140 sexual offenders were shown to the victim. In all, 220 suspects were questioned. A sketch of the accused was prepared with the help of experts at the Crime Record Office. The sketch was shown to almost 5,000 people at various railway stations and ISBTs and the details were also shared with informers. An informer soon gave a tip-off about the suspect. A raid was conducted in the ridge area and the accused was apprehended. He was identified as Neetu, a native of Rajasthan. The robbed bag, wallet, certificates and documents, the survivor’s clothes and the knife used in the crime were recovered from him. The survivor has identified the accused. His appearance also matched with the suspect seen on CCTV. During interrogation, Neetu confessed to the crime and disclosed that he had spent Rs 4,000 on alcohol and food. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/man-held-for-molesting-robbing-teen/articleshow/80240676.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Interdisciplinary law & medicine course starts from Jan 20||Pune: An online inter-disciplinary certificate programme in law and medical for doctors, police personnel and lawyers in medico-legal aspects has been introduced jointly by Indian Law Society (ILS) and the Indian Medical Association (IMA) Pune. Candidates completing the course will get 10 credit points.Chairman of the medico-legal cell at IMA, Pune, Jayant Navarange, said, “At least one case of attack against a doctor is registered every week and litigation against doctors is on the rise. Investigation of cases pertaining to doctors, their effective presentation and adjudication is a challenge today. They need to know about free and fair investigation.”The course will be conducted online from January 20 on Saturdays up to April 3, this year. Ten modules will be covered during this period and the director of medical education and research will deliver the inaugural speech.Eminent doctors, lawyers and police personnel will conduct the course for which graduates are eligible. The last date for registration in January 28 and candidates can register on https://ilslaw.edu/event/online-certificate-program-in-law-and-medical-professionAnother diploma programme in corporate law will also be conducted by the y Indian Law Society (ILS) online from January 18 to February 25 daily from Monday to Friday between 4pm and 6pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/interdisciplinary-law-medicine-course-starts-from-jan-20/articleshow/80240653.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Four workers assaulted, robbed||Vasco: A group of labourers were attacked by a gang of robbers in the heart of Vasco town during the early hours of Monday. The gang assaulted the labourers with fist blows, slaps and broke glass bottles on the head of one of the workers, before decamping with five mobile phones and cash, together worth Rs 45,000. The four accused have now been traced and arrested. The incident occurred on the Swatantra Path near Central Bank of India. At 5am, the five workers got off a bus and were walking to their workplace. When they reached near the bank, a gang of four attacked them and took away their phones and cash. One of the victims, Rahul Pathak, 22, a native of Uttar Pradesh, filed the police complaint. The four accused are Hritik Chavan, resident of Margao, Ashok alias Molkli Kurbur from Baina, Mahommed Sharif Shaikh from New Vaddem, Vasco, and Shaish Thapa from Sasmollem, Baina. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/four-workers-assaulted-robbed/articleshow/80241535.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Santoor legacy redeemed, Ahmedabad talent shines||Ahmedabad: Rahul Sharma’s santoor peals carry the ambient tolling that announces his musical lineage. He is Pandit Shivkumar Sharma’s son. Rahul Sharma’s recital was streamed on Tuesday, the 12th and penultimate day of e-Saptak. Rasikas around the world heard the chimes of a rumination in which Ahmedabad audiences had not joined Sharma before. “I played Raga Charukeshi and then a pahadi dhun,” Sharma told TOI. “I haven’t rendered Charukeshi in Ahmedabad. It is a beautiful raga. And of course the folksy pahadi tune is something the audience would have enjoyed.” Charukeshi is like a museum where grandeur is hushed. In the raga, the artifacts of yearning display their momentousness not with splashes of demands but with the fragile strokes of emotional honesty. In popular culture, “Kisi raah mein, kisi mod par...mere humsafar” (a 1970 Lata/Mukesh classic) is considered to be a fine tribute to Charukeshi. On Tuesday, Rahul Sharma unveiled the pristine avatar of the raga, with his notes forming bright droplets of reverie usually obtained when a human, many years later, thinks about life’s first love. The first baithak of Day 12 featured the 18-year-old classical vocalist Shadaj Iyer. His tabla accompanist was Sapan Anjaria. Both are young, confident, and respectful of traditions. The two musicians are from Ahmedabad. In Iyer’s voice, rasikas can hear the intimations of Ahmedabad producing a Hindustani star. On Tuesday, his presentation included Abhogi Kanada. Anjaria has already offered rhythm to stalwarts such as Ustad Shujaat Khan, Vidushi Manju Mehta, and Pandits Rajan and Sajan Mishra. Anjaria’s talent is on the verge of culminating in the drumroll of renown.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/santoor-legacy-redeemed-ahmedabad-talent-shines/articleshow/80239330.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 13, 2021||Rajkot||Eight-year-old ‘child bride’ rescued from kidnapper’s clutches in Rajkot||RAJKOT: An eight-year-old girl was saved from being sold off in the marriage market after she was rescued from the clutches of her kidnapper, a farm labourer in Rajkot district’s Padadhari taluka. Accused Dayaram Bhil, who had abducted the girl nearly three weeks ago, was bringing her up with his family. “Bhil told us about a tradition among tribal communities that the groom’s family pays money to the bride’s at the time of marriage. So he wanted to take care of the girl for a few years then marry her off for the money,” said investigating officer Kiran Jadeja. Daughter of farm labourer couple, the girl had gone missing from Hidad village on December 24 after she had gone to buy snacks. Not finding her anywhere, the parents later approached police. Rajkot rural police had registered a case of kidnapping but there was no headway. Cops could see the girl in the footage of a few CCTV cameras installed in the village, but there were no clues about her whereabouts. Recently, the investigation was handed over to sub-inspector Jadeja, whose team received information that she was seen with a tribal farm labourer at Dahisarda village. Cops narrowed down on Bhil, who confessed to have taken the girl to his home on seeing her wandering alone. Bhil has been kept in quarantine as his Covid-19 test report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/8-year-old-child-bride-rescued-from-kidnappers-clutches/articleshow/80238270.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 9L seized from Rajkot farm||Rajkot: Illicit liquor stock worth Rs 9 lakh was seized by Rajkot range police from a farm in Ramod village of Rajkot district on Monday night.The reader branch of Rajkot range police had received information that farm owner, Naresh Padaliya, had stored Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) stock at his farm on the outskirts of Ramod village. Cops raided the farm on Monday night and 2,268 IMFL bottles were seized. Along with IMFL bottles, police also seized two cars, three mobile phones and Rs 2,580 in cash and arrested one Deepak Makwana who was present in the farm during the raid.A case was registered at Kotdasangani police station against Padaliya and Makwana. “We are in process to nab Padaliya who is on run,” said a police official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-9l-seized-from-rajkot-farm/articleshow/80238245.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Unseasonal rainfall will reduce grape production by 20%||Nashik: Grape production in the Nashik district is likely to go down by 20% this year as the ready-to-harvest produce has suffered damage due to the recent bouts of unseasonal rainfall. According to Kailas Bhosle, treasurer of Maharashtra Rajya Draksha Bagayatdar Sangh, grapes on around 6,000 hectare across Nashik district have been damaged due to the showers. “This will adversely impact the district’s grape production by 20%. The grapes in many parts of the district have cracked due to the recent unseasonal heavy rains,” he said. “The grape production in the district is estimated at around 15 lakh tonne annually. But due to the recent damage, the production is likely to come down to 12 lakh tonne,” he added. The areas under grape plantation in Nashik district is estimated at around 58,367 hectare, including 22,000 hectare in Niphad taluka, 15,758 hectare in Dindori , 11,671 hectare in Nashik and 5,148 hectare in Chandwad. The rest of the plantation is located in Bagalan and Kalwan talukas of the district. Out of the 58,367 hectare, early grape harvest takes place between September and November on 2,400 hectare and it is around 4% of the total grape plantation. The regular grape harvest that comprises 96% plantation begins in December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/unseasonal-rainfall-will-reduce-grape-production-by-20/articleshow/80237361.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Since November, 5.5 lakh slots booked for hi-tech plates||NEW DELHI: The owners of nearly 4 lakh cars and 1.5 lakh two-wheelers have booked slots for installation of high-security registration plates (HSRP) and more than 3 lakh car owners for just colour-coded fuel stickers since November 1, when the online booking restarted. HSRP manufacturer Rosmerta Safety Systems Private Limited said that it had enhanced its capacity to install HSRP and colour-coded fuel stickers. To cater to increasing demand for doorstep delivery, it has deployed around 750 rider-fitters on the field. In October, Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot had stopped the online booking after receiving complaints about delays in getting both despite pre-booking slots. Owners can now book slots through www.siam.in, which will redirect the vehicle owners to the respective HSRP manufacturer’s website. From November 1, 2019 to January 1d1, 2020, slots have been booked for affixation of HSRP on 5,35,459 vehicles — 1,46,255 two-wheelers and 3,89,204 cars. The number of bookings for colour-coded fuel stickers is almost 5 lakh, out of which 3,04,263 already have HSRP. A spokesperson of the company said approximately 11 lakh commercial and private vehicles require only colour-coded stickers in Delhi. The number of 750 rider-fitters, who affix HSRP and stickers at customers’ given address, is likely to reach 1,000 in the next 30 days, the spokesperson said. “The company has now further enhanced its capacity for home affixation and as will be seen from the website, open dates are now available for fixation of plates and stickers in January too,” he said. There are approximately 30 lakh existing vehicles, including 16 lakh two-wheelers, 12 lakh four-wheelers and two lakh commercial vehicles, which are required to get HSRP. The Delhi transport department’s enforcement wing has been carrying drives against vehicles that don’t have HSRP or fuel stickers with a penalty of Rs 5,500. However, those who have booked a slot online can escape facing a challan by showing the booking receipt, which is valid till 15 days after the date of appointment. The manufacturer company said it had also created an online tracking system for the last-mile delivery management and order tracking. “Every rider has a unique user ID and once the HSRP rider logs in to the app by entering his credentials, he is able to see orders assigned to him,” the company spokesperson said. The company said it could track a rider on the real-time basis once he started his shift and check the planned route and the actual executed route by him. The rider has to click a photo of the customer’s address and upload it to close the order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/since-nov-5-5l-slots-booked-for-hi-tech-plates/articleshow/80240703.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Man nabbed for killing his uncle||Kolhapur: A 38-year-old man has been arrested by Sangli police for allegedly killing his uncle on Monday night over some minor dispute. The suspect has been identified as Raju Shaikh while the deceased has been identified as Munir Musa Shaikh (36). Both of them were at a bar when they got into an altercation that later turned violent. Following the altercation, Raju lost his cool and stabbed Munir with a sharp weapon. According to police, Munir died at the bar due to heavy bleeding. Meanwhile, Kurundwad police have arrested a car driver for stealing the ornaments of the woman who had hired the vehicle. The suspect, Satish Sawant (39), is a resident of Shirol and police have seized the stolen ornaments and the car. Police said that Deepali Koli, a resident of Shirol in Sangli district, had hired Sawant’s car for going to the pilgrimage in Karnataka state with her family. The woman found that her ornaments that were kept inside car in his car were missing, when she returned from the temple. Swant was arrested after preliminary investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-nabbed-for-killing-his-uncle/articleshow/80237375.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Man held for killing wife||Mumbai: A Nalasopara man has been arrested for allegedly strangling his wife and passing it off as a suicide on Sunday. The couple got married a month ago. Tulinj police arrested Dattaram Tambe on Tuesday after the autopsy of his wife Diya confirmed death by strangulation. Her body was found hanging from the ceiling of their home in Alkapuri. An accidental death report was filed by the police. Diya’s brother had accused Dattaram of murder. Though the couple fought often the exact reason for the murder is yet to be found, said the police. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-held-for-killing-wife/articleshow/80241552.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||WR sees 25% of pre-Covid daily ridership and CR 18%||MUMBAI: Western Railway has managed to achieve 25% of its pre-Covid daily ridership and Central Railway 18%, despite the curbs on commuter travel. The current daily passenger load on WR is nearly 8.8 lakh as against the 35 lakh before the lockdown was imposed last March. On CR, the daily ridership is currently 8 lakh on all four lines—main, Harbour, Trans-Harbour and Seawoods-Belapur—as against 44 lakh in pre-Covid times. While WR chief public relations officer Sumeet Thakur pointed out that the daily passenger count is increasing every week, his counterpart on CR Shivaji Sutar said: “Nearly 5.5 lakh passengers travel on CR main line that runs between CSMT-Karjat and CSMT-Kasara every day.” A CR official said, “Around two lakh passengers are unauthorised travellers; we catch around 1,500 unauthorised travelers daily. People, mostly office-goers, prefer train travel and are even willing to pay the fine as road transport is expensive.” Suburban train services are the lifeline of Mumbaikars who want trains to be opened to all. Salim Khan, who owns a mobile repair shop in Manish Market, said, “I stay in Rabale and it is a pain to travel to south Mumbai every day. Sometimes I hitch ride on my friend’s bike till Ghatkopar and then take a bus to my shop.” Currently, only essential service workers are allowed to travel in trains during morning and evening peak hours. During off-peak hours, women, lawyers, registered court clerks, teachers and school staff and dabbawalas are allowed to board locals. Both CR and WR are allowed to carry not more than 700 passengers per train as per social distancing rules. This means, only 22 lakh people can travel in local trains compared to 80 lakh before the lockdown, even with the full complement of 3,141 services—1,367 on WR and 1,774 on all four CR lines. Currently, WR runs 1,199 services and CR 1,580, including 836 on the main line.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-sees-25-of-pre-covid-daily-ridership-and-cr-18/articleshow/80240817.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Muchhad paan shop owner held for ‘possessing’ 500gm cannabis||MUMBAI: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Ramkumar Tiwari, owner of the famous Muchhad Paanwala shop, late on Monday, saying it had recovered 500 gram of an extract of cannabis, a psychotropic substance under the NDPS Act. Cannabinoids, a cannabis extract, can be mixed with tobacco and used in rolls to smoke, an NCB official said. NDPS Act’s Section 2 says any extract of cannabis can fall under this Act, he added. NCB officials had carried out a search of his warehouse at Kemps Corner on Monday and reportedly recovered pre-rolled joints. Cannabinoids, mostly found in the leaves and flowers of cannabis, affect the central nervous system. It is not clear in this case if the recovered substance was naturally obtained or synthetic though. Tiwari has been charged under NDPS Act’s sections 8C for producing, possessing, selling, purchasing and consuming any narcotic drug and 22B for a quantity seized that is less than a commercial quantity but greater than a small quantity. He was produced before the 8th Metropolitan Magistrate Court and sent to judicial custody. NCB did not seek his custody. NCB officials, though, said they are likely to oppose his bail application, which may come up before the special NDPS court on Wednesday. “If he is released on bail, he may hamper the investigation and threaten witnesses. So, we will strongly oppose his bail as our investigation is in progress to find out whom he sold the drugs to,” said an official. Tiwari’s name cropped up in the probe following the arrest of Karan Sajnani (40), a British national, on Saturday after officials said they found ready-to-use joints from his warehouse. NCB officials are also likely to question Tiwari’s other brother as the two used to run the shop for six months on rotation. The shop is popular among affluent sections of society and has several loyal customers, including some Bollywood actors. NCB had arrested Sajnani, as well as Rahila Furniturewala, former manager of an actor, and her sister Shaista Furniturewala on Saturday and booked them under Section 27A for allegedly financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, which attracts a punishment of 10 to 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment and up to Rs 2 lakh fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/muchhad-paan-shop-owner-held-for-possessing-500gm-cannabis/articleshow/80239359.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 13, 2021||Goa||Two African nationals in Delhi held for duping woman of Rs 37 lakh||PANAJI: Cyber crime police station of Goa police arrested two African nationals in Delhi for duping a woman of Rs 37 lakh via a matrimonial website. Speaking to TOI, crime branch superintendent of police Shobhit Saxsena said that the complaint was lodged at the cyber crime police station by the victim who stated that a person had lured her with a matrimonial proposal on a website by creating a fake profile. Thereafter, the criminal lured her by saying that he is sending her expensive gifts from a foreign country where he works as a doctor. Thereafter, on the pretext of custom clearances for the gifts, the criminals defrauded the victim of Rs 37 lakh. Following an initial probe, cyber crime personnel realised that the crime was committed by an organised set of criminals with fake identities. Meticulous investigation resulted in the identification of two African nationals based in Delhi—Tsoupa Sebastien, a native of Cameroon and Senehuoun Franck, a native of Ivory Coast —who were orchestrating the racket. They were apprehended in the national capital by a team led PSI Devendra Pingle of the Goa cyber crime and South Delhi Police police inspector P K Jha. Several mobile phones and a SIM card issued on fake identity along with a database of 650 victims were seized from the accused.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-african-nationals-in-delhi-held-for-duping-woman-of-rs-37l/articleshow/80241557.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Agra||Five more members of Kalua gang arrested, 15 wanted criminals arrested in 48 hours||Agra: Firozabad police has intensified operation against wanted criminals. During the wee hours of Tuesday, a team of Firozabad police crime branch and Ramgarh police station arrested five more members of Kalua gang. A large consignment of arms and ammunition and looted jewellery was recovered from the arrested men. Within 48 hours, Firozabad police arrested 15 members of Kalua gang including the gang leader Satish alias Kalua who was wanted in 11 criminal cases. According to police, the five men arrested on Tuesday were identified as Yatendra, Kedar, Anshu, Manoj and Anil Kumar. All of them belong to Hathras district and have criminal cases pending against them in Firozabad district. Following the arrest of nine gang members on Monday, the other five members were planning to leave Uttar Pradesh after conducting a major loot. On Monday, 9 active members of the Kalua gang were arrested while they were on the way to loot a jewellery shop in Shikohabad. Their local associate Manoj, a jeweller based in Tundla, was also arrested. The gang was involved in three incidents of loot at local level which took place in month of December.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/five-more-members-of-kalua-gang-arrested-15-wanted-criminals-arrested-in-48-hours/articleshow/80238225.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: Court considers accused’s ‘posture’ to grant bail||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court on Tuesday took note of a man’s “posture”, among other things, in a video footage and granted him bail in a northeast Delhi rioting and murder case. The applicant, Md Gufran, who was allegedly spotted in a riot’s footage, pleaded before additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat for bail. His counsel Hasib Siddiqui contended that no recovery was made from his client, who he said had no role in the death of the victim, Aman. Judge Rawat observed that Gufran was visible in the footage behind the rioters. His presence in an unlawful assembly had been established with “consequential imputation” about the mob’s conduct, including the applicant, which led to the death of Aman and injuries to others. “However, considering his posture, period of custody and the fact that it is only a bail application, I am inclined to allow it,” the court held. Though it came on record that one of the people arrested in the case had named Gufran in the case, his counsel argued that he was not the one who had fired at Aman. The counsel submitted that 24-year-old Gufran, a driver, had been in jail since March 30. “He is innocent and had no role in the commission of any of the alleged offences. The applicant was not a part of any mob and has been falsely implicated,” Siddiqui argued. Special public prosecutor Rajeev Krishan Sharma opposed the bail plea and said Gufran was arrested after his presence was established on the basis of videography and disclosure statements of the arrested accused. “His presence was also established at the spot from his mobile phone location. The cap he was seen wearing in the video was recovered at his instance,” the prosecutor said, adding that, being a member of an unlawful assembly, the accused was liable for the victim’s death. Following the arguments from both sides the court also considered the aspect of parity and allowed Gufran’s release on a personal bond of Rs 20,000 and directed him not to leave city limits without its permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-delhi-riots-court-considers-accuseds-posture-to-grant-bail/articleshow/80240724.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Mercury drop on Met radar||KOLKATA: After a brief warm spell, during which the minimum temperature soared to 20°C, chill is set to return to Kolkata. With the northwesterly wind about to resume, the mercury dropped to 18.1°C on Tuesday and can plunge below 15°C by Thursday, said the Met officials. But the cool spell may not last long. The western disturbance (WD) and the high-pressure zone that had blocked the northwesterly have receded. “It has paved the way for the return of the winter chill. Over the next three days, the northwesterly will get strong and bring in chill from Jammu and Kashmir. We expect the mercury to drop below 15°C. It may plunge to 13°C,”said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director, GK Das. Last week, a combination of the WD and the high-pressure had choked the flow of northwesterly and led to a change in wind direction. Moisture-laden southeasterly wind had been flowing into Gangetic Bengal and Kolkata that led to a temperature rise. “The high-pressure zone had created a clockwise flow of wind that carried in warmth from the south,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mercury-drop-on-met-radar/articleshow/80239361.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Penna case hearing from January 20||Hyderabad: CBI court said it will take up hearing from January 20 in Penna Cements and Bharati Cements charge sheets filed by CBI in quid pro quo case. As some accused had expressed their readiness to argue against framing charges against them, principal special judge B R Madhusudhan Rao, who is currently hearing pleas on Jagathi Publications, said he would take up the applications filed by accused in these two charge sheets also from next week. Petitions filed by some of the accused in Penna and Bharati Cement cases seeking discharge from case, were posted to January 22. Cases related to Ramky, Vanpic, and Jagathi Publications chargesheets were posted to January 19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/penna-case-hearing-from-january-20/articleshow/80239355.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Business analyst who lost right leg in mishap gets Rs 52 lakh||MUMBAI: Awarding a total compensation of around Rs 52 lakh to a 41-year-old senior business analyst from Chembur who lost his right foot after his long-distance luxury bus collided with a stationary tempo while he was on his way to Bangalore in 2012, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal factored Rs 1.1 lakh towards loss of leave, which could have been used for other purposes. “Applicant must have had at least 30 days of medical or sick leave to his credit, which he availed for treatment. The applicant also utilized 14 days’ privilege leave for treatment. This prevented him from availing paid sick and privilege leave for other purposes,” the tribunal said. Gurunath Shetty had submitted a plea against bus-owner VRL Logistics, it’s insurer, The United India Insurance Co Ltd, and tempo owner, Namakkal Transport Carriers Pvt Ltd and it’s insurance provider, ICICI Lombard Gen Ins Co Ltd in March 2013. The compensation included Rs 2 lakh toward “loss of amenities” following the accident around 4am on October 29, 2012. “From the evidence it is apparent that because of injuries, now, applicant cannot do many activities a normal person can do. Thus, enjoyment of the life and married life of applicant has suffered a lot. For many years he will have to bear the life without the amenities. The injuries to legs may shorten his life,” the tribunal said. The compensation will have to be paid by the tempo owner, bus service and their insurance companies, with the tribunal fixing 70% of the composite negligence on the latter for driving at high speed and losing control, and 30% on the former for stalling in the middle of a highway at night without proper indicators. “The bus driver could have avoided the accident by using the remaining road of 10-15 ft wide to the west, had he been alert to see the halted tempo from a reasonable distance with the help of headlights, but for the very high speed at night. Such driving at night is nothing but an unwanted risk. The bus driver contributed more in causing the accident,” the tribunal said. Shetty said after being treated at a hospital in Kolhapur, he was moved to the city on October 30, 2012. He was discharged on November 27, 2012. Shetty said he had spent over Rs 18 lakh on treatment and suffered a permanent disability. His leg had to be amputated below his knee. At the time of the accident, Shetty said, he was earning Rs50,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biz-analyst-who-lost-right-leg-in-mishap-gets-rs-52l/articleshow/80241562.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 13, 2021||Business||Byju’s to pay $1 bn for Blackstone-backed Aakash tutorials||India’s biggest online-education startup Byju’s has signed a deal to acquire brick & mortar test prep leader Aakash Educational Services Ltd for $1 billion, according to a person with knowledge of the talks. The deal for what will be one of the largest edtech acquisitions in the world should close in the next two or three months, said the person, who didn’t want to be identified. Bangalore-headquartered Byju’s is valued at $12 billion and has been on a fund-raising spree as the pandemic has sent demand for its online lessons soaring. India’s second-most valuable startup is backed by the likes of Facebook founder Mark Zuckerberg’s Chan Zuckerberg Initiative, Tiger Global Management and Bond Capital, co-founded by Silicon Valley investor Mary Meeker. A Byju’s spokeswoman declined to comment, while emails and calls to New Delhi-based Aakash Educational Services and its chief executive officer Aakash Chaudhry did not elicit a response. Blackstone Group-backed Aakash Educational Services runs Aakash Institute, which has over 200 brick and mortar centres, and tutors students to gain entry into the country’s elite engineering and medical schools. Its student count is over 2.5 lakh, according to its website. While online learning startups have thrived, offline tutoring centres have been badly hit by the pandemic, which has closed schools and tutoring centres since March last year. In the deal with Byju’s, Aakash’s founders, the Chaudhry family, will exit completely, while Blackstone will swap a portion of its 37.5% equity in Aakash for Byju’s stake, said the person. Byju’s was founded by Byju Raveendran, a former teacher and the son of educators, who conceived the smartphone app in 2011. The app caters to students from kindergarten to the 12th grade, and has been adding over 5 million users a month. India has about 250 million students in the K-12 grades. The app provides lessons in maths and science through video animations and games. More than 70 million users logged in from over 1,700 cities around the country, Byju’s said last September when it announced a fund raise. Of these, over 4.5 million are paid users. It’s targeting to double its revenues to $1 billion in the current financial year ending in March 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/byjus-to-pay-1-bn-for-blackstone-backed-aakash-tutorials/articleshow/80242182.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Don’t proceed with projects not approved by CWC: KRMB||Hyderabad: The Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) on Tuesday wrote to the state government asking it not to go ahead with projects that have not been approved by the Central Water Commission (CWC). In a single page letter to the state government, the board asked it to stop the projects where a detailed project report (DPR) was not submitted. The projects covered under this are Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi, Kalvakurti, Nettempadu, Tummilla and AMR lift irrigation project. The biggest project among them is Palamuru-Rangareddy, being built at a cost of around Rs 38,000 crore on seven lakh acres of land. Most of the projects are old projects that were conceived prior to the state formation but it was observed that their capacity has been enhanced. In the apex council meeting held recently, it was decided that work on projects without the DPR must be stopped. The Krishna River Management Board on Tuesday reiterated this in its letter to the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-proceed-with-projects-not-approved-by-cwc-krmb/articleshow/80239363.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Mega medical health camp for tribals in Venkatpur||Mulugu: About 650 Guttikoya tribal families were examined in a mega medical health camp in Venkatapur. Superintendent of police, Dr Sangram Singh G Patil examined the tribal families in the health camp. The SP is also a graduate in medicine.  He suggested health camp doctors to refer 50 Guttikoyas to a super speciality hospital in Hyderabad for better healthcare and diagnosis. 550 RTPCR and malaria tests were performed in the camp. Medicines worth Rs 80,000 were distributed to Guttikoyas. Check-up was conducted under supervision of Dr Jagadeesh, superintendent of Mulugu hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mega-medical-health-camp-for-tribals-in-venkatpur/articleshow/80239371.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Police cane BJP workers over banners||Jangaon: In view of Swami Vivekananda Jayanti, the BJP cadre erected welcome banners in Jangaon. On the commissioner's orders, municipal staff removed all the banners and flags. BJP activists went to the commissioner's office and picked up a quarrel with the commissioner on the removal of BJP flags. Enraged commissioner called police and ordered them to evict BJP activists from his office. Sub-inspector Srinivas and other cops beat up the district BJP president Pavan Sharma. Soon after, the circle inspector Mallesh Yadav and additional forces reached the spot and lathi charged the activists as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/police-cane-bjp-workers-over-banners/articleshow/80239366.cms||Shiva Kumar Pinna
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||Man shot dead at home by wife, paramour||Bareilly: Budaun police have successfully resolved the murder mystery of a 32-year-old man who was shot dead inside his house in Kadar Chowk area of Budaun district. During investigation, police found that the man was killed by his wife with the help of one Bablu Yadav. Police have arrested both the accused and have recovered the murder weapon as well. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “The incident was reported on January 8 when victim Deendayal was shot dead inside his house during midnight. An FIR was registered in this case. During the investigation, we found that the man was murdered by his wife’s paramour. Based on mobile surveillance, we gathered evidence and took the woman and her friend into custody for questioning. The duo confessed to have killed the man during questioning. We have recovered the murder weapon and the accused have been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-shot-dead-at-home-by-wife-paramour/articleshow/80236740.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Two arrested in Maharashtra's Karveer for raping pregnant woman||KOLHAPUR: Two men, hailing from Rajasthan, have been arrested by the Karveer police for raping a pregnant woman. The suspects were arrested on Monday after a complaint was filed against them by the woman, who hails from Assam and is six-month pregnant. Police inspector Sandip Kolekar, who is investigating the case, said the two suspects were presented before the local court that remanded them in five-day custody. According to the complaint lodged by the woman, she was abducted from Assam along with her three-year-old daughter. The suspects then forced her to consume a drink that was laced with sedatives. The woman was then taken to Rajasthan where she was forcibly wedded to one of the suspects. The woman was later brought to Panchgaon village in Karveer tehsil where she was staying with the suspects. The woman has accused the suspect duo of threatening to kill her three-year-old daughter if she did not give in to their demands or spoke about it to anyone. The woman alleged that she was also forced into physical relationships with three other men. On Sunday night, the woman managed to rescue herself with the help of the neighbours and went to the police station to lodge a complaint. The woman has also mentioned a woman who helped the duo in committing the crime. “The role of the woman suspect is also being investigated along with how the woman was brought to Kolhapur from Rajasthan. We are also investigating why the suspects came to Kolhapur,” Kolekar said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/two-arrested-in-karveer-for-raping-pregnant-woman/articleshow/80237395.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Manish Sisodia sacks labour office manager over irregularities||NEW DELHI: Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia terminated the services of the manager of the North-West Delhi labour office with immediate effect during a surprise inspection following complaints of irregularities in the registration of construction workers. Sisodia, who also holds the labour portfolio, found grave irregularities in a dozen cases. The complaints ranged from not following proper procedure to negligence on behalf of labour office workers who used photographs of women instead of men in the registration documents. In another case, irregularity was found with regards to the registration of a worker who physically visited the office but used a previously photographed image. Sisodia also directed the labour officers to carry out all the work related to registration, renewal and welfare of the labourers according to the rules and on time. “Since Delhi government has made comprehensive plans for the welfare of city’s construction workers, all the deserving workers should be able to avail their benefits. No negligence will be tolerated,” he said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/sisodia-sacks-labour-office-manager-over-irregularities/articleshow/80240791.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Car designer Dilip Chhabria held again on Kapil Sharma’s complaint||MUMBAI: Car designer Dilip Chhabria was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly cheating comedian and TV presenter Kapil Sharma of Rs 5.7 crore. Earlier this month, the police had arrested Chhabria in connection with car finance and dual registration racket. Chhabria was produced before the 37th metropolitan court and was remanded to one-day police custody. Sharma had filed a complaint before the economic offence wing (EOW) in September last year alleging that despite him paying Rs 5.7 crore, he did not get delivery of the customised vanity van tht he had ordered in 2017. Instead, Chhabria demanded more money and parking charges, Sharma claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/dilip-chhabaria-held-again-on-kapils-plaint/articleshow/80241602.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 13, 2021||Meerut||Cops crack Bulandshahr loot case, nab 4 from Delhi||Meerut: Police in UP’s Bulandshahr district on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the sensational Rs 18lakh loot case with the arrest of four persons from Delhi. The alleged loot had taken place on December 26 in Bulandshahr’s Arania area. The looted money and the motorcycle used in the crime were also recovered, police said.Dharmendra, one of the arrested accused is a constable in Railway Protection Force (RPF) currently posted in Delhi.Mohammad Siraz, an employee of a Delhi trader along with his driver, was returning to Delhi after collecting money from Hathras when they were waylaid by three men on motorcycles who were posing as policemen.Accusing the car driver and the clerk of being involved in a hit-and-run, the three suspects took custody of the car and later abandoned it on the road and fled with the cash bag.Police in Bulandshahr district started following leads through CCTV cameras installed in the vicinity of the crime spot and followed the route of the assailants through other cameras on the way.The 15-day investigation led sleuths to an accused Munawaar Sheikh, a resident of Shastri Nagar in New Delhi.Based on his interrogation inputs, three more accomplices were arrested. The entire loot money of Rs 18 lakh was recovered from them, police said.“Tracking the motorcycle, our teams kept on scanning CCTVs for 15 days. Fortunately we traced the destination in Delhi. Later a suspect was detained from there and his interrogation led to breakthroughs that helped crack the case,” said Santosh Kumar Singh, Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police (SSP).“Role of six persons has come to the fore out of which four have been arrested. Efforts are being made to trace the remaining two suspects,” the SSP said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/cops-crack-bulandshahr-loot-case-nab-4-from-delhi/articleshow/80237392.cms||Piyush Rai
January 13, 2021||Thane||Third firing in Thane district in 10 days: Woman shot at in her Bhiwandi flat||THANE: In the third firing incident in Thane district in 10 days, two men shot at and grievously injured a 38-year old homemaker after barging into her rented Bhiwandi residence on Tuesday. Police said the woman, Jayshree Dede, was alone at home at the time as her husband Shivraj (40) was at the transport company where he is employed. Her 17-year-old son was with a friend outside the building when the crime was committed. The two accused entered the flat and following a scuffle with the woman shot at her. Hearing the shots, her son rushed in but by then the accused had fled in an autorickshaw parked near the building. One of the two bullets hit Dede in her head while the other misfired. Narpoli police said the crime took place at 10.30am on Tuesday in the Kalher locality of Bhiwandi. The woman has been admitted to S S Hospital where her condition is stable. Police sources said multiple teams have been formed to find the culprits. Yogesh Chavan, deputy commissioner of police, Zone 2, Thane police, said, “The woman is stable now and her treatment is on. The reason behind the firing is not yet known and our teams are making inquiries from all angles.” Three firing incidents in just 10 days which have left six injured have raised questions about police security in the Thane region. On January 3, the first incident was reported in the same Bhiwandi locality, where two unidentified on a bike fired at a married couple who had filed their nomination for gram panchayat elections. The accused were arrested. Then, on January 10, four robbers opened fire at a jewellery shop in Ambernath and injured three.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3rd-firing-in-thane-district-in-10-days-woman-shot-at-in-her-bhiwandi-flat/articleshow/80239987.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Cops draw up plans for route rejig||Kolkata: Sealdah traffic guard held a meeting on Tuesday with all major stakeholders like bus owners, auto unions, traders and even the NRS Hospital administration before the closure of Sealdah flyover. “We will place adequate signs to help motorists. The signs have been painted in bright colours so that they can be seen from a distance,” said Santosh Pandey, joint commissioner (traffic). Additional traffic cops will be posted at every intersection from 8.30am. Movement of trams along APC Road, M G Road, College Street, Bidhan Sarani, N C Street, Lenin Sarani and Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road will be suspended during this period.  Cops have imposed no-parking on Amherst Street, BB Ganguly Street, College Street, Nirmal Chunder Street, SN Banerjee Road, Creek Row and MG Road from January 15 to January 19. Amherst Street, BB Ganguly Street, Nirmal Chunder Street, College Street and Bidhan Sarani will also be one-way during this period. Police said that in case of emergency, ambulances and fire-fighters will be allowed to avail the flyover||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cops-draw-up-plans-for-route-rejig/articleshow/80239407.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Versova murder main accused on the run: Cops||MUMBAI: The D N Nagar police, probing the murder of 75-yearold woman last year after the arrest of two accused on Sunday, have learnt that the mastermind in the robbery and murder is still at large. The two held for the murder of Gulabi Shetty in her house near Versova police station on February 24, 2020, had fled to Pune and were caught when they came back after 11months. The duo had broken into a house in Bandra and was held. The two did not disclose much and blamed each other for the murder. The cops are probing other angles too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/12vn-elderly-murder/articleshow/80241615.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Marathwada to have 50 vaccination sites||Aurangabad: A total of 50 sites have been identified from across eight districts of Marathwada for carrying out Covid-19 vaccination drive that is set to kickstart on January 16 across the country. Of the 5,000 sites across the country, 13 spots have been allotted to Aurangabad district, six for Jalna, four for Parbhani, three for Hingoli, six for Nanded, six for Beed, eight for Latur and four for Osmanabad district. Out of all these locations, the one at Jalna district civil hospital will be among the handful sites in the country to have two-way communication with the Prime Minister’s office. Deputy director of health services Swapnil Lale told TOI, “Those who have been scheduled for getting vaccine at Jalna district civil hospital will have a chance to interact with Prime Minister Narendra Modi through the two-way communication.” The officer said that starting from Tuesday night, the consignments of Covid-19 vaccines meant for the region will start reaching the designated centres from where they will be further distributed to all the locations. Frontline health workers, especially doctors, will be the first ones to receive Covid-19 vaccine. To clear their doubts and questions about the vaccine, World Health Organisation’s representatives in the region are going all out and holding seminars and briefing sessions for the medicos. On Tuesday, WHO’s Dr. Sayyed Mujeeb held a session for clarifying the doubts and questions of doctors. The session was attended by representatives and experts from different medical streams and subjects. Health authorities said that as per the arrangements made, every site in the region will have five to six members comprising at least one policeman. The policeman will be responsible for cross verifying the names of visitors to ensure that only registered beneficiaries get entry at the vaccination site. He will also ensure that the listed beneficiaries wear a mask and sanitise hands before letting entering the site.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/marathwada-to-have-50-vaccination-sites/articleshow/80239406.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun smart city tableau in state Republic-Day parade||DEHRADUN: For this year's Republic Day parade in the state capital, the officials have decided to showcase the tableau of Dehradun smart city project, which would focus on efficient use of resources like water and energy. The tableau is being made with the help of an external agency. It’s theme will be ‘Green Building and Child-friendly city’. A model of an environment-friendly building would be constructed to highlight the use of renewable energy, improving air quality, reduction of waste generations and making roads safer for pedestrians, especially children and senior citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doon-smart-city-tableau-in-state-r-day-parade/articleshow/80238343.cms||Abhijeet Singh
January 13, 2021||Kolhapur||First phase of vaccinating health workers could be over in 2 weeks in Kolhapur city||CLEARED SKHER Kolhapur: Kolhapur municipal corporation (KMC) will set up eight vaccination centres in the city for the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. KMC’s chief health officer Amol Mane said that vaccines are expected to arrive in the city within next two days. “Around 11,000 health workers from the city, including private and government sector, have enrolled their names for the vaccination,” he said. Mane said that each session is expected to take around five minutes and the beneficiary would be sent SMS about the timing and venue of the vaccination. Officials said that health workers have been asked to participate in vaccination without affecting their routine work. Civic administration has estimated that they would need two weeks to complete the task. Similar arrangement is made at 12 vaccination centres in rest of Kolhapur district. Sangli and Satara districts will have 17 and 16 centres, respectively. Similar exercise will be carried at 19 centres in Solapur district. Sangli district collector Abhijit Chaudhari said that 26,491 health workers in the district will be vaccinated. He said that beneficiaries are required to carry Aadhaar card or any government identity. There are eight vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of Sangli-Miraj-Kupwad municipal corporation, and nine in the rest of the district. In Solapur district, vaccination drives will begin at 18 centres, where 30,184 health workers are expected to participate. They include around 20,000 from the jurisdiction of Solapur municipal corporation. Solapur district civil surgeon Shitalkumar Jadhav said that around 1,800 health workers are expected to vaccinate every day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/first-phase-of-vaccinating-health-workers-could-be-over-in-2-weeks-in-kolhapur-city/articleshow/80239409.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Get vaccinated before heading for Umrah, Mumbai pilgrims told||MUMBAI: Tour operators here are telling pilgrims planning to go for Umrah to get vaccinated before they perform the rituals, following a Saudi health ministry advisory. A few days back Saudi Arabia’s minister of Haj and Umrah Muhammad Saleh Benten had advised all those who wish to perform Umrah pilgrimage to get vaccinated against coronavirus as the Saudi authorities will ensure precautions are taken to stop the spread of the pandemic. “This is good advice and all who wish to go for Umrah should get vaccinated at least a month before they undertake the holy trip. Two doses 21 days apart are needed, and it will be advisable if they get it in time for the Umrah,” said Yusuf Ahmed Khereda of Al Khalid Tours & Travels. He added that since the Saudi government had announced lifting of a travel ban and allowed international flights to resume operations from March 31, no Umrah for Indian pilgrims can happen before April. Earlier, Union minister for minority affairs Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi had said efforts were being made to give the vaccine to all pilgrims going for Haj from India this year. While Umrah can be performed multiple times through the year, the five-day Haj rituals are conducted annually. The last date for submission of forms for Haj 2021 was January 10. Haj 2021 will be held in June-July.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/get-vaccinated-before-heading-for-umrah-pilgrims-told/articleshow/80240008.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 13, 2021||Delhi||18 more bird samples from Delhi sent for test, results awaited||NEW DELHI: A day after bird flu was confirmed in Delhi, 18 random samples of dead birds and droppings were collected from different parks and sent for tests on Tuesday. Over 40 complaints of bird deaths have been reported to the control room in the past 24 hours. An official said the bird droppings were collected from different parts of the city to ensure proper sampling. “The results will allow us to take further action to contain the spread,” he said. Times ViewThe government must raise public awareness of bird flu, especially those related to poultry meat to quell any panic. According to WHO, “there is no evidence that the disease can be spread to people through properly prepared and thoroughly cooked food. The virus is sensitive to heat. Normal temperatures used for cooking (so that food reaches 70°C in all parts) will kill the virus.” As a standard precaution, WHO also recommends “that poultry and poultry products should always be prepared following good hygienic practices, and that poultry meat should be properly cooked.”Eight samples of dead birds in Delhi — ducks from east Delhi’s Sanjay Lake and crows from Mayur Vihar and Dwarka — were found positive for H5N8, a subtype of the influenza A virus. Delhi government has banned sale of processed and packed chicken brought from outside the city and import of live birds. Ghazipur Murga Mandi has also been shut. Sanjay Lake, where 380 ducks were culled and buried on Monday, has been closed. Nearly 200 birds, mostly crows, have been found dead across Delhi like Hastsal park, green areas on Ring Road, Deer Park at Dilshad Garden, Central Nursery Sector-5 Dwarka, district park at Sarita Vihar and Central Park at Mayur Vihar in the past four days. “The results of more samples are awaited,” said an official, adding that doctors of all 48 veterinary hospitals under the animal husbandry department are monitoring the situation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/18-more-bird-samples-sent-for-test-results-awaited/articleshow/80240844.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||With V-day coming close, rollout prep in full swing||BHOPAL: The beginning of a decisive phase in fight against Covid-19 is taking shape in less talked about area of the health department— the immunisation wing. They have been entrusted with a mission – to ensure that the shot-of-life is given to all. The immunisation staff is confident backed by their experience and expertise in running some of the world’s biggest immunisation drives. In Madhya Pradesh alone, more than three million people are immunised each year. Under the mission Indradhanush there are 13 district in the state. The Centre and the state government are also banking on the expertise and experience of the staff in administering the Covid-19 vaccines to people across the state. In Bhopal, from January 16, vaccines would be administered at 80 centres and the vaccine recipients would be closely mapped and monitored by the control room. For the vaccination, two dry runs have been successfully carried out in this month and staff and the logistics have been finalised and protocols have been put in place. TOI took a look at the various stages from the arrival of vaccines at the Raja Bhoj airport and its transport and vaccination and spoke to some key people in the chain and how they are prepared to take up the challenge. GEETA DHAKAD | Cold Chain HandlerGeeta began her carrier as a vaccinator and for the last seven years has taken up the dual responsibility of a cold chain handler too. “I am still administrating ‘zero dose’ vaccine when needed. Between the two vaccinators and two shifts I expect to vaccinate 50 people a day,” she said. No sooner, she spelled out terminologies like condensing icepacks, vaccine carriers, vial box opening (when 10 candidates are on site) making it amply clear that she means business. Along with her junior colleague she will travel to the interiors in rural areas of the district. She said she is excited with the Covid-19 vaccine as she says at the end there is hope, it has come almost after a year of struggle. Hope this will help in containing and marking the end of pandemic, she said. FEROZ AHMED | Driver, Vaccine VanThe stage before vaccinators like Geeta receive the vaccine is crucial. Transportation andstorage of vaccine is critical to the entire vaccination process. The first rule is maintaining the recommended temperature condition for storage of vaccines at 2 to 8 degree Celsius. At 52, Feroz Ahmed drives a decade old, vaccine van. He is assisted with two people. “The transport vehicle can maintain cold temperatures required for the vaccines to be safely transported for different centres. “We have monitoring meters to keep tabs on the cold freeze in cold boxes. They are fitted with separate batteries so that they operate without any fuss. The jeep is packed and can maintain the temperature for 48-hours,” he said. “I am very excited that vaccine has arrived. It’s a great feeling after the all that we underwent in the last one year,” he added, although he is unaware when he himself would get the vaccine shot. SABIR KHAN | Cold Chain ManagementOnce transported the vaccines have to be safely stored at the desired temperatures of 2 to 8 degrees Celsius at the designated store from where they would be moved further. Cold chain management in the district is handled by Sabir Khan. He said the supply store should ensure proper packing of cold boxes as per standard defined protocols and proper stacking of cold boxes in vaccine vans to prevent any risk of vaccine vial damage during transportation. He too said, “It is the best news in the new year that the fight against the disease that killed thousands in the last one year has reached a decisive phase and vaccines are now available to counter it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/excited-over-decisive-fight-against-covid-19/articleshow/80238372.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Man ‘drops’ wife off moving train, nailed by witness||MUMBAI: A 37-year-old woman whirling around the vertical rod at the entrance to a railway coach lost her life after her husband allegedly let go of her. Anwar Ali Shaikh, 39, was arrested on Monday on charges of murdering his wife, Poonam Chavan, on the basis of a commuter’s eyewitness account. Police said the couple had got married only a month ago and the motive for the alleged murder is not clear. Shaikh and Chavan lived in a chawl at Mankhurd with her three-year-old daughter from a previous marriage. The couple did not have any fixed employment, but Shaikh would work as a driver on and off. Police said the couple begged for a living during the lockdown. On Monday, the couple along with the child was travelling in a Panvel-bound local. Around 3.20pm, the train was between Chembur and Govandi stations when Chavan started spinning around the vertical rod.  A co-traveller, Sangeeta Bhalerao, was concerned and started to observe the goings-on. “Bhalerao was headed home. She told us Chavan was joined by her husband. It was clearly very dangerous as the train was moving. At one point, Chavan leaned out and her husband held her in a tight grasp. But he suddenly released his grip and she landed on the tracks. When the train halted at Govandi, Bhalerao rushed to find an on-duty policeman and narrated the incident,” said a police officer. Police took Shaikh into custody and brought him to the Wadala GRP post. Chavan’s body was found on the tracks. “There are no cameras on the tracks between the two stations so we have only the eyewitness account to bank on. We are trying to track down Chavan’s relatives to inquire if her husband had been harassing her. The child has been handed over to Chavan’s stepmother,” said the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-drops-wife-off-moving-train-nailed-by-witness/articleshow/80240847.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||CM reviews 2 proposed city sea link plans||MUMBAI: Chief Minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday reviewed two important proposed sea link projects in Mumbai —Bandra-Versova and Versova-Virar Sea Link. CM Thackeray asserted that both the projects will ensure smooth journeys by providing relief against traffic jams. The Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC) officials gave a power-point presentation on both the projects before the CM at his official residence on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cm-reviews-2-proposed-city-sea-link-plans/articleshow/80241618.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Over 1.03 lakh health workers in North Maharashtra to get vaccine||Nashik: Over 1.03 lakh frontline health workers, including doctors and nurses, from across five districts of North Maharashtra have been identified for Covid-19 vaccination. A total of 71 centres from Ahmednagar, Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar have been identified for carrying out the vaccine programme. Acting deputy director of health from Nashik region P D Gandal said that the administrations of all these five districts have finalized lists of all health workers from both government and private institutions for the programme. According to details provided by the health department, the highest number of health workers are from Ahmednagar (31,800) and Nashik (30,000) while Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar have finalized list of 19,911, 10,200 and 11,346 respectively. As far as the vaccination centres are concerned, Nashik has the highest number with 23, followed by Ahmednagar 21, Jalgaon 13 while Dhule and Nandurbar have seven each. Of the 23 centres in Nashik district, five are located within the jurisdiction of Nashik Municipal Corporation. Similarly 7 centres are located in Ahmednagar city, three in Dhule city and four in Jalgaon. The district administrations of these five districts had recently carried out dry run for vaccination programme successfully. Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud said that the district has six ice-lined refrigerators (ILR) for storing the vaccines. Dhule district Covid-19 nodal officer Vishal Patil said that the vaccination centres would remain open from 9 am to 5 pm by which the health workers would have to visit the centres earmarked for them to get vaccinated. “Each vaccination centre would be manned by a five-member team. Once a health workers enters the centre, he/she has to wait in the waiting room and the process of verification of names, photo ID, etc. would be carried out. Thereafter, the health worker would enter the vaccination room where he/she would be administered the vaccine. After the process is over, the health worker would have to go the next room, which is the observation room,” said Patil.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-1-03-lakh-health-workers-in-north-maharashtra-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80239449.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 13, 2021||Pune||No consent from parents keeps attendance to 16% in schools||Pune: Only 16% students have attended physical classes and less than 50% schools have started after the permission to reopen for standards IX to XII was given by Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations on January 4. The poor response is attributed to lack of parental consent. Parents are not confident enough as yet to send their wards to school as yet and most are choosing online education over the offline mode, officials said. Many heads of schools said they were calling only students of standards X and XII for practicals and pre-board examinations. As of Monday, 21.52% attendance was registered in PCMC area schools, and 13.46% in schools in the PMC limits. Rural schools which reopened on November 23 registered a 24.35% attendance on Monday. Of the 1,975 schools in the district with standards IX to XII, only 1,246 have reopened. Over 2.54 lakh parents have submitted their consent forms but of the 5.65 lakh students in these classes, only 1.16 lakh attended school on Monday. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal of SNBP International School, said, “We have reopened the school and called standard XII students for their practical classes and standard X students for pre-board examinations. Even in these two segments, only students whose parents have consented to send their children to school are allowed to attend. For all the remaining students, online classes are continuing.”Parents are comfortable with the online system. “My daughter is in standard X and I am happy with the way classes and exams are conducted online. Recently, our school conducted the pre-board examinations. The exam papers were uploaded online, and the students were told to write the three-hour exam at home and parents had to submit the papers for evaluation,” Shivkumar N, a parent, said.Anubha Sahai, who heads a parents’ rights organisation said it is almost impossible for students to strictly adhere to all Covid-19 protocols when in school and the teachers cannot always monitor them. “Even for schools, it is not possible to clean each and every surface. There are no bus services as of now so parents would have to pick and drop their children every day. It is all risky,” she added. One Week Later Area---IX-XII schools ---Reopened--Consent --Students ( IX to XII) --- Present Pune City---529---250---52,982---175038---23,567 (13.46)PCMC A---296---160----26,072---92896---19,994 (21.52%)Total ---822---410---79,054---267934---43,561Percentage --NA ---49.88---29.51---NA ---16.26Pune rural--1,153---836---1,75, 802---2,97,994---72,588Percentage---NA ---72.51---59.00---xx---24.359Pune district---1,975---1,246---2,54,856---5,65,928---1,16,149Percentage ---NA ------63.09---45.03---NA---20.524Courtesy: PMC||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-consent-from-parents-keeps-attendance-to-16-in-schools/articleshow/80251611.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Final dry run of Covid-19 vaccine held at over 300 centres||DEHRADUN: The final dry run for Covid-19 vaccine was held at 343 centres across Uttarakhand on Tuesday. During the exercise, 6,650 volunteers were administered vaccines as part of the mock drill. The exercise was monitored by the central government team. The drill was held in an online mode in 340 centres and in offline mode in the remaining three facilities. Talking about the final dry run, Dr Saroj Naithani, director National Health Mission (NHM) said, “During the final dry run, we managed to administer vaccines to 6,650 beneficiaries against the set target of 7,964 beneficiaries. Thus, we achieved 84% of the set target.” During the mock drill, 243 cases of adverse effects after vaccination were also orchestrated to check preparedness in dealing with emergency situations. On Tuesday, the officials also confirmed that the state will be receiving its first batch of Covid-19 vaccine, around 1.13 lakh doses, by Wednesday. Talking to TOI, secretary (health) Amit Negi said that the Centre has confirmed that the state will be getting 1.13 lakh doses of Covishield. The vaccine will arrive from Pune. “We are all set to transport the vaccine further to districts and sub-centres. The final communication of the arrival of the vaccine will reach us shortly and we expect that we will get the same by Wednesday night or by Thursday,” added Negi. In the first phase, vaccination of healthcare workers posted at all district hospitals, medical colleges, AIIMS, Army hospitals, sub-district hospitals, and major community health centres will take place. It will be followed by vaccination of ASHAs and ANMs. Dr Naithani said that in view of Haridwar Kumbh, all healthcare workers to be deployed here will be vaccinated in the initial phase. “Among the 1.13 lakh vaccine doses, around 10% will be wasted, as per general strategy. Hence, we will be left with 1,07,000 vaccine doses which will be administered to a little over 50,000 healthcare workers. We will be prepared with the second dose so that the chain of double immunisation doesn’t break,” added Naithani. Meanwhile, barely seven volunteers, among the 25 shortlisted ones, reached Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) for the Covid-19 vaccine dry run on Tuesday. “There is a little hesitation among the staffers regarding vaccination. We are trying to pacify them and dispel their myths. We are all prepared to tackle emergency cases (if any) too. The doctors and healthcare workers must come forward for this noble cause,” added Dr Ashutosh Sayana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/final-dry-run-of-covid-19-vaccine-held-at-over-300-centres/articleshow/80237479.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||JP hosp one of 2 centres in MP for two-way communication with PMO on Vaccine-Day||Bhopal: JP hospital will be among two centres in Madhya Pradesh from where PM Narendra Modi is expected to virtually interact with doctors and others regarding COVID-19 on vaccination day, January 16. Other centre that will have two-way communication facility is MGM-Indore, according to a press release. Live webcast will be arranged in 302 locations across the state.“The vaccine is expected to be received on Wednesday,” said MP medical education minister, Vishwas Sarang, here on Tuesday. He inspected preparations at the COVID vaccination centre of Gandhi Medical College (GMC). Sarang reviewed the procedures and protocols for vaccination with medical college officials.The minister said the coronavirus vaccine administration is going to start in the state from January 16 in 302 places. The first phase would cover over 4 lakh people, comprising health workers. The prescribed procedure for developing the coldchain and transporting the vaccine to the end point has been reviewed, he said. Around 8 vaccination sessions would be conducted at the medical college, said Hamidia hospital’s Dr ID Chaurasia. “Roughly 800 people would be vaccinated in the medical college,” he added. Bhopal is expected to have about 130 vaccination centres. Four state-level stores have been set up at Bhopal, Indore, Gwalior and Jabalpur.Registration for the vaccine would be carried out only through the Co-Win portal. After the vaccine is administrated, the beneficiary will be kept in observation for half an hour. In case of any problem, a team of doctors, ambulances and support staff would be on site. Sarang said that the vaccine would prove effective in the battle of against COVID-19. Preparation is on to administer 100 vaccines at each vaccination site. The second dose will be administered after 28 days. This is going to be the first time that the process of vaccination of adult individuals has been adopted. Till now, vaccination of young children has been done, said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/jp-hosp-one-of-2-centres-in-mp-for-two-way-communication-with-pmo-on-vaccine-day/articleshow/80238380.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Civic chief orders fire audit of pvt hospitals, commercial establishments||Nashik: Municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has ordered immediate fire audits of over 500 private hospitals, maternity homes and nursing homes across the city. Fire brigade chief of the Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) Sanjay Bairagi said around 356 private hospitals and nursing homes in the city are yet to carry out the mandatory twice a year fire audits. “As per norms, the private hospitals are needed to carry out the fire audit twice a year. But only 143 private hospitals have conducted their fire audits,” he said. The fire brigade has started a survey from Tuesday to check the fire safety measures in private hospitals, different buildings, malls and residential societies. “We have deployed six teams to check whether the private hospitals have conducted the fire audits. If not, we will serve them a notice, giving them a month to carry out the fire audits,” said Bairagi. He added that they are also issuing a public notice asking private hospitals, malls, commercial buildings and other big residential buildings to conduct fire audits through government recognized agencies and make necessary provisions for installations of the fire equipment. When asked about the number of commercial and residential buildings that have carried out fire audits, Bairagi said they did not have the information but would find out such buildings without fire audits. As per norms, the buildings built over 500 sq metres need to conduct fire audits and make all the necessary fire safety provisions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/civic-chief-orders-fire-audit-of-pvt-hospitals-commercial-establishments/articleshow/80239480.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 13, 2021||Delhi||No bird death reported in North Delhi Municipal Corporation areas, says mayor||NEW DELHI: A team of senior North Delhi Municipal Corporation officials, along with the mayor, visited Naini Lake on Tuesday to review the arrangements to minimise the chance of the bird flu spread at the recreation spot. While the animal husbandry department of Delhi government has twice taken bird samples from this lake, which hosts many ducks and migratory birds, a standard operating procedure (SOP) has been issued for all such places and parks, said a senior civic official. “We are vigilant and continuously working to check the spread of bird flu in our areas. During the inspection, our staff found all the ducks healthy and the migratory birds had already left,” said mayor Jai Prakash. “However, there is no plan to restrict entry of visitors to the site,” the mayor said. The report of the samples of ducks collected from the lake is awaited. The corporation has formed a high-level committee to monitor the situation in its areas on a daily basis. The civic body has 6,795 parks under its jurisdiction, out of which three are big gardens. Samples of all dead birds will have to be sent for testing. “The SOP guidelines include filing the information about the status of the green body and its maintenance on a daily basis. In case of any bird death, they will have to send the sample for testing and cordon off the area. However, till date, no incident has been reported in our areas,” said an official. After New Delhi Municipal Council, the north corporation has also issued guidelines to all meat shops, restaurants and hotels on buying meat from unlicensed vendors. “Our licensing department will take all measures to stop selling of unauthorised and unhygienic poultry products, especially chicken, through illegal shops, hawkers or vendors and will close down such shops,” said Jai Prakash.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/no-bird-death-reported-in-n-corpn-areas-says-mayor/articleshow/80240852.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Van leaves for Pune to procure Covid vaccine||Nashik: A van belonging to the divisional health department on Tuesday left for Pune to collect a batch of Covid-19 vaccine which is to be administered to over a lakh of frontline warriors.0 Deputy director of health P B Gandal said, “Once the vaccines arrive, they will be distributed across five districts of North Maharashtra as per the instructions received from our higher offices.” Until Tuesday, the divisional health department did not receive any information about the quantity of the vaccine they would be getting as well as the quantity to be distributed. Gandal said that in all likelihood, the vaccination programme will begin from Saturday. The concerned districts have already placed their requirement for the vaccine and the same has been communicated to the state health department. “Arrangements will be made to dispatch the vaccines to Ahmednagar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar apart from Nashik district as per the instructed of the state health department,” Gandal said. The divisional health department has received a list of 71 centres from these fice districts of North Maharashtra where the vaccination programme would begin from Saturday. When asked if a green corridor would be made for the transportation of Covid vaccines, the deputy director of health said that there is no need of making a green corridor as vaccine was reaching well in advance before the scheduled day of vaccination and that they would have sufficient time in hand to dispatch the vaccines to the neighbouring districts which are located just a few kilometres away from Nashik.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/van-leaves-for-pune-to-procure-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80239478.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||500 new Covid cases in Madhya Pradesh for second day||BHOPAL: For the second consecutive day on Tuesday, less than 500 positive cases of Covid-19 were reported in the state. Monday was the first time in six months that less than 500 new cases were reported in Madhya Pradesh. A total 471 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the count of positive cases in the state to 2,49,553. On Tuesday, eight deaths were reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,726. Districts where these deaths were reported include two deaths from Anuppur district and one death each from Bhopal, Gwalior, Vidisha, Damoh, Raisen, and Umaria districts On Tuesday, new cases were reported from 50 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Tuesday include Panna and Burhanpur districts. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from 10 districts. The highest number of cases was reported from Bhopal where 97 people tested positive, followed by Indore where 76 tested positive, Jabalpur where 22 tested positive and Gwalior where 18 people were found positive. On the brighter side, 615 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the count of recoveries so far in the state reached 2,38,328.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/lt500-new-covid-cases-in-mp-for-second-day/articleshow/80238384.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Importer who had peons as ‘directors’ held for Rs 12-crore tax con||MUMBAI: The Central Goods and Services (CGST) department on Tuesday arrested an importer-exporter for fraudulently claiming Input Tax Credit (ITC) of Rs 12.08 crore without actual supply of goods. A CGST team arrested importer-exporter Santosh Kumar Singh (40) who has been operating nine export firms and created 44 companies to issue fake invoices of huge amount of ITC without physical movement of goods and fraudulently claiming refund of ITC and drawback. Singh was produced before the 8th Magistrate Court Mumbai and sent to judicial custody for two weeks.His lawyer Ravi Hirani argued in court that Singh has been framed as he genuinely claimed drawback as per law. A probe revealed that Singh masterminded the fraud. He formed nine companies in the name of office boys/peons using their PAN Cards and Aadhaar cards. These office boys who were unaware of the fraud were promised loans. The peons were not aware of the activities of companies in which they were proprietors, but got a monthly salary of Rs 10,000. Officials said that Singh had overall control of these companies . Till date, ITC refund of Rs 12.08 crore and drawback of Rs. 4.22 crore were claimed by the nine fraudulent firms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/importer-who-had-peons-as-directors-held-for-rs-12cr-tax-con/articleshow/80241643.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 13, 2021||Pune||Pune expert helps secure GI tag for Sunderbans honey||PUNE: Ganesh Hingmire, a city-based expert on intellectual property rights, has played a key role in securing GI tag for multi-floral honey found in the Sunderbans, one of the world’s largest mangrove forests bordering West Bengal and Bangladesh. “The honey is found deep inside the forest and only a small community of Moulis s skilled in retrieving it using traditional methods. It has been scientifically proven to be unique for its raw flavour and sweet aftertaste,” he said. “A big reason for highlighting this form of indigenous honey is its remarkably low HMF (5-Hydroxymethylfurfural) especially after recent controversies about big brands adulterating their honey with sugar and claiming it to be natural. HMF indicates the break-down product of fructose. Since Sunderbans honey is actually pure, its HMF content is 26-27, while packaged honey available in the market maintain HMF content ranging from 60-185,” Hingire further said. The colour and texture of Sunderbans honey is different from store-bought honey. It can be called an acquired taste as it is very sweet and has a thinner consistency. “It does not have a uniform colour as it is collected from hives from approximately 30 species of mangroves, resulting in variation from golden to red or even dark brown. This is why it is sometimes called ‘blood’ honey,” Hingmire said. “Currently, 70 honey collectors have been trained and allowed to collect honey from 1,400 apiary boxes, owned and managed by the Moulis. Around 20,000 kg of honey is collected from the forest annually. There is a need to conserve this minor forest produce in order to meet future requirements,” he said. The application for the GI tag was filed by Higmire on behalf of Bee Basket Society, Warje. The organisation oversaw the standards and quality assurance system for inspection of production and statutory compliance pertaining to Sunderbans honey||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/city-expert-helps-secure-gi-tag-for-sunderbans-honey/articleshow/80240839.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi HC ultimatum on hanging wires in Chandni Chowk||NEW DELHI: Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed various bodies, including North Delhi Municipal Corporation, MTNL, BSES and mobile service providers to immediately remove hanging wires and cables in Chandni Chowk, which is undergoing redevelopment. The court made it clear that non-compliance of the order will invite contempt action. “We direct all the agencies to ensure compliance so that all hanging wires and cables are removed. All service providers should ensure compliance, failing which we will be compelled to initiate contempt action,” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli noted when it was brought to its attention the threat posed by these wires. It acted after the court-appointed nodal officers informed it that an inspection of redevelopment project of Chandni Chowk was carried out on December 28, during which it was noticed that MTNL is yet to shift the feeder pillars. The chief nodal officer of Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC) said hanging wires and cables are required to be removed and sought direction to various agencies to remove these. However, the bench pointed out that “if those hanging wires are removed, half of Chandni Chowk will be left without electricity.” The nodal officers also informed the court that ‘redevelopment of Chandni Chowk’ may be the theme of Republic Day tableau for Delhi this year, but the agencies were not adhering to the timeline and the hanging wires on both sides of footpaths/ colonnades in the entire stretch are not electrical wires, but may be internet cables or DTH cables. The officers had ordered removal of the hanging wires by mobile service providers and cable operators from the entire stretch by January 7 and also asked north corporation officials and Delhi Police to take punitive action in accordance with relevant provisions of Delhi Municipal Corporation Act and Defacement of Public Property Act, if it reappears in future after its removal. The inspection was conducted of the entire stretch of Chandni Chowk road that is from Red Fort road to Fatehpuri Masjid road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-ultimatum-on-hanging-wires-in-walled-city/articleshow/80240887.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Police arrest two waiters in Rs 1.5 lakh card cloning case||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad police on Monday arrested two waiters in connection with a card cloning case in which five persons complained of unauthorized ATM withdrawals amounting to nearly Rs1.5 lakh. The police said the two suspects — each an employee of a restaurant in Wakad and Bhosari — were in cahoots with each other and part of a larger, interstate gang.“The gang has been operating in different states, including Maharashtra, Jharkhand and Bihar. This is a wide-ranging investigation,” senior inspector Sanjay Tungar of the cybercrime cell told TOI. All five complainants had visited these restaurants in the past month, and were served by the suspects, the cybercrime police said. A 30-year-old software engineer, who has lodged an FIR with the Wakad police, said, “I went to the Wakad restaurant for dinner on January 7 and paid the bill using my debit car. Two days later, I received an SMS stating that Rs38,000 was withdrawn from my account at an automated teller machine.”The ATM was in Ranchi, Jharkhand. He went to cybercrime police to lodge a complaint and met another person, who lost Rs16,000 in a similar way after visiting the same restaurant. The other three complainants together had visited the restaurant in Bhosari in December. They lost Rs95,000. “The waiters would steal card data by attaching a skimmer to the point-of-sale machine and share it with each other. They would send the data to a person in Jharkhand, who would clone the cards,” senior inspector Vivek Mugalikar of the Wakad police said. Tungar said they zeroed in on the Jharkhand suspect with help from the Wakad and Bhosari police units. He said they were also probing how the cards were cloned, and which ATMs were used.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/police-arrest-two-waiters-in-rs-1-5-lakh-card-cloning-case/articleshow/80240835.cms||Mihir Tanksale
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Pass centres at Shirdi to remain shut for 3 days a week||Nashik: The Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust (SSST), Shirdi, has announced that starting January 14, the pass distribution centres on the temple premises will not stay open on Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays. The trust’s decision is to avoid the crowding of devotees to obtain free or paid passes that are mandatory for entering the temple. Kanhuraj Bagate, the CEO of SSST, said the trust has taken the decision as a Covid-19 precautionary measure. “The darshan system at the temple is under huge stress due to the presence of a large number of devotees. We must remember that the state government and the Ahmednagar district administration have issued restrictions while allowing the temple to reopen from November 16 last year. A new strain of the Covid virus has been found in England. As a precautionary measure, these pass distribution centres will not open on three days till the time the government eases the restrictions,” said Bagate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/pass-centres-at-shirdi-to-remain-shut-for-3-days-a-week/articleshow/80239482.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 13, 2021||Nashik||114 cases, 3 deaths in Nashik dist||Nashik: As many as 114 Covid-19 positive cases, including 91 from the city, have been reported in Nashik district in the last 24 hours, taking the tally of positive cases to 1,12,789. Three patients succumbed to Covid-19 infection in the district, including two from the city. The death toll stands at 996 in the city and 2,016 in the district. As many as 292 patients were discharged from across various facilities in the district on Tuesday. Of these, 209 were from the city. At present, the district has 1,408 active patients. Meanwhile, the number of active patients in the city further dropped from 971 to 851. “The city is witnessing a drop in the number of new cases. Moreover, the number of recoveries has also increased. Patients are being detected early and timely treatment is yielding good results. Hence, the number of active patients and the number of Covid-19 deaths have reduced at large in the city,” medical superintendent of NMC Bapusaheb Nagargoje said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/114-cases-3-deaths-in-nashik-dist/articleshow/80239518.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Nashik||District collectorate staff get fire safety training||CLEARED SKHER Nashik: The employees working at the Nashik district collector office were on Tuesday imparted training on the use of fire extinguishers. A mock drill about checking the preparedness for fire fighting machinery was done on the backdrop of the recent incident in Bhandara civil hospital. Ten infants died due to a fire in the sick newborn care unit of the hospital in Bhandara. A large number of fire extinguishers have been put up at the district collectorate. However, most of the employees are unaware about how to use them. Resident deputy district collector Bhagwat Doiphode, district disaster management officer Prashant Waghmare and senior officers of various departments of the district collectorate were present. The personnel of different departments of the collectorate were shown the proper use of the fire extinguishers. Waste papers were lit on an open space in the premises of the collectorate, after which John Bhalekar, chief of the search and rescue team of the district disaster management, demonstrated the use of fire extinguishers. Subsequently, various employees at the district collectorate also tried their hand at using fire extinguishers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/district-collectorate-staff-get-fire-safety-training/articleshow/80239498.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||First drive-in cinema of central India in Bhopal soon||BHOPAL: The first ever drive-in cinema of central India is likely to be inaugurated “later this month”. With a capacity of 100 vehicles, the open-air theatre is being developed at the sprawling Lake View Ashok hotel, now a unit of the MP State Tourism Development Corporation (MPSTDC). The open air theatre is being developed under PPP mode by a Bhopal-based company in collaboration with the MPSTDC. A spokesman of the corporation said, “Work is in the final phase before it is completed. Recently, a 40-minute trial was also held.” The drive-in is likely to be inaugurated before January 26, sources said, adding, the final date for the inauguration ceremony is yet to be announced. Managing director of the MPSTDC, S Vishwanathan, said, “The drive-in will be ready very soon.” He said that a huge screen of 1,400 sq feet has been installed in the drive-in where 100 cars could be parked to watch a movie. The project was conceptualized during the corona period when all cinema halls and multiplexes of the state capital were shut and people were missing the excitement of watching movies in big screens. Besides watching movies while sitting in your car, one can also enjoy the movie while sitting in an amphitheatre with weather-proof seating alongwith dine-in service. The ticket pricing, however, is yet to be decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/first-drive-in-cinema-of-central-india-in-city-soon/articleshow/80238434.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Fire in the belly, rural women turn up for Army recruitment||PUNE: A large crowd of determined women from across rural Maharashtra milled inside the Army Institute of Physical Training (AIPT) in Hadapsar on Tuesday. It was the first day of the women’s recruitment rally for the posts of soldier on general duty, and each aspirant had a different reason to be there — love for the services, a disciplined life, a stable job, better salaries and respect in society. Laxmi Khate, daughter of a retired soldier, wants to do what her father could not. “He opted for voluntary retirement and did not complete his full service for medical reasons. I want to join the army and fulfil his dreams,” she said. Laxmi scored an impressive 88% in her exams SSC and is studying for a bachelor’s degree in science, but says she is cut out for the army. Ashwini Kekan from Beed district prepared all by herself for the rally over the last three months. “A soldier gets immense, unmatched respect. I want to earn that respect by joining the army,” she said. Ashwini stood first in the 1.6km running event and completed the mandatory high and long jumps comfortably. A content Ashwini, sitting on AIPT’s lawns with others who had cleared the physical tests, said her father, a labourer, had encouraged her to apply for the recruitment. Priyanka Jaygude ran barefoot. “During the run, I did not think about my feet. My aim was to complete 1.6km in seven minutes and cross the first hurdle in the rally,” said the girl from Wai in Satara district. Those who failed in the ground events were undeterred and spoke about preparing for future recruitment rallies. “I travelled over 450km to participate in the recruitment rally. I could not push myself after the third round because of my hamstring injury. Had I practised enough, I would have finished in style,” said Swati Dhaykar from Jalgaon district. Akanksha Khade, a second year bachelor in arts student from Ahmednagar, said was inspired by the army personnel in her locality. “I have been seeing them in uniform since childhood. I joined the National Cadet Corps and want to become like them one day,” she added. “Deshbhakti” was Anita Bhosale’s one-word answer for wanting to join the army. “My father retired as a soldier after 30 years’ service. I want to carry forward his legacy. I had gone to the Jabalpur rally, but could not clear the written examination. I am now prepared and confident of clearing the exam,” she said. Anita has a first class degree in business administration and had secured 93% in her SSC board exams. On the grounds, the women shared techniques, encouraged and cheered fellow participants, and laughed together. “This is a completely different atmosphere from the male recruitment rallies,” an army officer said. “Most women here are from rural areas and their parents have supported them. It is a good sign. We could see determination, tenacity and sportsmanship in them.” Thirty army personnel, including senior officers from the Zonal Recruitment Office of the Southern Command, were present for the one-on-one interaction with the candidates. All Covid-19 restrictions were followed. Separate sections for each category were marked on the ground to prevent close contact. About 100 aspirants sat on the pavement outside as they did not have admit cards. “We did not know about the online registration. Next time, I will do it,” Kiran Gaikwad from Shirur tehsil said. As per rules, only those with valid admit cards can participate in the rally. “A total of 236 women aspirants took part on the first day. We expect a similar number on Wednesday,” a senior army officer in the recruitment process said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/fire-in-the-belly-rural-women-turn-up-for-army-recruitment/articleshow/80240849.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||Traumatised, Badaun gangrape victim’s husband referred to mental hospital||Bareilly: The husband of the 50-year-old woman who was allegedly gang-raped, brutalised and left to die slowly has not been able to come to terms with what happened to her. As his condition deteriorated, he was referred to the mental hospital in Bareilly on Tuesday. “On Monday afternoon, he was asleep in his room. He woke with a start, screaming and asking for his wife. He went around looking for her, from room to room. When he couldn’t find her, he picked up a pan with charcoal embers and ran outside. We managed to bring him inside but he started banging his head against the wall,” his son-in-law told TOI. Over the course of their marriage, he had leaned on her completely. When he fell ill a few years ago, she took over — providing for the family, bringing up the children and taking care of him. Last Sunday, hours after she left home to offer prayers at a temple, she was dropped home in a dying state by the three men accused of raping and killing her — a priest and his two aides. “He has been in shock since he saw her blood-soaked body,” his son-in-law said. On Monday afternoon, they called the police and asked for help. “We sent an ambulance with a police team. He was taken to the district hospital first but there was no psychiatrist there. He was then taken to Bareilly,” Badaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI. “At the mental hospital in Bareilly, the doctor told us he is in post-traumatic shock. He needs to be put under medication for 15 days,” the son-in-law added. “He has been sent back with a prescription and medicines,” Dr CP Mall, who attended to him, said. The first dose of medication calmed him and he was taken back to the district hospital for treatment of his head injuries. “There, he underwent a CT scan,” the son-in-law said. The sedatives will continue. Police have spoken to the family about providing mental health support. A forensics team from Lucknow, meanwhile, visited the two villages — where she was from and where she was allegedly raped — to reconstruct the events. The SSP said, “We expect to share the findings soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/traumatised-badaun-gangrape-victims-husband-referred-to-mental-hospital/articleshow/80237495.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 13, 2021||Delhi||27 construction sites in Delhi fined in 2 weeks for dust norm violations||NEW DELHI: Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has acted against 27 construction sites in the past two weeks for flouting norms of dust pollution and imposed a fine of Rs 22.4 lakh on them. Officials said a special drive was under way and 26 teams were conducting random inspection of construction and demolition sites in the city. The Commission of Air Quality Management in Delhi-NCR and adjoining areas had reviewed the deteriorating air quality situation and had directed strict enforcement of dust control measures to curb air pollution in Delhi-NCR on December 23. The commission ordered DPCC and state pollution control boards to constitute surprise inspection teams and take strict action against violators of construction and demolition waste rules. Following the order, 26 teams of DPCC began surprise inspection from December 24. The teams inspected 170 construction and demolition sites and of these, 143 were found complying with the dust mitigation measures. However, 27 sites were violating norms set by the government to control dust pollution and of these, eight sites were ordered to stop the construction work. Out of the 27 sites, a total environmental compensation of Rs 22.4 lakh was levied on 25 sites. “The sites that were fined were mostly not sprinkling water regularly to settle dust and had failed to cover debris and construction materials properly. Our drive is under way and we will continue to act against violators,” said a senior DPCC official. Among the dust mitigation measures are using 10 metre thick metal sheets and nets at the site to prevent dust from blowing out, covering debris and construction material with tarpaulin, sprinkling of water to keep the area dust-free during operational conditions and using anti-smog guns at over 20,000 sqm sites and covering vehicles carrying construction material and washing their wheels regularly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/27-construction-sites-fined-in-2-weeks-for-dust-norm-violations/articleshow/80240973.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||3.7 lakh shots land in Hyderabad as Telangana gets ready||HYDERABAD: Telangana received the first consignment of 3.72 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine developed by the Serum Institute of India (SII) on Tuesday morning as authorities threw a tight security ring and began distributing sealed boxes to 139 centres across the state. After the first consignment of 31 specially insulated boxes were flown into the city in a chartered flight from Pune to Hyderabad via Delhi, senior officials of the state health department accompanied the vaccine vans from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) to the state vaccine centre at Koti amid tight security. The transfer of vaccines from the vaccine centre to regional centres in 10 districts under the watchful eyes of the police began on Tuesday night. “It will later reach the vaccination centres on the evening of January 14 and the process will be monitored by special officers. Around 15 lakh syringes have already been shifted to vaccination centres. Also, medical kits were sent to the districts for immediate treatment in case of side effects,” director of public health, Dr G Srinivasa Rao. Authorities said they are expecting 20,000 Covaxin vaccines from Bharat Biotech to be delivered on Wednesday as well. The doses received on Tuesday, will cover 1.82 lakh healthcare workers (each person requires two doses to be given at the interval of 14 days). However, on the inaugural day of January 16, only 4,170 healthcare workers will be vaccinated with 30 beneficiaries vaccinated at each of the 139 vaccine session sites. With January 17 turning out to be a Sunday, officials said the routine vaccination programme will again commence from January 18. The state has registered a total of 2.88 lakh healthcare workers for vaccination, including Asha workers, anganwadi workers, nurses, doctors and other healthcare staff working in government as well as private facilities. While the state is likely to receive a mix of two different vaccines for the first phase of the vaccination programme, the vaccine will be administered first to the healthcare staff, before giving to frontline workers, then to people above 50 years of age and finally to patients between 18 and 50 years of age with comorbidities. “These four categories of beneficiaries totalling 80 lakh is estimated to be covered by the month of June in a phased manner,” Rao added. State health minister Eatala Rajender called upon local representatives to play an active role in the vaccination programme to create awareness among people and to make vaccination a priority. Interfaith prayers were offered as soon as the consignment reached the state vaccine centre. They were received by director of public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of medical education (DME) Dr Ramesh Reddy and Telangana State Medical Services Infrastructure Development Corporation (TSMSIDC) managing director, Chandrasekhar Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-receives-a-consignment-of-3-72-lakh-doses-of-covishield-vaccine/articleshow/80240970.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccine: Special flight brings vials to IGI||NEW DELHI: The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccines arrived in Delhi on Tuesday morning with SpiceJet ferrying in 2,64,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine from Pune. The cargo arm SpiceXpress flight SG8937 landed at Indira Gandhi International Airport at 10.15am. The vaccines were specially packed in airtight containers sealed by the Serum Institute of India. The vaccines were immediately loaded on to a special temperature-controlled truck and transported to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. The cargo craft took off at Pune at 8.05 am. Spicejet executives said 22 boxes, each containing 1,200 vials of Covishield, were packed into the SpiceXpress craft that is capable of transporting extremely sensitive drugs, blood samples and vaccines in a temperature range of -40 degrees Celsius to +25 degrees Celsius. Each vial provides 10 doses of the vaccine. The white packets bore a logo with an image of an aeroplane against the Tricolour with the words, “May all be free of disease.” Ajay Singh, chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said, “I am very proud that India’s first consignment of the Covid vaccine was carried today by SpiceJet from Pune to Delhi. On Day One, SpiceJet is transporting four million doses of Covishield weighing close to 11 tonnes to Guwahati, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Bhubaneswar, Bengaluru, Patna, Vijayawada and Delhi. As India gets ready for the biggest vaccination drive in its history, the SpiceJet family hopes and prays for a quick, complete and decisive victory in this fight against coronavirus.” Delhi International Airport Limited officials said instructions had been given to immediately transfer the vials to Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. However, the airport is also capable of storing the vaccine at its two cargo terminals, which together have a combined capacity to hold 57 lakh vials each day. The storage facilities at the airport can keep sensitive drugs and vaccines at a temperature ranging from -20 degrees Celsius to 25 degrees Celsius. “We were coordinating with the airline and a temperature-controlled truck was ready to transfer the boxes soon after the flight landed,” said the airport official. DIAL CEO Videh Kumar Jaipuriar said, “On Tuesday, we received out first batch of Covid vaccines, but right through the pandemic period, IGIA has been relentlessly working for the timely and smooth supply of medical equipment and other relief material in and out of Delhi to various destinations in India.” He revealed that in addition to the temperature control facilities, there also were ‘cool chambers’ and ‘cool dollies’ to maintain the required temperature while transferring the vaccines to the cargo terminals. Jaipuriar added, “We have synergised and collaborated with the exporters, importers, logistics companies, freight forwarders, agents, government, airlines and cargo terminal operators to ensure faster turnaround of the vaccines.” Watch Covid-19 vaccine: Special flight brings 'Covishield' vials to IGI||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/relief-jets-in-and-how-now-time-for-shots/articleshow/80241008.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Ayush min’s wife, close aide died of chest injuries||Panaji: The postmortem on Vijaya Naik, wife of Union minister and North Goa MP Shripad Naik and on his close aide Dr Deepak Ghume, was carried out at Goa Medical College (GMC) and Hospital on Tuesday. The autopsies revealed that Vijaya and Ghume suffered blunt chest trauma (chest injuries). “Vijaya didn’t have any external injuries, while Ghume sustained skull injuries as well. They died of chest injuries,” said a source. Vijaya and Ghume were with the Ayush minister when their car met with an accident at Ankola in Karnataka on Monday. “It is difficult to say if Vijaya and Ghume died on the spot or while being shifted to the hospital,” the source added. The postmortem was carried out on Ghume on Tuesday morning and his body was handed over to his family. Vijaya’s body has been preserved at the GMC morgue after the autopsy and will be handed over to the family today. The Ayush minister who suffered multiple injuries in the accident is under treatment at GMC where he was shifted on Monday after initial treatment at a private hospital in Karnataka. The driver of their vehicle, Suraj Naik, and a security official Tukaram Patil who were also injured in the accident were shifted to GMC on Monday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ayush-mins-wife-close-aide-died-of-chest-injuries/articleshow/80240985.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||‘GST applies to 1-time maintenance deposit flat buyers pay builders’||MUMBAI: The Gujarat bench of Authority for Advance Rulings (AAR) recently held goods and services tax (GST) would be applicable to a one-time maintenance deposit collected by a builder from its buyers as it is “non-returnable” in nature and is “for supply of services”. The AAR bench, though, added the amount will be subject to GST at the time of actual supply of service—when maintenance services or repairs of common areas and facilities are carried out, in future, by utilising these deposits. Deposits collected from buyers are typically pooled into a common maintenance deposit fund. In other words, according to this ruling, the buyer’s GST burden is deferred. The ruling comes at a time when a sharp reduction in stamp duties has boosted buying of flats in Mumbai. The builder usually charges a one-time maintenance deposit, which is computed at a certain per square foot rate of the property purchased. The applicability of GST on this deposit amount and the time of such levy has been a contentious issue. The AAR rejected the arguments of Ahmedabad-based Capital Commercial Coop Service Society, which had sought the advance ruling. This society had said the maintenance deposits collected are refunded to members as and when they cease to be so. Under GST laws, there needs to be a supply of goods or services for a consideration. As the deposit is refunded, it is not a consideration and does not qualify as a “supply”. Hence, no GST can be levied, the society had submitted. The AAR, in its order, though, observed the maintenance deposit in the name of the member who was leaving the society was transferred to a new member coming in, in his place. In other words, the deposit was not refunded but transferred by passing an accounting entry. Thus, it was non-refundable and taxable under GST. “Going by this ruling, the builder would collect the maintenance deposits and transfer the gross amount to the cooperative housing society (CHS), when the society is set up,” says Yusuf Hakim, indirect tax partner at CNK & Associates. “Under service tax law, there have been favourable rulings holding that the builder is not liable for service tax on such maintenance deposits. In practice, though, most builders in Mumbai prefer a conservative approach and collect and pay GST at 18% upfront at the time of receipt of a maintenance deposit. What is therefore handed over to the CHS is the net amount after discharge of GST,” says Sunil Gabhawalla, a CA and indirect tax specialist. Hakim concurs and says, “In case no GST has been collected by builders from flat owners, then when the CHS utilises the maintenance deposits for repairs or maintenance, it would need to raise a tax invoice. The CHS can either proportionately collect the 18% GST component from individual members or can use the proceeds of the maintenance deposit fund itself to clear the GST liability.” Indirect tax experts say as AAR rulings do not set a precedent, to avoid GST litigation, builders may continue collecting and paying GST upfront.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gst-applies-to-1-time-maintenance-deposit-flat-buyers-pay-builders/articleshow/80239988.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Naik’s son asks supporters not to gather outside GMC||Panaji: While thanking people for the support shown in their trying times, Siddhesh Naik, son of Ayush minister Shripad Naik, has appealed to well-wishers not to visit Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital to see his father. Instead they can visit them at their home at Ribandar. He said the crowd gathering outside GMC out of concern for his father is causing inconvenience to other patients and stressing security personnel. The Ayush minister is under treatment at GMC for multiple fractures he suffered when the car in which he was travelling along with his wife, Vijaya and others met with an accident in Karnataka on Monday. “I would request our well-wishers, family members, friends and supporters to stop visiting the GMC. We sincerely understand your concern towards us and respect it,” Siddhesh appealed to people through social media on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/naiks-son-asks-supporters-not-to-gather-outside-gmc/articleshow/80240964.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Teltumbde makes bail plea||Arrested in the Elgar Parishad case last year, activist and academic, Anand Teltumbde submitted a bail plea before the special NIA court on Tuesday.  The plea will be heard later this month. The court also heard the bail plea of Father Stan Swamy.  The case will come up for hearing this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teltumbde-makes-bail-plea/articleshow/80241645.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Landlord of Fort bldg booked 6 months after crash killed 10||MUMBAI: MRA Marg police on Sunday registered a case of causing death by negligence against the landlord of Bhanushali building, which collapsed in July last year. Ten persons were killed in the collapse in Fort. A large portion of the seven-storey residential structure had collapsed. Residents had said that the landlord, Mhada, and tenants had decided to repair the structure but their plan got delayed due to Covid-19. Those killed included a 17-year-old boy. “We registered a case against the building owner under sections 304A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of IPC,” said a senior police officer. The British-era building had around 40 tenanted premises for residential and commercial purposes, of which 12 were reduced to rubble. BMC had vacated the Mhada-cessed building. Bang opposite Bhanushali building was Kothari Mansion, another century-old building that had partly crashed after a fire in 2018. Later, the structure was pulled down as it was declared ‘dangerous’. Many British-era buildings in the area need urgent repairs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/landlord-of-fort-bldg-booked-6-months-after-crash-killed-10/articleshow/80241648.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||More than forest, land acquisition hits road projects in Maharashtra||Nagpur: Even as the forest department is blamed for stalling road development projects, of the 1,732km road length pending for completion, only 148km of roads (8.5%) have been affected involving 42 projects due to forest clearance in Maharashtra. Of the total 159 ongoing projects, 109 have been hit by land acquisition. Of the 148km road length affected due to forest land, 15 project proposals involving 106km are pending with mantralaya, 7 involving 16km with PCCF & CCFs and 20 projects involving 26km are with DFOs. On Wednesday, forest minister Sanjay Rathod will review the national highway projects being implemented through the public works department (PWD) & Maharashtra State Road Development Corporation (MSRDC). A review meeting in this regard was already held between road transport and highways minister Nitin Gadkari and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on January 7. As per the official document, the length of the national highways in the state has been added by 12,049km in the last six years. From 5,700km in 2013-2014, it has gone up to 17,749km to date. Presently, 159 projects are ongoing at a total capital cost of Rs56,234 crores. “Of the total road length, 4,875km (74%) of the road development work has been completed and of the balance of 1,732km, the majority of the project work is pending for pre-construction issues (680km), land acquisition (350km), forest clearance (148km) and the dispute over the right of way (RoW) 182km. Hence, forest department cannot be single-handedly blamed for the delay,” said officials from the field. “Our instructions are very clear to forest officials concerned who have been told that if the clearance can be given do it immediately, and if it is not possible due to tiger or wildlife corridors or mitigation measures, say no. But don’t keep the proposals pending as it raises unnecessary doubts,” said Milind Mhaiskar, principal secretary (forests). PWD officials seeking anonymity said, “The total affected length is 680km out of the total approved project length of 6,607km. The unresolved obstructions are causing serious delays in the completion of ongoing projects and a lot of claims on account of idling machinery and resources are being submitted by the contractors. Hence, the cost of completion of projects is significantly increased due to a higher interest amount on land acquisition payment and higher price escalation payment over the increased project duration.” However, the user agency is silent on wildlife mitigation measures on roads falling in tiger corridors, said forest officials. But PWD officials say of the 42 stalled projects due to forest, 15 only require permission to carry out bituminous overlay on existing carriageway width. PWD officials say in many areas of the state, particularly Pune region, a new kind of dispute regarding ownership of land historically considered to be part of the highway has been witnessed. The local people claiming ownership of the highway land are obstructing the progress of works. Several such cases have been resolved through the intervention of the local administration. Still, 30 projects of total length 1,374km, over 182km length is affected due to RoW dispute. Even as the forest department is being blamed for land acquisition activities are moving at a slow pace and 50 projects approved in 2016-17 and 43 projects approved in 2017-18 are still affected pending land acquisition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-than-forest-land-acquisition-hits-road-projects-in-maharashtra/articleshow/80239565.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 13, 2021||Bareilly||Siblings, 13 & 15, on their way to madrassa run over by train in Moradabad||Bareilly: In a tragic accident, two minor siblings – a girl, 13, and a boy, 15, -- on their way back from a madrassa died after they were hit by a train in Katghar area of Moradabad late on Monday. Another three-year-old girl, who was found lying at some distance from the railway track, was saved. Local residents informed police that the siblings used to take the route to their madrassa on a daily basis. However, on Monday, they somehow came close to the railway line and the train arrived. The duo died on the spot, police said. The deceased have been identified as Fatima and Ishaq, both residents of Azad Nagar colony under Katghar police station, in Moradabad. Aasma, 3, who used to go to madrassa with them, was saved. Katghar station house officer Gajendra Singh told TOI, “The siblings were returning from their madrassa. They used to move alongside the railway lines but this time, they probably tried to cross the railway track and were hit by a speeding train. The bodies have been recovered from the spot and sent for a postmortem.” Divisional railway manager (DRM) Tarun Prakash said, “It is a matter of negligence on the part of parents who left their children by themselves to travel despite knowing that there is a railway line in the area. The Katghar railway line, where the unfortunate incident took place, is a running line operational for several years and remains busy throughout the day.” According to the NCRB data, there were 24,545 deaths because of railway accidents in 2018. Of these, 1,507 deaths occurred at railway crossings and the remaining were primarily due to people falling off trains or being run over by them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/siblings-13-15-on-their-way-to-madrassa-run-over-by-train-in-moradabad/articleshow/80237529.cms||Maria Khan
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Donate only to Ram Mandir trust’s bank accounts, says Congress||BHOPAL: District Congress on Tuesday launched an awareness campaign to tell citizens that all donations for Ram Mandir should be deposited in the account numbers of the Ram Mandir Trust and not to anyone else. The campaign was led by former minister P C Sharma, who is also the MLA from Bhopal South-West assembly constituency. After the recital of the ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ in the morning, Congress distributed pamphlets here in the state capital for the Ram Temple. The pamphlet had a 1989 photograph of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi laying the foundation stone of the temple in Ayodhya. “We have given bank account numbers of the Ram Mandir Trust. The construction has started after the verdict of the Supreme Court. We are appealing to the people to donate funds to the trust’s bank accounts only,” Sharma said. “We will distribute the pamphlets not just in Bhopal but across Madhya Pradesh, appealing to people that donations be deposited in the accounts of Ram Mandir Trust only,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/donate-only-to-ram-mandir-trusts-bank-accounts-cong/articleshow/80238460.cms||Suchandana Gupta
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Hema case: Court records evidence||Recording of evidence in connection to the missing and later recovered tempo in the 2015 double murders of artist Hema Upadhyaya and her lawyer Haresh Bhambani was completed before the trial court on Tuesday. The court directed that the tempo be kept in the premises of Kandivali police station. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hema-case-court-records-evidence/articleshow/80241646.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Fighting pollution with smog towers tall order||NEW DELHI: After Anand Vihar and Connaught Place, anti-smog towers are likely to be installed as part of the Central Vista project. While Supreme Court has directed for anti-smog guns to be used during the construction phase, a tower will be needed for the vista once it is complete. Track the pollution level in your cityThough ambitious, the anti-smog tower concept is largely untested with no global studies to back its efficacy. Experts said while a pilot project could be launched to determine the impact of such towers, the cost to maintain and run them, coupled with the cost of “purifying” a relatively limited and open area, outweighed the benefits. Currently, Delhi has three mini air-purifying towers installed by BJP MP Gautam Gambhir, but an analysis by Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) has found that 25 lakh such towers would be required to purify the city’s air. Tanushree Ganguly, programme associate, CEEW, said the funds being spent on these towers could be used elsewhere. Attention, in particular, was required towards thermal power plants. “Such unproven technologies shouldn’t be encouraged. The focus should instead be on ensuring that thermal power plants around Delhi comply with the emission norms notified in 2015. Also, the funds could be better utilised on an augmented and reliable transit system and scientific management of waste. Cutting down emissions is the only way to tackle air pollution,” she added. Anumita Roy Chowdhury, executive director, research and advocacy, at Centre for Science and Environment said there was no data to support the fact that anti-smog towers could clean up outdoor ambient air. She stressed on the need for adapting better dust-control practices seen worldwide. “Detailed guidelines to control dust generated through construction and demolition and cheaper practices from abroad can be brought in,” she added. To simulate the Rs 20 crore anti-smog tower at Connaught Place, CEEW carried out an experiment using an air purifier in a balcony as a “small-scale” version of the tower. The experiment measured readings within 12 feet of the device and found that while ambient air quality dropped by 20-25 micrograms per cubic metre (µg/m3), the impact was reduced when measured away from the flow of the air. Ambient air quality returned to normal as soon as the device was turned off. CEEW’s analysis points towards the need for considerably altering the size of the device to make any significant impact to the surrounding air. Under normal circumstances, it was not likely to reduce to breathable limits from Delhi’s normal ambient PM2.5 readings of 120 µg/m3. Karthik Ganesan, fellow at CEEW, who conducted the experiment, said PM2.5 readings that were 80-89 µg/m3 came down to 55-65 µg/m3 in the flow of the air. However, readings were as high as 75 µg/m3 away from the flow of air. “This means the impact was very short-lived. For sustained impact, people need to be in the vicinity of air purifiers for consistent periods. At a commercial space, where people dip in and out, the impact would be minimal,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fighting-pollution-with-smog-towers-tall-order/articleshow/80241013.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 13, 2021||Goa||Def minister meets Shripad, lauds GMC doctors for prompt action||Panaji: Union defence minister Rajnath Singh visited Ayush minister Shripad Naik at Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital, Bambolim on Tuesday to inquire about his condition. “The doctors here have told me his condition is stable and there is no danger to his life,” Singh told reporters after meeting GMC doctors for around 20 minutes. “But I have spoken to All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Dr Randeep Guleria and an AIIMS team will come to check on him.” Singh said that the AIIMS team would consult GMC doctors and take whatever decisions are necessary. This will be the second time an AIIMS team will visit Goa to check on Naik. In August last year, a team was rushed to the state as he battled Covid-19. “If proper treatment is possible here, he will be treated here itself, but if a need is felt, he will be taken to Delhi, but everything will depend on the doctors here,” Singh said. Four surgeries were performed on Naik last night after he was rushed to GMC from Karnataka, where he met with an accident. He suffered multiple fractures, while his wife Vijaya and assistant Dr Deepak Ghume died in the fatal accident. After the news of Naik’s accident, Singh said he spoke to Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant. Prime Minister Narendra Modi too expressed concern. “The PM asked me to go to Goa and I also felt the same, and so I’m here,” Singh said. The Union minister congratulated GMC doctors for the role they played in treating Naik. “I appreciate the prompt action taken by the doctors of this medical college,” he said. “I pray for his speedy recovery and that he comes back to work with us at the earliest.” Earlier, Singh met Siddhesh, Naik’s elder son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/def-minister-meets-shripad-lauds-gmc-doctors-for-prompt-action/articleshow/80240997.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Cyprus deals of Hyderabad-based CPL under CBI scanner||HYDERABAD: City-based Coastal Projects Limited (CPL), which is facing a CBI probe for Rs 4,736-crore loan fraud, is now embroiled in another controversy over its Cyprus deals. In an FIR, the CBI alleged that as per a forensic audit, CPL had invested Rs 40 crore in Coastal Transnational Ventures Limited (CTVL), a wholly-owned subsidiary firm, in Cyrpus. CPL had given a corporate guarantee of $15.6 million in favour of Exim Bank for the loans availed by CTVL for acquisition of shares in another Cyprus-based company. Bank guarantee was invoked and CPL had to pay Rs 102 crore (equivalent of $15.6 million) at the time of conversion. However, the amount receivable for CPL was converted into CTVL shares, the CBI alleged. In the FIR, the CBI also alleged that the “financials of CPL were falsified to show unrealisable invoked guarantee amounts as realisable investments to present a better position to the lenders”. The agency’s probe has also found gross violations like diversion of funds and mortgaging an already sold property. The CBI alleged that third-party mortgagors identified as K Ramulu and K Anjamma, who are not even directors of the company, had mortgaged properties to Bank of Maharashtra. The central agency found that the properties — mostly land holdings in Kismatpur village of Rangareddy district — were sold prior to the mortgage. The CBI said these land properties had already been sold as plots to 47 individuals between 1990 and 2003. The CBI has also found that Rs 230 crore was paid to SREI Equipment Finance Ltd towards repayment of loans from funds received from Mantena Srinivas Raju of Mantena Infra LLP. The amount payable to Mantena was Rs 181 crore (as on March 2017) and the liability of Mantena was replaced by SREI without inflow or outflow of funds in the books, the CBI said. “Security deposits of Rs 116 crore were transferred to various parties, out of which Rs 52 crore was found to be fictitious transactions. There were no documents or agreements available on record,” the CBI alleged in the FIR. The CBI is also investigating CPL’s promoter contribution transactions with four companies — Siddhi Vinayak Power Generation and Distribution Private Ltd, Dharmaja Turbo Engineering Private Limited, Sri Sai Magadha Constructions and Sri Vijetha Engineers and Infrastructure Pvt Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cyprus-deals-of-city-based-cpl-under-cbi-scanner/articleshow/80241010.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Only 16% students back in school after reopening||PUNE: Only 16% students have attended physical classes and less than 50% schools have started after the permission to reopen for standards IX to XII was given by Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations on January 4. The poor response is attributed to lack of parental consent. Parents are not confident enough as yet to send their wards to school as yet and most are choosing online education over the offline mode, officials said. Many heads of schools said they were calling only students of standards X and XII for practicals and pre-board examinations. As of Monday, 21.52% attendance was registered in PCMC area schools, and 13.46% in schools in the PMC limits. Rural schools which reopened on November 23 registered a 24.35% attendance on Monday. Of the 1,975 schools in the district with standards IX to XII, only 1,246 have reopened. Over 2.54 lakh parents have submitted their consent forms but of the 5.65 lakh students in these classes, only 1.16 lakh attended school on Monday. Jayshree Venkatraman, principal of SNBP International School, said, “We have reopened the school and called standard XII students for their practical classes and standard X students for pre-board examinations. Even in these two segments, only students whose parents have consented to send their children to school are allowed to attend. For all the remaining students, online classes are continuing.” Parents are comfortable with the online system. “My daughter is in standard X and I am happy with the way classes and exams are conducted online. Recently, our school conducted the pre-board examinations. The exam papers were uploaded online, and the students were told to write the three-hour exam at home and parents had to submit the papers for evaluation,” Shivkumar N, a parent, said. Anubha Sahai, who heads a parents’ rights organisation said it is almost impossible for students to strictly adhere to all Covid-19 protocols when in school and the teachers cannot always monitor them. “Even for schools, it is not possible to clean each and every surface. There are no bus services as of now so parents would have to pick and drop their children every day. It is all risky,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/only-16-pupils-back-in-school-after-reopening/articleshow/80240881.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||In a first, sport climbing training camp commences at NIM||Uttarkashi: The first-ever sport climbing training-cum-competition camp commenced at the Nehru Institute of Mountaineering (NIM) in Uttarkashi district on Tuesday. Around 70 youths in 15-25 years age group from across Uttarakhand are participating in the three day-long event which is being organised by the Indian Mountaineering Foundation (IMF), north zone. IMF (north zone) president and NIM's principal Colonel Amit Bisht told TOI, "On the first two days of the camp, we will provide basic training to the participants. On the last day, we will organise sport climbing competition for junior and senior youths in lead climbing, bouldering and speed climbing categories. The winners and other talented youths will get a chance to go for advance training with at the institute." “New possibilities have flourished for youths in sport climbing as it has now become an Olympic sport. Therefore, the IMF and NIM are now focusing on the development of this game by organising such camps to attract more youth who can represent India in Olympics,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-sport-climbing-training-camp-commences-at-nim/articleshow/80237548.cms||Abhyudaya Kotnala
January 13, 2021||Delhi||At JNU lecture, Ajit Doval asks youths to work for a stronger nation||NEW DELHI: Sharing stories from the life of Swami Vivekananda, National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval asked the youth of India to work for the motherland. If the youth come together and work with passion, no one can imagine how strong the country will be, he said. Doval was speaking at the first Swami Vivekananda memorial lecture organised by Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Tuesday. “Most of us do not know where we are, where to go and how to go. Swami Vivekananda told the countrymen who they were and where to go. He made them realise their goal, gave them a goal of free India and gave them guidance on how to bring transformation,” said Doval. “Swami Vivekananda spoke of physical quest, which meant taking care of body and mitigating physical suffering; social quest wherein he exhorted the youth to live by serving the poor, weak, destitute; and intellectual quest as we will not be able to rebuild a strong India without education. He also talked about spiritual alleviation of all beings and profusely preached about dhyan, sadhna and yoga,” he added. Doval also touched on how Vivekananda stressed about unity of society. “He lamented that one of the causes of India’s degradation was the caste system, self-centric narrow vision. The solution to the caste system is not to degrade the higher caste, but raise the ones in the lower caste to that of the higher level,” the NSA said. Doval also referred to Vivekananda as a revolutionary monk who recharged the spirit of India at a time when the common Indian was exhausted and hopeless. “It is rare to attribute the term revolutionary to a religious man as the faith system glorifies the past. A revolutionary, on the other hand, wants change, that too at a fast pace. The means suggested by them are also in conflict with the norms and ethos of their times. Swamiji challenged the prevailing norm of religion, social practices and individuals’ self-perception,” added Doval. He also credited Vivekananda for reviving the glory of Hinduism by his historic address in 1893 at Chicago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/at-jnu-lecture-doval-asks-youths-to-work-for-a-stronger-nation/articleshow/80241025.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad’s water needs taken care of by govt till 2048: KT Rama Rao||HYDERABAD: To meet the demand till 2048, the state government is planning drinking water supply projects that will cover the entire city and areas abutting the Outer Ring Road (ORR), municipal administration and urban development minister KT Rama Rao said on Tuesday. He was addressing a public meeting at SPR Hills at Rahmath Nagar following which he launched the ‘20KL free drinking water supply’ scheme. Speaking on the occasion, KTR said, “The promise chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao gave to the people in December-2020 has been fulfilled. Over nine lakh consumers will benefit due to the CM’s decision to provide free water up to 20 KL.” This scheme puts an additional burden of nearly Rs 500 crore on the state government, but the CM was committed and decided to implement it, KTR said. He also referred to the TRS government’s flagship schemes, such as the 2-BHK housing scheme and LRS in his 45-minute speech. Before launching the scheme, the minister spoke with a few consumers who were getting huge water bills, and assured them that with the new scheme, they would get zero bills henceforth. Later, HMWS&SB managing director M Dana Kishore held a review meeting with general managers at board headquarters at Khairatabad to ensure effective implementation of the scheme and regarding fixing water meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ktr-citys-water-needs-taken-care-of-by-govt-till-2048/articleshow/80239569.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oppn hails HC order on Life Mission investigation||Thiruvananthapuram: Congress and BJP welcomed the high court’s order to allow CBI probe in Wadakkancherry Life Mission scam. Welcoming the decision, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran asked why the chief minister is afraid of a CBI probe if he is sure the deal is transparent and legit. “The CM should have demonstrated the integrity to welcome a CBI probe if he was sure about the innocence of his team. The attempt to stop the probe by CBI was because he has many things to hide,” said Ramachandran. He alleged that the chief minister was trying to stage the probe using his cronies in vigilance wing; but the CBI probe has hit that plan. “From the beginning, the government tried to sabotage Life Mission probe. It is mysterious that vigilance sleuths smuggled out crucial files on the project from the Secretariat. CBI probe will reveal the role of CM and his cronies in the deal. Let this be a beginning to weed out corruption from public life,” he added. Wadakkancherry MLA and Congress leader Anil Akkara – who is the complainant in the case – said the HC order is a befitting reply to those who accused him as hurdle for providing homes to the poor. “All these years, my public life has been transparent. I will continue to fight corruption,” he said. Union MoS V Muraleedharan said the high court’s decision to reject the government’s plea is a clear indication that the court found prima facie corruption and irregularities in Wadakkancherry Life Mission deal. “The order allowing CBI probe is a big blow to the claim of the government that the probe is politically-motivated. The court also found merit in CBI’s argument that there was FCRA violation in the deal. Highlighting this case, CM and CPM had organised largescale propaganda alleging that central government was misusing its investigative agencies. The court is convinced about the truth,” Muraleedharan said. He said the names of more VIPs, linked to the case, will come out once CBI starts probe against Life Mission CEO. “CM tried to prevent the probe fearing that it will reach him eventually,” alleged Muraleedharan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-hails-hc-order-on-life-mission-investigation/articleshow/80238473.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Aid to over 2k persons with disabilities next week||Panaji: More than 2,000 persons with disabilities are set to receive smart canes, smart phones, book readers and wheelchairs among other aids and appliances under a central government scheme, beginning next week. Taluka-level camps were held last month where the social welfare department’s special cell for empowerment of persons with disabilities set up helpdesks and identified 2,157 beneficiaries for the assistance for disabled person (ADIP) scheme of the department of empowerment of persons with disabilities, under the ministry of social justice and empowerment. Several other government servants volunteered at the camps. The Union minister for social justice and empowerment Thawar Chand Gehlot is expected to distribute the first of these aids and appliances to persons with disabilities on January 18 at Sakhali and on January 19 at Ponda, deputy director in charge of the special cell for empowerment of persons with disabilities, Taha Haaziq told TOI. The rest of the beneficiaries will begin receiving their aids from February 6 onwards. A total of 10,799 equipment worth Rs 1.7 crore will be distributed to all the beneficiaries, the cost of which is being borne by the central government. The aids and implements under the central government scheme are being distributed after a gap of two and a half years. Those with locomotor disabilities are set to receive wheelchairs, crutches and manual tricycles, the visually impaired smart canes, smart phones and book readers, and children with intellectual disabilities an activity kit to assist in their learning. “If there are persons with disabilities who didn’t register, they can receive the aids and appliances from state funds through the district disability rehabilitation centre if they qualify,” Haaziq said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aid-to-over-2k-persons-with-disabilities-next-week/articleshow/80241015.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Customer hurt in cooker explosion in Dombivli hotel||A 40-year-old customer was seriously injured after a cooker exploded in a hotel at Thakurli on Tuesday. The customer, Kalai Selvan, had gone to have lunch with his wife to the hotel when the cooker exploded, causing him serious injuries. The Ramnagar police said that the incident took place at the Saubhagya New Kitchen hotel situated in Thakurli, Dombivli. “After placing the order, I came out of the hotel for some work while my husband was seated on the table inside when the cooker exploded, injuring him,” said Mayuri, Selvan’s wife. The hotel staff admitted Selvan to a private hospital where he is currently being treated. Senior police inspector Sachin Sanbhor said that a case had been registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/customer-hurt-in-cooker-explosion-in-dombivli-hotel/articleshow/80241047.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||IPS transfer case: HC directs secretary home to decide on officer’s representation in 2 months||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Tuesday directed the secretary home to decide on the representation by IPS officer Barinderjit Singh within two months and issue an order in this regard. The secretary has further been directed to give personal hearings to Singh as well as his three senior officers – DGP Ashok Kumar, former DGP Anil Raturi, and former DIG Kumaon Jagat Ram Joshi – before issuing orders. The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari white it was hearing the petition filed by Singh against his transfer from the post of SSP Udham Singh Nagar to commandant Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB). Following his transfer, Singh had approached the court alleging that his seniors were interfering in his investigations and that he was transferred only because he refused to give in to the pressure. His seniors – both serving and retired – have denied the allegations. Singh told the court on Tuesday that he no longer wants to challenge the transfer order as almost six months have gone by and he has joined his new posting. But he said that his complaints should be listened to. Singh had made representations before the then DGP Anil Raturi. However, since Raturi has retired and his complaint was against then DG (law and order) – who is now the DGP – Singh said that his representation should now be decided by secretary home. “The court has said that if an employee is aggrieved by the functioning of his superior officers, then his grievances should be addressed because if they are ignored it not only affects the person but even demoralises other members of the force. The court has, therefore, directed the secretary to decide on the representation and has granted Singh the liberty to approach the court again if the order issued affects him adversely,” said an advocate present in the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ips-transfer-case-hc-directs-secretary-home-to-decide-on-officers-representation-in-2-months/articleshow/80237536.cms||Prashant Jha
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Saina, Prannoy barred and then cleared to play due to varying Covid tests||Hyderabad: On a day of swift developments, Saina Nehwal and HS Prannoy were ruled out of the Yonex Thailand Open after they tested positive for Covid-19 in the morning but cleared in the evening to play their first round after a nod from the medical team. The Indian management was informed their matches will now be held on Wednesday. But P Kashyap’s participation will depend on the result of the test conducted in the afternoon. “BWF can confirm three of the four players who tested positive for Covid-19 earlier today at the Asian Leg of the HSBC BWF World Tour have been cleared to take their place in the draw. They are confirmed as Saina Nehwal (India), HS Prannoy (India), and Jones Ralfy Jansen (Germany). Upon retesting, Prannoy, Jansen and Elgamal returned negative, while Nehwal was found to be positive again. The four players then underwent a second PCR test and an antibody blood test for further confirmation,” said a release from the Badminton World Federation. A high-level committee of the Thai government concluded that these players tested positive to the PCR test as their antibody IgG was positive. It means that a person was infected with Covid-19 virus before and not that they were currently infected. The committee was satisfied that the players were not infected and did not pose a threat to the tournament. Earlier, on Tuesday the trio — Saina, Prannoy and Kashyap — were withdrawn from the tournament. While Saina and Prannoy tested positive, Kashyap was the first contact of Saina. The trio contracted the virus last month at shuttler RMV Gurusaidutt’s wedding. They served the quarantine period and tested negative twice after arrival in Bangkok. The third test, the result of which was announced on Tuesday, came positive for Saina and Prannoy and negative for Kashyap. “Once you contract the virus and test negative, the dead protein of the virus stays in the body. That’s why one may test positive though the virus is dead. That maybe the case with Saina and Prannoy,” a source in the Indian team said. The Badminton Association of India (BAI) said that it’s trying to ensure fixtures of these players are rescheduled. “Matches for the respective players should be rescheduled and no walkover is given. After continuous efforts from BAI, doctors were sent immediately when Kidambi Srikanth started bleeding,” BAI said referring to Srikanth’s bad experience while undergoing a Covid-19 test.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/saina-prannoy-barred-and-then-cleared-to-play-due-to-varying-covid-tests/articleshow/80241048.cms||Manne Ratnakar
January 13, 2021||Goa||Iffi’s kaleidoscope section to screen 12 films||Panaji: The 51st International Film Festival of India (Iffi) announced the line-up of films for its Festival Kaleidoscope on Tuesday. The section will feature 12 foreign films from across the world. These are – We Still Have the Deep Black Night by Gustavo Galvão (Brazil, Germany), Window Boy Would also Like to Have a Submarine by Alex Piperno (Uruguay), Forgotten We’ll Be by Fernando Trueba (Colombia), Haifa Street by MohanadHayal (Iraq), Love Affair (s) by Emmanuel Mouret (French), Apples by Christos Nikou (Greece), Parthenon by Mantas Kvedaravičius (Lithuania), My Little Sister by Stéphanie Chuat, Véronique Reymond (Switzerland), The Death of Cinema and My Father Too by Dani Rosenberg (Israel), The Big Hit by Emmanuel Courcol (France), Valley Of The Gods by Lech Majewski (Poland), and Night of the Kings by Philippe Lacôte (France). The festival this year will be celebrating Goan films under two sections – premiere and non-premiere. The Entertainment Society of Goa has received a total of seven entries in both the sections this year. These are five entries (one feature film and four non-feature films) in the premiere section and two entries (one feature film and one non-feature film) in the non-premiere section. The jury members on the board were Sanjay Kapoor, Rajat Nagpal and Ridham Janve. The selected films in respective sections are Shinvar, a short film by Manguirish Bandodkar and Pravin Parker in the premier section, and Written In The Corners, a short film by Suyash Kamat in the non-premiere section. The festival is a perfect platform for delegates to be introduced to the niche Goan film industry. Thus in 2014, the organising body took to the initiative to introduce the Goan section, which would showcase Goan feature and non-feature films produced during the year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/iffis-kaleidoscope-section-to-screen-12-films/articleshow/80241044.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||HC grants 2-month extension for recovery of mining dues||Panaji: An extension of two months has been granted by the high court of Bombay at Goa to decide on the showcause notices issued to mining companies for recovery of over Rs 3,000 crore, advocate general Devidas Pangam said. TOI had reported last month that the state government will approach the high court to seek a two-month extension on the matter. During the hearing, Pangam informed the court that the showcause notices will be disposed off within two months from the date of issuing the show cause notices. “We accept this statement as a statement made to this court,” the high court order stated. A senior officer at the department of mines and geology (DMG) said that the hearing is “almost completed and recovery notices will be issued as soon as possible”. In August 2020, the state government had informed the court that DMG will decide within four months on the showcause notices. Goa Foundationhad approached the court through a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking directions to the state government to recover Rs 3,431 crore from mining companies within a time-bound period. It had filed the PIL when it became apparent that the government was not pursuing the recovery with zeal. Director of Goa Foundation, Claude Alvares had said that the demand notices worth Rs 1,580 crore were issued in 2016 on the basis of a report by a team of chartered accountants. Notices pursuant to the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) report were issued in 2017 and were worth Rs 1,922 crore. These notices were produced by the state to prove its bonafides during the hearing of the writ petition filed by Goa Foundation challenging the grant of 88 mining leases. A senior officer at the department of mines and geology said that the hearing is “almost completed and recovery notices will be issued as soon as possible”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-grants-2-month-extension-for-recovery-of-mining-dues/articleshow/80241022.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||All govt schools in Telangana lack sanitation staff||HYDERABAD: Even as the chief minister has directed officials to keep the educational institutions ready to conduct classes by January 25, headmasters and teachers are worried as no government school in the state currently has a sanitation worker. Every year, Rs 63 crore was sanctioned from Samagra Shiksha as budget to hire sanitation workers for all government schools in the state. This year, however, no budget has been sanctioned to date. Teachers said that even if collectors or elected representatives get the school premises cleaned for the time being, not having a sanitation worker will be a problem once schools reopen as washrooms need to be cleaned at least two or three times per day. “How are the schools going to get cleaned without sanitation workers,” questioned Chava Ravi, general secretary, Telangana State United Teachers Federation. He said that a school needs Rs 2,500 to hire one sanitation worker. Teachers said that the state should give permissions to hire sanitation workers immediately. “If the state doesn’t give permission to hire sanitation workers, headmasters and teachers will have no option except to use their own funds to hire one. We can’t depend on gram panchayat workers as they only come and take the garbage,” said K Jangaiah, a teacher, adding that although the state issued orders to gram panchayats to take care of sanitation work in schools in September 2020, the same is not being followed at the ground level. “This point was discussed, but no decision on allocating budget to hire sanitation workers has been taken. There will be another meeting on Monday in which officials from panchayat raj, municipal corporation and other stakeholders will also attend. The state will direct local bodies to take care of sanitation work in schools and colleges,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/all-govt-schools-in-t-lack-sanitation-staff/articleshow/80239629.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||CM, oppn leader lock horns over graft charges||Thiruvananthapuram: Tuesday’s question hour in the assembly witnessed an unprecedented barrage of questions from treasury benches targetting UDF leaders who have been charged with corruption. This led to a heated debate between the chief minister and opposition leader. Ramesh Chennithala termed it a premeditated attempt by ruling MLAs to target and insult opposition members. This took up the entire hour. It all started with a question on steps the government took on allegations levelled by hotelier Biju Ramesh against Chennithala in connection with the bar bribery scam. As soon as the question was raised, opposition members led by K C Joseph raised objections and said it is against rules and procedures to raise corruption allegations against members of the House without evidence. However, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said the questions were included after a verification process and discrepancies, if any, will be looked into. The CM, who replied to allegations against the opposition leader, said the vigilance had carried out a confidential investigation and sanction for preliminary investigation is under consideration. However, the opposition leader has approached the governor seeking denial of permission for a probe, Vijayan said. This provoked Chennithala, who termed the question a calculated ploy to cover up allegations against the government. “I have not indulged in any corruption. This is an attempt to insult me. I am ready to face any investigation,” he said. This led to an exchange of words between treasury benches and opposition members. When pandemonium persisted the CM intervened. “UDF leaders are worried that they were unable to substantiate a single allegation against the LDF government. The local-body election result was a slap in the face of UDF,” the CM said. However, P T Thomas of the Congress countered with a question on the SNC-Lavalin case in which he alleged the chief minister continues to be an accused. BJP is helping Vijayan with the case in the apex court and that is why it has been postponed 19 times to date, he alleged. To this the CM said the lower court has acquitted him and now the case is before the Supreme Court. “I cannot be held responsible for Supreme Court postponing the case,’’ Vijayan said. Corruption charges faced by UDF leaders in the solar and Palarivattom flyover scandals were also raised. The chief minister said members of the House including V S Sivakumar, V K Ebrahim Kunju, K M Shaji, P Unni and U Prathiba are facing vigilance inquiries in various cases. Cases have also been registered against P V Anwar, E S Bijimol and M C Kamaruddin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cm-oppn-leader-lock-horns-over-graft-charges/articleshow/80238507.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Embassy looking into Hyderabad woman’s plaint against hubby||HYDERABAD: In the issue pertaining to an Indian woman from Hyderabad complaining that she was deceived into marriage by an Omani national who was mentally ill, the Indian embassy in Oman has begun verifying it. At the instance of the officials, the husband Saleem bin Nasser visited the embassy to clarify on the matter. “We have been trying to contact Farheen Begum on the given number but it is not reachable. Then we called her husband Saleem bin Nasser, who visited the embassy today and denied having any disputes with his wife. He has been asked to bring his wife to the embassy,” the Indian embassy in Oman said on Monday. The embassy trying to ascertain the facts comes in the wake of an assurance it gave on January 8 that it would look into the issue for possible necessary action. Earlier, 26-year-old Farheen Begum had made a video of her situation in Oman in which she said that she realised only after reaching that country that her husband was mentally ill. They had got married in a ceremony in Hyderabad on November 10, 2019, as some agents claimed that the bridegroom was a rich man and employed with the government. After the wedding ceremony, Saleem bin Nasser went back to Oman along with a few of his relatives who had also come to Hyderabad. However, when Farheen Begum joined him back in Oman the following month, she said she realised her husband was mentally ill and she had been deceived into getting married to him. In her video, she explained her problem and said she wished to return to India. Watch Indian embassy looking into Hyderabad woman’s complaint against Omani husband||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/embassy-looking-into-hyd-womans-plaint-against-hubby/articleshow/80239583.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 13, 2021||Goa||State extends Mopa deadline by 90 days after Centre’s prod||Panaji: In view of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has pushed the date for Mopa international airport to be operational by three months. It will now be ready by August 2022 instead of May, and so far, around 20% of the work on the airport has been completed. Director of civil aviation Suresh Shanbhogue told TOI that the Centre issued a general office memorandum to give an extension to the project. “Based on that, we... have given 90 days extension,” he said. A senior government official said that as per the new deadline, the infrastructure at the airport will have to be completed by March that year. He also said that work on the airport’s runway, ATC tower, building, compound wall and other work will be taken up simultaneously. The construction period of phase-I began on September 4, 2017. The state government appointed Engineers India Ltd, a government of India entity, to supervise the project’s progress. The land acquisition process was initiated in 2008 and concession agreement executed in 2016. The airport was to be made operational within thirty-six months from September 4, 2017. However, it got delayed because of legal disputes, and the Supreme Court suspended its environment clearance in April 2019 when 14% of the work had been completed. The total project cost is estimated at around Rs 3,000 crore. Over 54,000 trees have been felled at the project site, and the developer has been directed to plant 5,50,000 trees. In January 2020, the SC gave its green signal for the construction of the greenfield airport, which is being developed by GMR, and asked the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (NEERI) to oversee the project to ensure that the environment and flora and fauna of the area are not damaged. The Centre had declared that the proposed Dhargalim to Varconda road, which will connect NH-66 to the new airport at Mopa, will be part of the national highway network. Land will be acquired for the new national highway, which has been designated as NH-166S. With the notification out, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will begin the process to acquire land and tender the contract to build the highway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-extends-mopa-deadline-by-90-days-after-centres-prod/articleshow/80241024.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||For Delhi govt teachers, yet another role to play||NEW DELHI: After distributing rations during the Covid-19 lockdown, carrying out the serological survey in colonies and working in containment zones and quarantine centres, Delhi government school teachers will now be actively engaged in the vaccination centres. The teachers selected for this duty have been provided with one day of training. The teachers told TOI that they had been instructed about the various functions at the vaccination booths. As yet, though, they are yet to be assigned to their specific booths and informed of the time they have to report for work. All the selected teachers are permanent appointees in their institutions and below the age of 50. The vaccine administering begins on January 16. Adesh Bal, geography teacher at Sarvodaya Bal Vidyalaya, Moti Nagar, has undergone a day’s training. “We learnt about the supervisory roles we need to assume at the vaccination centres,” revealed Bal. “Our work will include noting down details of the staff administering the vaccine and looking after the people coming there for the jab. We also have to manage the monitoring rooms where people will wait for half an hour after the inoculation.” The teachers have been told that they will be responsible for transmitting the data to the district head offices twice a day. While Bal is not certain about his specific duty, Annu Sehgal will be in charge of a booth. “Though I am yet to be assigned to a booth, during the training I was taught about taking charge of such a centre. This will mean taking care of the modalities and logistics involved,” said Sehgal, who teaches mathematics at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya No.3 in Tilak Nagar. RM Meena, vice-principal, Government Boys’ Senior Secondary School, Prem Nagar, has been performing Covid-related work at the North-West district magistrate’s office in the past few months. He said they all deputed teachers are awaiting the final work schedule for the vaccination exercise. Will the teachers also receive the protective jab in the first phase, when health employees and frontline workers are scheduled to be inoculated? “We have not been told anything about whether we will be vaccinated,” said a teacher. “In some sense, we are also frontline workers. But as far as I know, the first phase will only involve healthcare workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/for-govt-teachers-yet-another-role-to-play/articleshow/80241045.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Govt announces new tourism policy||GANDHINAGAR: Yes, the Gujarat government has announced a new tourism policy. No, it has no plans to relax prohibition. We are sorry to burst your bubble, but despite the rising clamour to ease prohibition laws to boost tourism, the government’s new policy is just old wine in a new bottle as far as easing stringent liquor rules is concerned. The state government on Tuesday announced a new tourism policy with the view to develop and augment tourism in a sustainable manner. However, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, responding to a query regarding government’s plan to relax prohibition policy to boost tourism, said: “The government will not relax prohibition policy in the name of boosting tourism.” Permits are available for foreign tourists at the airport on arrival, he added, staying on course for the government which has made liquor availability easy for outsiders to keep them in good cheer to promote tourism and business. However, locals could end up in jail for 10 years if caught with a liquor bottle. The new Tourism Policy will be in effect from January 1, 2021 to March 31, 2025. It encapsulates various aspects like medical tourism, wellness tourism, adventure and wildlife tourism, coastal and cruise tourism, rural-based experience tourism etc, the government said. The CM said, “The new policy has been framed keeping in mind the mission of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ to be ‘Vocal for Local’, thereby boosting local employment. The state is gifted geographically. It has hill resorts, natural attractions, beaches etc. in addition to a rich legacy of ancient crafts and civilizations.” He added, “Gujarat has the world’s tallest statue in Kevadia, Gir National Park, India’s first UNESCO world heritage city, the world’s biggest stadium, India’s first seaplane service, one of India’s first blue-flag certified beaches, and 'seema darshan’ (border tourism) in addition to famous temples like Somanth, Dwarka, Ambaji etc. These places have been attracting tourists from across India and the world.” Tourists have increased at the rate of 15% compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) from 2009- 2018 which has crossed the national average of 12%, the government informed. Gujarat also ranks in the top 10 for receiving highest number of local tourists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/govt-announces-new-tourism-policy/articleshow/80239660.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Russian institute, NIO to conduct research in marine science||Panaji: Goa-based National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) along with the National Geophysical Research Institute (NGRI), Hyderabad, on Tuesday, signed a memorandum of understanding with the Pacific Oceanological Institute (POI), Russia, in the field of marine science and technology. NIO said that the MoU will enable Indian and Russian scientists to “enhance capacity and skill development in the field of marine sciences and technology”, sharing knowledge and expertise in the field of sustainable development for national economic interests of both countries, research and development of technology focused on the geo-resources, spatial variation of geophysical fields, marine geology, palaeography, environment and climate change, physical oceanography, biological oceanography, hydrochemistry, atmosphere, hydrosphere, development of oceanographic equipment, calibration and validation. “This MoU will strengthen cooperation to combat ocean pollution and climate changes, organise scientific expeditions for the search, study and monitoring of ocean resources and environment based on approach of integrated methods for sampling of seabed sediments, rocks and minerals, and advanced geological and geophysical techniques,” NIO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/russian-institute-nio-to-conduct-research-in-marine-science/articleshow/80241049.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||‘Health workers should act as role models, take jab’||NEW DELHI: Can the government take action on healthcare workers who refuse to take the Covid-19 vaccine shot? Dr Suresh Kumar, medical director of Lok Nayak Hospital, who is also a member of the Covid-19 task force in the national capital, says vaccination is voluntary and no action will be taken on anyone who wants to wait for it. However, he added that most healthcare workers at his hospital were keen on it. In the US, where vaccination started nearly a month ago, “vaccine hesitancy” among healthcare workers has emerged as a major concern. Similar problems have been seen in Europe. In Germany, a poll released in mid-December revealed that 50% of the nurses and 25% doctors did not want to get vaccinated. Vaccine hesitancy was there among healthcare workers in India too, said Dr Suranjit Chatterjee, senior consultant, internal medicine at Apollo Indraprastha Hospital. “I get multiple queries from my colleagues, both nurses and doctors, seeking to know about the potential side-effects of the vaccine. I tell them that it is safe and adverse events, if any, are rare,” he added. Healthcare workers, hospitals say, are so anxious they are reading everything available on adverse events associated with vaccination, from impotency to long-term neurological damage, and asking the authorities about them. A few sceptics that TOI spoke to said they wanted to wait a little before getting the jab. “I don’t know which vaccine they will give us. Also, I have already suffered from Covid-19 in the past. Isn’t it more prudent to wait a little before getting the vaccine?” asked a 31-year-old healthcare worker at a private hospital. While her name has already been sent to the state health authorities, she said she would in all likelihood “miss” the roll call. “They cannot force me to take the vaccine. What if I am ill? Also, I have heard that if a person misses the first appointment, he or she will get another opportunity. If he or she fails to turn up again, the details will be sent to the district authorities for vaccination with the general population,” said a nursing officer at AIIMS. Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, said scepticism about vaccination among healthcare workers poses a serious problem. “Nurses, doctors and other healthcare workers should act as role models for the society. They should come forward to take the shot because it is the only way to end this pandemic,” he added. Dr Sushant Chhabra, head of emergency medicine at Manipal Hospital, said minor side-effects, like bodyache, mild fever, pain at the injection site, are just the immune responses of the body. “Rapid development of the vaccine doesn’t mean that it is less safe. All Covid-19 vaccines have gone through rigorous trials, which includes testing on thousands of volunteers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/health-workers-should-act-as-role-models-take-jab/articleshow/80241059.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM urges youths to follow Swami Vivekananda||BHOPAL: In his address during the ‘Surya Namaskar’ programme held to mark the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda and celebrated as Yuva Diwas, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said that healthy body is a must to lead a purposeful life and Yoga exercises keep the body healthy and fit. Paying rich tributes to Swami Vivekanand, Chouhan said that he was a "Yodha Sanyasi" (a warrior monk), who told people, particularly youth, that they are not made of flesh and bone alone but divinity rests in them. He asked the youth to recognise their strength and learn to trust themselves. "If you don’t trust yourself, even God won't trust you, said Swami Vivekanand", Chouhan said. He further said that even if a person has noble thoughts and wants to do something good, he needs to have a healthy body to put his thoughts into action and Yoga can play a vital riole in keeping your body fit. Chouhan said that he, too, had fallen ill due to Coronavirus infection but recovered soon because he does Yoga and Pranayam daily. "If you can not do several Yoga exercises, do Surya Namaskar. It more or less covers all the Yoga asanas", said the chief minister. He said ,Swami Vivekanand had said that if he had 50 perfectly healthy young boys, who have muscles and the skull of iron, he can change the world. "Do Yoga exercises and integrate yourself with the noble spirit to do a greater good for the society, country and the world", said the chief minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-urges-youths-to-follow-vivekananda/articleshow/80239626.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Goa: Veterinary department commences checks on bird droppings||PANAJI: With the avian influenza (bird flu) scare gripping states across Goa, the department of animal husbandry and veterinary services (AHVS) in Goa has started checking the bird droppings of migratory birds at Dr Salim Ali bird sanctuary and the Carambolim lake with the help of the forest department. “These steps are being taken up as a precautionary measure. Migratory birds come to Goa only in this season. During this season, we have a routine procedure to conduct a check on migratory birds in coordination with the forest department. This has been taken up even now and our officers have been sensitised to have a check on January 19,” AHVS director, Dr Santosh Desai told TOI. AHVS has written to the collectorate to issue an order prohibiting transportation of poultry birds into Goa from neighbouring states in a preemptive measure. Taking cue, the collectorate has prohibited the entry of chicken into the state until further notice. “We received information that crows and poultry birds in Dapolim, Ratnagiri and other places in Maharashtra have died due to birf flu. So, we have taken these steps as a precautionary measure,” Desai said. Deputy director of AHVS, Dr Rajendra Prabhugaonkar who is also the state veterinary epidemiologist, said that as per the guidelines of the Union ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying, the Goa AHVS is prepared to deal with any possible outbreak of the virus in the state. “We have kept PPE kits, sanitisers and a rapid response team of doctors for both North and South Goa on alert. A quotation has also been made to place a supply order for additional materials in case of a bird flu outbreak. Hopefully, there should be no outbreak in Goa,” he said. He further said that so far, there has been no case of avian influenza detected in humans in Goa, nor has there been any detected in the poultry in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/veterinary-dept-commences-checks-on-bird-droppings/articleshow/80241051.cms||Nida Sayed
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||29,000 GHMC workers to be given vaccine in 1st phase||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has short-listed 29,000 workers who will be given the vaccine, including sanitation staff. The list was prepared after Ministry of Health and Family Welfare issued guidelines for administration of Covid-19 and stated that sanitation workers shall be vaccinated in the first phase. Civic officials were instructed to keep identity proof including Aadhaar card, driving licence, pan card and identity cards issued by GHMC ready to register themselves. The sanitation workers will be given a slip or an SMS alert on their mobile which they can show before taking the vaccine. Swachh auto tipper drivers, solid waste management engineers, GHMC zonal commissioners and deputy commissioners will also be administered the vaccine in the first phase. There are 1,100 buildings, mostly schools and colleges, that have been identified for vaccination. “The vaccination centres will be mapped. The buildings identified will have a waiting room, vaccination room and an observation room. An exclusive app will also be developed to maintain a list of people who will be vaccinated,” said Mayor Bonthu Rammohan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/29k-ghmc-workers-to-be-given-vax-in-1st-phase/articleshow/80239648.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: 235 health facilities identified to deal with vaccine adverse events||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the rollout of Covid vaccine, the health department has earmarked 235 hospitals — 57 government and 178 private ones — for treatment of vaccine beneficiaries developing side effects. In all, 1,300 beds have been earmarked for tackling any of three adverse events (side effects). Side effects have been classified as mild, moderate to severe and very severe. Common and mild side effects include pain and swelling where vaccine is administered, while moderate to severe side effects include fever, low blood pressure and rapid heartbeat. Extremely severe side effects might include asphyxia and sudden cardiac arrest. “We have made arrangements to deal with any adverse events and the centres, dealing with such cases, are equipped with special kits and staff. So far there are no vaccine-related deaths in countries where vaccination drive has been rolled out. We expect minimal cases of side effects,” director public health Dr G Srinivasa Rao said. District-level committees have been set up to report side effects to the health department. “In majority of cases, side effects can be overcome by using medical kits at centres,” guidelines read. Government teaching hospitals and area hospitals have been earmarked. The 57 government hospitals allocated have 15,236 beds, of which 329 are for people with side effects. Another 1,000 beds have been allocated in private hospitals. Private hospitals have to treat those who have been vaccinated at public hospitals with side effects. Major government hospitals earmarked would be Gandhi Hospital, Osmania General Hospital, Chest Hospital, Fever Hospital, Niloufer, King Koti Hospital and Nampally, Malakpet, Golconda area hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/235-health-facilities-identified-to-deal-with-vaccine-adverse-events/articleshow/80239621.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cabinet enlists CAs to study private schools’ fee hike proposals||NEW DELHI: Delhi cabinet has approved two empaneled firms with chartered accountants for swift examination of the fee hike proposal by private schools in the city. “The cabinet has approved two NICSI-empaneled firms to set up PMU with reputed chartered accountants to examine the fee hike proposal of private recognised unaided schools on government land in Delhi. This will enable faster disposal of the proposal submitted by the schools for the session 2018-19 and 2019-20,” a release issued by the education department stated. The cabinet also approved disbursal of Rs 64.3 crore through direct benefit transfer for students of Delhi government and aided schools. “Through the financial assistance, we hope all our children will be able to purchase study material and textbooks. Despite financial constraints, we will do everything we can from our side for the students, so their studies are not affected,” education minister Manish Sisodia said. Funds have been allocated to Delhi Bureau of Textbooks to publish and distribute support materials, student handbook, workbooks, material related to the happiness curriculum, mental mathematics, etc. An additional recurring expenditure of Rs 30.05 crore has been allotted under the Free Supply of Textbook and Material 2020-2021 scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cabinet-enlists-cas-to-study-pvt-schools-fee-hike-proposals/articleshow/80241052.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Students to be given masks at school||HYDERABAD: With educational institutions (Class 9 and above) set to reopen from February 1, officials are making plans to provide masks to all students. Covid protocols will be followed in holding classes and social distancing will be enforced. The students will also be provided with sanitisers. During a video conference with education officials, Mahbubnagar collector S Venkat Rao directed officials to also take care while providing mid-day meals to students. Private schools have also been asked to stick to Covid norms. In Jangaon, collector K Nikhila directed proper sanitation should be ensured in all educational institutions. She directed that the toilets should be kept clean and running water should be provided at all institutions. “Students should be made to wear a mask at all times,” the collector instructed. Students who complain of any ill-health should be immediately examined by doctors, she said. The collector said the government should issue guidelines on how the classes should be conducted. A video conference will be organised with district collectors after January 18 on the reopening of schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/students-to-be-given-masks-at-school/articleshow/80239664.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 13, 2021||Kozhikode||Court orders Rs 5L payout to KK Surendran||Kozhikode: Sultan Bathery sub-court asked the government to pay Rs 5 lakh as compensation to KK Surendran, a retired lecturer of District Institute for Educational Training in Wayanad, for custodial torture following his arrest in connection with Muthanga agitation of 2003. Sub-court judge Anit Joseph issued the order on Tuesday on the petition filed by Surendran in 2004 against the government and seven policemen seeking a compensation of Rs 15 lakh for illegal arrest and custodial torture. Surendran was an accused in the case filed by the police in connection with the death of a policeman during Muthanga agitation. He was also accused of criminal conspiracy. Police had portrayed him as a mastermind of the agitation staged by tribesmen after occupying forest land as part of the land agitation. However CBI, which took over the case later, did not include him as an accused. Surendran underwent treatment for a long time and his ear drum was ruptured due to police torture in custody. He was in remand custody for 13 days at Kannur jail and was treated for over two weeks at Pariyaram medical college while in custody. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/court-orders-rs-5l-payout-to-kk-surendran/articleshow/80238527.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||Bird flu: Ahmedabad under surveillance||AHMEDABAD: Even as samples of four dead crows from Modhera and those from live birds in Thol tested negative for avian influenza, the animal husbandry department launched a surveillance in Ahmedabad district. Mehsana Collector H K Patel said, “With samples from Modhera and Thol testing negative, the administration has heaved a sigh of relief. However, we are not taking any chances. We will continue to carry out surveillance in the district.” Meanwhile, three birds, including two ibis, were found dead on road dividers in Bawla. The animal husbandry department rushed to the area and collected the carcasses. Their samples will be sent to Bhopal-based laboratory for further investigation. Department officials said that though no bird death has been reported from Ahmedabad district, the administration is on alert. The district also has two bird sanctuaries: Thol and Nalsarovar. Officials said, "With the help of forest department, the animal husbandry department is keeping an eye out for bird deaths." “If we find anything suspicious, we will send samples to Bhopal,” said the officer, adding, “Surveillance has also been launched in poultry farms in the city. We are looking for large number of birds with flu-like symptoms.” The officer said that more crow deaths were reported from Gandevi after there were reports of deaths from Navsari and Chikhli. In Gandevi, on Tuesday, three crows were found dead, creating panic in the region. In the past couple of days, 12 dead crows were found in Chikli taluka and the samples have been sent to the Bhopal lab for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/bird-flu-abad-under-surveillance/articleshow/80239703.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Only 50 out of 4 crore Telangana population likely to face side effects: ICMR researcher||HYDERABAD: Even as hectic efforts are on to rollout the first phase of Covid vaccine, health experts said the number of people facing severe side-effects in the state after they are administered the vaccine may not even cross 50. While this is only a possibility, experts said the WHO’s observations and vaccines on adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) indicate a possibility of severe impact on one in a population of 10 lakh. There are three types — minor, severe and serious — side-effects. The first two types of side-effects are treatable which some times may not even need hospitalisation. “WHO recently has observed that certain foreign Covid-19 vaccines may show severe impact on one person among 10 lakh people,” said Dr Kiran Madala, a certified biomedical researcher with ICMR. Applying this yardstick to nearly four crore population of Telangana, the number of those who are likely to face side-effects is negligible and will not even cross 50 people, he said. Only the third type of vaccine side-effect has the rarest possibility which requires complete hospitalisation, experts aver. For basic type of reactions which subside even without hospitalisation, state government has prepared 14 types of medicines kit which will be at disposal of all vaccination centres.  “For a good immunity, every one must maintain a good diet and do basic exercises,” Dr MV Rao, consultant physician with Yashoda Hospitals said. Dr Rao said nearly six crore people take vaccine for different purposes in India every year. “Our vaccines are developed on inactive virus and potential harm is bare minimal,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-50-out-of-4cr-t-population-likely-to-face-side-effects-icmr-researcher/articleshow/80239668.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Yuva Sena holds protests against BJP MLA Kadam||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena youth wing, Yuva Sena, staged a protest to condemn BJP MLA Ram Kadam who allegedly threatened an honest policeman on duty. It protested at Dadar, Bandra, Andheri, Goregaon, Kandivli and Ghatkopar, demanding action against the MLA. Yuva Sena secretary Varun Sardesai said police must file a case of sedition against three BJP workers for assaulting the constable.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/yuva-sena-holds-protests-against-bjp-mla-kadam/articleshow/80241664.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Jr colleges to have physical classes in shifts||Hyderabad: Classes in junior colleges in Telangana will be held in two shifts from February 1, 2021, as per guidelines issued by the state government on Tuesday. “All colleges having strength of students below 300 and having sufficient accommodation shall be permitted to run in the regular shift i.e. 9.30 am to 4 pm. Those with strength above 300 will be run in two shifts—morning shift 8.30 am to 12.30 pm and afternoon shift 1.30 pm to 5.30 pm,” read the guidelines. Audio visual lectures will continue at suitable revised timings till March 31, 2021. The exam pattern will not change. However, it was decided to give additional choices in the relevant sections of the question paper to make the exam more simple. The time-table for second year intermediate students will be issued separately. For degree and professional colleges, online/distance learning will continue. “Minimum attendance will not be required for appearing in the examinations of the current semester. A maximum of 50 per cent of the classrooms’ capacity shall be permitted to attend physical classes on rotation basis,” read the guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/jr-colleges-to-have-physical-classes-in-shifts/articleshow/80239694.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Oppn highlights ‘backdoor selection’ with Kamal letter||Thiruvananthapuram: The issue of illegal regularization of contract employees by the LDF government rocked the House on the third day of this assembly’s final session. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala led the charge by releasing a letter written by Kerala state chalachitra academy chairman and director Kamal to cultural affairs minister A K Balan requesting regularization of the posts of four left sympathisers working in temporary posts in the academy. Pointing out several instances of contractual and daily-wage employees being illegally regularized by the LDF government, Chennithala said all the appointments have been made by ignoring the adverse opinion of the finance and law departments on the basis of the Supreme Court verdict against such regularizations. “Such appointments, which flouted all rules, benefitted candidates who are close relatives of CPM leaders or CPM sympathizers,” he said. In his letter, Kamal said all the four employees are left fellow travellers, and regularizing them would help the academy in retaining its leftist identity. Interestingly, all the four employees -- deputy director (festival) Shaji H; deputy director (programmes) N P Sajeesh; programme manager (festival) Rejoy K J; and, programme manager (programmes) Vimal Kumar V P -- have only four years of service with the academy. All of them were recruited by the present administration. The law minister then instructed the cultural affairs secretary to “examine and put up” the letter for further processing. Chennithala said Balan has violated his oath of doing his duty without favour or affection and is not eligible to continue as a minister. He said the academy is not the feeder organization of CPM and it is not being run with funds from the party. Seeking leave for an adjournment motion to discuss illegal appointments, Shafi Prambil MLA said the state government has transformed the public service commission into a party service commission and backdoor appointments in the government are conducted in such a manner as if they were being made to party offices. He said that lakhs of youngsters on PSC rank lists are knocking on the doors and the government has turned the state into a graveyard of rank lists. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan put up a feeble defence, claiming that the government has taken steps to hand over appointments to PSC, as much as possible. He said the government has till now appointed or has sent advice memo to 1,51,513 applicants through PSC. The government has created 27,000 permanent posts till now and is in the process of framing recruitment special rules to several government organizations, he added. After speaker P Sreeramakrishnan refused to give permission for an adjournment motion, the opposition staged a walkout. TOI has, through a series of articles, exposed how the government has been appointing contract employees in Kerala institute of local administration (KILA), Keltron and other organizations by violating SC orders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/oppn-highlights-backdoor-selection-with-kamal-letter/articleshow/80238549.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 6,500 corporation staff to skip vaccine duty over arrears||NEW DELHI: With the Covid vaccination drive a few days away, 6,500 employees of municipal corporations, led by several workers’ unions, have decided not to attend to their duties at the inoculation centres or carry out field surveys to press their demand for payment of their pending salaries. They also plan not to get themselves vaccinated even if action is taken against them by Delhi Disaster Management Authority. “We are not at all against carrying out the duties assigned to us by the district administrations, but it seems nobody is ready to look at the condition of employees who have not been paid their salaries for five months now,” said Ram Niwas Solanki, general secretary, Nagar Nigam Shikshak Sangh, a teachers’ union. “When everyone is so apathetic to our genuine grievances, why are we expected to perform our duties diligently?” The unions claimed that at least 4,000 teachers and 2,500 paramedical staff of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation and EDMC have been deployed for the mega vaccination drive. They claimed to have informed the lieutenant governor, chief minister, corporation mayors, commissioners and the district magistrates about their decision not to cooperate in the inoculation programme. “We have appealed to each affected employee not to turn up at the vaccination booths on January 16 even if that invites punitive action,” said AP Khan, convenor, Confederation of MCD Employees’ Union. “I think rather than against us, action should be directed at the authorities who are not keeping their promises made a year ago to regularise our pays and clear our arrears. When there is no money to meet our household expenses, what is the point of getting ourselves vaccinated?” The confederation will also carry out a protest march on January 15 from the Syama Prasad Mukherjee Civic Centre to the Delhi Secretariat via Delhi Gate and Rajghat. “We have received the support of at least 40 associations, including those of nurses and paramedical staff. We will walk together to express our displeasure at the indifferent attitude of Delhi Government and the municipalities,” said Khan. Police permission for the march is awaited. North corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that officials are holding talks with the unions to reverse their decision not to engage in the vaccination exercise. “Their demands are genuine, but keeping away from the vaccination booths is not acceptable. We will meet them and discuss their problems,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/6500-corpn-staff-to-skip-vaccine-duty-over-arrears/articleshow/80241063.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||HC orders status quo, stops GHMC from taking away University of Hyderabad land||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court on Tuesday ordered status quo to be maintained until further orders after the University of Hyderabad (UoH) moved the court complaining against the high-handed behaviour of GHMC and revenue officials. UoH also charged the revenue officials with taking away 18 acres of its land in Kancha Gachibowli village and the GHMC with forcibly laying a black-topped road in the area. The university urged the court to restrain the authorities from moving ahead further. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili, who presided over a vacation court, said that status quo should be maintained while hearing the writ plea filed by UoH registrar P Sardar Singh. Justice Shavili gave two weeks’ time to the authorities to file their counters. NV Sumanth, counsel for the petitioner, said this land was part of 2,000 acres allotted to the university at the time of its inception four decades ago. The state and several of its departments had unlawfully taken away more than 700 acres from this land already. “Depriving the varsity of its land has not stopped even now. In the past also when the state sought this piece of land, the university clearly said it cannot part with the land,” Sumanth said. The state has been contending that this land is essential for it to lay a road to connect ISB and residential colonies in the vicinity. “Once you agree with the fact that the land belongs to the university, then the only recourse available to you is to acquire the land from the varsity and the state is no exception to this,” senior counsel A Sudarsan Reddy, who appeared for the university, said. To decide on whether or not to part with the land is not in the hands of the university either. “Because the central government has given clear instructions that varsities cannot part with their land on their own. The Centre’s consent is essential,” he said. Interestingly, this 18-acre land was part of the 400-acre land that was allotted to IMG Bharata for developing sports facilities in 2003. As this later turned out to be a huge scam, the state government had nullified the land allotment. When the accused approached the court, the high court had ordered a status quo on the land. “In a way, the action of the GHMC and revenue officials is violative of the earlier status quo order,” Sumanth contended.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-orders-status-quo-stops-ghmc-from-taking-away-uoh-land/articleshow/80239708.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Transportation amid tight security||Hyderabad: The Cyberabad and Hyderabad police provided security to Covid-19 vaccines while they were being transported in the city on Tuesday. From the RGI Airport, the vaccine doses were shifted to the State Vaccine Centre, Koti. A pilot vehicle was provided by Cyberabad police and it was transported without an stops. Joint commissioner of police (East Zone) M Ramesh Reddy said that a platoon of policemen were deployed at Koti, including armed security. Police will escort doses being sent to regional centres as well. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/transportation-amid-tight-security/articleshow/80239734.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra, Kerala only states with over 50,000 active cases each||MUMBAI: Maharashtra and Kerala are the only two states in the country that have more than 50,000 active cases currently, the Centre said on Tuesday. It said Maharashtra had 53,463 active cases while Kerala had 63,547, both accounting for 54% of the country’s active cases at present. On January 4, active cases in Maharashtra had dropped under 50,000 for the first time since May. However, they began to climb once again over the next few days to reach up to 54,000 on January 10. State officials said that at its peak, there were up to 3 lakh active cases. “Active cases have remained consistent between 50,000 and 60,000 for the past two weeks and that’s a good sign,” said a senior state official, adding that urban pockets across the state continue to report the bulk of cases. For the second day in a row, the state reported under 3,000 new cases and the city reported under 500 cases. A total of 2,936 cases and 50 fatalities were reported by the state on Tuesday, taking the total caseload to 19,74,488 and the total fatalities to 50,151. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said 56% of active Covid patients in the country are under home isolation. A state official said the percentage is similar for Maharashtra. Mumbai reported a total of 473 fresh cases and 7 deaths on Tuesday, taking the total cases to 2,99,799 and fatalities to 11,200. For the fourth consecutive day, the city reported deaths in single digits. A civic official said that of the seven deaths, four had comorbidities and six were above the age of 40 years. Another government official cautioned that cases and deaths in the state were under control, but with the vaccination drive coming up, people are likely to let their guard down. “Districts should ensure that an awareness campaign regarding wearing of masks and maintaining Covid-appropriate behaviour is continued,” said an official, adding that the vaccination for the general population is unlikely to roll out before the next two months. For the second day in a row, the daily discharges were higher than the daily additions. A total of 3,282 patients were discharged on Tuesday, taking total cases to 18.7 lakh, with the rate of recovery touching 95%. Active cases in the state were 51,892, of which 7,395 were in Mumbai. From MMR, Thane city reported 103 new cases, taking the tally of infected people there to 56,870 while three Covid deaths took the toll to 1,273. There were 53 positive patients in NMMC, taking its tally to 51,841.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-kerala-only-states-with-over-50000-active-cases-each/articleshow/80241093.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 13, 2021||Ahmedabad||In new 100 Feet Rd, pedestrians don’t fit||AHMEDABAD: After the lockdown, the AMC began to develop 100 Feet Road which connects Shyamal Crossroads to Prahladnagar garden. The decision to create a boulevard-style road for the stretch aims to ensure easy passage for pedestrians, cyclists, as well as motorized vehicles. In response to protests from shopkeepers in the area, the AMC had made changes in the design and had done away with dividers demarcating pedestrian lanes, cycle tracks, and parking space. The new design will enable people to park their vehicles on pedestrian lanes and cycle tracks during the day. However, several shopkeepers complain that people park their vehicles so close to the shops that customers have little space to queue up. A shop owner, who did not want to be identified, said that in the evening when police begin active surveillance, people park their vehicles on pedestrian lanes. The old road design had given adequate space for people to walk; the new one has cut that off. Utpal Sharma of Cept University, who is an urban planner, said: “One cannot have the same design for all roads in the city.” Sharma added: “The 100 Feet Road is not a commercial street, but an internal city road and hence the design has to be different and in accordance with the traffic flow.” He went on to say: “We are not sure how useful a cycle track will be.” He said that to the best of his knowledge no expert was involved in planning. A drive down the stretch reveals that the pedestrian lane has been encroached upon by parked cars, especially of shopkeepers. A traffic policeman said that people prefer to park their vehicles outside their shops and action from police stirs protests. At any given point on the stretch, 40-odd cars pass through in a minute; the number rises during peak hours. Dimple Shah, a resident of the area, said: “The AMC should have made this stretch a no-parking zone and forced people to park their vehicles in AMC facilities.” Shah added: “The AMC should have encouraged the use of rickshaws. The new design has reduced the traffic passage from three to two lanes.” Vipul Mehta, another resident of the area, said: “The local shop owners had protested against the cycle track as few cyclists are seen on the road.” Mehta added: “Moreover, at several places, the new design has blocked entry points.” Rashmikant Shah, a former Jodhpur ward corporator, said: “The design was changed as the AMC was planning to reduce the road width.” Shah added: “The new design is such that if vehicles are not parked on the stretch, traffic can use the space.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/in-new-100-feet-rd-pedestrians-dont-fit/articleshow/80239771.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 13, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose statue relocation triggers row||BHOPAL: Relocation of a statue of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose from a rotary in the state capital, led to a fierce confrontation between Congress MLA PC Sharma and state health education minister Vishwas Sarang and their supporters. The statue is located at a rotary at Prabhat Chouraha. At the location a railoverbridge is nearly complete. The statue was installed by BJP leader LK Advani around 1997. Current BJP minister Vishwas Sarang and former Congress minister and MLA, PC Sharma were both at the location. Former minister PC Sharma opposed the removal of the statue of Subhash Chandra Bose. He alleged that BJP leaders are insulting the revolutionaries. Controversy arose over relocation of the idol of Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose to another place in Bhopal. The BJP government was removing it and the Congress was opposing it. The statue of Subhash Chandra Bose’s would be relocated to another place. The rotary where it is placed is not large enough. The intersection is witnessing traffic jams. Rotary can be enlarged by removing the statue and the traffic system will be corrected. This will get rid of traffic jams and will also help the traffic that leads to the overbridge, explained Sarang. As the two leaders spoke out, controversy grew and a heated debate ensued. Congress leaders Mahendra Singh Chauhan and Manoj Shukla came out in support of Sharma. Congress workers shouted slogans at the spot. After prolonged sloganeering, the matter was settled and other leaders along with PC Sharma left from the spot. Given the severity of the situation, a lot of police force was already deployed on the spot. Earlier the rotary was trimmed to keep the statue of Bose, claimed Sharma supporters. Adjacent to Prabhat Chouraha is also the proposed depot for Bhopal metro rail. PWD Superintending Engineer Sanjay Khande explained that the work of metro pillars is almost complete.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/netaji-statue-relocation-triggers-row/articleshow/80239766.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Kidnap case: Four more picked up from Goa||HYDERABAD: A day after Hyderabad police declared 19 persons, including former Andhra Pradesh minister Bhooma Akhila Priya and her fugitive husband, as accused in the case of kidnapping three persons in Bowenpally, police took four more accused into custoday from Goa. They are being brought to Hyderabad. Police have already arrested Akhila Priya and three others involved. On Tuesday, Hyderabad police questioned Akhila Priya for the second consecutive day as part of custodial interrogation. A local court on Monday allowed the Hyderabad police to take Akhila Priya into their custody for three days. Police had declared Akhila as the prime accused behind the kidnap of Praveen Rao, Sunil Rao and Naveen Rao, who are the relatives of chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s personal assistant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kidnap-case-4-more-picked-up-from-goa/articleshow/80239788.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Sikh group cancels Lohri, no nod for Pongal gathering in Mumbai's Dharavi||Maharashtra Sikh Association will not celebrate the winter harvest festival of Lohri on Wednesday in protest against the Central government’s “continued resistance to farmers’ demands”. Convenor Bal Malkit Singh said, “Thousands of farmers and their families have camped near the Delhi border in abject cold conditions for 48 days. Around 70 senior citizen protestors have died. We will restrict Lohri to a symbolic celebration to express solidarity with our farmer brethren who are celebrating these festivals on the roads under open skies. We will celebrate Lohri and Baisakhi when their demands are resolved to their satisfaction.” For the first time in decades, Thursday’s annual Pongal gathering will not be held in the Tamil enclave of Dharavi as police denied permission. Outgoing senior inspector Ramesh Nangare said they were following state government orders banning religious congregations under Covid-19. Dharavi police also denied permission for namaz on streets, he said. Senior community member K A Viswanathan said “ At 90 Ft Road every year the Tamil harvest festival of Pongal is celebrated on January 14 with more than 2,000 ladies cooking pongal at sunrise. Besides Tamilians, Malayalees, Muslims, Gujarati and Maharashtrian natives also take part. But this year due to Covid, permission was not granted, so there was no sale of items like sugar, jaggery and rice for Pongal. “However, truckloads of sugarcane have been brought from Tamil Nadu's Madurai and Salem, and unloaded in Dharavi. This year people have been asked to celebrate in their houses only,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sikh-group-cancels-lohri-no-nod-for-pongal-gathering-in-dharavi/articleshow/80240006.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||SpiceJet flies in 1st vaccine consignment||Hyderabad: The first consignment of vaccines arrived at the cargo terminal of the Hyderabad airport by SpiceJet freighter, SG 7466 at 11:30am from Pune. “The Covishield vaccine consignment was handled as per the special protocol ensuring cool-chain integrity, by a dedicated vaccine task force that has been formed, with a nodal person, to ensure a seamless and high priority movement of Covid-19 vaccines,” a release by GMR stated. The consignment consisting of 31 boxes of 1 MT of Covishield vaccine were offloaded from the aircraft parked in the adjoining dedicated cargo apron and taken to vaccine storage area in GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo terminal. It was then shifted to a government truck. SpiceJet, said it transported close to four million vaccine doses weighing around 11 tonnes across cities. “SpiceJet transported multiple vaccine consignments from Pune to Indian cities including 2,76,000 doses to Guwahati, 9,96,000 doses to Kolkata, 3,72,000 doses to Hyderabad, 4,80,000 doses to Bhubaneswar, 6,48,000 doses to Bengaluru, 5,52,000 doses to Patna and 4,08,000 doses to Vijayawada,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spicejet-flies-in-1st-vaccine-consignment/articleshow/80239769.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Covaxin shipment from Hyderabad today||HYDERABAD: Bharat Biotech is all geared up to begin dispatches of India’s first indigenous vaccine Covaxin from Wednesday morning. Aviation industry sources told TOI that the first lot of Covaxin vials are expected to reach the Rajiv Gandhi international airport in the wee hours of Wednesday, after which they will be shipped to around 11 destinations across the country, including Delhi, Bengaluru, Chennai, Patna, Lucknow and Jaipur. Bharat Biotech sources too confirmed that the first batch of Covaxin doses will start rolling out of their Genome Valley facility in refrigerated trucks in the early hours of Wednesday. The vaccines have to be supplied to the government for the vaccination programme by January 14. A senior GMR Hyderabad International Airport official too told newspersons on Tuesday that Covaxin shipments will be airlifted to 11 destinations from Wednesday for the official vaccination programme. “Today we received the first consignment of vaccines from Serum Institute at Hyderabad airport...970 kg (of Covishield). From Bharat Biotech the first lot is going out most likely tomorrow. The Bharat Biotech (vaccine) it is going to 11 destinations,” the GHIAL official had said. He said Hyderabad airport has been gearing up to handle a “significantly larger amount of cargo for vaccines” as the city has one-third of the global vaccine capacity and is fully geared up to handling incoming and outgoing vaccine cargo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/covaxin-shipment-from-city-today/articleshow/80239785.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||63-year-old gets 7 years in jail for killing son in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: A 63-year-old man was convicted by a local court and was directed to undergo seven years of imprisonment on Tuesday for killing his son in 2018 under Neredmet police station limits. Rachakonda police, in a press note, said that P Mohan Rao stabbed his son Mahender Naidu on the chest and stomach. The convict killed his son since he used to frequently consume alcohol and quarrel with his parents. On October 13, 2018, both the convict and the victim consumed alcohol. Later, the father returned home whereas the victim continued to consume alcohol. Afterwards, the victim returned home and knocked the door. On hearing the knock, the convict opened the door while carrying a knife and stabbed his son to death. The police filed a chargesheet after gathering evidence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/63-yr-old-gets-7-years-in-jail-for-killing-son/articleshow/80239798.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||35,000 health staff trained in biomedical waste disposal in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Ahead of the rollout of the Covid vaccine in the state, nearly 35,000 staffers from the state health department have been trained for vaccine management as well as safe disposal of biomedical waste. The staff have been given detailed guidelines as part of the reorientation training of district teams to prevent spread of the virus through biomedical waste through the environment. Vaccine management, right from when the doses arrive in the state, to storage and logistical arrangements have been specified in the guidelines. For the smooth rollout of the programme, Covid vaccines as well as logistics are to be clearly segregated from other vaccines. Stressing how unsafe disposal of immunization waste can pose a threat of acquired infection -- especially through needle prick injuries to children, animals and ragpickers -- the vaccination programme plan entails treatment and disposal of the waste in a proper manner.  Broken vaccine vials and used cotton are to be stored in separate bags or containers and all of these things will be further sent for biohazard treatment before disposal. The hub cutter used will also be sent for disinfection and disposal. "The biomedical waste generated at the site including the cotton swabs will be treated with sodium hypochloride solution, microwaving or autoclaving before handing over for disposal. Strict guidelines will ensure no chance of spread of the virus to the environment through biomedical waste," said a health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/35000-health-staff-trained-in-biomedical-waste-disposal/articleshow/80239800.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad finds its sister city in Germany’s Ingolstadt||Aurangabad: The city is all set for a ‘sister city collaboration’ with the Germany’s Ingolstadt in various sectors including trade, commerce, education, tourism and waste management. The collaboration would pave way for exchange of ideas, technologies and even workforce, eventually creating a win-win situation for both cities.A video conference was held between the officials of Ingolstadt and Aurangabad in the presence of Aurangabad Municipla Corporation (AMC) administrator Astik Kumar Pandey, Bamu vice-chancellor Pramod Yeole, president of Aurangabad First Pritesh Chatterjee, CII Marathwada zonal council president Mukund Kulkarni, Massia president Abhay Hanchanal, CMIA president Kamlesh Dhoot and secretary Satish Lonikar and deputy CEO of Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) Pushkal Shivam on Tuesday.Suyash Chavan, the consulate-general of India, Munich, who is a native of Nanded, facilitated the meeting. He gave a presentation on Ingolstadt giving details about its geography, its collaborations with cities in different countries and how Aurangabad and Ingolstadt could collaborate.Expressing his satisfaction with the collaboration, Pandey said before January 25, his team would prepare and give a presentation on five key areas on which MoUs could be signed between the two cities. “Primarily, the areas and sectors where Aurangabad seeks collaboration are universities, chamber of commerce, skill development, tourism and waste management,” he said. Ingolstadt is a historic Bavarian town in Germany known for its heritage and culture. It is also known for its first Bavarian university where a sizable number of Indian students study. Ingolstadt has signed twin city partnerships with around 10 cities across the world. It has chosen Aurangabad as both have rich cultural heritage. Both the cities are also economically connected — German automobile giant Audi, which has its HQ in Ingolstadt, set up its unit in Aurangabad in 2007.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-finds-its-sister-city-in-germanys-ingolstadt/articleshow/80237636.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Congress minister, BJP demand zonal posting of additional civic commissioners||MUMBAI: Days after demanding two civic chiefs for Mumbai, Aslam Shaikh, Congress MLA and guardian minister for the island city, has now said that BMC’s additional municipal commissioners must be asked to sit in their respective zonal offices in suburban Mumbai, instead of the civic headquarters at Fort. BJP, which had slammed the demand for two civic chiefs saying it was an attempt to split the city into two, has made a similar demand that additional municipal commissioners work in their zonal offices. Meanwhile, Congress corporator Ravi Raja, opposition leader in the BMC, said the demand for two civic commissioners was Shaikh’s personal view and not of the party. “This is not the party’s stand and it is his personal view. This issue was not discussed at the party level. The party’s stand is that the existing system must be improved upon and people must get better civic amenities. The additional commissioners must go to the zones every week and the municipal commissioner must go at least once a month,” Raja said.  Shaikh had demanded two civic commissioners for Mumbai last week. “I have not said anything about splitting Mumbai or the BMC. I have only made an administrative demand for two municipal commissioners so that people in the suburbs get better amenities and civic infrastructure. Close to 80% of Mumbai’s population lives in the suburbs but they do not get good civic facilities. That’s the reason why I made this demand, since the entire administration is focused only on the island city,” Shaikh told TOI on Tuesday. Shaikh said, for now, BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal must ask his additional municipal commissioners to work in zonal offices. “We have one additional MC (municipal commissioner) for western and eastern suburbs each, so they must sit in those regions and not in the head office. The city has only a quarter of the 227 corporators but all five IAS officers in the BMC sit at the head office, so they don’t know what is happening in the suburbs,” Shaikh said, adding just as additional commissioners of police sit in their zones, BMC’s additional commissioners must be in their field offices. Corporator Vinod Mishra, BJP leader in the BMC, has written to Chahal asking him to deploy additional municipal commissioners to the zones.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-minister-bjp-demand-zonal-posting-of-addl-civic-commissioners/articleshow/80239801.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Drinking water pipeline repaired after report on TOI app||HYDERABAD: Officials plugged leakages in a drinking water pipeline at Hastinapuri Colony, Sainikpuri after the issue was brought to light by a citizen reporter. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials repaired the pipeline immediately after the grievance was published in TOI on January 5. Sunil Pimple, the citizen reporter, said that the pipe had been damaged for the past three months and the water was leaking. “The pipe was damaged when a borewell was being laid. As the pipe was running through a private land, the issue was being ignored by residents of the colony as well as officials,” he said. Despite reporting the issue to the property owner and the authorities concerned, Sunil said that the issue had remained unresolved. “I thank TOI for publishing my grievance,” he said. A senior citizen residing in the colony said that apart from natural resources going waste, supply of potable water to other houses was also affected. “As the pipe was damaged, other households were receiving less amount of drinking water. Authorities must act against those who waste water and impose penalties on them. It is important to conserve natural resources for future generations,” he said. M Sankeerth, another resident of Hastinapuri Colony, added that the road was also damaged due to the water leakage. “The water used to get accumulated in a corner of the road, thus damaging it. The stagnant water would inconvenience pedestrians and commuters,” he said. The water board officials said that the issue has been resolved permanently.“The water was flowing due to the damaged pipe. We pressed into service our staff and fixed the issue permanently,” said J Shareef, HMWS&SB deputy general manager, Uppal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/drinking-water-pipeline-repaired-after-report-on-toi-app/articleshow/80239795.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||UK thinktank lists India in ‘Difficult 4’; clubs India with China, Saudi Arabia, Turkey||NEW DELHI: Even as UK and India appear to be resetting their relations post Brexit, a major British think tank has a word of caution for the British government. “While giving India the attention it deserves, the UK government needs to accept that gaining direct national benefit from the relationship, whether economically or diplomatically, will be difficult,” says the new report by Chatham House. The report, “Global Britain, Global Broker” questions whether the UK, despite its inherent strengths, would be able to avoid losing influence in the world. It observes that despite the evident shortcomings, “Britain has remained influential because it is one of the few countries capable of combining its diverse national assets — diplomatic, military, intelligence and humanitarian — to pursue its interests beyond its shores.” Calling for a “shift in strategic focus” the UK, the report says, should have more realistic goals about developing deeper ties with India, which it clubs with China, Saudi Arabia and Turkey as the “difficult four”. “India’s importance to the UK is inescapable. … But it should be obvious by now that the idea of a deeper relationship with India always promises more than it can deliver. The legacy of British colonial rule consistently curdles the relationship. In contrast, the US has become the most important strategic partner for India, as recent US administrations have intensified their bilateral security relations, putting the UK in the shade,” says the report. The report goes on to say that India’s “complex, fragmented domestic politics have made it one of the countries most resistant to open trade and foreign investment.” In addition, “the overt Hindu nationalism of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party is weakening the rights of Muslims & other minority religious groups, leading to a chorus of concern that intolerant majoritarianism is replacing the vision of a secular, democratic India bequeathed by Nehru.” The British foreign policy establishment is currently in the process of re-writing its foreign policy focus, bringing the Indo-Pacific front and centre of the new policies. The report is critical of Boris Johnson’s initiative of setting up a D10 club of democratic countries, and particularly, including India in it. “Including India in a D10 at this time could make building any meaningful consensus on policy or joint actions that much harder. India has a long and consistent record of resisting being corralled into a ‘Western’ camp. It led the Non-Aligned Movement during the Cold War and, in 2017, India formally joined the China-and Russia-led Shanghai Cooperation Organisation.” In a critique of India’s diplomatic behaviour, the report points out that despite border clashes with China, “India did not join the group of countries that criticized China at the UN in July 2019 over human rights violations in Xinjiang. India has also been muted in its criticism of the passage of the new national security law in Hong Kong. With Indian domestic politics also having entered a more ethno-nationalist phase, as noted earlier, a D10 might end up functioning as a D9 at some point in the future, with all the damaging knock-on effects this would have on the UK’s relations with India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-think-tank-lists-india-in-difficult-4-clubs-india-with-china-saudi-turkey/articleshow/80242202.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Tiger relocated days ago from Corbett to Rajaji goes missing||Dehradun: For two days, the location of the tiger didn’t change on the map. When forest officials went in to check on Monday afternoon, the male tiger relocated to the Rajaji Tiger Reserve from Corbett was nowhere to be found. Left in the enclosure was its radio collar whose signal had misled them into thinking the tiger had not moved out into the forest. On January 9, the tiger was tranquilised in Corbett’s Dhela zone and brought to Rajaji’s western region early next morning. The zone has been home to two sibling tigresses for over a decade. The translocated tiger was the second of five to be moved, in phases, to help repopulate Rajaji. “We had been waiting for it to step out of its enclosure. When it didn’t and we received signals from just one location, NTCA and Uttarakhand forest officials went in to look on Monday. We found the tiger was gone, only the radio collar left behind,” Mahender Giri, range officer of Rajaji Tiger Reserve’s Motichur range, said. As word spread, those living in areas around the reserve panicked. “We have already stepped up the strength of our frontline forces to avoid any mishap in the nearby hutments,” warden of the reserve, LP Tamta, said. The forest department has started looking for pugmarks, deployed drones, started patrolling and is going over all available CCTV footage of the nearby areas. An Uttarakhand forest official who has been closely working with the tiger translocation programme told TOI this was a major lapse: “A tiger would sleep for eight hours at the most and then move, even if it were inside the enclosure. If the radio collar signal was found to be at just one spot, swift action should have been taken.” That the radio collar fell off its neck was also a problem. “It raises questions on how collaring was done in the first place.” Had the radio collar not been dropped, the tiger would have been located immediately. It would also be safe from poachers and the risk of human-tiger conflict would have been reduced. In June last year, an 18-year-old tigress had also gone missing from western Rajaji. To this day, it has not been found. The chief wildlife warden of the state forest department, JS Suhag, however, said the tiger could not be considered “missing.” “Our mission was to bring the tiger from Corbett to Rajaji, which we did successfully. The tiger has not fled. It was left in the enclosure to venture out on its own,” Suhag said. “Radio collar is not essential. It is needed only to monitor elephants during Kumbh.” The tigress untraced for two years, he added, was also doing alright: “It is very much in the reserve. It is not missing. I can show CCTV footage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-relocated-days-ago-from-corbett-to-rajaji-goes-missing/articleshow/80237660.cms||Shivani Azad
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Temporary bus stands open in Trichy city||Trichy: Two temporary bus stands were opened for public use in Trichy on Tuesday to meet the rush ahead for the Pongal festival. The temporary bus stands will function throughout the festival days till January 19. The district administration had said that Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Kumbakonam and Nagapattinam bound government and private buses will commence their journey from the temporary bus shelter on Williams road. Similarly, buses to Pudukkottai, Madurai and the southern districts will start from the temporary bus shelter established near Mannarpuram roundabout. Buses for other districts will continue to operate from the central bus stand, officials added. Since the Mannarpuram temporary bus stand is located comparatively far away from the Central bus stand, TNSTC will operate adequate city buses (circular services) to Mannarpuram temporary bus stand from Central, Chathiram bus stands till January 19. City police have also provided a WhatsApp helpline number 96262-73399 to report traffic violations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/temporary-bus-stands-open-in-trichy-city/articleshow/80241089.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Appoint officers to oversee Covid shots’||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar has directed district collectors to appoint special officers to oversee the arrangements and administration of Covid vaccines at all designated launch sites. Reviewing the preparations for launch, chief secretary directed collectors to ensure presence of pre-identified beneficiaries through the network of district officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/appoint-officers-to-oversee-covid-shots/articleshow/80239833.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana : Only 20 students allowed per room||HYDERABAD: School students from class nine to class 12 will resume physical classes from February 1, 2021, with not more than 20 students in one class, according to the guidelines issued by the Telangana education department on Tuesday. The government has decided to adopt a blended mode of learning wherein both classes will be made available to students online and offline platforms. According to the guidelines, schools will be functioning as per regular school timings where students and the school staff have to mandatorily wear masks, maintain social distancing and sanitise themselves and the school premises regularly. Apart from classes 9 to 12, no other classes shall reopen physically for students. All schools have to obtain written consent from parents/guardians for students to attend physical classes. “Students willing to study from home with the consent of the parent, may be allowed to do so. Students of other than above mentioned classes shall not attend school,” read the guidelines. There is no detention policy up to class eight, and the schedule for class 10 exams will be issued separately. “Every child willing to write the relevant exam shall be allowed to do so without insisting on minimum attendance,” the guidelines said. The government has asked all headmasters to prepare a customised seating plan as per the classroom size to ensure physical distance of up to six feet between any two students. “The customised seating plan shall be submitted to the district education officers by the concerned headmasters. DEOs shall submit the consolidated report of the district to the director of school education by January 18, 2021,” the guidelines said. Staggered timings have to be maintained for entry and exit, midday meals, transportation, and laboratory use, among other school infrastructure. Not just that, managements have also been asked to establish a medical plan for every school/hostel wherein nearby primary health care centres, isolation rooms and counsellors are identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/only-20-students-allowed-per-room/articleshow/80239831.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||As long as I am MLA, no IIT will come up at Melauli: Vishwajit Rane||PANAJI: In a major embarrassment to chief minister Pramod Sawant and pushing him on the backfoot, health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday came out openly against setting up of the IIT campus at Melauli, and asked him to scrap the project from his constituency. A day after Rane had vented his ire at the high-handedness of his government’s use of brute force to stifle the voices of people, he said till “I am Valpoi MLA and Sattari’s elected representative, no one will be able to lay a single stone for the IIT project in the area”. Rane, who had supported the prestigious project initially, said the support was on the belief that it would bring development to the area, but after assessing the ground situation and hearing “his people’s voices”, he is of the firm opinion that the IIT project should be shifted out of Sattari and Usgao to anywhere in Goa. “The whole emotion has gone on a different tangent and people are becoming more aggressive. People’s views are changing, and all the people who were originally in support of IIT are today against the project,” Rane said in an obvious hint to his changing stance. Making a strong case for withdrawal of cases filed against villagers for the January 6 clash with police, Rane also demanded action against police officers who allegedly manhandled them. “I have never used police to carry out atrocities against the people. But at times, such incidents occur. Why the incident took place as it did, I have no answer to that question today,” Rane said in a video message. “I am your brother. I am with you. You need not go into the forests. No one will arrest you. My hair stands on end seeing some of the videos. If police are sent again to Shel-Melauli, they will have to go past me before they can enter and raise their hand on any villager,” Rane said in a message to his people. Later, in a letter to Sawant, Rane made it abundantly clear that he was kept in the dark about the happenings in his constituency. “I am very disheartened that I was not taken into confidence for the police action and I was neither consulted nor was I part of any meeting wherein deployment of police was planned in my constituency,” he wrote. “I, as the representative of my people, will not be in a position to support this project anymore. I have spoken to my people from different villages and we have come to a consensus that this project should be shifted out of Sattari,” he said. Justifying his initial support to the IIT campus at Melauli, Rane said the project’s entry into Sattari was initiated thinking that it would bring in “a lot of development and vibrancy in Sattari and make it an education hub”. “The plan was never to use police or manhandling. As a member of your cabinet, I appeal to you to please scrap the project of IIT in my constituency with immediate effect and make an announcement,” Rane said. Later in the evening, in a social media post, Rane said his support or opposition to the IIT project is directly co-related to the sentiments of the people of his constituency and said if his people decided to support the project tomorrow, he would too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/as-long-as-i-am-mla-no-iit-will-come-up-at-melauli-rane/articleshow/80241085.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||No assurance to NCP on Pala seat||Thiruvananthapuram: NCP state president T P Peethambaran reiterated the party’s claim for all the four seats it had contested in 2016 during a discussion with chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. The CM is learnt to have told Peethambaran that an assurance on the seats could be given only after discussing the proposal with other partners and senior leaders. Peethambaran met Vijayan as a follow up to the mediation initiated by the latter to ensure that NCP would stay with the LDF in the forthcoming assembly polls. On Monday, Vijayan met warring leaders of NCP A K Saseendran and Mani C Kappan separately. However, Kappan demanded assurance regarding Pala seat, which he had won in the byelection resulting from the death of K M Mani. Vijayan is also learnt to have discussed the issue with NCP national president Sharad Pawar over the phone. “It is only natural that we claim our sitting seats. Will CPM sacrifice any sitting seat to accommodate a new party?” Peethambaran told reporters after the meeting. Though Saseendran accompanied Peethambaran to meet the CM, Kappan opted out of the meeting. It is learnt that Pawar may reach Kerala this weekend to resolve the internal issues in the party. If the majority of the party supports the proposal by Peethambaran and Kappan to switch to the UDF, the national leadership may approve it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/no-assurance-to-ncp-on-pala-seat/articleshow/80238618.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Officials speed up preparation||HYDERABAD: Health officials in the districts are accelerating preparation for the vaccination drive. On Tuesday, officials visited vaccine storage centres. In Nirmal, collector Musharraf Ali Faruqui made suggestions about steps that need to be taken for a smooth rollout. Bhadradri-Kothagudem collector M V Reddy asked officials to take up the drive as a ‘challenge’. Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said in Kamareddy that public representatives must create awareness. "The vaccine will be given at six centres in Sangareddy district,” collector Hanumantha Rao said. A control room will be set up at the Nizamabad district collectorate. Roads and buildings minister Vemula Prashanth Reddy said it is the responsibility of public representatives to create awareness about the vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-speed-up-preparation/articleshow/80239827.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Majhi smart bus drives Aurangabad to ISAC ’21||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city has been shortlisted for the India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) 2021 for its second phase of the Majhi smart bus under urban mobility. After the relaunch of the smart bus service project in November 2020 post the Covid-19 lockdown, the Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Limited (ASCDCL) has enhanced the service with several innovative features such as smart card for cashless payments, vehicle tracking system (VTS), passenger information system (PIS) in the mobile app, esteemed time of arrival (ETA), passenger grievance at the portal, route-wise time table and weekly, monthly and tri-monthly passes with budget-friendly fares. The bus service already has many takers. ASCDCL authorities are expecting to make more business in the coming months when things fall back to normalcy. Recently, as many as 100 bus shelters have been installed in Aurangabad city. In addition to the previous fleet of buses and routes, 50 more buses are all set to roll out on 20 new routes across the city. With all the distinct facilities, Majhi smart bus remains one of the most affordable public transports in the city. The India Smart Cities Awards Contest (ISAC) was launched on August 25, 2020, to recognise cities for their performance on projects, implementation and innovation. Aurangabad’s Majhi smart bus is known to be one of India’s inexpensive city buses and the authorities here are hopeful of making a mark at the competition. Pushkal Shivam, deputy CEO of ASCDC, said, “Considering the connectivity, punctuality and a number of innovative features associated with the service and the reasonable price of the ticket, our team at ASCDCL is hopeful of bagging an award.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/majhi-smart-bus-drives-aurangabad-to-isac-21/articleshow/80237676.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Goa||Shripad Naik out of danger, may be discharged in 10-15 days: GMC dean||PANAJI: Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who underwent three major and one minor surgery on Monday night after he met with a road accident in Karnataka, may be discharged from hospital in around 10-15 days, Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar said on Tuesday. However, his total recovery will take him three months, he added. Naik suffered multiple fractures in the accident, that killed his wife Vijaya and aide Dr Deepak Ghume, both of who had accompanied him on the trip to Karnataka. His shoulder was crushed, and he sustained injuries in his forearm and thigh. “The shoulder was re-constructed and other fractures were fixed,” Bandekar said. “Once he is mobilised and can sit on the bed, he can be discharged, and this will take 10-15 days.” Tha ambulance carrying Naik arrived at GMC at around 11pm. Prior to the surgeries, a meeting of heads of departments was held. Then, from 2am to 8am, Bandekar, an orthopedic surgeon, performed three surgeries on Naik. The Ayush minister also suffered a chest injury, which led to bleeding. The bleeding stopped after the treatment, he said. “He is stable and out of danger, but we have kept him in the intensive care unit (ICU) for close monitoring. He was sedated to alleviate his pain, and from tomorrow he will be fully conscious,” Bandekar told reporters. A team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) is scheduled to visit GMC to check on Naik soon. However, Bandekar said he doesn’t think Naik needs to be moved to Delhi. “We have given him all the care that was required, and I don’t see a reason to shift him elsewhere, but that is for the government to decide,” he said, replying to a reporter’s question. Asked whether Naik’s battle with Covid a few months ago would have a bearing on his recovery, Bandekar said that no injuries were evident in his lungs. “Many months have passed since his recovery from Covid-19,” the dean said. “He had almost returned to normal life. His chest X-Ray did not show the presence of fibrosis.” Four months ago, both Naik and his wife were down with Covid-19, and recovered after several days in hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-dean-naik-out-of-danger-may-be-discharged-in-10-15-days/articleshow/80241102.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana reports 300 new Covid cases, 2 deaths||HYDERABAD: Active Covid-19 cases in Telangana came down to 4,524, the lowest since June 2020, even as authorities recorded 301 new cases and two deaths.  On Tuesday, 34,431 samples were tested across the state. The GHMC recorded 58 new cases on Tuesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-reports-300-new-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80239856.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Shivaji Park to get Rs 6 crore green revamp with games arenas||MUMBAI: The iconic Shivaji Park at Dadar is set to go from red to green. To arrest dust pollution on account of the soil, BMC will plant grass at Shivaji Park and also create a stormwater drainage system to prevent waterlogging during monsoon. BMC will also take up the revamp of the open space by creating a football ground, two basketball courts, a skating rink, kho-kho and kabbadi courts, a joggers track and a Nana-Nani park without touching the cricket pitches. On Monday, BMC chief Iqbal Chahal sanctioned a Rs 6.1 crore plan for revamp of the 98,243 sq m park. With the civic elections a year away, local corporator Vishakha Raut said the project will be completed within months. Raut, who pushed for the revamp of the park, said residents had been complaining about the dust pollution for a long time. “Sandeep Deshpande of the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena had installed sprinklers to settle the dust, but there is not enough water.” Raut said while dust pollution was the chief complaint, there were other issues too like uneven footpaths causing walkers and joggers to stumble, the need for more toilet blocks (there is only one at present) and more seating arrangements. “This is an attempt to find a solution to the dust pollution and also improve the park so that more area is utilised by citizens,” she said. Assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said there will be no shifting or reduction in the number of cricket pitches. Nor will any of the existing structures be touched. “The project will be implemented in two phases. In the first phase, we shall put in place the stormwater drain system, the rainwater harvesting system and the grass. In the second phase, the courts will come up,” he said. Nandan Mungekar, a local resident and consultant for the project, said the area from Mahim to Worli has water in the upper crust of the earth. “We shall trap all the rainwater that falls on the park and discharges into the 10 wells in the vicinity such that it recharges the groundwater. The water will be used to sprinkle on the grass and will be recycled,” he said. Lauding the proposed project, local resident Karishma Patkar said: “At present, a large part of the park is unused or misused. Introducing new game areas will attract more youngsters to the park away from their gadgets. The revamp will also help resolve the dust pollution to a large extent.” Raut said, “I have already written to the civic standing committee chairman for local area development funds for the park revamp and the commissioner has also sanctioned funds. This should help expedite the project.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/shivaji-park-to-get-rs-6cr-green-revamp-with-games-arenas/articleshow/80241689.cms||Clara Lewis
January 13, 2021||Meerut||Illegal arms factory busted in Bijnor||Bijnor: An illegal arms factory was busted in Bijnor on Tuesday. Police have recovered 18 illegal arms and four cartridges and other equipment used in making illegal arms from the factory, which was being run from a store in a forest area.Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said, "Police have launched a crackdown against criminals indulged in illegal arms trade as there is a rise in the trade following the upcoming panchayats polls. Police raided a dilapidated building owned by Arun Kumar at Saindwar village under Chandpur police station on Tuesday. Police arrested two persons, identified as Khem Singh and Arvind Kumar of Shekhpuri Chauhad village from the spot."A sum of Rs 10,000 was awarded to the police team for cracking the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/illegal-arms-factory-busted-in-bijnor/articleshow/80237706.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||BMC nod for board exams, Cambridge 1st from January 23||MUMBAI: BMC late Tuesday allowed city schools to conduct board examinations for classes X and XII. The Cambridge International board exams will be the first after the SSC and HSC re-examination in November last year where students will go to school to appear for a paper-pen test. BMC's education department issued the circular after a request from schools affiliated to the Cambridge International board which begins its board examinations on Jan 23. There are approximately 45 Cambridge affiliated schools in Mumbai. In a circular issued by education officer, Mahesh Palkar, the civic body has allowed schools to conduct any board examinations that may be scheduled even if schools are yet to reopen. While SSC, HSC, ICSE and ISC schedules are yet to be announced, CBSE examinations begin in May. While schools in the rest of the state have reopened from November 23 for the higher secondary, Mumbai and Thane districts have not allowed schools to do so. BMC has asked schools to remain shut till January 15. A senior education department official said discussions are also underway for schools to resume physical classes for standards IX to XII from January 18. A decision is expected today (Wednesday).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-nod-for-board-exams-cambridge-1st-from-jan-23/articleshow/80241109.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 13, 2021||Agra||Farmers in Aligarh lock stray cattle into government school||Agra: Several farmers in Aligarh’s Mohania village herded stray cows and bulls into a government school premises and staged protests on Tuesday after the cattle destroyed their crops. Shouting slogans against the state government, the farmers alleged that it doesn’t understand their plight.They said the state government should take some concrete steps to resolve this problem. “There is no arrangement for stray cattle here and they destroy our standing crops.”Bikambar Singh, who is also BJP’s mandal president, said, “I have urged the local MLA to resolve this issue but nothing has happened. We just got repeated assurances.”Another farmer, Harish Chandra, said that they have no choice except to lock the cattle into schools.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/farmers-in-aligarh-lock-stray-cattle-into-government-school/articleshow/80237662.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Jumbo Kanjur facility will take a fortnight to be ready for vials||MUMBAI: The mega storage facility that the BMC is setting up at Kanjurmarg to keep over 50 lakh Covid-19 vaccine vials will take another couple of weeks to be commissioned. Hence, the first batch of the vaccine vials, which are to reach the city early on Wednesday, will be stored at the BMC’s public health headquarters in Parel. “The walk-in coolers we have to store vaccines for our existing immunization programmes have enough space to store lakhs of Covid-19 vaccine vials,” said the municipal corporation’s executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said that at the moment, eight lakh vials can be stored in the city. The first phase of the vaccination drive will cover 1.25 lakh healthcare workers in Mumbai. Moreover, the ice-lined refrigerator specially provided at each of the eight BMC hospitals (chosen as Covid vaccination centres) can store up to 60,000 doses. “Depending on the vaccine rooms in each hospital, between 500 and 1,000 people can be vaccinated in a day. So, the storage of 60,000 will last for weeks at least,” said a civic doctor involved in the programme. The Kanjurmarg facility will be needed when the third and later phases of the mass vaccination drive begin for the general public. Although senior BMC officials had said that the facility would be ready within a week, the engineering work is far from completion. Civil and paneling work is underway at the first-floor facility, which will then need to be airconditioned to ensure vaccines can be stored at low temperatures. The five-storey building where the facility is being built is owned by the BMC. “The first floor rooms were used for the TB and mother-and-child programmes. It took a month to move these facilities to the higher floors,” said a local ward official. The work on the revamp began on January 2, he said. “It should be completed by the end of this month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jumbo-kanjur-facility-will-take-a-fortnight-to-be-ready-for-vials/articleshow/80241165.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||KMC responds to citizens’ pleas, goes back to pre-Cov park timings||Kolkata: Firhad Hakim, the chairman of the board of administrators at KMC, has instructed all parks and squares in the city to remain opened from 6am to 6pm and do away with the curtailed timings on account of Covid concerns. TOI had on Tuesday highlighted the citizens’ demand that parks be kept open for longer hours. Responding to citizens’ pleas that parks be kept open all day, Hakim asked the parks and squares department to amend the timings and make necessary arrangements at the earliest to keep the facilities open for at least 12 hours a day. “I have asked the KMC parks department to ensure that all city parks remain open from 6am to 6pm. The decision has been taken in the interest of citizens. I have received several requests on the extension of park timing and realize the demand is justified,” Hakim said While all parks were padlocked during lockdown, the department took time to reopen the parks even after the unlocking started. A valid reason behind the delay was the time required to clean up the parks that had been badly damaged in Amphan. But even after KMDA decided in November to keep Rabindra Sarobar and Subhas Sarobar open all day, KMC continued to drag its feet on the extension of time and kept the parks closed in the afternoon. But with Hakim now asking the department to do away with the closure from 9am to 3pm, officials said they were trying to put in place necessary manpower at the earliest to abide by the new timings. “We have been asked to make sure that all 850 parks across 144 wards remain open from 6am to 6pm. This timing was in vogue before the pandemic. There is an issue with security that needs to be resolved as many security guards had been deployed elsewhere during the pandemic. Also, some uprooted logs need to be cleared. We should be able to comply with the extended timings in two-three days,” a parks department official said. KMC’s decision drew cheers from a cross-section of citizens. Bonani Kakkar of PUBLIC, who has been pressing for longer hours, welcomed KMC’s decision and felt it would lead to improvement in citizens’ health. Educationist Damayanti Lahiri termed the development ‘wonderful’. “We can once again reconnect with the neighbourhood community,” she said. Advocate Shruti Agarwal felt the decision was long pending as it didn’t make sense to keep parks locked citing the pandemic. “The pandemic has made us realize the value of open public spaces like never before,” she pointed out. Ashoke Dutta, former director of IIM-Shillong, felt it would encourage people — who now walk on the road since parks are closed — to return to the safety of parks. Senior corporate executive Shankho Chowdhury hoped the timing is further extended till 9pm so that office-goers too can take a break from their sedentary life and get an opportunity to exercise and be healthy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-responds-to-citizens-pleas-goes-back-to-pre-cov-park-timings/articleshow/80238596.cms||Subhro Niyogi
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Work begins on 6km cycle track in Aurangabad city||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad Smart City Development Corporation Ltd (ASCDCL) has started the work on the most awaited 6-km cycle track from Kranti Chowk to railway station as part of the India Cycles4Change Challenge. On Monday, after track marking, poles were installed and the work of pavement creation was completed. ASCDCL deputy CEO Pushkal Shivam, assistant project managers Sneha Bakshi, Sneha Mohan, media analyst Arpita Sharad, Aditya Tiwari and ironman Nitin Ghorpade were present. The ASCDCL had been researching on the cycle track for the last three months and had roped in urban designer Akash Joshi for drawings and maps. Executive engineer at Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) Hemant Kolhe and assistant commissioner of police (traffic) Suresh Wankhede guided in cycle track work. In order to avoid road traffic and mishaps, separate entry and exit points have been marked for the cycle track. Earlier, meetings with stakeholders and cyclist associations were conducted to know their opinion and suggestions. Pushkal Shivam, deputy CEO of ASCDCL, said, “We have also started the pavement work of Kranti Chowk turning point under Cycles4Change Challenge to ensure a smooth ride for cyclists. The pavement work will also add to the aesthetic appeal of the city.” “More cycle tracks will be paved and similar beautification works will be carried out at several other locations in the city,” said Shivam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/work-begins-on-6km-cycle-track-in-aurangabad-city/articleshow/80237705.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Kochi||KCBC slams use of its logo on BJP poster||Idukki: Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) hit out at the use of its official logo on a poster issued by a BJP leader. According to Fr Jacob Palackappilly, deputy secretary of KCBC, BJP Kottayam district president Noble Mathew issued a poster using KCBC official logo that stated “Khalifa Bharanathilekulla Konippadikalakan Ini Njangalilla (We won’t be a ladder for Caliphate rule)”. The poster spread through social media. KCBC officials said that it will not allow its logo for political gains. The Church rejects the attempts of political parties to spread unnecessary communal propaganda. KCBC stands for the general growth, harmony and secularism of Kerala society, said Fr Palackappilly. “KCBC will not support communal attempts in the name of the Church. The Church believes that terrorism by any means is genocide. The Church sees no difference between Muslim terrorism or any other communal terrorism. KCBC won’t allow any moves to implement their political propaganda in the name of Catholic Church,” said Fr Palackappilly. It was discussed that UDF’s setback in the local body elections was due to the distancing of Catholic voters. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kcbc-slams-use-of-its-logo-on-bjp-poster/articleshow/80238636.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Tribunals to deal with land cases with one-mnth timeline||Hyderabad: The Telangana government on Tuesday issued orders to constitute tribunals under the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020. Under the new rules, each district would have a special tribunal, which would have district collector and additional collector-revenue as members. In case the post of additional collector-revenue is vacant, then additional collector-local bodies would be the member. In case that post is also vacant, the district revenue officer would be the member. All pending cases before the revenue authorities would be transferred to the tribunal. The government, however, did not sanction additional staff for the tribunal, but asked the collectors to make arrangements with existing staff. It also gave a directive that all pending cases be cleared within a month and the orders issued by the tribunals would be final. The case proceedings would be with the collectorate. The Act was brought in by the state government as an answer to lapses in the existing revenue system. The government has proposed to bring in amendments to the Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Act, 2020, which came into existence on October 29. Though the state government decided to regularise Sada Bainamas, the High Court had stayed them, asking how it would do it as per the old revenue law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tribunals-to-deal-with-land-cases-with-one-mnth-timeline/articleshow/80239864.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Alina urges govt to shift IIT project||Vasco: Cortalim MLA Alina Saldanha said that the people of Melauli are fighting to preserve their land for their future generations. She urged the government to shift the project, if possible, and give relief to the villagers. “We should remember we are not the last generation on this planet. We have future generations to come and we need to give this land to them. Land is very scarce, at least in Goa, and we need to be very careful,” said Saldanha. She also said the government should rethink the railway double-tracking project, which is also facing opposition.  We have future generations to come and we need to give this land to them. Land is very scarce, at least in Goa, and we need to be very careful||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/alina-urges-govt-to-shift-iit-project/articleshow/80241143.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Agra||National Youth Day: NSUI activists polish shoes in protest against unemployment||Agra: On the occasion of National Youth Day, National Student Union of India (NSUI) activists staged a protest against growing unemployment by polishing shoes of passers-by outside Khandari campus of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar University here on Tuesday. Displaying their mark sheets around their necks like a garland, the activists also raised slogans against BJP-led central and state governments for “not taking effective measures to generate employment”. The activists alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is “not serious about increasing employment. Earlier, he had made fun of jobless youngsters by suggesting them to sell pakodas.” NSUI state coordinator Ankush Gautam said, “The central government has failed to fulfil its promise of providing jobs to two crore people every year. Unemployment among educated youths is an all-time high. We are commemorating National Youth Day by polishing shoes outside the university campus to protest against the government's inefficiency.”Former president of Agra university students’ union Gaurav Sharma said, “Flawed policies of the BJP government have hit the economy badly, and people are losing their jobs. During the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, the Prime Minister had promised two crore jobs in five years. The promise has not been fulfilled. The government has betrayed youths. The PM hardly talks about the students and their issues.”NSUI leader Lalit Tyagi said, “We are polishing shoes to protest against the central government, which has hardly made any effort to generate jobs. Moreover, the number of vacancies in different departments decreased. Even those who completed their education with distinction are unable to find a suitable job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/national-youth-day-nsui-activists-polish-shoes-in-protest-against-unemployment/articleshow/80237682.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Youth Day celebrations go online on Swamiji’s birth anniversary||Kolkata: It was a different Youth Day this year as the pandemic has brought with it restrictions of getting together to celebrate. However, organizers tried their best to span the distance by virtually connecting and streaming prayers, Vedic chants, devotional songs and Swamiji’s writings. Though Belur Math decided not to celebrate Youth Day this year, other centres of the Ramakrishna Mission organised day-long programmes. Special prayers were held by the Church of North India and the Roman Catholic Church and many schools organized special events. On Tuesday, Belur Math kept its gates shut. Belur Math will celebrate the birth tithi of Swamiji on February 4. Though Swamiji’s ancestral house at Maniktala was closed for the public, Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar and several politicians visited the premises. A day long-programme was organised by this RKM centre that was live-streamed on social media, said head of the centre Swami Jnanalokananda. Similar programmes were live-streamed from Mayer Bari at Bagbazar and RKM Narendrapur. The heads of the Roman Catholic and CNI churches spoke about the relevance of Swamiji in today’s world. “He symbolises unity and transcended the narrow borders of divide, religious and otherwise,” said Archbishop Thomas D Souza. Vicar general Dominic Gomes read out prayers on You Tube. Bishop Paritosh Canning spoke about Swamiji’s concept of Advaita. DPS Ruby Park designed a special poster to celebrate the famous quote “Arise, Awake and Stop Not Till the Goal is Reached.” Some others like Asian International School held virtual assemblies. “At a time like, his words inspire,” principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar. The performances of Ankur Choir of the students of Heritage School were live-streamed on YouTube.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/youth-day-celebrations-go-online-on-swamijis-birth-anniversary/articleshow/80238622.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: ‘Operation A2’ launched to trap man-eating tiger||HYDERABAD: Telangana forest department has begun ‘Operation A2’ to tranquilise the suspected man-eating tiger near Papannapet of Bejjur forest area in the tiger corridor of Asifabad district. Forest department has set up a joint team of darting experts from Maharashtra rapid response team (RRT) and local foresters near a cattle kill to trap the tiger at Papannapet. A2 is the suspected man-eater tiger from Maharashtra that mauled two persons to death in Asifabad district. Kawal Tiger Reserve conservator of forests CP Vinod Kumar told TOI, “We have identified eight locations and set up machans and night watch. Cages were also made available so that after darting tiger can be shifted into them. We are not putting up any open bait. We have natural cattle kill at two places. In one of the places, we got the camera trap pics of A2. We have set up machans at Papannapet cattle kill where A2 was spotted.” “Maharashtra RRT experts have arrived. They are currently stationed at the machan to have a day and night watch. We have been studying the behaviour of A2 for the past five-and-a-half months. It will come for the cattle kill. After capturing the tiger, we will shift it to zoo as per the orders of chief wildlife warden,” said Vinod Kumar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/op-a2-launched-to-trap-man-eating-tiger/articleshow/80239902.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala drafting own farm law, says agriculture minister||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government is in the process of framing a law as an alternative to the farm laws amended by the Centre, agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar said in the assembly. Replying to the calling attention motion in this regard by MLA C K Saseendran, he said that the state is exploring all possible ways on how to provide relief to farmers from the black laws passed by the Centre. He said that the committee chaired by the agriculture production commissioner and co-chaired by the law secretary are drafting the law and the cabinet would consider it after which it would be placed in the assembly. He said that the Centre’s laws were framed only to help the corporate firms while the LDF government in the state had taken several steps since 2016, to help farmers. The farmers’ welfare board, minimum support price for 16 varieties of vegetables and farmers’ pension are a few among those, the minister said. He said that the farm laws are detrimental to the agriculture sector of the whole country and specifically to the state in many ways. Through the laws, the Centre has washed its hands off from ensuring that the farmers receive the minimum support price for their produce. Instead, the government has handed over the powers to the corporate firms to decide the prices in a similar way it did in the case of petroleum products, he said. He said that the genetically-modified seeds that have been banned in the state are also likely to come back as the agreement will be between the farmers and the corporates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-drafting-own-farm-law-agri-min/articleshow/80238667.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Meerut||UP trader puts woman’s 'obscene' photos on social media, shot dead by her kin||Meerut: A 25-year-old trader was shot dead allegedly for putting on social media “obscene” photos of a woman in Sardhana town of Uttar Pradesh. Two days after the killing, local police on Tuesday claimed to have cracked the case with the arrest of four persons after an encounter, which left two suspects injured.After the arrests, Meerut police said, “Deepak Prajapati was killed on Saturday night for uploading on social media some objectionable photos of a woman, a friend who lives close to his home.” The nature of their relationship was not disclosed by cops who said they were still investigating the case. Mohammad Shadaab, the woman’s cousin, allegedly hatched the conspiracy with his brother and two friends, police added.A huge protest had erupted on Saturday night when Prajapati was killed on a busy stretch by the four men riding two motorcycles. Following the encounter, Shadaab, his brother Mohammad Nadeem and two others, Sameer and Mayur, were held. The two brothers got one bullet each in their legs.Superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Kumar said, “During questioning, the youths said that Deepak Prajapati had uploaded some obscene pictures of Shadaab’s cousin on social media platforms. Shadaab, his brother Nadeem and their two friends hatched the conspiracy to kill him. A bullet hit Prajapati in his head and he died on the spot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-trader-puts-womans-obscene-photos-on-social-media-shot-dead-by-her-kin/articleshow/80237744.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Do not halt at one place for more than 10 minutes: CP||Aurangabad: With an aim to make night patrolling more effective, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta has issued a communication to the police personnel assigned patrolling duties to not halt at one place for more than 10 minutes. “The police personnel are expected to patrol all the streets in a given jurisdiction. However, it has been found, in some cases, the vehicles take halts for longer periods,” said Gupta. The internal communication states that an explanation will be sought from the night patrolling teams for taking a halt for a minute extra beyond 10 minutes at any given spot. “The police team will face disciplinary action if they fail to give a satisfactory explanation,” read the communication. There are 17 police stations in Aurangabad city and on an average, there are around 50 routes and spots in the jurisdiction of each station which have to be covered during night patrolling. As a matter of policy, all the police vehicles in the state are installed with GPS. Authorities have found the night patrolling teams have failed to bring a check on property offences, especially house break-ins, thefts and burglaries committed at night.Authorities have also taken cognizance of the fact that there have been thefts and burglaries despite night patrolling teams on duty. Senior police officers suspect there might be some cases in which night patrolling teams fail to do their duty for want of sleep.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/do-not-halt-at-one-place-for-more-than-10-minutes-cp/articleshow/80237739.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Plaint against man for causing deaths of wife, unborn child||Trichy: Two days after a 29-year-old woman lost her life while delivering a baby under the supervision of her husband in their home in Perambalur district, the social welfare department has lodged a complaint with Arumbavoor police against the latter for being lethargic. In the complaint, officials said that the lethargy of the victim’s family in availing emergency medical treatment as one of the reasons for the fatalities in which both the baby and mother died due to health complications. District social welfare officer A Thameemunisha (in charge) said that they conducted an inquiry with the neighbours. “It seems the deceased woman Alagammal had developed labour pain two days before her death. If she was taken to the hospital immediately, both the mother and baby could have been saved. We have lodged a complaint against the husband,” she said. The inquiry also found out the family has resisted the health officials from examining the woman during her pregnancy. Alagammal, a nursing graduate from Poolambadi village in Perambalur district died of complications while delivering a baby at home. Her husband Vijayavarman, an acupuncture practitioner was particular in delivering the baby at home. On January 9, Alagammal developed labour pain but only the head of the unborn came out but she developed serious health complication and was rushed to the Perambalur GH. The body of the unborn child was decomposed. Alagammal died due to multiple organ failure in Trichy GH where she was referred for intensive care.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/plaint-against-man-for-causing-deaths-of-wife-unborn-child/articleshow/80241133.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||Burglars decamp with Rs 4L valuables||Vadodara: Burglars targeted a bungalow in Padra on Monday and fled with cash and gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 4.2 lakh. The complainant, Krunal Shah, told the police that the thieves broke into the house when he, his wife and their son went to their native place in Anand for a family dinner on Sunday night. When they returned home on Monday, the house door was found to be open. On checking inside, Shah found empty jewellery boxes lying all around in the living room. The safe inside the bedroom was also found to be open and all valuables were lying scattered. “The thieves ransacked all three bedrooms in the house and took away gold necklaces, earrings, rings, silverware and cash,” said a police official. Interestingly, thieves seemed to be thirsty on a winter night as they also took away a bottle of water from the refrigerator with them. Police suspect that the burglars entered the house from the front door as the lock was broken and left from the kitchen door to avoid being caught. Shah told cops that the theft took place after midnight of January 10 as until then their neighbours were awake and they did not see suspicious activities in Shah’s house.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-decamp-with-rs-4l-valuables/articleshow/80237702.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||HC modifies punishment for physical edu teacher||Madurai: Observing that a physical education teacher should be a role model to the students, the Madras high court has modified the punishment awarded to a teacher from dismissal from service to compulsory retirement. The court was hearing the petition filed by S Andrew Chandra Kumar who was working as a physical education teacher in an aided school in Tuticorin district. In 2009, the authorities imposed a punishment on the petitioner by dismissing him from service after disciplinary inquiry on charges that he did not give proper training to the students and also forcibly entered the headmaster’s room and signed the attendance. The petitioner filed the present petition in 2010 challenging the punishment order. Justice M Dhandapani observed that the inquiry has been conducted in a fair and proper manner by placing both oral and documentary evidence and the inquiry officer has appreciated all the evidence placed before him before returning a finding of guilt on the petitioner. The judge observed that the petitioner, being a physical education teacher has to be a role model to the students, who are to follow his footsteps and he is the pivot around which the students revolve in learning good habits, gaining good character and conduct. However, the act of the petitioner abusing the HM is not only unbecoming of a teacher, and not an acceptable one. It undermines the stature of his position in the eyes of the students, before whom he is projected as their role model. “Teachers are the backbone of the next generation and unless the teacher inculcates good habits in the minds of the students, who look upon the teacher as their hero, the foundation for the country would greatly stand shaken,” observed the judge. The judge said that the misconduct committed by the petitioner, in the presence of the other members of staff, teachers and students on the HM cannot be brushed aside without inflicting punishment on the petitioner. The judge further observed that it is to be pointed out that it is not the case of the authorities that the petitioner is a chronic offender. Taking into account that the petitioner is at the fag end of his service and being aged about 50 years, the judge modified the punishment from dismissal from service to compulsory retirement with a cut of one-third pension for the period upto his normal age of retirement. Beyond the period of his normal age of retirement, the petitioner would be entitled to receive the regular pension due to him, said the judge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-modifies-punishment-for-physical-edu-teacher/articleshow/80239930.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Cops to maintain manja vigil on Sankranti||Nashik: Senior police officers in the city said they would be maintaining strict vigil during Makar Sankranti (Thursday, January 14) to check if banned nylon manjas were being used by kite flyers and warned that necessary action will be taken against the violators. The Bhadrakali police on Monday evening received a tip-off about banned nylon manja being sold clandestinely in the Dudh Bazaar area of the city. Subsequently, under the guidance of Sajan Sonawane, the senior PI of the Bhadrakali police station, a police team verified the information and raided a place in the Dudh Bazaar area. The team detained a 27-year-old resident of Tiwandha Lane and recovered banned manja worth Rs 53,000 from him. The police have booked him under relevant sections of the Environment Protection Act and the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Sonawane said this is the fourth manja sale-related raid conducted by them and, so far, they have recovered banned manja worth Rs 1.3 lakh. He said the raids are being conducted as per the instructions of police commissioner Deepak Pandey, DCP (Zone 1) Amol Tambe and DCP (crime) Sangramsinh Nishandaar. Sonawane said even on the day of Makar Sankranti, the police patrol teams would be checking if kite flyers are using nylon manjas. While police have been conducting raids to confiscate nylon manja from sellers, there is a likelihood that many kite flyers already have the banned manja from last year. Last month, a woman died after a manja slit her throat while she was riding a two-wheeler on the Dwarka flyover.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cops-to-maintain-manja-vigil-on-sankranti/articleshow/80237783.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 13, 2021||Meerut||Anti-TB drive: 101 test positive in phase 2,phase 3 begins today||Meerut: As many as 101 people tested positive for tuberculosis in phase two of the door-to-door anti-TB drive which ended on Tuesday. Starting Wednesday, nearly 550 doctors and 106 path labs will be approached for spreading awareness about the disease.The third phase of 2020-21 will start from Wednesday. As many as 15 teams of doctors and health officials, with two members each, will start visiting houses from January 13 to spread awareness about the disease among health workers. “Instructions have been given to spread awareness among health workers so that they notify about the tuberculosis cases. Failing which, they will face action,” Meerut district tuberculosis officer Dr MS Fauzdar said.In the second phase, eight lakh people were covered in the door-to-door drive wherein their sputum was collected and sent for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/anti-tb-drive-101-test-positive-in-phase-2phase-3-begins-today/articleshow/80237771.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 13, 2021||Agra||1 lakh to get Covid vax jab in first phase in Meerut div||Meerut/ Agra: The first phase of Covid-19 vaccine rollout in UP is set to start on January 16. In Meerut division, it will take 32 lakh syringes and 9,512 vaccine carriers to vaccinate 1.09 lakh beneficiaries. As many as 107 cold chain points have been identified and capacity to store over 18,000 litres of vaccine has been made available. According to the information, some 1.70 crore people have to be vaccinated in the entire Meerut division comprising Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Hapur districts. As many as 1,000 sessions of vaccination will be conducted in 19 days wherein 310 sites will be covered every day in all these six districts. Agra is also all set to receive the first consignment of vaccine expected to arrive over the next two days. For this, a storage facility has been developed at the CMO office. Four ice lined refrigerators capable of storing vaccine for 30 days have been installed. Around 25,000 doses can be stored in each one of them, health department authorities said. In the first phase, a total of 18,901 doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated in Agra district. A maximum 100 people will be vaccinated at each of the 16 designated centres in the district every day. The people who take the shot will be kept under observation for at least 30 minutes, said CMO, Dr RC Pandey. Earlier, the government had issued guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination and identified three categories of people who would be vaccinated in first, second and third phases. While in the first phase, health workers would be vaccinated, in the second phase frontline workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and civic body employees would be covered. In the third phase, people aged over 50 years and even those aged below but having issues like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure, will be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/1-lakh-to-get-covid-vax-jab-in-first-phase-in-meerut-div/articleshow/80237723.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 13, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Cops received 63 app loan fraud complaints: Kerala CM||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State police received 63 complaints of cheating through online mobile applications offering loans, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the assembly on Tuesday. Replying to the calling attention motion by MLA KS Sabarinadhan, industries minister E P Jayarajan – who replied on behalf of the chief minister – said that these complaints are being probed by the hi-tech crime inquiry cell and state crime branch. Of this, cases have been registered in nine complaints. He said that there are over 400 money lending mobile app. Once these applications can access the personal details of the downloader, they would provide loans for a short period of one week, after extracting 30% of such loans as processing fee. Once the customer defaults on repayment, they would then threaten them or defame them via messages. Not only loan apps, but citizens are being cheated also through online rummy games. The minister added that the recent suicide in rural Thiruvananthapuram is suspected to be of one such case, which is being probed now. He said that the state cyberdome will be monitoring such apps. In addition, social media cell, Janamaithri police and student cadet police are also conducting awareness programmes in this regard. He added that the government will also examine whether a new law is required to contain such frauds. Earlier, raising the matter through a calling attention motion, Sabarinadhan said that Kerala Money Lenders Act, 1958 is an old act and it should immediately be amended to incorporate and control the new era online frauds. The promoters of such applications that offer loans are violating existing laws and fooling citizens by offering loans without credit rating, seeking a collateral, checking the ability for repayment or even meeting the customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/cops-received-63-app-loan-fraud-plaints-cm/articleshow/80238720.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Man asked to deposit Rs 50k in sand mining case||Madurai: Granting bail to a man who was arrested in connection with an illegal sand mining case, the Madras high court has directed him to deposit Rs 50,000 as a non refundable deposit to the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) in Madurai district. The court was hearing the bail petition filed by Eswaran who was arrested by the Thiruvonam police in Thanjavur district on December 21. The case of the prosecution is that the petitioner, a truck driver was transporting five units of river sand illegally without valid permit. The petitioner’s counsel submitted that Eswaran is innocent and is falsely implicated in the case. The government advocate submitted that the petitioner was in possession of five units of river sand and the same was seized by the police. Taking into consideration the facts and circumstances, justice M Nirmal Kumar granted bail to the petitioner on certain conditions including that he should pay Rs 50,000 to the GRH and the proof of the same shall be produced to the dean. The judge directed the petitioner to report before the concerned police everyday at 10.30am for two weeks and thereafter as and when required for investigation. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/man-asked-to-deposit-rs-50k-in-sand-mining-case/articleshow/80239932.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: No mutated strain in samples of UK returnees||KOLKATA: All five UK returnees under observation at the Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General (ID&BG) Hospital, including a woman, have tested negative for the mutated UK and South African Covid strains, a senior health official said on Tuesday. Four of them, including the woman, have been allowed to return home and one — who has reported a drop in oxygen levels — has been shifted to the Covid ward and will be monitored. The patients who are being released after a negative genome sequencing report have been advised strict home quarantine for seven more days. The samples of the UK actor, now being kept in isolation, have also been sent for genome sequencing. Her reports are still awaited from the Kalyani-based National Institute of Biomedical Genomics (NIBG). TOI had reported that the 38-year-old UK-based professional, who had flown into Kolkata on December 20 to be with his family and tested positive for the UK-strain of Covid, was released from Medical College Hospital (MCH) after back-to-back RT-PCR tests showed he was Covid negative. Last Wednesday, one of the UK returnees who was admitted at ID&BG was discharged after the patient’s swab samples tested negative to the UK strain on genome sequencing. According to sources, the man from Kolkata had flown back to the city on December 22 from the UK. Just hours before the UK flight ban kicked in and new norms for checks on passengers from the UK were announced on December 20, a flight from London had landed in Kolkata carrying 226 passengers. Out of them, two were found Covid positive. The 38-year-old UK professional was one of them whose genome sequencing showed the mutated Covid strains. The Centre had prescribed various actions from the point of entry and in the community for all international passengers who have travelled from or transited through the UK from November 25 to December 23. Between November 25 and December 17, international flights flew 4,742 passengers into Kolkata. Sources at Kolkata airport said four direct flights had reached Kolkata since November 25, carrying 846 passengers. All passengers, as per the central SOP, had been kept under watch in home isolation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-mutated-strain-in-samples-of-uk-returnees/articleshow/80238656.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 13, 2021||Goa||Groups from 18 villages extend support to Melauli locals||Valpoi: On Tuesday, groups of residents from 18 villages across Sattari taluka turned up at Melauli to extend their support to Shel-Melauli villagers in their opposition to the IIT project. While locals from Mauxi, Dhamshe and Khotodem had already shown their support a day earlier, on Tuesday those who turned up to back Melauli villagers were also groups from the villages of Saleli, Velguem, Savordem, Karmali, Saleli, Tar, Kudshe, Kumthol, Caranzol, Honda, Shirsodem, Barazan, Khadki, Kumbharkhan and Poriem. Most of these Sattari locals walked for several kilometres from their respective villages and entered the forest of Melauli, from where the Shel-Melauli locals are currently carrying on their protest. The new groups to extend their support said they don’t want Melauli villagers to suffer due to the government decision. A villager from Kumbharkhan, Ganpat Gaonkar, said that Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane has been governing Sattari for the last several years as though it was his personal fiefdom and now has been involved in harassing the poor villagers of Melauli. A youth from Valpoi, Ashley Pinho, said locals from various parts of Sattari will extend a massive support to Melauli villagers and give Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane sleepless nights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/groups-from-18-villages-extend-support-to-melauli-locals/articleshow/80241183.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Bonsai stolen from ex-cop’s house||Hyderabad: The Jubilee Hills police booked an unidentified person on Tuesday for stealing a Bonsai tree from a former DGP’s residence in Jubilee Hills. The police registered the case after a complaint was lodged by the retired IPS officer’s wife. Police said that the Bonsai was likely to have been stolen on Sunday. The former DGP’s gardener noticed that the tree was missing and alerted the former IPS officer’s wife, who lodged a complaint at Jubilee Hills police station. Based on her complaint, a theft case was registered. Police also said that the CCTVs at the former IPS officer’s house were found to be defunct.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bonsai-stolen-from-ex-cops-house/articleshow/80239931.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Addl facilities made to help pilgrims to Palani temple||Dindigul: Arrangements have been made at various points en route to the Palani Dandayudhapani temple from Dindigul, to enable the padayatra pilgrims to register themselves for the special darshan in the temples from January 14 to 31. A review meeting on the arrangements for the Thaipoosam festival in the Palani temple was held on Tuesday. Dindigul district collector M Vijayalakshmi presided over the meeting and executive officer of the temple Kranthi Kumar Pati was present. Registrations for special darshan can be done in the Palani railway station, Palani Central bus stand, the information centre of the Devasthanam board, and also in the Kavadi mandapams in Oddanchatram, Thoppampatti and the Women’s College. There are 12 free dormitories and 48 free bathrooms and toilets available for their use. All basic amenities for the pilgrims would be provided by the Palani municipality.As many of the pilgrims undertake their padayatras during the nights, 60,000 reflector bands have been provided to them by the police department. Another 1.50 lakh would be provided during the festival. Three lakh identification bands for pilgrims who undergo thermal scanning before they enter the temple and three lakh cloth masks have also been kept ready, according to officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/addl-facilities-made-to-help-pilgrims-to-palani-temple/articleshow/80239935.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||KMC museum plan for SD, RD house||Kolkata: KMC will buy the house at South End Park where music legends Sachin Dev Burman and his son RD Burman used to stay. The building will then be converted into a museum that will throw more light about the lives and achievements of the maestros. The KMC board of administrators chairman Firhad Hakim divulged the plan on Tuesday at a ceremony to rename South End Park as Sangeet Sarani. Hakim said that the civic body was not interested in taking over the building where Burmans had spent some time in the late 40s. “We will buy the building and convert it into a museum. We want our budding music talents to know more about the Burmans,” Hakim said. According to sources in the KMC heritage committee, the civic body would be taking special care of the house that has earned a heritage status. “We will dedicate three plaques in the memory of SD Burman and RD Burman and their entire journey in the musical world will be displayed in the museum,” a KMC official said. TOI | JAN 12, 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-museum-plan-for-sd-rd-house/articleshow/80238671.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kochi||Will win Golden Globe Race: Abhilash Tomy||KOCHI: Commander Abhilash Tomy, who is all set to prepare for Golden Globe Race 2022 (GGR) after retiring from the Indian Navy on Sunday, said that he is confident of winning the race if he is able to finish the circumnavigation race. He was forced to stop midway during the previous race (2018) after he sustained a severe back injury during a storm that wrecked his yacht. He said that retirement from active naval service will give him some time to focus on the upcoming race. He added that finding a sponsor will be a huge challenge as the preparation and participation in GGR is expensive. “Last time, when the accident happened, I was placed third and had covered over 20,000km of the 60,000km race. The accident occurred on the 82nd day and if it hadn’t happened, I would have won the race. I could secure first place this time if I am able to finish the race without untoward incidents. Moreover I am confident of finishing the race in less than 250 days as I plan to use a more updated model (yacht) than the previous one,” said Tomy. “I want to give it another shot and am looking for a sponsor. Buying a second-hand yacht, which could cost anywhere between Rs 80 lakh and Rs 1.5 crore, its refit, gathering a support crew involves a huge cost,” he said. Tomy added that his retirement, after completing 20 years of service in the Navy, was always part of a plan. “Retirement was not a decision made overnight and it was always there in my mind. I have reached the limit of sailing adventures that could be taken while in service and if I continue it would deprive others of their chances. I applied for early retirement a year ago and the Navy approved it this year. As I am retried, I plan to take a three-month break to focus on health and fitness and then start training for GGR 2022,” he said. Tomy, one of the eminent sailors of India with over 24 years of sailing experience, is the only one to circumnavigate the world in yacht alone. It was his first try at GGR in 2018 and the accident happened off Amsterdam. He and his sailing vessel Thuriya remained stranded at sea following which he was rescued after a multi-nation effort.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/will-win-golden-globe-race-tomy/articleshow/80238750.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Meerut||1 lakh to get Covid vaccine jab in first phase in Meerut division||MEERUT/ AGRA: The first phase of Covid-19 vaccine rollout in UP is set to start on January 16. In Meerut division, it will take 32 lakh syringes and 9,512 vaccine carriers to vaccinate 1.09 lakh beneficiaries. As many as 107 cold chain points have been identified and capacity to store over 18,000 litres of vaccine has been made available. According to the information, some 1.70 crore people have to be vaccinated in the entire Meerut division comprising Meerut, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar and Hapur districts. As many as 1,000 sessions of vaccination will be conducted in 19 days wherein 310 sites will be covered every day in all these six districts. Agra is also all set to receive the first consignment of vaccine expected to arrive over the next two days. For this, a storage facility has been developed at the CMO office. Four ice lined refrigerators capable of storing vaccine for 30 days have been installed. Around 25,000 doses can be stored in each one of them, health department authorities said. In the first phase, a total of 18,901 doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated in Agra district. A maximum 100 people will be vaccinated at each of the 16 designated centres in the district every day. The people who take the shot will be kept under observation for at least 30 minutes, said CMO, Dr RC Pandey. Earlier, the government had issued guidelines for Covid-19 vaccination and identified three categories of people who would be vaccinated in first, second and third phases. While in the first phase, health workers would be vaccinated, in the second phase frontline workers such as police personnel, home guards, jail staff and civic body employees would be covered. In the third phase, people aged over 50 years and even those aged below but having issues like diabetes, cancer, and high blood pressure, will be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/1-lakh-to-get-covid-vax-jab-in-first-phase-in-meerut-div/articleshow/80237794.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Delay in appointing temporary staff would derail vaccination drive: State informs HC||Madurai: The state government has informed the Madras high court that the delay in employment of staff on a temporary basis to mini clinics will cause irreparable damage to the state to fight the pandemic and would derail the plan to implement a massive vaccination exercise.The court was hearing a public interest litigation filed by G V Vairam Santhosh, an advocate from Madurai district challenging the proceedings issued by the director of public health and preventive medicine to recruit 1,415 staff nurses and 585 multipurpose workers at the mini clinics through outsourcing by a private agency.In the counter-affidavit, director of public health and preventive medicine T S Selvavinayagam submitted that the doctors, nurses and staff are working at their regular place of posting as per the requirement. He submitted that the pandemic works have to be done without disturbing or compromising the regular health programmes such as maternal and child health care, treatment for communicable and noncommunicable diseases.These works could not be carried out if the regular staff are posted at the fever or mini clinics. The posts at the mini clinics are temporary due to which the staff nurses and multipurpose workers are appointed through the national health mission (NHM) under the district health societies, he said. He submitted that the 24-member high-level committee set up by the state government for recommending measures on post Covid-19 revival of the state economy that was headed by Dr C Rangarajan had recommended the augmentation of healthcare by setting up such clinics. He also submitted that it would be impossible to carryout the vaccination drive without these mini clinics in addition to other vaccination sites.He also submitted that the executive sub-committee of the NHM -Tamil Nadu had already permitted the director of public health and preventive medicine to fill up the posts of staff nurses with required qualification from government or government-approved private nursing colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/delay-in-appointing-temporary-staff-would-derail-vaccination-drive-state-informs-hc/articleshow/80239934.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||No bird flu in Telangana, high alert on borders: Ministers||HYDERABAD: Health minister Eatala Rajender and animal husbandry minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav on Tuesday said no cases of bird flu transmission to humans have been reported so far and appealed to the people not to panic as apprehensions about the avian flu was causing losses to the poultry industry, which is recovering after the pandemic. As many as 1,000 samples were tested in the last three days after chicken died in some districts, but the reports came negative. There were no traces of bird flu in Telangana and all steps were being taken to check unusual death of migratory birds and chicken. Forest and animal husbandry department officials have been put on high alert, the ministers said after a review meeting with the chief secretary and other officials on Tuesday. Stating that the apprehensions about bird flu among the people were causing heavy losses to the poultry industry, the ministers said there would be no ill-effects due to consumption of boiled eggs and chicken. “We are not importing chicken. Also, a high alert has been sounded and strict surveillance is being maintained to see the entry of birds (chicken) from neighbouring states at Telangana state borders. Due to fear of bird flu, traders of border areas have stopped bringing chicken from other states into Telangana,” animal husbandry director V Lakshma Reddy told TOI. Although Telangana is not home to too many migratory birds, the field officials of irrigation, forest and animal husbandry departments were keeping a close watch on areas where migratory birds visit. “Instructions have been issued to immediately isolate sick birds and send their serum for testing. In case of suspicious or unusual deaths, samples are being sent for testing,” Lakshma Reddy said, and added that even the poultry industry was taking all precautions. The state has set up 1,300 rapid response teams as part of the measures to tackle any outbreak of bird flu. Officials of animal husbandry, irrigation, forest and health departments were coordinating with district collectors of the border districts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-bird-flu-in-telangana-high-alert-on-borders-ministers/articleshow/80239954.cms||Roushan Ali
January 13, 2021||Madurai||In solidarity, farmer calls off Pongal event||Madurai: A farmer from Alanganallur in Madurai district, who celebrates Pongal festival traditionally in the presence of his relatives and friends, has called off the celebration this year in view of farmers’ struggle in Delhi. More than 100 relatives from various parts of Tamil Nadu including Chennai, Trichy, Coimbatore, Tuticorin, Virudhunagar and Pudukottai districts would visit the house of R Parthiban, 56, for the festival and celebrate it in the traditional style by decking up cows and conducting traditional games. For them, it is also a family reunion. Parthiban, who has taken two acres of land on lease to do farming, said, “I do not know fully about the laws and what it stands for hence I am neither for nor against them. However, I am deeply pained and disturbed by the struggles faced by the farmers. I could not tolerate it being a fellow farmer,” he said. All my relatives had booked tickets for the celebration, but he has asked them to cancel them. “Many of my relatives are in various fields including IT in Chennai and Bengaluru. They would yearn to visit Madurai to celebrate traditional Pongal. They themselves would wash cows and decorate them. They must be disappointed, however, they understood me and respected my decision,” Parthiban said. Parthiban urged the central government and the farmers’ association to negotiate peacefully and achieve a common ground.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-solidarity-farmer-calls-off-pongal-event/articleshow/80239944.cms||V Devanathan
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||2 posing as cops walk away with bike||Aurangabad: Two unidentified people posing as traffic policemen cheated a 30-year-old man of his two-wheeler, mobile phone and wallet on January 6. A case was registered at MIDC Waluj police station on Monday. Inspector Madhukar Sawant said Keshav Dhage, a resident of Krishnanagar in Ranjangaon Shenpunji, was returning home on his two-wheeler when he was stopped by two unidentified people at the AS Club signal. The suspects claimed Dhage had jumped the signal. One of them asked him to park the vehicle on one side of the road and removed the keys from his bike. Soon after, the suspect became aggressive and started asking for the vehicle documents. When Dhage was showing them the documents, the suspect allegedly snatched his cellphone and wallet. When Dhage resisted the attempt to take his belongings, the suspect started hitting him with a baton. They took over his bike and asked him to wait till they returned. After waiting for a couple of hours, Dhage returned home thinking that the police have seized his bike. It was after checking with the traffic branch as well as the local area police station for the last five days that Dhage realized he has been cheated.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-posing-as-cops-walk-away-with-bike/articleshow/80237805.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Madurai||81 fresh cases in southern districts, 70 in central region||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 81 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday taking the tally to 1,34,671, which include 829 active cases. The lone death in the region was recorded in Ramanathapuram district. Meanwhile, the central region recorded 70 new cases taking the tally to 74,869, which include 642 active cases. The region recorded no deaths as it maintained the toll at 936. Kanyakumari (21) recorded the highest number of fresh cases in the region, followed by Madurai (11). The other districts in the south recorded less than 10 cases each. Tenkasi (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Theni (4), Sivagangai (6), Ramanathapuram (6), Dindigul (7), Virudhunagar (7), Tuticorin (7) and Tirunelveli (9). In the central region, Thanjavur is on top with 23 new cases as it pushed the tally to 17,416. Trichy recorded 18 fresh positive cases taking the tally to 14,421. Karur reported nine new cases, while Nagapattinam and Pudukottai recorded six cases each. Tiruvarur recorded five positive cases and Ariyalur reported three cases, while Perambalur recorded zero positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/81-fresh-cases-in-southern-districts-70-in-central-region/articleshow/80239956.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80243134.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Aurangabad||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80243131.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Surat||Court orders investigation against accused’s treating doctor||Surat: A private doctor has come under fire from the district and sessions court which ordered the city crime branch to launch an inquiry against him for giving contradictory statements regarding treatment of Dinesh Vekariya, one of the accused in 2019 Takshashila Arcade fire and trying to protect him.As many as 22 young lives were snuffed out in the fire.The court ordered the assistant commissioner of police, Detection of Crime Branch (DCB), to conduct an investigation against Dr MS Kathrotiya and also find out if he had helped other accused in the past to get temporary bail by issuing medical certificates.Court also ordered the police to produce accused Vekariya to be taken to the New Civil Hospital or SMIMER Hospital for Covid-19 test.Vekariya (56) was enlarged on temporary bail on December 5, 2020 for 21 days on the ground of his mother’s demise. He had to surrender on December 26. However, he had informed the court through his advocate that he had fallen sick and tested positive for Covid-19 on December 21. His advocate told the court that Vekariya was isolated at home for treatment as per doctor’s advise and he will not be able to surrender on December 26. On December 23, the court extended his interim bail till January 11 and allowed Vekariya to produce the Covid-19 report from NCH or SMIMER by 5:30pm Tuesday.However, his advocate prayed for bail extension till January 25 claiming that Vekariya was unable to take Covid-19 test due to poor health. He produced Dr S Katharotiya’s certificate which mentioned that Vekariya needed 15 days' quarantine.Special public prosecutor PN Parmar argued that Dr M S Katharoitya had told the Surat crime branch that SMC was not informed about Vekariya’s Covid status because he did not have severe symptoms. “This shows that the accused does not have a serious illness and it’s doubtful whether he was actually infected with Covid-19,” argued Parmar.The court also found contradictions in the statements given by Dr Katharotiya regarding the treatment. The contradictionsDr. Kathrotiya had told the crime branch said Vekariya had come to him with a laboratory report on January 5 which showed he had Covid-19 symptoms and dengue fever. He gave him treatment till January 9 and discharged him, advising 10 days home quarantine. The doctor told the court that Vekariya had gone toVishruti Laboratory for a blood test directly with his reference and that he had neither taken his blood samples nor sent them to the laboratory. However, on January 11, Vekariya’s advocate produced Dr Kathrotiya’s certificate in which he had mentioned that Vekariya’s blood sample was taken at his hospital on January 5 and sent to the same laboratory. “As per the certificate, the doctor said that it was a Sunday on January 5 but actually it was Tuesday on January 5. This shows that the doctor is protecting the accused by giving false information,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/court-orders-investigation-against-accuseds-treating-doctor/articleshow/80237834.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80242359.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Goa||Want official documents scrapping IIT: Locals||VALPOI: Hours after health minister and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane released a video message telling Melauli locals that the IIT project stands scrapped in Sattari, the villagers said they refuse to believe Rane until an official document is handed to them in writing by the government. The locals said till the time such a document comes, their agitation will continue. Villagers said that Rane is playing with their emotions and said that his statements on withdrawing the IIT project from Sattari come only after villagers have intensified their protests. He is scared for his political career as residents of several villages from Sattari are now backing Melauli villagers in their opposition to the IIT project, said locals. “Rane has harassed the villagers a lot for the last nine months and now he is acting like a saint,” said Shubham Shivolkar, co-convener of Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan. Shivolkar said that Rane is misusing his power and has filed a complaint against a villager, Sidhu Gaonkar from Melauli, who belongs to ST community, stating that the villager has illegally encroached on property. Shivolkar said it was Rane himself who had requested the government officials to initiate action against Gaonkar. “Where was Rane when we were suffering? And now suddenly he is saying that we are his brothers and sisters,” said Shivolkar. Shivolkar said they want the government to withdraw all the FIRs filed against the protesters. The villagers demanded that the properties they are occupying should be transferred in the name of villagers. “Rane has attacked us, got us arrested with the help of government machinery, which will never be forgotten. We don’t believe Rane’s video, till the IIT is officially scrapped we will continue our protest. We demand an official document saying that the IIT is scrapped,” Shivolkar said. Villagers also demanded that government servants from Melauli who were transferred by Rane for participating in the protest should be reposted to their earlier workplace. Shivolkar produced the copy of a letter dated August 27, 2019, addressed to chief secretary of Goa by Rane, where the minister told the chief secretary to grant 13 lakh sq m of revenue land to the IIT, when only 9 lakh area was finalised for the project. “This is proof that Rane wanted to acquire all our properties and now he is changing his colours, we don’t trust this person,” Shivolkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/want-official-documents-scrapping-iit-locals/articleshow/80241186.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Thane||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80243133.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Pune||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80241187.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Kolhapur||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80243129.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Nashik||Of Maharashtra’s 9.6 lakh Covishield shots, 1.4 lakh take Pune-Mumbai V-way||MUMBAI/PUNE: Mumbai will receive its first consignment of the Covid-19 vaccine from Pune early on Wednesday, officials said. The BMC is expected to get around 1.4 lakh doses to immunise the 1.3 lakh registered healthcare workers in the city in the first round. Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive that will commence on January 16, according to a communication from the Central government to state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. The BMC dispatched a van around 3pm on Tuesday to collect its share of vaccine from the state’s central vaccine depot in Pune. Sources said the van was to start from Pune around 11.30pm and reach Mumbai by 3.30am on Wednesday. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the vaccine would be stocked in the BMC’s F South (Parel) ward office under police protection. Importantly, the vaccine wouldn’t be distributed to other centres till the morning of January 16 when the nationwide drive kicks off. Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and keyVaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/maha-gets-9-6l-covishield-doses-supply-to-hit-districts-by-tomorrow/articleshow/80243128.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Muchhad paan shop owner held for ‘possessing’ 500gm cannabis||Mumbai: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested Ramkumar Tiwari, owner of the famous Muchhad Paanwala shop, late on Monday, saying it had recovered 500 gram of an extract of cannabis, a psychotropic substance under the NDPS Act.Cannabinoids, a cannabis extract, can be mixed with tobacco and used in rolls to smoke, an NCB official said. NDPS Act’s Section 2 says any extract of cannabis can fall under this Act, he added.NCB officials had carried out a search of his warehouse at Kemps Corner on Monday and reportedly recovered pre-rolled joints. Cannabinoids, mostly found in the leaves and flowers of cannabis, affect the central nervous system. It is not clear in this case if the recovered substance was naturally obtained or synthetic though.Tiwari has been charged under NDPS Act’s sections 8C for producing, possessing, selling, purchasing and consuming any narcotic drug and 22B for a quantity seized that is less than a commercial quantity but greater than a small quantity. He was produced before the 8th Metropolitan Magistrate Court and sent to judicial custody. NCB did not seek his custody. NCB officials, though, said they are likely to oppose his bail application, which may come up before the special NDPS court on Wednesday. “If he is released on bail, he may hamper the investigation and threaten witnesses. So, we will strongly oppose his bail as our investigation is in progress to find out whom he sold the drugs to,” said an official.Tiwari’s name cropped up in the probe following the arrest of Karan Sajnani (40), a British national, on Saturday after officials said they found ready-to-use joints from his warehouse. NCB officials are also likely to question Tiwari’s other brother as the two used to run the shop for six months on rotation. The shop is popular among affluent sections of society and has several loyal customers, including some Bollywood actors.NCB had arrested Sajnani, as well as Rahila Furniturewala, former manager of an actor, and her sister Shaista Furniturewala on Saturday and booked them under Section 27A for allegedly financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, which attracts a punishment of 10 to 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment and up to Rs 2 lakh fine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/muchhad-paan-shop-owner-held-for-possessing-500gm-cannabis/articleshow/80239960.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Children of prison inmates celebrate Pongal with parents||Madurai: More than 80 children of prison inmates from Madurai and surrounding districts celebrated Pongal with their parents in the city on Tuesday. They took part in cultural events and were provided with dress materials, stationery items and make-up kits.DCP (law and order) R Shiva Prasad took part in the function and motivated the children to fight against all odds and achieve big in their life. He assured all possible support for the children and urged the organisers to conduct such events frequently. The event was organised by Madurai Round Table 14 and Madurai Ladies Circle 8 along with the support of ARC group of companies.Organisers said that children in the age group of 8-17 from neighbouring districts such as Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar took part along with their parents. A similar event was conducted for the children during Diwali in 2019.“Since the children are from economically weaker sections, they lack guidance and support. The children are motivated through such events so that they choose the right path,” an organiser saidA similar event was organised in Tirunelveli district also in which 136 children took part. The organisers traced the children through Global Network for Equality, an NGO working for such children. Dr Sathish Devadoss of Madurai Round Table and Subiksha of Madurai Ladies Club also took part.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/children-of-prison-inmates-celebrate-pongal-with-parents/articleshow/80239959.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||High alert along Thamirabarani river||Tirunelveli: High alert has been sounded on the banks of the Thamirabarani river as 29,000 cusecs of water has been discharged into the river from Papanasam and Manimuthar reservoirs. The discharge that was around 5,100 cusecs on Tuesday morning was increased to 29,000 cusecs in the evening as both the reservoirs with a capacity of 5,500 mcft and 5,511 mcft started overflowing. Water was released from all the seven gates at Manimuthar. After inspecting low-lying areas, district collector V Vishnu said that 21,000 cusecs is discharged from Manimuthar and 8,000 cusecs from Papanasam. He told reporters that as many as 87 low-lying areas have been identified on the banks of the river and 188 relief and rescue shelters have been kept ready to accommodate them. One shelter has been opened and eight families from Aladiyur were relocated there till Tuesday evening. The collector said that two National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams comprising 50 personnel allotted for the district are expected to reach by Tuesday night. “The river has a carrying capacity of 60,000 cusecs,” he said and added that teams are monitoring the vulnerable areas round-the-clock. “Bathing in the river and clicking selfies have been banned on the banks of Thamirabarani from Monday,” he said. Papanasam and Manimuthar recorded 85mm and 70mm rainfall from 8am to 4pm on Tuesday as heavy rains lashed several parts of the district. The district recorded an average rainfall of 38.18mm in eight hours as against 19.6mm in 24 hours till Tuesday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/high-alert-along-thamirabarani-river/articleshow/80239977.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||5,000 poultry birds culled in Latur district, Parbhani is next||PUNE: Maharashtra initiated its first culling exercise in 15 years on Tuesday as a zoonotic infection spreading in the avian population began causing hundreds of deaths across the state. Between 4,000 and 5,000 poultry birds were culled in Ahmedpur in Latur till 3pm after bird flu fatalities were reported in large numbers in the area. Estimates from the animal husbandry department indicated around 6,000 more birds are expected to be culled in the district, which is in Marathwada region, over the next couple of days. Culling in Parbhani, another epicentre of avian influenza, is expected to start on Wednesday, state animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh said on Tuesday. An estimated 5,500-8,000 birds are to be culled in Parbhani, and not 80,000 as reported in Tuesday’s edition. Of the 97 bird samples sent to the animal husbandry department from 13 districts, 18 samples have so far tested positive for the H5N1 strain, officials said. Suspicious bird deaths have been reported from various parts of the state including the MMR region around Mumbai, Konkan, Vidarbha and Marathwada. Teams are being deployed to keep a watch on poultry farms in all districts. Forest staff have also been alerted to surveil migratory flocks in wetlands and sanctuaries. Carcasses of pond herons have been found in some districts. In Thane, the body of a fully grown Eurasian vulture, also known as a Griffon vulture, was found. “As per protocol, all poultry birds within a 1km radius of the infected poultry farms will be culled — that’s approximately 10,000 birds in Latur district. However, only surveillance will continue in Mumbai, Ghodbunder (Thane), Dapoli and Beed,” Singh said. Latur collector Pruthviraj B P said ,“Till 3pm on Tuesday, around 4,000-5,000 birds were culled in Kendrewadi. There are approximately five places with poultry birds in this radius,” Pruthviraj said. He said birds closest to the infected cases would be culled first, followed by those farther away, but within the radius. “On Tuesday, we prioritized culling in farms that showed signs of infection,” he said. Anoop Kumar, principal secretary of the state animal husbandry ministry, said they were considering empowering district collectors to issue culling orders to speed up the process. “Also, the disease investigation laboratory in Pune will be upgraded to Biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) to test for virus strains in samples, like the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) In Bhopal. This is a Rs72-crore project which we will now push on priority to minimize delays in getting test results,” Kumar said. Animal husbandry officials said there was no problem in consuming poultry products provided they are boiled and cooked at temperatures above 70 degrees. The flu scare seems to have affected the restaurant industry as demand for non-vegetarian dishes seemed to have reduced. “The demand for poultry-based food has shrunk a bit. We have curtailed daily orders to avoid wastage,” said a restaurant owner from Thane, requesting anonymity. (With Manoj Badgeri in Thane)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/5000-poultry-birds-culled-in-latur-dist-parbhani-is-next/articleshow/80241218.cms||Neha Madaan
January 13, 2021||Goa||Vishwajit Rane must resign if project not scrapped: Goa Forward Party||SALIGAO: Demanding that the proposed IIT project at Shel-Melauli be scrapped, Goa Forward Party (GFP) held a silent candle march in Mapusa on Tuesday. GFP working president Kiran Kandolkar said that health minister Vishwajit Rane may have woken up late to the people’s ire against the government over the IIT project but he cannot stop at just writing a letter to the chief minister for scrapping the project. “He must resign from the cabinet if the CM fails to cancel the project in Melauli within a specified time,” he said GFP spokesperson Durgadas Kamat also urged Rane to resign from the cabinet if the project is not scrapped within 5-10 days. He said if Rane does so then in 2022 his party would not hesitate to support him for the top post in place of Sawant if the need arises. Former Goa Government Employees Association president John Nazareth said not taking the locals into confidence over the project was injustice to them. “The government should never forget that it is the representation of the public, and it should think about their betterment and not bring in projects which the public opposes to,” said Saligao MLA Jayesh Salgaonkar. “I urge the government to take a proper decision and think prudently and understand the sentiments of the people of Melauli,” said Siolim MLA Vinod Paliencar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-must-resign-if-project-not-scrapped-gfp/articleshow/80241211.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Madurai traffic cops fix roads to avoid accidents||Madurai: As roads in the city have either been damaged or inundated following rain, traffic cops have risen to the occasion to prevent accidents and reduce hardships face by motorists and pedestrians. Tallakulam traffic inspector Rajesh hired an earthmover to clear the sand accumulated on the roadside along Dindigul Road near Paravai as it was preventing water from draining. This posed threat to pedestrians as they often walked in the middle of the road to avoid getting drenched. There were a few minor accidents involving pedestrians. With the Thai Poosam festival around the corner, a large number of people are already using the road to reach Palani in Dindigul district. “It was a small work and took less than an hour. But it was crucial since pedestrians might get knocked down by speeding vehicles. There were a couple of accidents involving pedestrian prior to cleaning. After the sand was removed and water gets drained in less time,” he said. As the city has been receiving incessant rainfall in the last few days, puddles, potholes and water logging points on the city roads have been creating inconvenience to commuters. Some of the traffic police officials were proactive as they did not wait for the concerned departments to set things right. South Gate traffic police inspector V Suresh and his team hired an earthmover to set right the potholes on South Masi Street. The same team also filled the potholes on the Thirumalai Nayak Mahal Road last week. Inspector U Palthai with South Traffic got a tractor load of debris to fill the potholes on Thiruparankundram road last week. Last week, a youth on a bike was knocked down by a truck on the stretch as he applied a sudden brake to avoid hitting a pothole. Traffic police officials from the Teppakulam station removed a boulder using an earthmover on the roadside near Vandiyur Mariamman Teppakulam on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-traffic-cops-fix-roads-to-avoid-accidents/articleshow/80239990.cms||V Devanathan
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Govt to fix tatkal fare at cinemas soon for big releases: Min||Tuticorin: The state government would soon announce tatkal fares to be collected at cinemas across the state for release of big budget films and those released during the festival times, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju told reporters at Kovilpatti on Tuesday.The minister was responding to a question pertaining to cinemas and distributors collecting exorbitant fares for such films that are manifold more than the fares fixed by the government. On the tatkal scheme, he said that it would be at par with the tatkal (excess fares based on demand) collected for trains and buses.“The government is considering to increase fares on such occasions. Three rounds of talks have been carried out by the high-level committee formed on the advice of the CM with the representatives of theatre owners’ association and producers association. We have asked the representatives of the two associations on fixing the tatkal fares,” he said.The committee comprises Raju, revenue minister and the chief secretary. To a question pertaining to allegations that distributors of a film in a northern district were trying to collect exorbitant fares to the tune of Rs 1,000 for the first day first show of a film (Master starring Vijay) to be released on Wednesday, the minister warned of action if they come across such incidents.“The government has only permitted extra screening of films and not to collect extra from the audience on tickets and fleece them,” he warned.Raju also said that the chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will soon announce a good decision pertaining to the relaxations in entertainment tax. This, he said in response to the waiver of entertainment tax by the Kerala government for three months till March, which was announced on Monday.“Request has been made on behalf of the theatre owners with regard to entertainment tax. It has been taken to the notice of the CM,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/govt-to-fix-tatkal-fare-at-cinemas-soon-for-big-releases-min/articleshow/80239989.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Woman held under Goondas for killing hubby||Theni: A 29-year-old woman from Theni district, who murdered her husband with the help of her paramour and another person in November 2020, was detained under the Goondas Act on Tuesday. The other two were already detained under the same Act. The accused was identified as K Kalaiarasi from Melapatti near Kadamalaikundu. Kalaiarasi was in an extramarital relationship with P Sethupathi. Her husband K Muthukalai learnt about the affair and picked up a quarrel with her. Kalaiarasi decided to eliminate him and hatched a plan along with Sethupati. The two paid Rs 1 lakh to one Ganesan and took his help. On November 2, 2020 Kalaiarasi took her husband to a farmland. Ganesan and Sethupathi, who were hiding there murdered Muthukalai using an iron rod. They then dumped the body in a well. Initially, a man missing case but later altered as a murder case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/woman-held-under-goondas-for-killing-hubby/articleshow/80239992.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Meerut||35-year-old man stabbed to death in Bijnor||BIJNOR: A 35-year-old man was found dead with stab injuries in Bijnor on Tuesday morning. The victim’s family suspects one of the victim’s friends behind the murder. A probe was ordered, said police. The victim, Dinesh Kumar of Yushufa village under Shivalakala police station area, was a milkman, said police. Dinesh was on his way to Ismaelpur village on a bike when two people attacked him, said police, adding that family members rushed Dinesh to a hospital, but he died midway. Bijnor superintendent of police Dharamveer Singh said a case was registered against the accused — Vipin and Jitendra Kumar of the same village — under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the victim’s family. According to the family, Dinesh had an old enmity with the accused, added the SP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/35-year-old-man-stabbed-to-death-in-bijnor/articleshow/80237841.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Schools seek clarity on timings for Classes X, XII||Madurai: Teachers, students and parents from across various schools in Madurai district on Tuesday welcomed the move to reopen for Class X and XII starting January 19. However, they sought more clarity on the timings of classes and safety procedures to be followed. Madurai district chief educational officer (CEO) R Swaminathan has called for a meeting with all headmasters on Wednesday, regarding reopening of schools. “It is definitely a welcome move as it enables students, especially from government schools to finally be able to focus on studies properly before the board exams begin,” said the headmaster of a government high school. The schools are also expecting good attendance from students as parents as more than 95% of schools in the district have given consent for reopening. “There is a lot that teachers were not able to address properly in online classes so definitely we are glad schools are reopening, especially with board exams in a few months,” said S Keerthana, a Class XII student. Private schools are also ready to reopen for Class X and XII despite some concerns over Covid-19 safety. “It is going to be a challenge to implement Covid-19 safety measures but reopening cannot be delayed further. We still don’t know the timings of the classes, whether it would be for the whole day or half a day. There should be flexibility given to schools. The recent rains are also a bit worrying,” said M Senthilnathan, president of Private Schools Correspondents’ Confederation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-seek-clarity-on-timings-for-classes-x-xii/articleshow/80239998.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||To avoid dose mix, only 55% health workers in Maharashtra to get jab initially||PUNE: Only 55%-60% of the healthcare workers who have registered for inoculation would be administered the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra in the initial phase of the vaccination drive to avoid delay and mixing of doses from different manufacturers. The state health directorate took the decision on Tuesday after Maharashtra received a total of 9.63 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by SII, ahead of the mass vaccination drive of healthcare workers from January 16. The strategy will ensure those receiving the first dose gets the second dose of the same vaccine four weeks apart. The state has also been allocated 20,000 doses of Covaxin developed and manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “We need 17 lakh doses of Covid vaccine if we have to cover the entire 8 lakh healthcare workers registered for the vaccination,” Archana Patil, director of state health services, told TOI on Tuesday. This includes wastage as well. We cannot mix the doses by using different vaccines for the same person. That’s why we have decided to vaccinate only 55% of the registered workforce now,” she said. The state can decide on covering the entire workforce if the full requirement is met.“We can decide to vaccinate the entire registered workforce if we get the remaining 7.4 lakh doses,” Patil said. The decision has led to the reduction in the number of vaccination centres the state had earlier planned. “Initially, we had planned 511 vaccination centres across the state as per the volume of registration in a particular district. Now we have reduced the number of centres to 358, adequate to vaccinate 55% of the registered workforce initially,” Patil said. Of the nearly 8 lakh healthcare workers have registered for the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra so far, the majority—4.1 lakh—are from the public sector and the rest from the state’s private healthcare sector. An estimated 12 lakh healthcare workers have been deployed at public as well as private healthcare units in Maharashtra. They include not only doctors and paramedics but also non-medical staff involved in cleaning, security and administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/to-avoid-dose-mix-only-55-health-workers-in-maha-to-get-jab-initially/articleshow/80241212.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 13, 2021||Surat||GUVNL employees threaten strike from Jan 16||Surat: Employees of the Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) have threatened to go on strike for the long pending 7th Pay Commission issues starting from January 16.The Gujarat energy joint coordination committee members demanded that the employees should be paid with 0.80 metrics of the revised basic with the effect from January 1, 2016 with increase in limit of Housing loan, HRA and bonus.Dipak Chaudhari, zonal secretery, GEB Engineers Association said, “We have given the ultimatum to the state government to accept our demands till January 15, or else we will go on strike from January 16. All the electricity employees in the state will work wearing black ribbons from January 17 to 20. On January 21, the employees will go on mass casual leave.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/guvnl-employees-threaten-strike-from-jan-16/articleshow/80237846.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Madurai||Rain, Covid dampens sugarcane, turmeric sales ahead of Pongal||Madurai: With Madurai district witnessing continuous rain for the past few days, sugarcane and turmeric sales are yet to pick up ahead of Pongal festival. Vendors said that with the pandemic also affecting many families financially, many shoppers are reluctant to buy. “Last year, we had a good business. But, this year, unusual rain and the Covid-19 pandemic have hit us hard. We are forced to sell for nearly equal to or less than the cost price. Customers are also not as ready to spend on sugarcane much,” said K Murugesan, a sugarcane farmer and retailer. He added that there is still a lot of sugarcane stock remaining unsold for many farmers and that arranging for transportation during these times has also been a setback. A bunch of sugarcane is being sold for around Rs 300-400 this year whereas last year, the prices were around Rs 450 or had even gone up to Rs 600 by this time. “The number of customers is also much less this year as many don’t want to step out due to pandemic and rain has also not helped,” said S Subramani, another sugarcane retailer. Turmeric, koorai poo and panai kilangu as well, which usually sells like hot cakes ahead of Pongal, have not seen much sales. “Not many buyers are ready to buy our stock as it got drenched in the rain. Customers are bargaining for prices much less than the cost price. But, what can we do? We sell anyway,” said N Bhuvaneswari, who sells panai kilangu. Another turmeric vendor, A Ravindran said that they are only making losses as they are forced to sell for low prices. Shoppers were, meanwhile, looking to bargain for low prices as much as possible. “This year is tough for all and we can spend only a little. While usually, we have gatherings or relatives coming over, this year, we are having only a small celebration and only fewer people to enjoy sugarcane,” said K Kanagalakshmi, a customer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-covid-dampens-sugarcane-turmeric-sales-ahead-of-pongal/articleshow/80239997.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 13, 2021||Goa||Rane, Sawant not on same page: AAP||Panaji: The Rane family gave in after fearing their electorate would turn against them, Aam Aadmi Party said on Tuesday.  “After seeing the power and strength of the common people of Sattari, the Ranes have started to fear for their thrones. The father-son duo, wherein the father is from Congress and son a BJP minister, has taken the electorate for a ride. But the people of Sattari have made up their mind, they won’t rest until these leaders are booted out,” said AAP. The party hailed the unity and comradeship displayed by the villagers of Sattari in support of Melauli villagers and said this forced Vishwajit Rane to his knees. The BJP government is divided, convener Rahul Mhambre said, adding that Vishwajit and the chief minister were not on the same page. “They are speaking different languages which shows that the BJP government is divided and needs to get their act refined,” he said.  AAP also questioned the Congress role in the whole matter and pointed out that Pratapsingh Rane who is considered like a father in the area is totally silent on the matter despite having represented those people in the past.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rane-sawant-not-on-same-page-aap/articleshow/80241222.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Surat||Rein on Uttarayan spirit keeps kite markets subdued this year||Surat: Uttarayan festival to fly low this Covid-laced year, sagging spirits across the state. With Covid guidelines crushing enthusiasm among revellers and cutting kite strings short in rooftops, housing societies too have towed the government line in adhering to rules to contain spread of the contagion.“Covid-19 has snatched away the charm of the festival,” rued Ashish Maisuriya, a jeweller in Adajan. And he isn’t alone. This is an unequivocal sentiment soaring across rooftops.Traditional kite markets everywhere — be it Bhagal and Rander in Surat, or Mandvi-Gendigate road in Vadodara or Sadar Bazar in Rajkot — have failed to take off even on the eve of the festival. Compared to previous years, kite and manja business in Surat city has plummeted by almost 45%.Imtiyas Patangwala, a kite maker in Rander said, “We are the fifth generation of kite makers in Rander. This is first time that our business is bleeding, literally. There are no buyers. I have hardly sold Rs 50,000 worth of kites in the last fortnight. Last year during this time, I had done business to the tune of Rs 3 lakh”City police commissioner Ajay Kumar Tomar issued a public notification on Tuesday announcing prohibitory orders related to Uttarayan celebrations including assemblage of four or more persons in public places from January 14 to 28.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/rein-on-uttarayan-spirit-keeps-kite-markets-subdued-this-year/articleshow/80237864.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||To avoid dose mix, only 55% health workers in Maha to get jab initially||Pune: Only 55%-60% of the healthcare workers who have registered for inoculation would be administered the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra in the initial phase of the vaccination drive to avoid delay and mixing of doses from different manufacturers. The state health directorate took the decision on Tuesday after Maharashtra received a total of 9.63 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by SII, ahead of the mass vaccination drive of healthcare workers from January 16. The strategy will ensure those receiving the first dose gets the second dose of the same vaccine four weeks apart. The state has also been allocated 20,000 doses of Covaxin developed and manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “We need 17 lakh doses of Covid vaccine if we have to cover the entire 8 lakh healthcare workers registered for the vaccination,” Archana Patil, director of state health services, told TOI on Tuesday. This includes wastage as well. We cannot mix the doses by using different vaccines for the same person. That’s why we have decided to vaccinate only 55% of the registered workforce now,” she said. The state can decide on covering the entire workforce if the full requirement is met.“We can decide to vaccinate the entire registered workforce if we get the remaining 7.4 lakh doses,” Patil said. The decision has led to the reduction in the number of vaccination centres the state had earlier planned. “Initially, we had planned 511 vaccination centres across the state as per the volume of registration in a particular district. Now we have reduced the number of centres to 358, adequate to vaccinate 55% of the registered workforce initially,” Patil said. Of the nearly 8 lakh healthcare workers have registered for the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra so far, the majority—4.1 lakh—are from the public sector and the rest from the state’s private healthcare sector. An estimated 12 lakh healthcare workers have been deployed at public as well as private healthcare units in Maharashtra. They include not only doctors and paramedics but also non-medical staff involved in cleaning, security and administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/to-avoid-dose-mix-only-55-health-workers-in-maha-to-get-jab-initially/articleshow/80241219.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 13, 2021||Pune||First vaccine consignment rolls out of SII before dawn||Pune: The first vaccine consignment of the country, comprising 2.6 lakh Covishield doses loaded in three trucks, arrived at Pune airport’s cargo handling and processing facility at 5.30am on Tuesday and was shipped out at 8.05 am on SpiceXpress flight SG8937.Among the states that received the vaccine on Tuesday, Bengal topped the list with 10 lakh doses, followed by Karnataka (6.7 lakh doses), Bihar (5.5 lakh doses) and Tamil Nadu (5.4 lakh doses). As many as 9.6 lakh doses of Covishield will be shipped out from Pune to other parts of Maharashtra on Wednesday.Cities like Patna, Guwahati, Vijaywada, Lucknow, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Bhubaneswar and Chandigarh received their sanctioned Covid-19 vaccine doses on Tuesday afternoon, following Covishield dispatch from Serum Institute of India in the morning.States like UP, Bihar, Bengal, Odisha, Punjab, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, J&K, Assam, Meghalaya and Delhi received a part of their quota by Tuesday evening, while Maharashtra, Haryana, Kerala, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand, Himachal, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, among others, will get their shipments in the next 24 to 48 hours.Currently, SII is manufacturing 7 crore to 8 crore vaccine doses per month. Private players have been roped in for providing refrigerated trucks, vans and cold storage. Sources at Pune airport said 456 boxes containing the vaccine vials and weighing 15,000kg were transported to different states in nine aircraft of different airlines. Currently, SII manufactures 70-80 million vaccine doses per month, for which private players have been roped in for providing refrigerated trucks, vans and cold storage.Authorities of Kool-Ex, the cold chain service provider overseeing the countrywide transportation of the vaccine, said on-road movement of trucks to several locations began on Tuesday afternoon. “Eight more trucks were being loaded for long haul rides by road to different cities, but we are not certain about their destinations. The Union government and SII are discussing about the quantity and the destinations. Having said that, all these trucks will leave for their destinations by Tuesday evening,” Kunal Agarwal, the co-founder of the Kool –Ex Cold Chain Ltd, told TOI.According to sources, three trucks left for Mumbai by road, one to Belgaum and one truck has left for Pune’s Naidu hospital and another was expected to leave for Pune airport early morning.While the confirmation was awaited, sources said the consignments were for cities like Mumbai, Vadodara and Jhansi, among others. Airline sources said transportation of the vaccines by air would continue. “This is just the beginning,” an airline official said. Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said the transporatation of the vaccine would happen in the days to come, but exact schedule was still awaited. Airline bosses called the start of the vaccine transportation a historic step. “We at GoAir are overwhelmed with the kind of responsibility bestowed upon us to transport the life-saving Covid 19 vaccines. We are grateful that we have got an opportunity to contribute to the vaccine movement,” Kaushik Khona, the chief executive officer of GoAir, said. IndiGo, in its official statement, said they transported 900kg vaccine load from Pune to Chandigarh and Lucknow. “Starting from January 13, the vaccine will be transported from Mumbai to other cities basis the allocation,” an IndiGo spokesperson said. SpiceJet said it transported multiple vaccine consignments from Pune to different cities. Ajay Singh, the chairman and managing director, SpiceJet, said, “On day one, SpiceJet is shipping 4 million doses of Covishield weighing close to 11 tonne to eight different cities.”(With inputs from Sushmi Dey in Delhi and Swati Bhardwaj in Hyderabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-vaccine-consignment-rolls-out-of-sii-before-dawn/articleshow/80241224.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 13, 2021||Surat||Bird flu won’t end ‘karuna’ for avians||Surat: The Surat forest department in coordination with animal husbandry and non-government organisations will launch ‘Karuna Abhiyan’ — a bird rescue and treatment campaign — during and after Uttarayan festival in and around Surat city. Officials said 10 NGOs, forest staff and veterinary doctors from animal husbandry department will take part in the campaign. “We have discussed standard operating orocedure (SPOs) regarding bird flu during rescue and treatment operations of injured birds in Uttarayan particularly keeping in view Covid-19 pandemic. Over 2,000 volunteers will join this massive operation,” Puneet Nayyar, deputy conservator of forests, Surat division, told TOI. Volunteers engaged in the campaign will have to wear disposable gloves, PPE kits, protective goggles and face shields. Presence of veterinary officers is required during the treatment of injured birds. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/bird-flu-wont-end-karuna-for-avians/articleshow/80237890.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccine stocks to be stored in city under tight lock and key||Mumbai/Pune: Vaccines stocked in the F South ward office wouldn’t be distributed to other centres in the city till the morning of January 16, when the nationwide drive begins. “We will mobilise the vaccine stocks to the respective vaccination centres only on Saturday morning. All the centres are close by, and the vaccine can be transported there in no time,” Kakani said, hinting that this was for security reasons and better management. Initially, the vaccine will be administered in eight centres in the city, including KEM, Sion, Cooper, BYL Nair, Bandra Bhabha, Rajawadi, VN Desai and Babasaheb Ambedkar (Kandivli) hospitals. Gradually, the number of vaccination centres will be increased to 75, including jumbo centres, maternity homes and dispensaries, among others. While the state received Covishield through the day, the process of allocating the doses to various districts was going on till late on Tuesday. A senior state official said districts would be allocated doses equal to their registered beneficiaries, plus 10% buffer doses to cover wastage. There was not much clarity on arrival of Bharat Biotech doses. Dr D Patil, state immunisation officer, said the vaccine would reach most parts of the state by Wednesday, while some far-off centres could receive it by Thursday. From Pune’s central depot, the vaccine would be distributed to nine divisional storage facilities in Mumbai, Thane, Pune (not the Central facility), Nashik, Kolhapur, Aurangabad, Latur, Akola and Nagpur. From there, it will be distributed to 34 cold storage facilities at district level and 27 corporations. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. At vaccination centres in Mumbai, security will be tightened in places where the vaccine is stored. At RN Cooper in Juhu, which is a model vaccination centre, the stock would be kept away from the main vaccination area, said dean Dr Pinakin Gujjar. “We have allocated a separate room for it, where security personnel would be posted,” he said. Dr Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital said they have assigned special security to guard the refrigerator that will stock up to 60,000 doses. “The room will be locked, and there will be CCTV surveillance,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vaccine-stocks-to-be-stored-in-city-under-tight-lock-and-key/articleshow/80241291.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 13, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: 50,000 health workers to be vaccinated on first day||PUNE: State health minister Rajesh Tope said 50,000 healthcare workers in Maharashtra will be vaccinated on January 16 — Day One of the Covid inoculation drive. He urged health workers to turn up for the shots. “There is no need to be afraid. The vaccines are safe,” he said on Tuesday. The state has received an allocation of both Covishield (made by Serum Institute) and Covaxin (made by Bharat Biotech) shots — 9.83 lakh doses in total. The state expects 16 lakh doses in the months to come. Tope added that all sites will have monitors keeping an eye out for adverse events. Authorities at each vaccination centre have also been instructed to maintain a register to record adverse reactions among beneficiaries. The register will be regularly reviewed by a nodal officer. The data will then be fed into the nationwide Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI) surveillance network. Officials said the Centre is set to bear the cost of vaccinations during the first two phases, meant for healthcare workers and frontline personnel, including the police force. The two vaccination phases are expected to take at least five months to finish. The third phase will include people above 50 with underlying medical conditions, Tope said. A senior state health official said that by then, the Centre expects more vaccines to enter the market. Authorities said they may also increase the number of vaccination centres if demand rises later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/50000-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-on-first-day/articleshow/80241234.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Poultry farms reduce production of broiler birds by almost 50%||Nashik: Roughly 50,000 poultry farms in Maharashtra, including 20,000 in Nashik district, have reduced production of broiler birds by around 50% due to the fall in poultry consumption sparked by the avian influenza scare. “They will continue with50% production for the next few days — until the present stock of chicken is cleared. Farms will increase or decrease production only after assessing the scenario after a week,” said Udhhav Aher, secretary of Poultry Farmers and Breeders’ Welfare Association, Maharashtra Aher. He said wholesale prices of chicken had recovered to Rs 60 per kg after falling from Rs 90 to Rs 55. There are around 50,000 poultry farm units in the state that collectively produce nearly 4 crore broiler birds each month.Nearly 45% of the produce is consumed in Mumbai, 20% in Gujarat, 10% each in MP and Karnataka. Rest is consumed in rest of Maharashtra. — Tushar Pawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/poultry-farms-reduce-production-of-broiler-birds-by-almost-50/articleshow/80241232.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 13, 2021||Pune||To avoid dose mix, only 55% health workers in Maharashtra to get jab initially||PUNE: Only 55%-60% of the healthcare workers who have registered for inoculation would be administered the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra in the initial phase of the vaccination drive to avoid delay and mixing of doses from different manufacturers. The state health directorate took the decision on Tuesday after Maharashtra received a total of 9.63 lakh doses of the Covishield vaccine, manufactured by SII, ahead of the mass vaccination drive of healthcare workers from January 16. The strategy will ensure those receiving the first dose gets the second dose of the same vaccine four weeks apart. The state has also been allocated 20,000 doses of Covaxin developed and manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. “We need 17 lakh doses of Covid vaccine if we have to cover the entire 8 lakh healthcare workers registered for the vaccination,” Archana Patil, director of state health services, told TOI on Tuesday. Initial jabs for only 55% of medical staffersThis includes wastage as well. We cannot mix the doses by using different vaccines for the same person. That’s why we have decided to vaccinate only 55% of the registered workforce now,” she said. The state can decide on covering the entire workforce if the full requirement is met-.“We can decide to vaccinate the entire registered workforce if we get the remaining 7.4 lakh doses,” Patil said. The decision has led to the reduction in the number of vaccination centres the state had earlier planned. “Initially, we had planned 511 vaccination centres across the state as per the volume of registration in a particular district. Now we have reduced the number of centres to 358, adequate to vaccinate 55% of the registered workforce initially,” Patil said. Of the nearly 8 lakh healthcare workers have registered for the Covid vaccine in Maharashtra so far, the majority—4.1 lakh—are from the public sector and the rest from the state’s private healthcare sector. An estimated 12 lakh healthcare workers have been deployed at public as well as private healthcare units in Maharashtra. They include not only doctors and paramedics but also non-medical staff involved in cleaning, security and administration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/to-avoid-mixing-of-doses-maha-to-vaccinate-only-up-to-60-healthcare-workers/articleshow/80241235.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 13, 2021||Pune||PMC to enlist four insurance companies for consultancy||Pune: The civic body will empanel four insurance companies for providing consultancy services with regards to treatment and cover under various schemes during Covid-19. The companies will offer consultancy about proposals under urban poor health scheme and other schemes, such as special insurance for Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) staffers and existing and former corporators. The standing committee of the civic body has given green signal to this proposal.“If insurance companies are empanelled, getting technical advice will be possible on inclusive insurance cover for beneficiaries under these schemes,” municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said. The PMC spends around Rs30 crore every year on health schemes and funds are diverted from various projects to meet the increasing demand so that more and more urban poor can benefit. Citizens with annual income of up to Rs 1 lakh per annum were eligible for the health scheme, but the ceiling was later raised to Rs2 lakh.The urban poor card given to beneficiaries is valid for one financial year and needs to be renewed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-to-enlist-four-insurance-companies-for-consultancy/articleshow/80241237.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||RTI awardee seeks rights panel inquiry||Panaji: National RTI awardee Rajan Ghate has complained to the human rights commission over the violation of rights of tribals in Melauli and has asked for the appointment of an inquiry committee to investigate into the alleged act of a police inspector stomping on women and necessary action. He is seeking immediate stoppage of the demarcation of the area and allotting class I ownership to all farmers who are cultivating their land for years. He has appealed for shifting of the IIT project to a suitable barren land away from Melauli with the consultation of villagers. “The project lacks transparency. It is being thrust upon locals without consultation with villagers and locals. Melauli villagers protest is against the misappropriation of fertile cultivable land and their livelihood,” he said. “The Goa Commission for Schedule Caste and Tribe and department of tribal welfare are also responsible for having neglected the said issue and to protect tribal rights and empower them. Melauli villagers had protested against deputy collector’s office for eradicating their names from form I & XIV which was proposed for the IIT project,” he said, adding that the land records do not reveal the names of actual cultivators and occupants of the lands. “The government has unilaterally conveyed the property of the villagers to IIT without any public notice or hearing. The mutation of survey records is illegal and must be set aside immediately,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rti-awardee-seeks-rights-panel-inquiry/articleshow/80241238.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Pigeon deaths in Nagpur raise concern in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Reports citing the death of rock pigeons in Nagpur have raised concern in Mumbai, given the large population of the species in the city.  Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting with officials and district collectors on Tuesday to review the bird flu situation. The meeting was also attended by forest officials. Thackeray sought more surveillance on the 23,000-odd water bodies across the state, which serve as natural habitats in this season for migratory birds.  At the meeting, a forest official informed the gathering about two dead pigeons in Nagpur. NH Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest, who was present at the review, said the carcasses of the two pigeons were found on January 10. He said they were to Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases for confirmation.  Taking note of the information, Thackeray asked officials to be on their guard in Mumbai given the large population of pigeons that flock to ‘Kabutar Khanas’ in the city.  Sachindra Pratap Singh, animal husbandry commissioner, said reports confirming bird flu deaths of crows in Mumbai was a matter of concern. Samples from Mumbai and Thane were found to contain the H5N1 strain. Surveillance will continue, he said.  “Everyone in the state needs to take precautions for containment of the outbreak at the place of occurrence and to prevent the further spread of the disease,” he added.  He also said owners of poultry farms and the public must communicate mortality in crow, parrots, herons or migratory birds to the nearest veterinary dispensary..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pigeon-deaths-in-nagpur-raise-concern-in-mumbai/articleshow/80241272.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Jumbo unit patients likely to be shifted by January 15||PUNE: Covid-19 patients currently admitted to the jumbo units on the College of Engineering, Pune, premises and at Annasaheb Magar stadium in Pimpri will either be discharged or shifted to other civic facilities by January 15. MedBros agency, which was running the facilities, has received the directive in this regard from the Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic bodies. Currently, there are less than 100 patients at both the facilities. Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), told TOI, “There are 36 patients at CoEP unit as on Tuesday. We have told MedBros to give us a list of patients who could be shifted and who are in the intensive care unit . If medical experts say that shifting a patient could be harmful, we might allow them to operate the unit till the patient recovers or is out of danger. The list containing medical details will be made available on Wednesday after which we will decide on the future course of action.” Agarwal said Sassoon General Hospital was the first choice for shifting the patients. She added that the jumbo unit infrastructure would be used as one of the vaccination sites for the coming vaccination drive for healthcare workers in the civic body limits. Varsha Dange, assistant medical officer, Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), said since there were only a few patients left, there was a possibility that the jumbo units would stop operation by January 15. The final decision will be taken by civic chief Shravan Hardikar. Dange said the civic body was not planning to use the facility as a vaccination site for now. Sangram Kapale, dean, Annasaheb Magar stadium jumbo unit in Pimpri, said they have been told to wind up the operation by January 15. Shreyansh Kapale, director, CoEP jumbo unit, said since there has been no written communication, they have retained around 400 employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/jumbo-unit-patients-likely-to-be-shifted-by-january-15/articleshow/80241268.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Pigeon deaths in Nagpur raise concern in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Reports citing the death of rock pigeons in Nagpur have raised concern in Mumbai, given the large population of the species in the city.  Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray chaired a meeting with officials and district collectors on Tuesday to review the bird flu situation. The meeting was also attended by forest officials. Thackeray sought more surveillance on the 23,000-odd water bodies across the state, which serve as natural habitats in this season for migratory birds.  At the meeting, a forest official informed the gathering about two dead pigeons in Nagpur. NH Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forest, who was present at the review, said the carcasses of the two pigeons were found on January 10. He said they were to Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases for confirmation.  Taking note of the information, Thackeray asked officials to be on their guard in Mumbai given the large population of pigeons that flock to ‘Kabutar Khanas’ in the city.  Sachindra Pratap Singh, animal husbandry commissioner, said reports confirming bird flu deaths of crows in Mumbai was a matter of concern. Samples from Mumbai and Thane were found to contain the H5N1 strain. Surveillance will continue, he said.  “Everyone in the state needs to take precautions for containment of the outbreak at the place of occurrence and to prevent the further spread of the disease,” he added.  He also said owners of poultry farms and the public must communicate mortality in crow, parrots, herons or migratory birds to the nearest veterinary dispensary..||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pigeon-deaths-in-nagpur-raise-concern-in-mumbai/articleshow/80247137.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 13, 2021||Pune||State to get 9.63L Covishield, 20k Covaxin doses for priority drive||Pune: Maharashtra has been allocated 9.63 lakh Covishield vaccine doses manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech for the priority vaccination drive which will commence on January 16, according to an official communication from the Central government to the state health authorities. The state has registered 8 lakh health beneficiaries on the CoWin app for the priority drive. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that the allocation of doses was enough for the drive. “The allocation will be done district-wise, according to the number of registered beneficiaries,” he told TOI. Patil said a particular district would have to be selected for the administering of the 20,000 Covaxin doses as that district would also need to get the repeat doses of the same vaccine. Both doses, of 0.5ml each, are to be administered within a gap of 28 days. Central health authorities in their interaction with the states had said both Covishield and Covaxin would be allocated in the initial phase itself. Patil said the vaccine supply from SII would be brought in vans to the state vaccine store near the Regional Transport Office in the city and then transported to the regional vaccine store in Aundh. From there, the vaccines would be sent by road to all eight revenue divisions in the state. The state has two vaccine vans with a storage capacity of 25 lakh doses and regional vans with a capacity of 8-10 lakh doses. These would be used to ferry the vaccine to all districts mainly by road. “We want to ensure that all regions get the vaccine by January 14, two days ahead of the inoculation,” Patil said. The state’s cold chain stores have the capacity to hold 3 crore vaccine doses, officials assured. The state has sought 67 lakh syringes from the Centre and received 25 lakh so far. The remaining 42 lakh syringes will be delivered soon,” Patil said. As many as 511 vaccination centres have been identified in primary health centres, sub-district hospitals, rural hospitals, municipal corporation-run hospitals, medical colleges and jumbo facilities for the first phase of the drive for health workers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-to-get-9-63l-covishield-20k-covaxin-doses-for-priority-drive/articleshow/80241266.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Surat||Surat airport to become ‘silent’ from Jan 15||Surat: The Surat international airport will soon join the list of other ‘silent airports’ across the country.Official sources said that the Surat airport will have not have boarding announcements starting from January 15.Sources said that the airports like Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai are silent airports where there are no announcements for boarding. All airlines will notify any change in timings, baggage delivery belts through SMS. In case of changes in boarding gates, the announcement will be made. Airport director, Aman Saini said, “The decision to make Surat airport a silent airport was taken after consulting with all the stakeholders. Surat has joined the list of silent airports like Mumbai, Chennai and Delhi.”According to Saini, the announcements will be restricted to delay, cancellation, gate change, loss of important documents, last passenger paging or security awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/surat-airport-to-become-silent-from-jan-15/articleshow/80237913.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Traffic plan for Makar Sankranti announced in Haridwar, entry of heavy vehicles banned||HARIDWAR: Kumbh Mela police have prepared a traffic plan for the first bathing festival of Kumbh on January 14. The entry of heavy commercial vehicles will be banned in the city from January 13 midnight to January 15. However, vehicles of essential services will be allowed without any restrictions. Notably, the roadways buses will enter Haridwar bus station and the traffic will be diverted from Mangalore bus station towards Bairagi camp parking via Landhora-Laksar route while light vehicles coming from Delhi will be diverted from the same route and will be parked in the city’s Chamgadar Tapu ground. The vehicles coming from Saharanpur will be diverted from Bhagwanpur, Jhabrera, Landhora, Laksar route and will be parked at Bairagi camp while light vehicles will reach Chamgadar Tapu parking from the same route. On the other hand, vehicles from Najibabad will be parked at Neeldhara parking near Chadi bridge and Gauri Shankar parking. Private buses will run from Neeldhara bus station on Bijnor route while roadways buses will be permitted to reach the city’s interstate bus terminal. Similarly, light vehicles will be parked at Chamgadar Tapu parking. The vehicles coming from Dehradun will be parked at Pawan Dham and Chamgadar Tapu parking. Also, the vehicles can be diverted from Nepali junction to reach Gauri Shankar parking via Chila route. IG Sanjay Gunjyal told TOI, “Apart from the traffic plan, the vehicles will be diverted in case there is an increase in vehicles in the city. The police have also divided the Kumbh Mela region into seven zones and 20 sectors for better management of the mega fair. Besides, the state police personnel, companies of CISF, CRPF, ITBP, SSB, BSF and PAC have also been deployed for the bathing festival.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/traffic-plan-for-makar-sankranti-announced-in-haridwar-entry-of-heavy-vehicles-banned/articleshow/80237905.cms||MS Nawaz
January 13, 2021||Pune||Tally above 3.7L in PMR, eight succumb to virus||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded marginally higher recoveries (576) than cases (502) on Tuesday, taking its total discharges and infections above 3.70 lakh and 3.55 lakh, respectively. Among the new cases, the PMC limits added 224, followed by the rural areas (159) and the PCMC limits (119). Of the total 3.70 lakh cases reported in the region so far, more than 1.81 lakh infections have been recorded in the PMC areas, followed by the PCMC limits (98,185) and the rural areas (90,168). A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that more than 1.74 lakh patients have recovered in the PMC limits so far, followed by the PCMC limits and the rural areas. The slight rise in recoveries for the last two days has helped bring down the load of active patients to 5,490 on Tuesday. Of these, 3,677 patients were in home isolation and 1,813 admitted in hospitals. The region continued to report deaths in single digit even on Tuesday, with eight patients succumbing to the infection on Tuesday. The rural areas did not report any death due to Covid-19 for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. The daily sample testing stood at 6,789 on Tuesday, slightly more than Monday’s testing of 5,650. The PMC and PCMC areas tested more than 2,300 samples each, while the rural areas conducted 1,794 tests. The region’s total testing reached 19.71 lakh on Tuesday evening. The total testing in the PMC limits increased to 9.64 lakh in the last 24 hours, while testing in the PCMC limits and the rural areas increased to 5.80 lakh and 4.26 lakh, respectively. Health officials have urged people to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour. “People should wear mask while venturing out and maintain social disctance to keep the infection at bay,”a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/tally-above-3-7l-in-pmr-eight-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/80241277.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||KGBV teachers to protest for equal pay||Hyderabad: To get their long pending demand of equal pay for equal work fulfilled, the teachers working at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBV) and urban residential schools (URS) in the state have decided to launch a series of protests including gheraoing the office of the director of school education (DSE). Teachers said that they will be protesting in three phases starting with lunch hour protests on January 20 and January 21, followed by mass hunger strikes in districts on January 29, and gheraoing DSE office on February 12. “Apart from paying us meagre pay, even our leaves are capped at 15 a year. This should be changed. KGBV and URS teachers should be given maternity leaves and all the other leaves that are given to government teachers should also be extended to us,” S Anil Kumar, a teacher. Teachers said that they have been working for regularization of jobs and equal pay for equal work for years now and added that the least the state can do is pay them equal pay and address their concerns with respect to leaves. The other demands of teachers include recruiting a caretaker in the schools under KGBV and URS, issuing health cards and providing cashless treatment, promoting physical education teachers to school assistant grade, converting part-time teachers to full-time teachers and pay Contract Residential Teachers (CRTs) remuneration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/kgbv-teachers-to-protest-for-equal-pay/articleshow/80240009.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Centre lauds T for panchayat audits||Hyderabad: At a time when a heated war of words is going on between TRS and BJP, the state government received a word of praise from the Centre. The online audit of panchayats was lauded by Central officials. For the year 2019- 20, 40% online audit was conducted in the state. Officials said other states were at beginning stages in this aspect. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/centre-lauds-t-for-panchayat-audits/articleshow/80240007.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||Dhavalikar bats for IIT at Farmagudi||Ponda: Following the rising protests against the proposed IIT project at Shel-Melauli in Sattari, Madkai MLA Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar has reiterated that the institute should be shifted to Farmagudi, near his constituency. Dhavalikar said there is ample space within the campus of the Goa Engineering College (GEC) at Farmagudi to accommodate the permanent campus of the IIT. Extending his support to the protesting villagers, Dhavalikar claimed that BJP was trying to ‘finish off’ cabinet minister (Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane) by being adamant on continuing the IIT project at Melauli despite the growing protests from locals. His Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) is going for intra-party elections on January 16 and Dhavalikar has claimed that his party would join the protests from January 17 onwards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-bats-for-iit-at-farmagudi/articleshow/80241287.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Bypass entry & exit points a maze for citizens, custodians||Pune: The traffic police have identified at least six entry and exit points between Bhumkar and Navale bridges along the busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass as “vulnerable spots” requiring urgent attention to avert accidents. “We want the National Highways Authority India (NHAI), which controls the bypass, to develop apt infrastructure or make suitable alterations at these six entry and exit points to channelize vehicular movement,” Pune deputy commissioner of police (traffic) Rahul Shrirame told TOI on Tuesday, a day after three persons were killed and 18 others were injured in seven accidents occurring within a span of six hours since 4.30am on the busy Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. There have been several instances in the past three months of heavy vehicles, coming from the new Katraj tunnel at a high speed to join the bypass near the Bhumkar and Navale bridges, losing control and ploughing through cars and two-wheelers. The result has been quite a few fatalities and critical injuries. Since October (2020), three major accidents have occurred at the entry and exit points of the bypass near Navale bridge. Of the six entry and exit points, four are located on the lanes headed for Mumbai and two are on the lanes towards Satara. DCP Shrirame said, “An entry to the bypass from the Bhumkar bridge should be closed on an experimental basis for better safety of the local motorists. This entry point is located near the Narhe-Ambegaon road. This entry point leads directly up to the bypass and the motorists join the second lane, instead of the first lane.” He said “We have requested NHAI to consider altering the exit and entry points to the bypass at Bhumkar chowk and near Navale bridge, where accidents are frequent. The accidents can be minimized if vehicular movement at these spots is properly routed.” A senior NHAI official said, “We can create channels for the vehicles moving out of the bypass and the vehicles joining it. But there is an important issue — space. There is no space available to create this channel.” He added, “In such a scenario, the bypass needs to have one more lane and some more space at the spot. This is excluding the service lane. The pressure of the local vehicular movement is there and each of the areas along the bypass wants a separate exit and entry point. We cannot provide that owing to the safety factors,” the officer said. Suhas Chandanshiv, a local resident, said “There should be a safe passage of entry and exit from the bypass. I had witnessed an accident near the entry-exit point between Navale bridge and Vadgaon bridge two months ago. A truck had crushed four cars and a motorcycle rider. Thankfully, there was no casualty and no one was critically injured.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bypass-entry-exit-points-a-maze-for-citizens-custodians/articleshow/80240070.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||ED summons Mantena Srinivas Raju promoter in scam case||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate has summoned Mantena Srinivas Raju of Mantena group of companies in connection with Rs 3,000 crore e-tendering scam of Madhya Pradesh. The company is one of the accused in tampering e-tenders. Srinivas Raju is a promoter for six companies. The CBI has already conducted searches on the promoters of Mantena group, GVPR Engineers Limited and former chief secretary of MP M Gopal Reddy. ED had booked a PMLA case based on the FIR issued by the economic offences wing of Madhya Pradesh in 2019. Tenders pertaining to government departments like water resources, Jal Nigam, PWD, public health engineering and road development were tampered in 2018. Probe had revealed GVPR Engineers and other companies changed bid price in three tenders of Madhya Pradesh Jal Nigam Maryadit worth Rs 1,769 crore. Max Mantena Micro JV Hyderabad committed a similar fraud and all these companies earned illegal profits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-summons-mantena-promoter-in-scam-case/articleshow/80240072.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 13, 2021||Pune||MLA vows to raise ‘deadly stretch’ issue with Gadkari||Pune: Khadakwasla MLA and BJP leader Bhimrao Tapkir on Tuesday said the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass stretch from the new Katraj tunnel to Navale bridge needed urgent widening to reduce accidents.“I have already written to Union minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari with a plea to look into this matter,” Tapkir said, adding that he had several rounds of meetings with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) officials on the issue. “But the situation has not changed much,” he said, a day after three people died and 18 were injured in seven accidents within six hours on the 40km long bypass.Gadkari heads the NHAI that controls the bypass that links Bengaluru and Mumbai. “After a spate of accidents on the bypass in October-November, 2020, I held a number of meetings with senior NHAI officials. But accidents continue to occur on the highway,” Tapkir said.“The NHAI can acquire land for widening of the service lanes. I am in favour of the widening of the bypass because the proposed Ring Road will take years to start. Earlier, the Katraj–Dehu road bypass was outside the city limits. But since 2001, the city has grown fast along either sides of the bypass. It is no longer limited to the movement of heavy vehicles alone. Now, even two-wheeler riders are using the bypass as a thoroughfare,” Tapkir said.“I will soon meet Gadkari to discuss this issue. At least one more lane can be added to the bypass, besides widening the service lanes to facilitate the local traffic, There should be proper channelizing of the vehicles merging with the bypass traffic and exiting the bypass,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mla-vows-to-raise-deadly-stretch-issue-with-gadkari/articleshow/80240074.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Pune||Pune: Around 80k recovered people to be monitored for post-Covid ailments||PUNE: The District Health Office (DHO) will monitor around 80,000 recovered patients in for a study of post-Covid ailments, so that they can get timely treatment. A database of the post-Covid health isues will also be compiled. The study is likely to start within the next two weeks. The health department claims it to be a one of its kind post-Covid study being conducted in the country. Ayush Prasad, the chief executive officer of Pune ZP, told TOI, “There is no post-Covid data available, which is why we discussed this initiative with the district collector Rajesh Deshmukh, and he readily agreed. This is the ideal period to assess the symptoms because our Covid-19 peak was in September and it will be interestng to check how the recovered patients are doing.” The study will keep track of the people that have recovered from Covid-19 and a health card with details of various medical investigations and treatment would be recorded.  The study will also monitor the current complaints such as psychological, cardiovascular, respiratory, renal, abdominal, neurological, dermatological, ear nose throat and musculoskeletal symptoms. Community Health Officers (CHO) from the health department will visit the citizens once a month for three months and the people will be given a copy of the health card. DB Kadam, a Covid task force committee member, said, “Our monitoring will involve patients in various phases of Covid-19. The initial infection phase, the long Covid phase (3 weeks to 3 months) and the post-Covid phase.” Kadam said they will conduct a primary screening at the village-level, which will be done by the CHO. Patients who display symptoms will be treated at the village-level, but if they need further attention they will be sent to the primary health centre (PHC). “At the PHC, the medical officer will reassess and re-confirm the symptoms and treat them. Depending on the symptoms and severity, the patients will either be treated or sent to a physician at the district hospital. With each step, we want to filter-out patients and find out the severity of their ailments. Only in likelihood of a very severe case, the patients will be referred to the super speciality hospital or the medical college,” he said. Only patients with Covid-related lung fibrosis or cardiovascular cases will need super speciality aid, he said. Speaking about monitoring, he said that only symptomatic patients will be monitored at present. However, later even those who were asymptomatic, would also be assessed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/around-80k-recovered-people-to-be-monitored-for-post-ncov-ailments/articleshow/80241279.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 13, 2021||Surat||26 mm stone removed from 3-yr-old rescued beggar girl||Surat: The doctors at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) on Tuesday removed a 26mm stone from the bladder of the three-year-old beggar girl rescued by Anti Human Trafficking Unit (AHTU) of city police on December 26, 2020.After rescuing the girl, who was found begging at Star Bazaar crossroads, her medical examination revealed that she had a 26mm stone in her bladder. The doctors had advised immediate surgery. However, the District Child Protection Unit officials waited for her parents to take her custody for over 13 days. After taking custody of the minor, her father Sunil Pawar (29) and mother Reshma (25), got the minor admitted to NCH on Sunday.“The minor is safe now. The stone was dangerous for her health. It could have proved a threat to her life if not operated on time,” said a doctor at NCH. According to doctors, the stone’s size was too big for a three-year-old.“She used to complain of pain while urinating but I never realised that it could be a stone. I am thankful to the doctors who saved her life. I will not send her to beg again,” said Pawar, who works as a labourer. the girl mother does sari cutting work. The family is native of Nashik in Maharashtra but has been living in the city since Pawar was a child. They live under Star Bazaar flyover and the children were forced into begging by the parents, police investigation revealed. Pawar was earlier arrested for forcing his four children into begging. “Children begging on the road is not a good sign. The government, people and NGOs are working to ensure that children do not beg and police are trying to make the city child beggar free,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/26-mm-stone-removed-from-3-yr-old-rescued-beggar-girl/articleshow/80237943.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Man booked for giving instant triple talaq over phone||Rudrapur: In the first such case in Rudrapur, a 31-year-old man, Wamik Khan, was booked by the local police for giving instant triple talaq to his wife over phone. The case was lodged after the wife of the man filed a complaint alleging that Khan, on December 13, 2020, told her over a phone call that he does not want to be in any relation with her and that he doesn't want to stay with her. The accused is a resident of Mahanpur Nazubi under Baheri town in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. NN Pant, SHO of city police station, said that the couple was married for five years and have two sons. In her complaint, the woman has alleged that Khan would not take her to his native home in Baheri even after marriage and they lived in a rented house in Bhoot Bangla colony of the city. In March 2020, Wamik left the house to never return. When the victim called him, he told her that he had married someone else. Khan also refused to give any money for the subsistence of the woman and her kids. Later in December, he gave her an instant triple talaq over the phone. “We have registered a case against the accused under relevant sections of the law. He will soon be apprehended,” said SHO Pant. In 2018, the central government had passed the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Ordinance that makes triple talaq an offence and can invite a jail term of three years. The Supreme Court had on August 22, 2019 struck down triple talaq, calling the practice unconstitutional and in violation of Article 14 of the Constitution, which provides for equality before the law.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/man-booked-for-giving-instant-triple-talaq-over-phone/articleshow/80237923.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 13, 2021||Kozhikode||KYS rebuts KNM’s attack on ‘neo-atheism’||Kozhikode: Kerala Yukthivadi Sangham (KYS) has strongly resented the statement from the Kerala Nadvathul Mujahideen (KNM) that there should be a campaign against ‘injecting’ atheism among the youth. KYS state president K N Anil Kumar said KNM’s statement is against the spirit of democracy which upholds the right for everyone to propagate his or her ideology and beliefs. KNM’s statement was issued after the debate between rationalist E A Jabbar and Islamic preacher M M Akbar. “The word injecting insinuates that atheism is a dangerous substance like poison. But it is a school of thought which is older than some of the religions. Many schools of thought in the ancient world are atheistic and materialistic in substance. Indian philosophy is predominantly atheistic and prominent social reformers such as Sahodaran Ayyappan were atheists,” he said. KYS, which organized the debate, believes that there is a well-orchestrated move to attack atheism in the guise of targeting ‘neo-atheism’. “KNM’s statement also speaks of neo-atheism but the actual intention is to attack atheism of all hues,” Kumar said. He said the believers’ camp were embarrassed after the debate between Jabbar and Akbar. “The call to take on atheists is the explosion of the pent-up frustration. More and more youth are coming out of the shackles of religion and have started thinking independently,” he said. KNM issued the statement after the meeting of the state council on Sunday. It said the bankruptcy of neo-atheists are becoming more and more visible in society and they should desist from creating more troubles. “There are widespread efforts to inject atheism among the new generation. Those who lead the rationalists should rethink whether it is right to spread lies without taking pains to study either religion or science,” the statement said. KNM felt that the debate in Malappuram succeeded in exposing the ignorance of neo-atheists. It should be a lesson to those who challenged the uniqueness of the Quran. “Youths should come forward to give a befitting reply to those who are spreading neo-atheism in social media. There should be a common platform against neo-atheism,” the statement said. It added that Muslims should realize the machinations of the atheistic and irreligious movements that target the community. “Their target is to create anarchy in society,” the statement said. KNM leaders T P Abdulla Koya Madani, M Muhammad Madani, Hussein Madavoor, Noor Muammad Noorsha, A I Abdul Majeed Swalahi and others spoke at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/kys-rebuts-knms-attack-on-neo-atheism/articleshow/80237935.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Those supporting the farm laws can organise bigger protests, they tell SC||NEW DELHI: A large number of farmers unions expressed their support for the farm laws before the Supreme Court even as proceedings were boycotted by the unions which have been staging roadblock protests at Singhu Border of Delhi for more than 45 days. Bharatiya Kisan Sangh claiming membership of over 30 lakh farmers across the country, Consortium of Indian Farmers Associations mentioning about 15 lakh farmers as their members and Indian Kisan Union along with few other farmers unions told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that they want implementation of farm laws as they are convinced that these laws will give farmers the freedom from middlemen and sell their goods at the highest price outside the APMC mandis. Even while facing a difficult situation with protesting farmers boycotting the proceedings, the CJI didn't appear to miss his characteristic way to lighten the serious periods of arguments. "Everyone says they represent lakhs and lakhs of farmers. If the membership of all the farmers' unions are taken together, it appears it would be more than the population of the country," he said in jest. With the resolution of the 45-day long stalemate playing a crucial role in the bench's decision to keep the farm laws in abeyance and order setting up of a four member expert committee to hear grievance of farmers against the farm laws, senior advocate P S Narasimha warned against succumbing to 'my way or highway' pressure tactics being exerted by protesting farmers. The former additional solicitor general said, "Those seeking implementation of farm laws are capable of organising bigger rallies compared to those by the protesting farmers at Singhu Border. What will happen if the three-fourth of farmers, supporting the farm laws, start blocking the other side of Delhi?" PIL petitioner M L Sharma, who does not represent any farmer union, said that the farmers apprehended that the new farm laws would make the farmers indebted to the corporates and force them to sell their lands to the big buyers. The CJI-led bench said it was inclined to pass an order that no farmer's land will be sold because of any debt accruing from agreements with corporates under the new farm laws. However, solicitor general Tushar Mehta said the order will be redundant as the farm laws specifically provide against corporates having any right over the farmer's land because of the agreement to buy produce from the farmers. "The law only permits contract farming and prohibits any agreement by corporations with farmers regarding their land either by lease or mortgage. The corporates cannot even erect a structure on the farmer's land." Mehta said the laws also specifically prohibits that no action for recovery from the farmer would involve his land. "Agricultural land is completely immune under the new laws for the purpose of any recovery for damages by the corporates," he said. SG said these are the mis-information that has been fed to the farmers who are protesting against the farm laws. The bench noted in its order that even some of the farmers unions opposed to the farm laws were ready to go before the committee after suspension of implementation of the farm laws. "As a matter of fact, some of the farmers’ bodies who are opposing the Farm Laws and who are represented before us through counsel, have agreed to go before the Committee. Senior advocate P Wilson, representing one section of farmers from Tamil Nadu, welcomed the proposal to stay the implementation of the Laws and the constitution of the Committee and stated that his client would go before the Committee." "Similarly, AP Singh, appearing for Bhartiya Kisan Union [Bhanu] also submitted that the representatives of the Union will participate in the negotiations. He even went to the extent of saying that elders, women and children will be dissuaded from being there at the site of protest," the order noted. Ajay Choudhary, for Kisan Maha Panchayat, submitted that the farmers from Rajasthan, who are protesting at the border of Rajasthan, are willing to appear before the Committee and air their grievances. Senior advocate V Chitambaresh, for Bhartiya Kisan Sangh, said the farmer body was not aggrieved by the Farm Laws. Sridhar Potaraju, counsel for the Consortium of Indian Farmers Association (CIFA), said hat his client represents 15 farmers’ unions across 15 States and that they will be badly affected if a stay of the implementation of the Farm Laws is ordered. "This is for the reason that the farmers whom he represents, cultivate fruits and vegetables and that about 21 million tonnes of fruits and vegetables will rot, if anything is done at this stage," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/support-laws-can-organise-bigger-protests-some-unions/articleshow/80242225.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 13, 2021||Pune||IMA letter urges members to get inoculated, help out local authorities||Pune: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has requested its 3.5 lakh members across 1,800 local branches to vaccinate themselves against Covid-19. The IMA’s national president, Dr JA Jayalal, said the organization believes vaccination is the only way to protect individuals and communities against SARS-CoV-2, the virus which causes Covid-19. “All IMA state and local branches are also requested to proactively meet local authorities and offer their help in planning and implementation,” Dr Jayalal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ima-letter-urges-members-to-get-inoculated-help-out-local-authorities/articleshow/80241296.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Pune||Centralised fire-fighting systems in civic hospitals in Pune||PUNE: The civic administration will set up a centralised fire-fighting system comprising water sprinklers at all the big corporation-run health hubs, including the Kamala Nehru Hospital. “The fire brigade department has identified agencies for the installation of the system. A survey and fire audit of all civic hospitals would be conducted before deciding on the need for the system in each hospital,” head of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)’s fire brigade department Prashant Ranpise said. He said the department would set up teams for audits, which will visit all the civic-run hospitals in the PMC limits. He said instructions would be issued to the private hospitals also to complete the fire audits with the help of any of the 50 licensed auditors in the city. A PMC official said during the audit, details about availability of fire-fighting equipment, trained workforce and plan for emergency exit would be checked. The official said the auditors would look for any likely short circuit points on the hospital premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/centralised-fire-fighting-systems-in-civic-hosps/articleshow/80240082.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Biz analyst who lost right leg in mishap gets Rs52L payout||Mumbai: Awarding a total compensation of around Rs 52 lakh to a 41-year-old senior business analyst from Chembur who lost his right foot after his long-distance luxury bus collided with a stationary tempo while he was on his way to Bangalore in 2012, the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal factored Rs 1.1 lakh towards loss of leave, which could have been used for other purposes. “Applicant must have had at least 30 days of medical or sick leave to his credit, which he availed for treatment. The applicant also utilized 14 days’ privilege leave for treatment. This prevented him from availing paid sick and privilege leave for other purposes,” the tribunal said. Gurunath Shetty had submitted a plea against bus-owner VRL Logistics, it’s insurer, The United India Insurance Co Ltd, and tempo owner, Namakkal Transport Carriers Pvt Ltd and it’s insurance provider, ICICI Lombard Gen Ins Co Ltd in March 2013. The compensation included Rs 2 lakh toward “loss of amenities” following the accident around 4am on October 29, 2012. “From the evidence it is apparent that because of injuries, now, applicant cannot do many activities a normal person can do. Thus, enjoyment of the life and married life of applicant has suffered a lot. For many years he will have to bear the life without the amenities. The injuries to legs may shorten his life,” the tribunal said. The compensation will have to be paid by the tempo owner, bus service and their insurance companies, with the tribunal fixing 70% of the composite negligence on the latter for driving at high speed and losing control, and 30% on the former for stalling in the middle of a highway at night without proper indicators. “The bus driver could have avoided the accident by using the remaining road of 10-15 ft wide to the west, had he been alert to see the halted tempo from a reasonable distance with the help of headlights, but for the very high speed at night. Such driving at night is nothing but an unwanted risk. The bus driver contributed more in causing the accident,” the tribunal said. Shetty said after being treated at a hospital in Kolhapur, he was moved to the city on October 30, 2012. He was discharged on November 27, 2012. Shetty said he had spent over Rs 18 lakh on treatment and suffered a permanent disability. His leg had to be amputated below his knee. At the time of the accident, Shetty said, he was earning Rs50,000 a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/biz-analyst-who-lost-right-leg-in-mishap-gets-rs52l-payout/articleshow/80240001.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 13, 2021||Dehradun||Unknown person booked for ‘blasphemous’ social media post||Rudrapur: An unidentified person has been booked by Kashipur police for allegedly hurting religious sentiments by uploading a derogatory post against a community on social media. According to Sanjay Pathak, SHO of the Kashipur police station, he received the complaint from temple priests and members of a religious outfit. The complainants alleged that the accused made ‘derogatory’ remarks against Hindu gods. SHO Pathak told TOI, “An FIR has been registered against the unknown user. The person has been booked under section 153 (provocate for rioting) of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act. We are probing the case. The location of the number has been traced to Afzalgarh city of Uttar Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/unknown-person-booked-for-blasphemous-social-media-post/articleshow/80237938.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 13, 2021||Pune||Flyers, airport and airlines’ officials flag crowding at boarding gates||Pune: Flyers, airlines’ officials as well as the city airport authorities have raised concerns over flouting of social distancing norms owing to the crowding at the boarding gates following announcement of flights. A passenger recently posted a photograph of a crowded boarding gate at the airport on social media and wrote, “Complete disregard for social distancing at Pune airport. Is Covid over?” On January 6, Deepak, a flyer on way to Delhi from Pune on an IndiGo flight, posted a photograph of a huge crowd in front of gate number 8. “No delay at all. Just over enthusiastic passengers and helpless airline staff,” he said. Many frequent flyers told TOI that crowding at the boarding gates was a concern. “It used to happen before Covid, too, but it seems that the pandemic has not taught us any lesson,” said Arun Saraf, a city-based businessman. “Since the pandemic started, we have been following a pattern of calling flyers to the boarding gates. First, senior citizens and defence personnel are told to board. Then flyers with particular seat numbers and rows are called. However, it is sad to see many flyers crowding in front of boarding gates,” an airline representative said. Earlier, Pune airport director Kuldeep Singh said the flyers needed to understand the risks. “We have provided safe social distance markings on the floor. We have also marked alternate chairs, advising safe distance,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/flyers-airport-and-airlines-officials-flag-crowding-at-boarding-gates/articleshow/80240078.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||NGO to feed JJ hosp patients’ kin||Mumbai: City NGO Fazlani Aishabai Abdul Lateef Charitable Trust will provide two meals daily to relatives of patients at state-run JJ Hospital. Accompanied by Congress MLA Amin Patel, trust chairman Abdul Kader Fazlani met health minister Anil Deshmukh on Monday and sought permission to implement the scheme. “Anil Deshmukh has agreed in principle and lauded Kaderbhai Fazlani’s wish to feed patients’ relatives nutritious and hygienic food. This will not be a langar but only relatives with valid passes issued by the hospital will be given food twice a day,” said Patel. Fazlani said he had been thinking of doing something like this for quite some time. The patients get food from hospitals but their relatives are left to fend for themselves. “I have seen relatives of many patients eating a vada pav for lunch or dinner. Two square meals a day in Mumbai costs Rs150-200. The poor cannot afford it,” said Fazlani. He added that he had asked for space at the hospital for use as an eating area. Initially, 250-300 people will be fed twice. The food, to be supplied by a caterer, will come in disposable trays and beneficiaries will have to eat and go. No parcels will be allowed. “Many poor people save food for the next meal and the food can get stale. We will distribute fresh food. We are in talks with a caterer,” said Fazlani. Mohammed Wajihuddin||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ngo-to-feed-jj-hosp-patients-kin/articleshow/80240003.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||50,000 health workers to be vaccinated on Day 1 in Maharashtra||Health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI the state had set a target of vaccinating 50,000 health workers on the first day and urged health workers not to hesitate to take the vaccine on January 16. The state was allocated around 9.6 lakh Serum Institute of India (SII) Covishield vaccine doses and 20,000 Bharat Biotech Covaxin vaccine doses on Tuesday. The state received the doses from SII on Tuesday evening at Pune regional vaccine store. Distribution is to be done to all sites by state health officials and each of the 511 vaccination centres will have a batch of 100 health workers enrolled for vaccination, he said. “There is no need to be afraid as it is a safe vaccine,” he said. He added that precautions will be taken to tackle adverse reactions, if any. He said he had told health workers to focus on keeping a special tab on adverse reactions. The state expects 16 lakh doses in the coming months. The Centre will bear the cost for the vaccine to health and frontline workers in the first two phases. These phases will take 4-5 months, after which vaccination of people above 50 and with comorbidities will begin in phase three, the minister said. The Centre expects more vaccines by then, making the decision over cost easier, a senior health official said. State officials said they will plan to scale up booths after checking for demand and availability.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/50000-health-workers-to-be-vaccinated-on-day-1-in-state/articleshow/80241316.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 13, 2021||Pune||Grocery store owner attacks traffic cop in Pune, held||PUNE: A 25-year-old grocery store owner was on Monday evening arrested for abusing and attacking a traffic policeman after he took action against the accused for not wearing a seat belt at Mundhwa Chowk earlier in the day. Sunny Shinde from Vadgaon Shinde in rural Pune was travelling in a car from Kharadi bypass to Keshavnagar at around 11am when the traffic police signalled him to stop as he was not wearing a seat belt. TimesViewFrequent instances of manhandling of on-duty police personnel or other government officials reflect lack of fear about penal action among some people. The administration should send a stern message to rowdy elements by taking exemplary action against such offenders. The fear of law must be instilled in the minds of people to stop such nuisance.Police naik Dayanand Gaikwad from Mundhwa traffic police told him to pay Rs200 as fine for not wearing a seat belt and asked him to furnish his driving license. Gaikwad said, “Shinde claimed that wearing a seat belt was not mandatory and sought reasons for fining him. I informed Shinde that wearing a seat belt was compulsory, but he started a dispute with me and refused to pay the fine or furnish his license.” He added, “I told him that he will be issued a receipt of the fine paid but he refused to listen. I then clicked a photo of the car and told him to pay the fine online via the traffic police app, but he got agitated and abused me. In a fit of rage, he also slapped me and misbehaved with me saying that he would teach me a lesson. I then alerted the city police control room and a team from Mundhwa police station took him into custody.” Sub-inspector Shivaji Kate from Mundhwa police station said, “On the basis of the FIR registered by Gaikwad, we arrested Shinde under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code,” adding , “A charge sheet will be filed against him on completion of investigations.” A woman constable accused six persons of attacking her and two others during a drive against illegal parking of vehicles on a road on the afternoon of January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/grocery-store-owner-attacks-traffic-cop-held/articleshow/80240089.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Trichy||Village barricaded after 25 test Covid-19 positive||Thanjavur: A total of 25 people have tested Covid-19 positive from a village near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. Following this, a medical team visited Kottiyapadugai village in Thenampadukai panchayat and Covid-19 test was conducted on the people for the last three days. Officials said that so far 230 people from the village have been tested in two batches for Covid-19 positive. In the first batch, 110 were tested in which were positive, while in the second batch were tested and 12 were positive. The funeral of Vasantha, a resident of the village, that took place on December 28 was the focal point for the spread. Her relatives from Chennai and Kanyakumari attended the funeral. One villager contracted who spread it to others. As fresh Covid-19 cases were declining for the last few weeks in Thanjavur, a 40-year-old man was diagnosed with fever in the village a few days back. Swab test revealed he was Covid-19 positive. Subsequent examination of those his contacts revealed that some were infected. Of the 90 people who underwent medical examination till Tuesday, 25 were positive. All of them were admitted to the Thanjavur Government Medical College Hospital. Following this, barricades were put up at the entrance of the village while police and health workers are monitoring the village so that no outsiders can enter. Health workers camped at the village conducted tests on 125 people on Tuesday. Thanjavur Government Medical College dean Maruthudurai told TOI that the 25 were admitted to the Covid-19 wards at the hospital. The process of contact tracing was on in the village and neighbouring areas, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/village-barricaded-after-25-test-covid-19-positive/articleshow/80241297.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Pune||Four arrested on charge of vandalism||Pune: Police on Tuesday arrested four men and detained a minor boy on the charge of vandalizing six vehicles in Maharashinagar and Katraj. In the first case, three men created a ruckus near Saibaba temple in Maharashinagar and went on to damage three cars with sickles and stones around 4.30am on Monday. In the second case, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police arrested Ganesh Bhandwalkar and detained his accomplice, a 17-year-old boy, on the charge of vandalising two cars and a tempo with sickles around 10.45pm on Monday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/four-arrested-on-charge-of-vandalism/articleshow/80240083.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Goa||CM says busy with Naik, needs time to consider Rane’s proposal on IIT||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Tuesday said that he will think over health minister Vishwajit Rane’s proposal to scrap the setting up of the IIT-Goa at Shel-Melauli, after the latter came out with a statement in support of his constituents’ opposition on Monday. Sawant told TOI that his office must have received the letter from Rane opposing the setting up of IIT-Goa in his constituency. “Right now, I am busy with the management of Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik. At this point of time taking care of Naik’s health is my priority. Right now, I am busy. Give me some time to think,” he said. Taking the recent protests into account, Rane changed his stand on the setting up of the IIT in Valpoi. In his letter to the chief minister, Rane asked him to “scrap the project”. He goes on to tell the CM that as long as “blood flows through my body, every drop of blood will be used for development of Sattari and Usgao”. On January 6, police resorted to the use of lathis and tear gas at Melauli after protesters stopped officials from demarcating land for IIT-Goa. On Monday, Rane had told TOI that, “If people don’t want this project, I am bound by my conscience to stand by the people of my constituency. The chief minister can take it to whichever part of Goa he wants.” After sweeping Sattari taluka in the zilla panchayat (ZP) polls in December, Rane had urged Sawant to go ahead with plans for setting up the IIT campus in Sattari. Rane had said, “I have not publicly spoken about the IIT-Goa issue. IIT will definitely come up. I want to publicly urge the chief minister that if he wants to set up the IIT, then you have to start the process of setting it up immediately.” Candidates backed by Rane had won all ZP constituencies in Sattari including Honda, Querim, Nagargao and Usgao-Ganje.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-says-busy-with-naik-needs-time-to-consider-ranes-proposal-on-iit/articleshow/80241298.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||TS inter exam date 2021 soon; no change in question paper pattern||Syed Omer Jaleel, commissioner, and secretary of Telangana State Board of Intermediate Education answers queries of TOI readers on board exams, syllabus, and entrance test dates Can the TSBIE announce the examination dates and the dates for TS EAMCET, soon? Also, will boards play a major role in our final Eamcet score? If they do, what will be the weightage this year? —Bhavana Ilavajhalla Re-opening of colleges is under examination of all aspects by Government. Examination dates will be announced by considering the date of reopening and the leftover syllabus to be covered. As far as weightage of inter marks for Eamcet is concerned, the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE) is the competent authority to decide. My son is studying in Fiitjee, class 11. Kindly let me know when the class 11 science final exams will be held? —Heena Paprunia The examination schedule will be announced based on reopening of colleges. Reopening is under consideration. Is there any chance that the syllabus for the board exams this year might get reduced further? If yes, then by how much?—Vikhyat Matter is under consideration. The forthcoming Intermediate Public Examination - 2O2l is proposed to be held using the70% syllabus. Balance 30% will be in form of assignments/projects What kind of safety measures can we expect from the state in government junior colleges once colleges reopen? And, what measures will be made mandatory for private colleges? —Karthik M When colleges reopen, all safety protocols for physical distancing, compulsory wearing of masks, sanitization of classrooms/college premises, thermal screening, etc will be mandatory in every college. Will supplementary exams be held for those who have a backlog in the inter 1st year now, as the same was not held, as per schedule last year after declaration of exam results.—A Subbarao Advance Supplementary exams were not held in view of lockdown. Whether supplementary exams will be held or not will depend on the date of reopening of colleges and the annual exam schedule. Can colleges collect full fees for the academic year when classes have been conducted virtually for a major part of the year? —Sirish S Department of Intermediate is conducting online classes through Doordarshan & T-Sat free of charge. Will there be any change in the question paper pattern in the intermediate public examination? —Swathi Reddy No. There will not be any change in the question paper pattern of intermediate examination 2021. However, choice will be enhanced in certain sections of the question paper Will government junior colleges competitive provide coaching for exams like EAMCET, JEE, NEET this year? —R S Suresh Yes. Free online coaching for competitive exams will be provided for all desirous students, this year also. Will the deleted syllabus be part of the EAMCET examination? —Ravi Teja This question to be decided by the Telangana State Council for Higher Education (TSCHE) and not the Board of Intermediate I have a backlog in 1st year in Math. Will I still be marked pass or do I have to write it again this year? -- G Krishang You will have to write the backlog exam. I am an intermediate second-year student writing the law entrance test this year. Due to a clash in exam dates of CLAT and central board secondary education (CBSE) examinations, the CLAT examination date was postponed from May 9 to June 13. If we get to know the probable dates for IPE then we can make sure our IPE exam dates do not clash with our CLAT. When will we get to know IPE dates? —Kruthika Karanam The Board of Intermediate will prepare a timetable for exams keeping in view all the state and national level competitive exams so that there won’t be any clash with competitive exams. Are we going to have practical examinations this year? —Krithika Rao Yes Will the board release any study material to help students prepare for the board and competitive examinations? —P Kalyani Yes. Online coaching for board/competitive exams will be provided, this year also along with study material.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exam-dates-soon-no-change-in-question-paper-pattern/articleshow/80243532.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: ‘No sexual assault, murder victim suffered 48 injuries’||MUMBAI: The final post-mortem report of Jhanvi Kukreja (19) states there are no signs of sexual assault, but points to 48 severe injuries all over her body, including the grievous skull fracture that led to her death. The body of Kukreja, a psychology student, was found in a pool of blood on the ground floor of Bhagwati Heights building in Khar (west) where she had gone to attend a New Year’s Eve party along with Shree Jogdhankar (23) and her childhood friend Diya Padalkar (18). Jogdhankar and Padalkar have been named as accused in the case. On Tuesday, Bandra court extended the custody of Jogdhankar and Padalkar till January 14. The remand application, a copy of which is with TOI, mentions: “On January 1, Jogdhankar, after leaving the building around 2.30 am, hired a taxi from Linking Road which is almost 1.6km away from 14th lane, Khar, where the party was organised. From there, he went to Wadala’s GTB Nagar and later to Sion Hospital. However, Jogdhankar is unable to recollect how he suffered the injuries. Jogdhankar and Padalkar were questioned together, but both were giving vague replies.” Police are also trying to track down the taxi driver who dropped Jogdhankar to Sion Hospital that night. Meanwhile, though the team of forensic experts and the Khar police reconstructed the crime scene on Sunday, there are many missing links in the case. Also, investigators are yet to establish the motive for the murder. A DNA test of the accused has been conducted to verify if the samples match with the evidence found at the crime scene. Senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule of Khar police station confirmed to TOI that they had got a detailed post-mortem report on the nature of injuries on the victim’s body. “We have also recorded the statement of the doctor at Sion Hospital where Jogdhankar sought treatment claiming he had met with an accident,” said Kabdule. Kukreja’s lawyers—Trivankumar Karnani and Gayatri Gokhale— have sought extension of police custody of the accused to unearth the motive for the crime. Jogdhankar’s lawyer, Ganesh Gupta, said there was no need for extension of his police custody because he had been cooperating with the investigating agency. Kukreja’s mother Niddhi told TOI her younger daughter has started an online signature campaign on change.org website (#JusticeForJhanvi) on January 7 and over 14,750 people have signed the petition till Tuesday. Jogdhankar lawyer Mahesh Vaswani argued that the Police is not inquiring into how my client Shree Jogdhankar got hurt with a chopper like 8 inch injury on back of his head, how he got his spinal chord damaged which has moved from original position and also how he has some ribs fractured. He argued that the Police have tried to force my client yo sign a letter which they made co-accused sign and the accused Shree Jogdhankar was crying in the Court asking me to inform this to court. I informed this and court orally directed the IO / Senior PI to not force accused dyo sign any such documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-sexual-assault-murder-victim-suffered-48-injuries/articleshow/80241300.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 13, 2021||India||RTI queries on debate on draft drew a blank||NEW DELHI: An RTI reply by agriculture ministry to queries seeking details of pre-legislative consultations on three farm laws shows that while the queries were circulated among different information officers, none were able to provide the information sought. In an RTI application filed in December, activist Anjali Bhardwaj sought details, including the website address where the bills were placed for pre-legislative consultation. The RTI was filed with the department of agriculture, cooperation and farmer welfare, of agriculture ministry. In another RTI, she asked for information ranging from dates and those who attended the meetings, records of proceedings and the states that were consulted. From the response, it comes through that the RTI queries were sent to different central public information officers in the ministry. While two transferred the requests, two others disposed of the requests. Of those who disposed of the requests, one from the marketing cell said “this CPIO does not hold any record in this matter”. The other CPIO, from marketing section 1 dealing with administrative work of the agricultural marketing division, disposed of the request last week, saying that “the information is treated as nil” as information sought does not pertain to her section and pointed that the RTI application has been marked online to CPIO marketing section 2, who deals with schemes related work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rti-queries-on-debate-on-draft-drew-a-blank/articleshow/80242233.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Decision soon on reopening schools from January 15||BENGALURU: With attendance levels in II PU and class 10 classes touching 50%, the education department is holding consultations with the health department and medical experts on reopening schools for other classes starting January 15. Primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the government is evaluating the situation as parents are requesting them to start classes from January 15 for other grades too. Regular classes for grade 10 and II PU students began on January 1 after Covid-forced closure for nine months. “I’ve visited 150-170 schools and PU colleges to understand how students and parents feel. It is heartening to see that everyone is happy and they are following all safety measures. Some students asked us why we did not reopen the schools and colleges earlier,” Kumar said in Chamarajanagar. He said the government will soon release a handbook with a syllabus for students in grade 10 and II PU and that will be suitable for teaching, learning and evaluation in the limited time left. He said he asked students if the government should promote them without an examination, and they replied in the negative and added that it was an encouraging signal. PU students said they wouldn’t be able to clear NEET and JEE without clearing board examinations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/decision-soon-on-reopening-schools-from-january-15/articleshow/80238862.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Hyderabad||Colleges not paying faculty despite fee reimbursement||Hyderabad: Despite receiving fee reimbursements dues from the government, technical colleges — engineering, MBA, pharmacy, among others — have allegedly not paid salaries to the faculty. Faculty members said that many colleges are not paying salaries since April. Few managements are said to be paying only 50% of the salary. “Except for a few top colleges, managements stopped paying salaries to their faculty members during the pandemic. Between November-December 2020, the state started releasing dues to college managements. But, even now the faculty members are yet to receive salaries,” said A Santosh Kumar, president, Telangana Schools’ Technical Colleges Employees Association. They said that even top colleges, which are collecting over one lakh rupees as the fee from each student, are not paying proper salaries. “Despite receiving reimbursement amount and collecting annual fees from students, my management is paying only 50% salaries,” said a faculty member, working at a private engineering college in Ghatkesar. They said that most of the colleges have divided faculty into different categories and are not paying them uniformly. “In a college, few faculty members are paid full salaries, some are paid 50% salaries, and others are not being paid at all. This is the case with almost all the colleges. Overall, about 40% of the teaching faculty in technical institutions are forced to survive without salaries,” said V Balakrishna Reddy, president, Telangana Technical Employees Association. The managements, meanwhile, said that they have only received a part of fee reimbursement dues from the state. “Till now, only SC/ST fee reimbursement dues are released. In the majority of colleges, 70% of total scholarships belong to BC students. Unless they are cleared, managements will not be in a position to clear salary dues,” said K Ramadas, co-convenor, Telangana Private College Management Joint Action Committee. Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University authorities, meanwhile, said that they have already given instructions to college managements to pay salaries to their staff and added that before sanctioning affiliation, they will be verifying the ground reality and will initiate action against erring colleges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/colleges-not-paying-faculty-despite-fee-reimbursement/articleshow/80240079.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Pune||One held for abusing traffic cops||Pune: The Wakad police on Monday arrested a 39-year-old man for abusing a traffic police officer, when the latter stopped him for jumping the signal at Rahatani Phata in Kalewadi. Around 11.30am on Monday, a team of the Sangvi traffic branch stopped Amol Nimse of Kalewadi at Rahatani Phata after he jumped the traffic signal. “He was not wearing a helmet. We also found that he didn’t have insurance of his scooter,” sub-inspector Mohan Jadhav said. When Nimse was told to pay the fine, he started abusing the police personnel. “He pushed me and fled. He was arrested later,” Jadhav said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-held-for-abusing-traffic-cops/articleshow/80240121.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kozhikode||Crime branch to probe tribal woman’s death in Wayanad||KOZHIKODE: Crime branch will now probe the case in which tribal woman Sobha (28) of Kalappura colony was found dead in a paddy field at Kurukkanmoola in Wayanad on Feb 3, 2020. Earlier, police investigation had found that she was electrocuted by an illegal electric fence set up around the field. Police said the decision to hand over the case to crime branch was taken on the basis of the petition by her mother to the district police chief seeking further probe on the ground that there was some mystery in the death of her daughter. Police said that some organizations, which are closely connected to Maoist groups, are engaged in fund collection from people in the guise of meeting expenses for the conduct of the case. "Some organizations –closely connected to Maoist organizations –are forcibly collecting money from trade and business. On the basis of a complaint received in this regard against an activist of Porattom, Mananthavady police registered a case and started investigation," police said in a statement. Earlier, police had arrested the land owner Jinu Joseph for culpable homicide on charges of setting up an illegal electric fence and the attempt to destroy evidence. But, the family of the deceased and the local action council has been saying that there were several unsolved mysteries in the case which the police investigation was not able to clear. The family had said that Sobha had left the house at night after receiving a call. Police said that people too had raised concerns about organizations that were collecting money by hoodwinking tribesmen and that those engaged in fund collection are collecting the money to provide it to banned Maoist organizations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/cb-to-probe-tribal-womans-death/articleshow/80237964.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Trichy||IIM Trichy hosts ‘International week’||Trichy: Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Trichy, hosted the fourth edition of annual ‘International week’ by bringing leading academicians from prestigious universities around the globe to the institute to impart their knowledge on diverse range of topics. The week-long event started on December 28, 2020 and went on till January 2. It included a wide range of topics including digital platforms, ethics in finance, financial innovation, contemporary issues in marketing ethics and design thinking for established and emerging business. This helps students connect with professors, who provide them with a broader and deeper understanding of the complexities of business from a global perspective. The entire event was conducted online. A total 21 faculty members from seven countries including Australia, Finland, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines, US, and UK took a total of 21 courses. Total 270 students participated overall.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/iim-trichy-hosts-international-week/articleshow/80241299.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||Nigerian drug dealer now booked for fake passport, visa||Vadodara: The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) lodged a complaint against a Nigerian citizen for using a fake passport and visa at the government railway police station in Vadodara on Monday. The man Mamdubueze Nonso Charles was arrested in March 2018 from Rajdhani Express train for possessing drugs. According to NCB sleuths, the passport found on Charles was found to be fake after it was verified by the Nigerian High Commission in New Delhi. The High Commission informed the agency that the passport number mentioned in Charles’s passport was of a woman named Grace Bosaiwa. The Indian visa stamp in Charles’s passport was also fake as well as the arrival and departure stamps on it. Based on NCB’s complaint an offence under the Passport Act and for cheating and forgery was registered. Charles is currently lodged at Vadodara Central Jail. On March 7 in 2018, NCB had apprehended him with 1.2 kilograms of heroin from Mumbai-bound Rajdhani Express train.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/nigerian-drug-dealer-now-booked-for-fake-passport-visa/articleshow/80237797.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Khattar meets Shah, says it’s cops’ call to junk cases||NEW DELHI: On a day when the Supreme Court put the three farm laws in abeyance and constituted a committee to look into the new laws, home minister Amit Shah held a meeting with Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and his deputy Dushyant Chautala to discuss the emerging situation as also the farmer unions’ plans to hold a tractor rally on the Republic Day. “We expect that the agitating farmers will end the stir and return to their homes after the SC order,” Khattar told reporters after the meeting and asserted that there was no threat to the state government and speculation about political instability in the state are baseless. Khattar confirmed that they had a detailed discussion with home minister about the SC order and also on Republic Day celebrations. “The Republic Day is celebrated by the entire nation and not by any political party. We expect cooperation of all in organising the celebrations peacefully,” the CM said and expressed hope that the agitating farmers have assured their cooperation in this regard. Asked as if there was any proposal to withdraw cases against some of agitating farmers, Khattar said it was for police to look into it and the state government had no role to play. Khattar and Chautala along with the state presidents of BJP, JJP and state cabinet ministers met the home minister here at North Block. Before meeting Shah, Chautala met MLAs of his party, Jannayak Janta Party (JJP), at a farm house, in which a section of them said that it would cost the ruling alliance heavily if the laws are not repealed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/khattar-meets-shah-says-its-cops-call-to-junk-cases/articleshow/80242237.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Himachal Pradesh governor in AP, CM pays courtesy call||VIJAYAWADA: Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya offered special prayers to the presiding deity Goddess Kanakadurga on Tuesday. The governor, who arrived in the city in the morning, visited the temple. Minister for endowments, Velampalli Srinivas, and temple officials received the governor with temple honours. The minister and the temple officials also felicitated the visiting governor. Later, Dattatreya visited state governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan. Mukesh Kumar Meena, secretary to governor, welcomed Dattatreya to Raj Bhavan. Harichandan and Dattatreya exchanged pleasantries. Chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy called on Dattatreya at the hotel he is staying. The chief minister detailed the series of welfare initiatives of his government to the HP governor. DGP Gautham Sawang and other senior officials also visited the visiting governor on the day. Earlier in the day, Dattatreya paid rich tributes to Swami Vivekananda on his birth anniversary. Dattatreya urged the youth to follow the life and teachings of Swami Vivekananda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/himachal-guv-in-ap-cm-pays-courtesy-call/articleshow/80238051.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Finally, a step towards sprucing up gardens||Nagpur: City gardens may soon get their charm back with major renovation in the works. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation is planning to invite an expression of interest (EOI) from private organizations to renovate and maintain all gardens. “The interested parties will have to mention how the garden will be developed, facilities that will be made available, landscape planning and the cost. The developer will have to mention special efforts to modernize the gardens, make it special and set a theme,” said deputy municipal commissioner Amol Chorpagar. He said NMC will give preference to local residents welfare associations (RWAs). Recently, TOI reported NMC was unable to maintain its 175 gardens due to lack of funds. Public gardens across the city, the only source of free recreation for the people, particularly senior citizens and children, are in a bad shape since long. TOI also reported on anti-social activities having increased in the gardens due to absence of security personnel. Following TOI’s report, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B held a meeting of the garden department officials and discussed how the civic body can ensure upkeep of the gardens. The civic chief suggested inviting expression of interest from private organisations willing to maintain them. “For maintenance of 175 gardens, NMC has allocated Rs 20 crore. This makes an average Rs 11 lakh for each garden. This is insufficient,” an official from the department said. At least Rs 50 crore per annum are needed for the upkeep of city’s lung spaces. The expenditure includes maintaining greenery, paying electricity bills, and deployment of security guards etc. Currently, NMC is maintaining four gardens with the help of citizens’ participation in which it saves Rs 81.02 lakh per annum and generates a revenue of Rs 2.81 lakh. In 2017-18, the NMC House had given its nod to the scheme after observing saving in NMC’s revenue, involvement of local citizens or welfare association for upkeep of gardens. Involvement of local residents will also help in curbing anti-social activities in gardens. Chorpagar said organizations will have to follow certain conditions. They will be allowed to levy entry fee from the people visiting the gardens. They will also be allowed to exploit a small portion of the garden for a food stall that can serve vegetarian foods, beverages, and ice-cream. Money generated from entry fees and food stall can help associations maintain the gardens, he stated. NMC will also take earnest money and security deposit from organizations willing to adopt a garden.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/finally-a-step-towards-sprucing-up-gardens/articleshow/80238941.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||NU sans NAAC accreditation for over a month||Nagpur: Even as all Indian universities and colleges strive to get good grade in National Assessment and Accreditation Council’s (NAAC) certification, Nagpur University is operating without it for over a month now. Thanks to NU administration’s apathy, after expiry of its five-year term, the one-year extension granted by Bengaluru-based council for continuation of accreditation lapsed on December 9, 2020, as the administration under then vice-chancellor SP Kane failed to submit the university's self-study report (SSR) in time. NU had received top grade in the last NAAC certification in December 2014 during the tenure of former divisional commissioner Anoop Kumar, who was handed over additional charge of VC after incumbent Vilas Sapkal was forced to resign over the issue of ‘250 banned colleges’ operating without teachers and infrastructure. He along with Kane, who was then internal quality assurance cell (IQAC) director, had made efforts to secure the ‘A’ grade. The University Grants Commission (UGC) has framed a regulation making it mandatory for all universities and colleges to be certified by the NAAC. The certification is necessary for receiving all types of grants from the UGC and under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA). Vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari and former registrar Neeraj Khaty said the university had sent a fresh SSR to the Bengaluru body. “It had raised some queries on our report and we would be replying soon. A team from the council is expected to visit university in February,” the NU officials told TOI. Explaining NAAC’s changed norms, Chaudhari said now the council grants 70% weightage to SSR and 30% to field visit and inspection by its team. “Earlier, major weightage used to be on the visiting team and accreditation used to depend on it,” he said. The newly appointed VC candidly admitted that this time NU has less chance of securing top grade due to various discrepancies. “We lacked in areas of research and consultancy, placement and social activities for students, which are key components in awarding grades. NAAC needs reports of various department-level activities like seminars and conferences. Unfortunately, such activities are not properly documented in our departments, though they happen regularly,” he said. NU is also facing problems of large scale vacancies of teaching and non-teaching staff across its departments and conducted colleges, but Chaudhari ruled out that it may affect the grading. “Currently, all universities are facing this issue, but all institutions are taking help of contractual teachers,” he said. The teaching and non-teaching vacancies are increasing drastically with each passing year, as Maharashtra government has prohibited all universities from filling up these posts, citing financial constraints. An RTI query by activist Abhay Kolarkar brought to fore that staggering 50% regular teaching posts are vacant in 34 departments and same is the condition of its conducted colleges. The situation has worsened after Covid-19 pandemic draining government’s finances. NU officials said the government wouldn’t be allowing recruitment in near future — till the pandemic ends and its finances improve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-sans-naac-accreditation-for-over-a-month/articleshow/80238952.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Andhra Pradesh HC posts hearing on SEC plea to January 18||VIJAYAWADA: The AP high court on Tuesday posted hearing to January 18 on the appeal moved by the state election commission challenging the single judge order suspending the notification issued for conducting elections to panchayats. This came after the state government assured the high court that there will not be any hindrance to the electoral process and they will seek prior permission of the SEC before launching any new schemes. The SEC moved a house motion petition for urgent hearing stating that the single judge order halting the electoral process does not augur well in a democracy. The HC division bench comprising Justice U Durga Prasad Rao and Justice B Krishna Mohan permitted the house motion and asked the SEC’s counsel to explain the urgency of the matter before going into the merits. N Ashwani Kumar, appearing on behalf of the SEC, explained that besides creating confusion among the voters, the suspension of notification also halted the preparation of electoral rolls which is essential in the process of holding elections. He further said that the model code of conduct cannot be suspended after election notification is issued. Advocate general S Sriram clarified that the electoral process will go on without any hindrance even if the notification is suspended. While assuring that the preparation of electoral rolls will also go on as per schedule, he told the court that the government will take prior permission from the SEC as per Supreme Court directions in case if any new schemes are launched. The advocate general further said that the government will cooperate with the SEC to hold elections as per schedule in the event the single judge order is vacated. Observing that there is no need for urgent hearing of the petition, the high court bench directed to list the matter to be taken up for hearing before the appropriate division bench on January 18.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/hc-posts-hearing-on-sec-plea-to-jan-18/articleshow/80238062.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||‘Probe appointment of security agencies’||Nagpur: BJP corporator Dharampal Meshram on Tuesday demanded an inquiry against deputy municipal commissioner Nirbhay Jain and assistant municipal commissioner Mahesh Dhamecha for hiding information related to the appointment of two security agencies Kishore Agency and Super Security Services for NMC. In a memorandum to municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, Meshram alleged that the two senior officials were deliberately hiding information about the agencies and provident fund details of security guards deployed by them. He alleged massive irregularities in appointment of the agencies. He also claimed that licences to provide security services obtained from Nagpur city police commissionerate by the agencies lapsed in July 2020. Despite this, the NMC continued their services and paid them. He said that in the past, the general administration department had discontinued services of three security agencies over the same issue. He claimed favouritism by the GAD officials. “I sought details of these agencies at least thrice, but each time the department refused over silly reasons. They also sought legal opinion over this but misinterpreted the opinion of lawyer Sharad Bhattad. The lawyer had actually suggested the department can seek details from the security agencies and recheck the allegations,” he said. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B assured an inquiry into the allegation levelled by Meshram. Meanwhile, Meshram expressed thanks to east Nagpur MLA Krishna Khopde and ex-mayor Sandip Joshi for funds allocation for Wathoda road. Municipal commisisoner on Tuesday issued work order worth Rs 6.47 crore to construct Sangharsh Nagar to Bhandewadi dumping yard road in Wathoda area. Meshram expressed anguish over the civic administration’s lackadaisical attitude in getting back 13,400 sq ft land in Mominpura given on lease to ML Canteen. “The lease of the said land expired a couple of years ago. Still, NMC is not taking possession of the prime land,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/probe-appointment-of-security-agencies/articleshow/80238955.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||‘May’ve backed laws, but won’t let farmers’ faith in SC diminish’||NEW DELHI: Former Rajya Sabha MP Bhupinder Singh Mann, one of four members of the committee set up by the Supreme Court on Tuesday to facilitate talks between farmer outfits and the Centre, said he would not allow the support he had extended to the farm laws to diminish the faith protesting farmers had in the apex court. The 81-year-old president of Bharatiya Kisan Union, like the three other members of the panel, had earlier supported the laws the farmers are protesting against. Hours after they were named, the farmers said they would not appear before the panel. How, then, would the committee win their trust? “I will press for a fair, impartial and pragmatic approach by the panel. I had supported the laws partially, while categorically seeking certain amendments,” Mann told TOI. “My responsibility now will be to involve all stakeholders. I won’t allow the letters to be part of committee discussions at all.” In two letters, one to PM Modi and another to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar, he had conveyed his support for part of the laws. In the letter to Modi on September 1, Mann had written: “When I heard preliminary news that your government is doing away with draconian laws on essential commodities, I was very thrilled and happy. I had thought of presenting you with a BKU badge. But on reading the fine print, the excitement was quick to fizzle out.” He had sought three things — an assurance that MSP would not be done away with in the form of an ordinance, an amendment to the Ninth Schedule to remove agriculture and agricultural land out of its ambit, and that a proviso of the Essential Commodities Act (under which stock limits would kick in based on price rise) be done away with. In the second letter, written in December on behalf of All India Kisan Coordination Committee, he had backed the laws more wholeheartedly. He had written that the entry of private buyers was “necessary” to bring remunerative prices. “There are certain people in Delhi trying to mislead farmer unions. We’re here to support the government’s laws as most of us were troubled with the old mandi regime.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mayve-backed-laws-but-wont-let-farmers-faith-in-sc-diminish/articleshow/80242238.cms||Rohan Dua
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Bird flu scare: Bhandara village under containment||Nagpur: The toll of poultry birds in Vidarbha crossed 500 on Tuesday. Poultry deaths have been reported in Nagpur, Bhandara, Yavatmal, Amravati and Akola districts. This has led to strict imposition of restrictive measures including home quarantine of poultry farm workers in Bhandara. However, no such measures have been taken in other districts where poultry birds have died too, said senior officials in the state’s animal husbandry department. The measures are taken considering the symptoms observed at the site, said officials. In any case, no action can be taken till the results confirm bird flu, they said. In Bhandara, orders have been issued to make Palandur the village, where 23 birds had died, a containment zone. This bars any movement in and out of the area. Even the farm owner Dhanjay Bhusari, the workers and their close contacts have been directed to stay under home quarantine for 14 days. Sale of poultry meat and eggs has been restricted within a radius of 1km of the farm. The farm in Bhandara had 300 birds in all. There has been no official confirmation that any of the deaths in Vidarbha are due to bird flu as reports of the tests are awaited. On Monday, a poultry farmer in Kovdi village of Kalmeshwar Tehsil reported deaths of 265 birds in his farm of 1,200 livestock. The samples will be taken for further tests. Early on Tuesday, another 230 deaths were reported at Lingti village near Pandharkavda town of Yavatmal district. This was followed by 23 deaths reported at Palandur village of Bhandara district. Here, a wild bird was also found and its sample will be sent for tests, said a source. In Amravati and Akola, eleven and three poultry deaths were reported respectively. Tests will be carried out on the carcass to confirm whether these birds had died due to bird flu or any other reason. The carcass is first sent to the state government’s laboratory in Pune to confirm the H protein of the virus after which it is sent the national institute of high security animal diseases (NISHAD) lab at Bhopal to confirm the N protein. Explaining the process, a source said carcass are frozen state to Nagpur for east Vidarbha and Akola for west. It is further transported in ice-packs to the lab in Pune. Awareness is also being spread on the safety of workers handling poultry. Like in case Covid-19, even poultry handlers are being advised to wear masks and gloves, said an official in the state’s animal husbandry department. This is because rather than consumption of meat or eggs, close contact with the bird leads to risk of infection, the source said. Meanwhile, rapid response teams have been formed in each of the tehsils to carry out surveillance. The owners of birds or animals have been directed to report any incident which shows signs of the disease in their livestock.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-flu-scare-bhandara-village-under-containment/articleshow/80238998.cms||Shishir Arya
January 13, 2021||Visakhapatnam||20-year-old woman stabs lover to death in Andhra Pradesh||KOVVUR (WEST GODAVARI): A 20-year-old woman stabbed her lover to death in West Godavari on Monday night. The woman allegedly stabbed the man multiple times causing him to die on the spot. The woman, identified as Pavani from Malakapalli village in Tallapudi mandal, has been arrested. According to the police, Pavani and Tataji were lovers. When Pavani’s parents came to know about their daughter being in a relationship in 2018, they made her stop going to college. In 2019, Pavani joined a college at Kovvur where she and Tataji resumed their relationship. But later, Pavani found out that Tataji was seeing other women. Humiliated, Pavani decided to exact revenge. On Monday, Pavani met Tataji and the couple went for a bike ride to Dondapadu in Gopalapuram in the afternoon. On their way back, on the Pavani, who was riding pillion, stabbed Tataji in the back. Tataji, riding the bike, fell down. Then, Pavani stabbed Tataji nearly 20 times. Tataji died on the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/20-year-old-woman-stabs-lover-to-death/articleshow/80238075.cms||Samson Raj
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Cleaner rapes woman twice despite 29 passengers inside bus||Nagpur: A 24-year-old woman’s claim of being raped twice in a moving luxury sleeper bus in the intervening night of January 5 and 6 has left cops baffled as the Pune-bound vehicle had 29 passengers on board. Even as the cops registered a rape offence against bus cleaner Sameer Devkar, they sounded unsure about the veracity of the crime. “We contacted a passenger but he could not recall anything strange happening during the journey. Two teams are engaged in tracing accused Devkar,” said Washim SP Vasant Pardeshi.Cops from Washim, who were in the city on Monday, visited Devkar’s residence in Sitabuldi. The woman alleged she was raped at knifepoint by Devkar, adding, he also gagged her during the act but cops have expressed doubts whether keeping the woman pinned for so long without any struggle or resistance was possible. The case was first registered at Rajangaon MIDC police station of Pune rural but later transferred to Malegaon police station in Washim after it had come to the fore that the rape took place during the journey. It’s learnt that the woman had exchanged numbers with Devkar while travelling to the city from Pune on December 27. A native of Gondia, the woman is employed with a private engineering firm in Ranjangaon. She was returning to Pune from Gondia on December 5. She had come to Nagpur to take a Pune-bound bus from Ganeshpeth. On December 5, she is learnt to have called up Devkar and sought his help to take a bus to Pune. The woman had sneaked into the bus with Devkar’s help without purchasing a ticket.Driver of the bus, Hussain Ali Mohd Ali Patel, said he spotted Devkar taking fried rice for the woman in the bus after they had stopped for dinner at Karanja Lad. “I was sleeping on seat number 6 while the woman was occupying seat number 12 or 13. There were couples, senior citizens, youngsters and many others around her seat. During the journey, two seats at the rear end of the bus got damaged after the vehicle went over a pothole and hence, some people were awake,” said Patel. “I met the woman at 6am (January 6) when she wanted to know the way to the washroom but she did not complain about anything,” he said. It’s learnt that Devkar sneaked away from Pune after the woman got down at Koregaon. Patel came to know about the rape on his way back to Nagpur when he was thrashed by the woman’s boyfriend and his friends who wanted to know Devkar’s whereabouts. Patel was assaulted after claiming to have no clue about Devkar. A shocked Patel approached Rajangaon police station to lodge a complaint against the woman and her boyfriend. The woman claimed she was raped in Patel’s bus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/cleaner-rapes-woman-twice-despite-29-passengers-inside-bus/articleshow/80239078.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||More deaths of birds hit poultry rates||Nagpur: Poultry rates have further dipped after more deaths of birds have been reported. Farmers are getting Rs45 a kg for live birds as against Rs50 a couple of days ago. Last week, farmers said traders made a killing by cashing in on the sentiment. The traders could purchase livestock at low rates by convincing farmers that prices may further fall. This helped traders sell birds at a hefty margin to retailers and eatery owners. Now, however, an overall slump in demand is being seen with even consumption going down, say farmers. Raja Dudhdade, president of Vidarbha Poultry Association, said a farmers needs to get at least Rs82 to 85 a kg to recover the expenses on each bird. “Even at this rate, farmers only earn a thin margin of not more than Rs5 per kg. Earlier this month we were hoping to get up to Rs90 a kg, but there was a gradual decline in the price,” he said. Dudhdade said the total production of poultry birds in Vidarbha is roughly estimated to be 600 tons a day. In terms of birds, it can easily translate to a supply of 3 lakh hens each day. Now, there is little scope for even the trader to profit as even the consumer demand is going down. There are fears that the rates may even reduce to Rs30 and finally, the farmers may have to dispose of the birds as it happened during early days of Covid. It is not feasible to feed the bird beyond 40 to 45 days, said farmers. It was a dull scene at chicken shops in the market as sellers had a few takers. Amit Duddalwar, the poultry association’s treasurer, has demanded that if government undertakes culling then the farm owners should get at least Rs200 a bird. FACTS AND FIGURES * Farmers getting Rs45/kg for birds against Rs50 few days ago * Traders making a killing by buying at low rates * Consumption of poultry going down * Farmer needs Rs82/85 a kg to recover expenses * Fears of rate reducing to Rs30/kg||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/more-deaths-of-birds-hit-poultry-rates/articleshow/80239059.cms||Shishir Arya
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar meets Andhra Pradesh governor, surrenders secretary||VIJAYAWADA: A day after dismissing joint director Sai Prasad from service, state election commissioner Nimmagadda Ramesh Kumar on Tuesday surrendered senior IAS officer Vani Mohan to the state government. Kumar said that the SEC does not require the services of Vani Mohan, secretary to the State Election Commission. The orders were issued after Kumar met governor Biswabhushan Harichandan at Raj Bhavan in the morning. Raj Bhavan sources said that the meeting lasted for 30 minutes and Kumar briefed the governor about the panchayat election schedule that was issued on January 8. The SEC told the governor that he had followed the Supreme Court directions and had held consultations with the state government before releasing the schedule. The SEC also updated the developments in the high court which cancelled the election schedule. The SEC has appealed against the suspension and the case is posted to January 18. On Monday, the SEC had dismissed the commission’s joint director Sai Prasad for going on leave for 30 days, when the commission was busy with the election schedule. The SEC also barred Sai Prasad from being engaged by the government in future either directly or indirectly. The SEC’s decision to surrender Vani Mohan to the government came as surprise to bureaucratic circles. Senior IAS officers took strong exception to Ramesh Kumar’s decision and wondered how the SEC would function without a secretary provided by the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/nimmagadda-meets-governor-surrenders-senior-ias-officer/articleshow/80238097.cms||Gopi Dara
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||NDRF constable arrested for theft in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Guntur (urban) police arrested an NDRF constable on Monday night for allegedly stealing gold ornaments worth Rs 30.5lakh from a higher official’s residence. Police said that the accused, Konuku Srinivas Rao (34), allegedly stole from NDRF commandant Santosh Kumar’s residence while he was out. Srinivas Rao was trusted by commandant Santosh Kumar.  Kumar would often give his house keys to Rao when he went out. Upon returning to his quarter on Monday, Kumar found his home ransacked and gold ornaments stolen. Cops arrived with the clues team and zeroed in on Rao as the main suspect. Soon, Rao confessed to the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ndrf-constable-arrested-for-theft/articleshow/80238132.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Congress, Left say panel can’t do justice but Pawar hails SC move||NEW DELHI: NCP chief Sharad Pawar struck a chord that was very different from Congress and Left in welcoming the SC order setting up a committee to examine the farm laws and said that this was a welcome step for farmers. The veteran politician’s tweet came even as Congress and Left parties on Tuesday said the SC-appointed panel cannot do justice to farmers as all its four members have taken a loud public stance in favour of the “three black laws”. But Pawar said, “A welcome decision taken by the apex court of India to put on hold the implementation of three farm bills and set up a four member committee to resolve the issues. It is a big relief for farmers and I hope a concrete dialogue between the Centre and farmers will be initiated now, keeping the farmers’ interests in mind.” His comments came even as he has met the Left members over the laws and amid efforts to taken on the government in the Budget session. AICC spokesman Randeep Surjewala told a presser that Ashok Gulati, P K Joshi and Anil Ghanwat have written and spoken for dismantling of MSP and public procurement regimes while Bhupinder Mann is a petitioner in the SC seeking implementation of the three laws. “We respect the court’s concern for farmers. But this committee cannot do justice to farmers, its membership is shocking. Who recommended these four names to the top court for the committee? Why was their background not scrutinised,” he asked. CPM chief Sitaram Yechury said, “Can anyone expect the protesting farmers to talk to such a committee? Farmers are left with no other option than to boycott this panel.” CPI chief D Raja said, “As opposition parties, we are all on the side of the farmers. We want that Parliament should function and take up this issue before anything else. How can Parliament members close their eyes to the thousands of farmers sitting in protest?” Rahul Gandhi asked if “such a committee” could be expected to deliver justice. “The SC needs to consider this… for any panel to be independent, its credibility must be beyond any doubt,” Surjewala said, adding, “We had great hopes but the committee formed has disappointed us.” The no-confidence in the panel came amid indications that the opposition would continue to press for the repeal of the three laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/congress-left-say-panel-cant-do-justice-but-pawar-hails-sc-move/articleshow/80242249.cms||Swati Mathur
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||Youth abducts ex-fiancee, mom; both rescued||Chandrapur: Local crime branch (LCB) here cracked a case of kidnapping within five hours and rescued a mother-daughter duo abducted by the girl’s jilted ex-fiance on Tuesday afternoon. LCB team headed by PI Balasaheb Khade arrested three accused in the case and handed over the rescued duo to Nagbhid police. Official sources informed that one Ramkrushna Bohoyar from Ruyargaon village in Kuhi tehsil of Nagpur was in love with a 19-year-old girl from Baharni village under Nagbhid police station. Both of them got engaged with the consent of their families a few months back. But recently the girl’s father broke their engagement over some dispute. Peeved over sudden refusal by the girl’s family, Ramkrushna decided to kidnap the girl and marry her by coercion. He planned the abduction with the help of five friends and reached Baharni at 11.30am. “Ramkrushna went to the girl’s house with his two friends, while others waited for him in a vehicle outside the village. The trio abducted the girl forcibly in broad daylight and dragged her to the vehicle. Her mother followed them wailing in a bid to rescue the girl. As the mother was not willing to leave the girl alone with the youths, the kidnappers took her along,” Khade told TOI. He claimed that the kidnappers took the mother-daughter duo towards Nagpur and changed their vehicle at Kanpa village in Nagbhid tehsil. From there, Ramkrushna took the girl and her mother with him and headed for Madhya Pradesh, while his friends went back to their village. Soon after LCB was alerted about the incident, Khade dispatched a team led by API Jitendra Bobade to Baharni village. Primary investigations indicated involvement of the jilted lover and LCB cops went after him. They took the help of Nagpur LCB and arrested two of Ramkrushna’s friends who participated in the abduction drama. Cyber cell sleuths tracked the mobile location of Ramkrushna and accordingly picketing was laid on Chhindwara road leading to Madhya Pradesh. “We intercepted Ramkrushna’s vehicle with both the abducted women en route to MP. The duo was rescued, while main accused Ramkrushna was arrested. The accused was handed over to Nagbhid police for further action,” said Khade. Entire operation was accomplished within five hours of the kidnapping, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/youth-abducts-ex-fiancee-mom-both-rescued/articleshow/80239083.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 13, 2021||Vijayawada||Three women die in road accident||TIRUPATI: Three women of a family died in a road accident after the autorickshaw they were travelling in was hit by a bus at Muddanur mandal in Kadapa district on Tuesday. Six women from Pedda Dudyala village had gone to Muddanur town for Sankranti shopping. The accident occurred while they were on their way home. The deceased were identified as Lakkineni Balavardhanamma, Lakkineni Adilakshumma and Lakkineni Narsamma. One more passenger was grievously hurt. Muddanur police have registered a case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/three-women-die-in-road-accident/articleshow/80238149.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||10-ft-long injured crocodile rescued from Virod village||Vadodara: Residents of Virod village on the outskirts of the city were in for a shock when they went out in an open field on Tuesday morning. A 10-foot-long crocodile had crawled out of Vishwamitri River and was resting in the fields. The locals contacted Hemant Vadhwana, an animal activist, who then rescued the reptile with the help of forest officials. The crocodile had a deep injury on its rear leg. “Crocodiles are very territorial reptiles. This crocodile must have got into a fight with another crocodile to guard his territory and got injured in the fight. The reptile left the river after the fight and was probably looking for another abode. It crawled for over one kilometre in an injured state,” Vadhwana said.“The locals spotted it when it was migrating and called us. The forest department is now treating the crocodile which will then be released in its natural abode. We hope that it will recover within the next few days,” Vadhwana added. Vishwamitri River is home to hundreds of crocodiles that usually migrate from one spot to another during monsoons. Wildlife activists said that the reptiles usually don’t migrate in winters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/10-ft-long-injured-crocodile-rescued-from-virod-village/articleshow/80237852.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Countdown to Delhi vaccination begins with 2.6 lakh doses landing||NEW DELHI: After over 10 months of counting Covid-19 cases daily, the capital on Tuesday began to keep track of a new tally with 2.64 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine arriving at Delhi airport. Stored at the city’s largest and central Covid vaccine cold storage facility at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in east Delhi, the vials will inject new hope into the fight against the pandemic from Saturday. Starting with 8,900 healthcare workers, who are to be inoculated at 89 booths across the capital, the unprecedented campaign aims to vaccinate 2.25 lakh healthcare workers before moving on to other vulnerable groups and gradually widening the scope to cover people in the rest of the city. The vials are protected by three security layers and have been stored at an optimal temperature (2 to 8o C). A cold van delivered 22 boxes of vaccines at the hospital with each box containing 12,000 doses. 100 to be vaccinated a day at each boothEach box has 1,200 vials and each vial contains 10 doses. An official said the entire storage facility at the hospital is under 24x7 CCTV surveillance with Delhi Police personnel and the hospital’s own security staff standing guard. The vaccine will be sent by the health & family welfare department in cold vans to over 89 cold chain points which are located near 89 vaccination booths where the drive will be launched. An official said the vaccine can be stored easily at the cold chain points for a long period. "For the booths located at the government facilities, the vials will be sent a day before Saturday while for the booths located at private hospitals, these will be sent on Saturday morning," said Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor and head of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a public health expert. CM Arvind Kejriwal will kickstart the vaccination programme at a function at Lok Nayak Hospital. At each vaccination booth, only a 100 people will be vaccinated in a day. Those who have enrolled for vaccination will receive text messages from the districts a day earlier mentioning date and time and address of the booth. The SMS and an identity card will be needed to be produced at the booth. Each booth will have three rooms and will be guarded by Delhi Police and managed by civil defence volunteers. Verification of the credentials of the beneficiary will be done in the first room and entries will be made on the Co-WIN app. The person will then be inoculated in another room. The next stop will be the observation room where the beneficiary will have to stay for 30 minutes to guard against any adverse event. Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital was selected after the Centre wrote a letter to the Delhi government a few months ago asking for identifying a space of around 5,000 square metres. A team of the Union health ministry surveyed and approved the utility block after which the building was retrofitted. "The modifications carried out included changing of existing doors so that the deep freezers for bulk storage could be brought in easily. More electricity points were also added and adequate power back-up arranged," said a gover nment official. Delhi government has identified two more storage facilities. "We also have our existing facility at Battery Lane in north Delhi’s Civil Lines area as a secondary storage point and a third one has been identified at the office of the Directorate General of Health Services in Karkardooma in east Delhi. However, two storage facilities would be more than enough for our requirements and we have identified the third one in case the need arises," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/countdown-to-delhi-vaccination-begins-with-2-6-lakh-doses-landing/articleshow/80242272.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 13, 2021||India||Dynastic politics new form of dictatorship: PM Modi||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday launched a fresh attack on dynastic succession and sense of entitlement in the country’s politics, saying it is a menace and new form of dictatorship, which needs to be uprooted for which youth of the country could play the most vital role. “Some necessary changes in politics are yet to happen. Dynastic politics, which is the biggest enemy of democracy, is still flourishing. Dominance of dynastic succession in politics is the biggest enemy of the country, which needs to be rooted out,” the Prime Minister said. Exhorting the youth, the PM, who was addressing the valedictory function of the National Youth Parliament Festival, organised at the Central Hall of Parliament on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, said, “It is true that the days of those winning polls by virtue of surnames are numbered but the disease of dynasty in politics is not over completely.” Modi has consistently targeted Congress and BJP’s regional rivals for being dynastic outfits. He said there are certain people in politics for whom the sole agenda is how to safeguard the dominance of their families. “Yeh rajnitik vanshvad loktantra me ek naye rup ke tanashashi ke saath hi desh par akshamata ka bojh bhi badhata hai,” (dynastic succession in politics is not only a new kind of dictatorship but also imposes an inefficient leadership on the country,” the PM said. Modi said dynasties in politics think about their families first and nation comes later for them, which is also a huge reason for political and social corruption in India. “Dynastic successors in politics feel that their ancestors, despite being corrupt, remained unscathed. They see this deformed tendency in their families, therefore, they develop a sense of entitlement and neither they respect nor fear the law of land,” the PM said. Although Modi and other BJP functionaries have highlighted the issue on several occasions but this could be the harshest criticism of the trend in the country’s politics which the saffron party has been highlighting to not only target the Gandhi-Nehru family but several regional parties, which are predominantly led by particular political families. The PM said this trend can be changed through awareness in which youth of the country will have to take the responsibility. “As long as youth of the country doesn’t come forward and join politics, the poison of dynastic succession will continue to weaken the democracy of our country,” he said. He said there was a time when politics used to be synonymous with loot, corruption but it has changed now and people of the country are encouraging and supporting honest people as honesty and performance are integral to politics now. “Those who had borrowed corruption as legacy, it has become burdensome for them. They have not been able to get rid of their corrupt legacy,” Modi said and added that even public representatives have realised importance of a strong CV to contest polls. Three young national winners of the Festival also spoke on the occasion. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and Youth Affairs & Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju also spoke. The PM remarked that even with the passage of time, impact and influence of Swami Vivekananda remains. “His views on nationalism and nation-building and his teachings regarding serving the people and serving the world continue to inspire us.” Speaking on the occasion, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla said, “We should resolve to make the highest use of the energy and power of the youth for the revival of our country and strengthening its constitution and Parliament.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dynastic-politics-new-form-of-dictatorship-pm/articleshow/80242278.cms||Akhilesh Kumar Singh
January 13, 2021||Delhi||Delhi cops create green corridor for safe passage to vaccines||NEW DELHI: Delhi Police created a green corridor and deployed escort vehicles for the smooth passage of two trucks that left the Indira Gandhi International Airport on Tuesday afternoon with Covid-19 vaccines on board. Two PCR vans escorted each truck, one to Rajiv Gandhi Superspecialty Hospital in Dilshad Garden and the other up to the Haryana border on its way to Karnal. Delhi Police commissioner S N Shrivastava monitored the process. His deputy, Muktesh Chander, who is the nodal officer for the Covid vaccination drive, coordinated the transportation, creating in the process a template for the transport of subsequent consignments. After reaching the airport, the 22 boxes each holding 12,000 doses of the vaccine, were placed in the two temperature-controlled vehicles. The first left for Karnal around 1.15pm, followed an hour later by the truck going to Rajiv Gandhi Hospital. Manish Agrawal, joint commissioner of police (Traffic), said, "We provided a green corridor for the smooth movement of the vehicles, which were able to cover 40km in around 52 minutes." Rajiv Ranjan, DCP (IGIA), added that besides the PCR vans, a large number of police personnel were deployed on the roads to facilitate the progress of the vaccines. The truck was greeted with claps by health workers and other people at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital in Dilshad Garden. Around 30 police officers were present at the hospital to ensure the safety and security of the vaccine. Officers said a three-layer security is in place there, consisting of CCTV coverage and protection provided by Delhi Police and the hospital's security staff. All roads leading to the building where the vaccine has been stored are being monitored. "We have asked the hospital to authenticate the people allowed access to the area where the vaccine is placed," disclosed Amit Sharma, DCP (Shahdara). "We have also advised the hospital to install CCTV cameras on some roads leading to the storage building. Our personnel will be present round the clock." Covid vaccination is set to begin on Saturday with the health workers being given the jab first.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cops-create-green-corridor-for-safe-passage-to-vaccines/articleshow/80242281.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||After a record fall, India’s daily Covid case count rises to 15,900||A day after dropping to a 208-day low, fresh Covid-19 cases in India again climbed above the 15,000 mark on Tuesday even though the general declining trend in cases and deaths continued. India reported 15,913 new cases on Tuesday as testing numbers were back to nearly 9 lakh after a sharp drop to 6.6 lakh on the previous day. The lower testing and other disruptions normally seen every weekend had led to the case count falling to 12,507 on Monday, as per TOI’s data collated from state governments. The death toll from the pandemic too rose to nearly 200 (at 199), up from 169 recorded on Monday. However, both the daily case count and deaths were lower than the numbers recorded on the previous Tuesday, a rough indicator of the continuing decline in the pandemic. On the previous Tuesday (January 5), India had registered 17,875 fresh cases and 228 fatalities. Kerala continued to record the highest number of fresh cases at 5,507, followed by Maharashtra (2,936). No other state reported infection numbers in four figures, with count in Karnataka and Bengal the third highest in the country (both at 751). Maharashtra again recorded the highest number of deaths at 50, followed by Kerala (25), bengal (18) and Delhi (16). Kerala’s seven-day average test positive rate has been fluctuating between 9% and 10% for the past two months. Since the New Year, the state’s seven-day average TPR is the highest in the country. TPR is the percentage of people who test positive for the virus out of the total tests conducted. In contrast, India has been able to bring down its seven-day average TPR from 4.1% on November 15 to 2.1% now. Delhi recorded 386 fresh Covid-19 cases on Tuesday and the positivity rate remained much below one per cent, authorities said. This was the ninth time that the daily case count stood below the 500-mark in January. Tamil Nadu on Tuesday logged 671 new cases taking the tally to 8,27,614 while the death toll increased to 12,236 with eight more fatalities. Significantly, the daily case count dipped below the 200 mark in Chennai after over eight months. Rajasthan on Tuesday reported 293 fresh Covid infections, the lowest daily addition in the past 199 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-a-record-fall-indias-daily-covid-case-count-rises-to-15900/articleshow/80242286.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Delhi||PM to interact with Delhi health workers on Saturday||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is likely to interact with healthcare workers who will receive Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi's Lok Nayak Hospital and AIIMS on Saturday. Sources said the hospitals have been intimated about this. “We have received a communication from the Delhi administration about the Prime Minister’s plan to interact with healthcare workers through videoconferences. Arrangements are in place for the same,” said a source at AIIMS, who did not want to be quoted. On Monday, PM Modi held a virtual interaction with the chief minister of states and administrators of Union Territories to discuss preparations for the mass vaccination. Health workers, from both the government and private sectors, will be the first ones to receive the vaccine. Along with them, safai karmacharis, other frontline workers, such as police and paramilitary personnel, home guards, disaster management volunteers and other jawans in civil defence, and revenue officials associated with containment and surveillance, will also receive the vaccine in the first stage. The second round of immunisation will aim to cover priority population groups of those above 50 years and those below 50 years but with pre-existing diseases. In Delhi, 89 vaccination centres have been selected for the first phase. Lok Nayak and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty will also have a videoconferencing facility for two-way interaction during the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/pm-to-interact-with-delhi-health-workers-on-saturday/articleshow/80242300.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Nagpur||1.84L Covid vaccines arrive in Vidarbha||Nagpur: 1.84 lakh Covid-19 vaccines arrived in Vidarbha on Wednesday and Thursday. The number of vaccines arrived are more than the number of health care workers registered for the vaccination programme. After 10 months of pandemic, vaccination of health care workers will begin in 71 centres from 9am on January 16 in 11 districts of Vidarbha. From January 18, vaccination will start at more centres. Vaccines of five districts of Amravati division — Amravati, Akola, Buldhana, Washim and Yavatmal — arrived late Wednesday evening in Akola and for six districts of Nagpur division — Nagpur, Chandrapur, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara — at 2.30am on Thursday. Barring Wardha, all other districts picked up their allotted vaccines by 4.30am from Mata Kacheri where the office of deputy director of health services is located. In Nagpur city, vaccination will commence at five centres on January 16 and at all 60 centres from January 18. The target is to vaccinate 100 health care workers at each centre. 1.56 lakh health care workers are registered in 11 districts of Vidarbha for phase-I of vaccination programme. Frontline workers will be administered vaccine in the second phase followed by people above 50 years age and then below 50 years age with comorbidities. Watch Nagpur: 1.84 lakh Covid vaccines reach Vidarbha||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-84l-covid-vaccines-arrive-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80262370.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||Bank recovery agent takes away man’s phone, cash||Vadodara: A metal fabricator’s mobile phone and cash were forcefully taken away by three men who claimed to be recovery agents of a private finance bank near Waghodiya bridge on national highway 48. The victim, Ramniklal Makwana, registered a complaint of extortion at Panigate police station on Monday. Police said that Makwana was stopped on the highway on January 9 by three men, who had come on a bike without registration plate. They identified themselves as the recovery agents of the finance bank from which Makwana had taken loan for his car. They asked Makwana to pay Rs 10,000 to them as he had not paid instalments for the car loan. When Makwana said that he regularly pays the instalments, one of them took away his car’s key and asked him to pay immediately. Makwana paid Rs 5,000 and they took away his mobile phone and asked him to follow them. Makwana said that they drove towards Kapurai Chowkdi and then on Dabhoi Road, but suddenly disappeared. When Makwana could not find them, he returned home and gave a complaint on Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bank-recovery-agent-takes-away-mans-phone-cash/articleshow/80237945.cms||---
January 13, 2021||India||Parl panel will summon Twitter, Facebook over banning of accounts, changes in privacy policies||NEW DELHI: The parliamentary standing committee on information technology on Tuesday unanimously decided to summon Twitter and Facebook to explain their actions in recent days to ban accounts and institute sudden changes in privacy policies -- a move that comes in the backdrop of US President Donald Trump being banned on Twitter. The decision on Trump has given rise to the question of whether private enterprises doing public service could unilaterally exercise the power to remove people from platforms. Sources said panel members also agree unanimously that while Twitter has repeatedly referred to itself as a data intermediary, it has acted in this instance as both publisher and censor, and must, as a result explain its actions, since they have consequences not just for the US, but for India and the rest of the world. Similar questions will also be posed to Facebook (and WhatsApp), which the committee decided to summon over the recent changes in privacy policy, and which has led to large-scale exodus from the platform in India. Summons to the two social media giants are expected to be sent out soon and the date of the panel’s meeting will be fixed accordingly. On Tuesday, the panel also discussed the functioning of the Unique Identity Authority of India (UIDAI), where representatives of UIDAI spoke about the extent of Aadhaar coverage in India. They also negated specific questions about data breaches, maintaining that safety protocols at UIDAI were robust, and breaches, if any, had only happened at the level of external agencies. Officials also told the panel the Aadhaar enrolment remains voluntary. On Wednesday, the panel will examine the functioning of the Central Board of Film Certification, commonly referred to as the censor board.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parl-panel-will-summon-twitter-facebook-over-banning-of-accounts-changes-in-privacy-policies/articleshow/80242340.cms||Swati Mathur
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||1.2 crore in Karnataka may get vaccine after healthcare staff||BENGALURU: Karnataka’s health department and the National Health Mission (NHM) estimate that at least 20% of the state’s population is expected to be vaccinated against Covid-19, soon after the initial phases covering healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers is completed. Arundathi Chandrashekar, mission director, NHM-Karnataka, told TOI: “There are an estimated 1.2 crore people with comorbidities and aged above 50 years that we are looking at as part of priority inoculation.” That is about 20% of the state’s population. The Union health ministry and the central government have already said there could be 27 crore people in this category across the country and every state is identifying individuals who fit the category. Officials said estimates are based on data from an existing door-to-door survey of seniors with comorbidities that was conducted across 30 districts in mid-2020. The survey was conducted to ascertain vulnerable populations that needed to be put on Covid-19 surveillance. Other data, including previous family surveys, has also gone into drawing up estimates. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, had told TOI earlier that the state has the wherewithal to even conduct another survey to identify specific kinds of people if the need arises. However, nothing has been cast in stone as of now since the immediate priority is to inoculate healthcare and frontline workers. As reported earlier, the first phase of the drive is expected to see beneficiaries self-register — on the Co-WIN app, which is an upgraded version of the Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) initiative used for regular vaccination drives — for inoculation. Modalities are still being tweaked. Frontline workersWhile nearly 6.6 lakh HCWs had registered to receive the vaccine as on Monday, various government departments and ministries, including home, revenue and defence, are collecting data on frontline workers. TOI had earlier reported that the state government had estimated there would be around five lakh HCWs and 10 lakh frontline workers in Karnataka. The number of frontline workers may be slightly lower since chief minister BS Yediyurappa had said 15 lakh people would be vaccinated under the first two priority categories — HCWs and frontline workers together. However, the total number for the two categories combined appears to be the same (15 lakh) as reported earlier. Also, as reported earlier, Karnataka, along with some other states had requested that the priority list be expanded and wanted more people to be included under the frontline workers category. Arundathi had told TOI earlier that many states have asked for additions and that the Centre, at the time, had included only armed forces, DRDO and defence research, police personnel and urban municipal workers as frontline workers. “We’ve asked that revenue officials, teachers, rural municipality workers and panchayat officials also be included. But the government of India will take the final call based on the recommendations of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration (NEGVA),” she had said. Now, the Centre has included revenue officials to the list of frontline workers, but some of the others, including GP workers and teachers remain out of the category. “We will have to wait and see,” one state government official said, pointing out that requests have been made with the Centre to include more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/1-2cr-may-get-vax-after-frontline-staff/articleshow/80239744.cms||Chethan Kumar
January 13, 2021||Mysuru||Petitioner seeks non-Karnataka judge, HC slaps Rs 1 lakh cost||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on a petitioner, who made a request that a judge from outside of Karnataka should hear a civil dispute concerning Sosale mutt in Mysuru. V Gururaj, from Bengaluru, is the second respondent in the case, which is pending before a single bench of the court. The petitioner contended that a former Chief Justice of India, from Karnataka, had “a strong clout” over judges elevated from the state’s bar. Terming the allegation “unfortunate” and “an attempt to cast aspersions on the former CJI”, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said, “The averments constitute a classic example of scandalising the court, which, per se, (is) criminal contempt of this court. The allegation is that the roster judge will not give justice to the petitioner since there’s an excessive interference of a former CJI, who is specifically named. We are deliberately not mentioning the name. Paragraph after paragraph, there are allegations against the said former CJI. This kind of serious contempt of scandalising the court has to be condemned in the strongest possible words.” Court imposes cost for attempt to scandalise the judiciaryThe court said it was not initiating suo motu action against the petitioner, in line with the top court’s suggestion of showing “majestic liberalism” in such matters. The court allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition and imposed the cost for attempting to scandalise the judiciary. The cost should be paid to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority in a month and the same will be utilized for activities of assisting and helping the children who sell toys and articles in Bengaluru. The bench said, “We expect the petitioner to immediately go before the single judge and withdraw the submission. If the said submission is not withdrawn, (then the) option of initiating suo motu proceedings is always open.” Referring to the top court’s dictum, the court told the petitioner that a member of the bar is expected to act “first as an officer of the court and then as a mouthpiece of his client”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mysuru/petitioner-seeks-non-ktaka-judge-hc-slaps-1-lakh-cost/articleshow/80242374.cms||Vasantha Kumar
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Petitioner seeks non-Karnataka judge, HC slaps Rs 1 lakh cost||BENGALURU: The Karnataka high court on Tuesday imposed a penalty of Rs 1 lakh on a petitioner, who made a request that a judge from outside of Karnataka should hear a civil dispute concerning Sosale mutt in Mysuru. V Gururaj, from Bengaluru, is the second respondent in the case, which is pending before a single bench of the court. The petitioner contended that a former Chief Justice of India, from Karnataka, had “a strong clout” over judges elevated from the state’s bar. Terming the allegation “unfortunate” and “an attempt to cast aspersions on the former CJI”, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka said, “The averments constitute a classic example of scandalising the court, which, per se, (is) criminal contempt of this court. The allegation is that the roster judge will not give justice to the petitioner since there’s an excessive interference of a former CJI, who is specifically named. We are deliberately not mentioning the name. Paragraph after paragraph, there are allegations against the said former CJI. This kind of serious contempt of scandalising the court has to be condemned in the strongest possible words.” Court imposes cost for attempt to scandalise the judiciaryThe court said it was not initiating suo motu action against the petitioner, in line with the top court’s suggestion of showing “majestic liberalism” in such matters. The court allowed the petitioner to withdraw the petition and imposed the cost for attempting to scandalise the judiciary. The cost should be paid to the Karnataka State Legal Services Authority in a month and the same will be utilized for activities of assisting and helping the children who sell toys and articles in Bengaluru. The bench said, “We expect the petitioner to immediately go before the single judge and withdraw the submission. If the said submission is not withdrawn, (then the) option of initiating suo motu proceedings is always open.” Referring to the top court’s dictum, the court told the petitioner that a member of the bar is expected to act “first as an officer of the court and then as a mouthpiece of his client”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/petitioner-seeks-non-ktaka-judge-hc-slaps-1-lakh-cost/articleshow/80239733.cms||Vasantha Kumar
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||Vaccination countdown begins: Karnataka receives 6.5 lakh doses||BENGALURU: Karnataka, which is waiting for 13.9 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, received 6.5 lakh doses on Tuesday when the first consignment arrived in Bengaluru. The second consignment, expected to arrive from Pune to Belagavi, is likely to have 50,000 to 1.5 lakh doses. By January 16, when the vaccination drive kicks off, the state is likely to have 8 lakh doses and they can be administered to 4 lakh healthcare professionals. Two doses need to be administered 28 days apart. The priority list will now be redrawn. Also, the drive may not begin on January 16 at all 235 vaccination session sites across the state. “Now that the quantity of vaccines we received has been reduced by half, compared to what was earlier communicated, we have to redraw the plan. There may not be 235 vaccination sites as planned earlier and we’ll have to redraw the quantity to be distributed to districts and the beneficiary list too,” said Dr Arundhati Chandrashekar, mission director, National Health Mission, Karnataka. ‘More people will be vaccinated after May’M ore people will be vaccinated after May as additional vaccines will be manufactured by then, health minister K Sudhakar said. While chief minister BS Yediyurappa had said 5 lakh people would be vaccinated under the first two priority categories — healthcare workers and frontline workers together, 6.6 lakh health workers had registered till Monday. Tuesday was the last day for them to register. Dr Chandrashekar said the consignment received is to be used for both first and second doses given to beneficiaries. With each healthcare worker getting two doses, the current stock is enough for not more than 4 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase. Over 6 lakh health workers have been identified. Besides, it’s an accepted norm in immunisation drives that 10% of vaccines would be considered as wastage, say authorities. “When 0.5 ml is drawn from a vial to a syringe, it’s measured through eyes and it is possible that we miss out on 10 % of the drug as wastage this way. But that happens with all vaccines and it is an accepted phenomenon. During the transportation too, there could be chances of damage,” said Dr Rajani Nagesh Rao, deputy director, immunisation, health and family welfare department. The distribution of vaccines to all 30 districts is yet to begin. The beneficiary list, doses to be sent to districts and number of vaccination sites in districts will be decided by the Centre and the authorities are waiting for its decision. Each dose contains 0.5ml and each vial contains 10doses. The first dose is to be administered within 10 days from January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/vaccination-countdown-beginskarnataka-receives-6-5l-doses/articleshow/80239742.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 13, 2021||Bengaluru||8 in, 1 out? Suspense on as BS Yediyurappa expands cabinet today||BENGALURU: After waiting for nearly a year, chief minister BS Yediyurappa will expand his cabinet on Wednesday afternoon, inducting eight lawmakers and dropping at least one from his ministry. After failing to get the party leadership’s nod in the past 4-5 months despite multiple visits to Delhi, the CM met Union home minister Amit Shah last week and secured the go-ahead for the exercise. All seven vacancies will be filled, sources said. Senior MLAs Umesh Katti (Hukkeri), S Angara (Sullia), Murgesh Nirani (Biligi), Bengaluru lawmaker Arvind Limbavali and MLC CP Yogeshwar are expected to be sworn in along with defectors MTB Nagaraj, R Shankar and N Munirathna, who are now BJP MLCs. Yediyurappa told reporters on Tuesday he will release the list of ministerial probables either late Tuesday or Wednesday morning. Asked if he was dropping any member from the cabinet, the CM said: “Everything will be known on Wednesday.” Sources said the chief minister is reportedly mulling to drop excise minister H Nagesh following a complaint of graft charges against him to the PMO. Yogeshwar may become ministerGovernor Vajubhai Vala will administer the oath to the new ministers at Raj Bhavan after 3.50pm. Other names doing the rounds are Halappa Achar from Koppal, Arvind Bellad from Dharwad, Narsimha Naik aka Raju Gouda from Yadgir, and K Poornima from Hiriyur. Despite opposition from within the BJP, CP Yogeshwar may become a minister since he has made a strong case citing his role in toppling the coalition government and that he is a counterforce to DK Shivakumar of the Congress and HD Kumaraswamy of JD(S) in Ramanagara. The CM had said ogeshwar will be made a minister “100%”. Nirani’s name is being considered as there is less representation for Panchamasali Lingayats, a subsect of the Lngayat community. S Angara is a coastal representation, besides being a senior MLAs with six wins.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/8-in-1-out-suspense-on-as-bsy-expands-cabinet-today/articleshow/80239724.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Sisir Adhikari removed from Digha devpt authority post||Kanthi: The Bengal government has removed BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari’s father and Trinamool’s Kanthi MP Sisir Adhikari from the post of chairman of Digha-Sankarpur Development Authority (DSDA). The state urban development department appointed Trinamool’s Ramnagar MLA Akhil Giri as the new DSDA chairman. The Adhikari patriarch is the family’s second member to lose a state administrative post 10 days after Suvendu’s youngest brother Soumendu was removed as administrator of Contai Municipality, following which he joined BJP. Another brother, Dibyendu, continues as member of Haldia Development Authority (HDA) even after Suvendu gave up its chairman’s post before joining BJP. Elaborating on the decision, state urban development minister Firhad Hakim said: “Sisirda is not keeping well. He is not being able to attend DSDA meeting.” Giri told TOI he came to know about the government’s decision from media. “I am yet to get the formal communication from the administration. I can manage DSDA because I had been vice-chairman for long,” he said. Asked about Sisir, the Ramnagar MLA too spoke along the lines of Hakim. “Sisir Adhikari held two meetings of DSDA at Kanthi SDO office during lockdown. But he is not being able to discharge his administrative duties for months due to illness. What else can the government do if he is unable to hold meetings due to family reasons?” Giri said. Sisir didn’t take calls from TOI. Later, he told the media that he came to know about the state’s decision from media. “I have nothing to say. No one consulted me,” Sisir said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sisir-adhikari-removed-from-digha-devpt-authority-post/articleshow/80241294.cms||Suman Mandal
January 13, 2021||Kolkata||Go to UNHCR over four Rohingyas: HC to Bengal, Centre||Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court has asked the Centre and the West Bengal government to move the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) over four Rohingyas who have served their sentence in Dum Dum central correctional home but continue to remain in prison. The four had slipped into India from Myanmar in February 2016, and were intercepted and prosecuted for entering the country without valid documents. The Rohingyas had appealed to HC, pleading that they had served their prison term of around 447 days and not been indicted in any other criminal case but continue to be lodged in prison. Their lawyer, Sudip Ghosh Chowdhury, pleaded before a division bench of Chief Justice Thottathil B Radhakrishnan and Justice Arijit Banerjee that they should either be moved to an open jail or provided some relief from this continued imprisonment. The Bengal government, however, told the court that people who were not Bengal residents could not be lodged in open air jails. The HC said: “We are of the view that it is for the Government of the State of West Bengal and the Government of the Union of India to take requisite steps to move the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to consider the cases of the four petitioners for appropriate ameliorative action at that end.” It added: “We are sure that the governments will take up the matter with due earnestness.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/go-to-unhcr-over-four-rohingyas-hc-to-bengal-centre/articleshow/80241312.cms||Subrata Chattoraj
January 13, 2021||Ranchi||Chatra farmers sow saffron, junk rebel-forced illegal poppy cultivation||CHATRA: Slowly, but steadily, farmers of Chatra, a rebel-hit district and infamous for illegally cultivating poppy, are taking up legal farming through flowers and other pricey things such as saffron. In Kanhachatti block, farmers of seven villages — Amkudar, Gudiya, Pathel, Baniabandh, Pachfedi, Bengokhurd and Saraiya — have cultivated saffron on 12 acre land for better returns. For the farmers here, Pawan Singh of Joldiha village in Huntergunj block was an inspiration. Singh was the first to cultivate saffron on his seven cottah land last year at an investment of Rs 30,000. Singh said, “I earned Rs 5 lakh after selling the produce and this year I have sowed seeds on 13 cottah land.” Resident of Amkudar village Suresh Singh Bhokta said he purchased saffron seeds from Singh and used his five cottah land to sow them. Sushma Devi of Saraiya village said they all turned towards saffron cultivation after knowing about it from Singh. “If we get good profit, we too shall invest more money in it and sow it on a larger land,” she said. Meanwhile, the promising prospects of saffron have paved way for gullible farmers to be cheated. In Giddhore block, middlemen cheated farmers by giving them seeds of kusum flower instead of kesar and charged them Rs 30,000 per kilogram of the seeds. Farmers were shocked when the flowers grew in October last year. Kusum flowers are used to make edible oil. Dr Ranjay Kumar Singh, scientist of the Krishi Vigyan Kendra in Chatra, told TOI that saffron cultivation started for the first time in Joldiha of Huntergunj. “This year, for the first time, it has been cultivated in a large scale at Kanhachatti as well as in Huntergunj and Giddhore. We are giving trainings to farmers and helping them get buyers. Saffron needs a cold climate to grow and for this, Kashmir is the best. In Chatra, quality is low if compared to those grown in Kashmir, but still it has a big market,” he said. He added that he had talked to scientists of the Saffron Study and Research Centre situated in Jammu and Kashmir to provide maximum guidance to farmers of Chatra. “They assured me to provide the required help from next year,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/chatra-farmers-sow-saffron-junk-rebel-forced-illegal-poppy-cultivation/articleshow/80238389.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Vadodara||New Covid cases go below 80 in Vadodara||Vadodara: The number of new Covid-19 cases registered in a day went below 80 for the first time since July 21 as 78 persons tested positive for the viral infection the city and district in the 24 hours ending on Tuesday evening. According to the bulletin issued for the city and district, 3,418 samples were tested since Monday evening and 78 were found positive. Against this, 75 positive cases were declared in the city and district out of 548 samples tested on July 21. The number of persons who died due to Covid-19 being the primary cause remained at 240 with the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) confirming no more deaths. The victims do not include those persons who tested positive for Covid-19 but died due to co-morbidities or other ailments. Eighty persons were discharged from home quarantine or hospitals on Tuesday leaving 1,053 live cases. The live cases include 41 persons in a serious condition on BIPAP machines or ventilators in hospitals even as 111 are breathing with the help of oxygen support.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/new-covid-cases-go-below-80-in-vadodara/articleshow/80238000.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Jamshedpur||In a first, Chaibasa forest div installs intelligent system to mitigate man-animal conflict||Jamshedpur: The Chaibasa forest division in West Singhbhhum district has become the first in the state to install Animal Intrusion Detection and Repellent System (ANIDERS), an intelligent system, to mitigate the man-animal conflict. The division has installed the system at four villages of Angardiha panchayat in Tantnagar block while 17 more villages will be covered in the coming days. Chaibasa divisional forest officer (DFO) Satyam Kumar on Tuesday said the mechanized device will prevent incidents of man-elephant conflict in the area that comes under the Singhbhum Elephant Reserve (SER). The officer further said ANIDERS uses infra-red sensors to detect animal movement and works as a mechanized scarecrow. He said, “Whenever there is a movement of wild animals within its range, it would generate patterns of light and sound to scare the wild animals away." The system, which has several features like real-time communication via GSM network, is solar-powered, has no running cost involved and is not expensive. Explaining the working of the system, the DFO said villages which lie in the vicinity of a forest and impacted by man-animal conflict would be encircled by ANIDERS so that they a become protected zone. The official said to make the system effective, a proper ground-based survey was conducted before the installation and the elephant corridors were mapped thoroughly by a forest field staff led by IFS officer Ahmed Bilal Anwar. He also said the system was installed under the Wildlife Management Plan of Tata Steel, Noamundi. The plan is mandatory for mining firms operating in forest areas. In the last three years, at least 12 people have died and injured another 12 in the man-elephant conflict in the forest division. Besides, 353 houses were damaged and 1354 cases of crop trampling were reported during the period. The division had disbursed an amount of Rs 1.2 crore in compensation for the damage and the loss of life, Kumar added. Expressing gratitude to the forest department for installing the system, the chairman of the local van samiti, Mangal Singh Sirka, said, "Our crops and houses were under continuous threat from elephants. Moreover, we were afraid of going out at night. Now, we feel relieved."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/in-a-first-chaibasa-forest-div-installs-intelligent-system-to-mitigate-man-animal-conflict/articleshow/80238375.cms||B Sridhar
January 13, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Fever, flu cases rise amid sudden rise in temperature, aggravate Covid concerns||RANCHI: With a sudden rise in maximum and minimum temperatures across Jharkhand in the last few days, several persons have been visiting doctors and physicians with complaints of seasonal diseases. On Monday, Jamshedpur remained warm with a minimum temperature of 18° Celsius and a maximum of 31° C while the mercury at Ranchi was at 16.3° C at night and 27.5° C during daytime. On Sunday, Ranchi had recorded 17.6° C minimum temperature, the highest for the month in 50 years. While weathermen attribute this sudden change to a western disturbance and its impact, many are clueless about the exact reason for the unusual weather pattern. Meanwhile, there has been a sharp spike in the number of people visiting healthcare experts with complaints of cold, cough and sore throat are common and most are concerned that they could have been infected with Covid as the new disease has symptoms similar to those of the common flu. “Over the last few days, there has been a significant increase in the number of people visting doctors with cough and fever. I have been suggesting everyone to get tested for Covid so that they can be sure about their condition,” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad said. “Common flu will mostly subside on its own, but a simple Covid test will help prevent more and more people from getting infected as the patient will exercise some restraints and take necessary precautions,” he said. Eminent ENT specialist Dr Abhishek Kumar Ramadhin is also getting many patients with influenza-like symptoms. “There is obviously some link between the weather change and these cases of viral fever. On an average, everyone is attacked by virus seven to eight times a year, but depending upon their health condition, people either fall ill or recover with minor symptoms,” he said. Emphasizing that a Covid test is key to rule out the possibility of more severe infection and health complications, Ramadhin said that during the pandemic, all influenza-like symptoms must be considered as Covid unless ruled out by test. “From our study of cases related to the novel coronavirus and other viruses, we have gathered that a runny nose or sneezing is not as common among Covid patients as dry cough. Other conditions like seasonal viral fever and allergic reaction to change of seasons is usually accompanied with running nose, sneezing and cough with sputum,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/fever-flu-cases-rise-amid-sudden-rise-in-temp-aggravate-covid-concerns/articleshow/80246970.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 13, 2021||Ranchi||Will take Covid vaccine to allay fears if needed, says Banna Gupta||RANCHI: Ahead of the nationwide rollout of the Covid-19 vaccine on January 16, state health minister Banna Gupta on Tuesday said he is ready to volunteer for taking the shots, if required, as a part of confidence-building measures against apprehensions of the efficacy of the vaccine. However, in the same breath, he appealed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to come forward and do the same to clear doubts about the vaccine among the countrymen. Speaking to local reporters in Jamshedpur on Sunday, Gupta, a Congress MLA from Jamshedpur West, had initially cast doubts on the efficiency of the vaccine and cited pending clinical trials. Clarifying his stand on Tuesday, he said, “My statement was in light of the claims and counterclaims that are being made by drug companies that have deepened fear over the efficacy of the two vaccines which the Union government has permitted for restricted use. It is therefore more important for Prime Minister Narendra Modi to induced confidence among the people of the country that there won’t be any side effects.” Notably, Gupta was among four other ministers of the state government who were infected with Covid-19 last year. Jharkhand is expected to receive the Covishield vaccine on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/will-take-vax-to-allay-fears-if-needed-says-banna/articleshow/80238341.cms||---
January 13, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Fever, flu cases rise amid sudden rise in temperature, aggravate Covid concerns||RANCHI: With a sudden rise in maximum and minimum temperatures across Jharkhand in the last few days, several persons have been visiting doctors and physicians with complaints of seasonal diseases. On Monday, Jamshedpur remained warm with a minimum temperature of 18° Celsius and a maximum of 31° C while the mercury at Ranchi was at 16.3° C at night and 27.5° C during daytime. On Sunday, Ranchi had recorded 17.6° C minimum temperature, the highest for the month in 50 years. While weathermen attribute this sudden change to a western disturbance and its impact, many are clueless about the exact reason for the unusual weather pattern. Meanwhile, there has been a sharp spike in the number of people visiting healthcare experts with complaints of cold, cough and sore throat are common and most are concerned that they could have been infected with Covid as the new disease has symptoms similar to those of the common flu. “Over the last few days, there has been a significant increase in the number of people visting doctors with cough and fever. I have been suggesting everyone to get tested for Covid so that they can be sure about their condition,” Ranchi civil surgeon Dr VB Prasad said. “Common flu will mostly subside on its own, but a simple Covid test will help prevent more and more people from getting infected as the patient will exercise some restraints and take necessary precautions,” he said. Eminent ENT specialist Dr Abhishek Kumar Ramadhin is also getting many patients with influenza-like symptoms. “There is obviously some link between the weather change and these cases of viral fever. On an average, everyone is attacked by virus seven to eight times a year, but depending upon their health condition, people either fall ill or recover with minor symptoms,” he said. Emphasizing that a Covid test is key to rule out the possibility of more severe infection and health complications, Ramadhin said that during the pandemic, all influenza-like symptoms must be considered as Covid unless ruled out by test. “From our study of cases related to the novel coronavirus and other viruses, we have gathered that a runny nose or sneezing is not as common among Covid patients as dry cough. Other conditions like seasonal viral fever and allergic reaction to change of seasons is usually accompanied with running nose, sneezing and cough with sputum,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/fever-flu-cases-rise-amid-sudden-rise-in-temp-aggravate-covid-concerns/articleshow/80238332.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 13, 2021||Jamshedpur||Jharkhand: Education department to defer JAC exam dates||RANCHI: The state education department on Tuesday said it would reconsider the examination dates announced by the Jharkhand Academic Council (JAC) for the Class X and intermediate classes, which are scheduled to be held from March 9 to 26. Senior officials of the department said various factors were being taken into account for the decision and would soon give a direction to JAC in this regard. They department would consider whether the period of around two months given to the students is sufficient to cover the syllabus prescribed for the academic year. It may be stated that the syllabus of Class X and intermediate courses have already been reduced by 40%. Director of secondary education, Jata Shankar Choudhary, said, “We will also would also take into consideration the examination schedules announced by various boards in the neighbouring states in this regard.” Notably, the JAC had decided to hold examination from March 9, thus extending the dates by about 25 days compared to previous years. JAC chairiperson Arvind Singh said while disruption of studies during the lockdown was a factor for the deferment of the examination, they did not want to further delay the process too much as it would affect the announcement of results. Other JAC officials were of the view that conducting examination, evaluation and publication of results would take more time than usual under the Covid-19 conditions. "So far, we have not received any direction from the government regarding extension of the examination dates," an official said. Meanwhile, principal of a government school, Ashutosh Singh, said it would be very helpful for students if the dates were extended. He said, “The students' confidence would grow substantially if they get a reasonable period of classroom studies which has started since the end of December.” He said that several teachers were of the view that the dates should be extended by a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/edu-dept-to-defer-jac-exam-dates/articleshow/80246923.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
