January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Firm orders 1,250 bicycles, battery-run ones in demand||CHANDIGARH: The private company, which has been carrying out the Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) project in the city, has placed an order for 1,250 bicycles. The project will be operational by May-end. The company’s record clearly shows that the craze for battery-operated bicycles is more as compared with the manual ones. Firm orders 1,250 bicycles, battery-run ones in demandAll the 5,000 bicycles will come to the city in a phased manner, and the first phase will be complete by May-end. Besides, 155 docking stations will also come up by then. “Since the project has been planned in a time-bound manner, the company has placed orders accordingly. The project has shown tremendous success so far, but the number of people opting for battery-operated bikes is quite high. In the coming days, the company will order more battery-operated bicycles,” a senior officer said. As per records, to date over 15,000 have registered with the PBS project and the centre has been receiving a number of query calls daily. The company is gathering more data, so that it could get clarity on usage and demand of the bicycles in the coming days. The project was started on a trial basis in the last week of October, and at present there are over 250 bicycles with 25 docking stations. The docking stations have been set up at prominent locations of the city like Sukhna Lake, Sector 17, Sector 22, PU, PGI, Punjab and Haryana high court, among others, on a pilot basis. The chargesThe charges for bicycles under the PBS project will decrease for the members from May-end. Since the company has to start making members by May, the charge will be half for them. At present, the riders have to pay Rs 20 for one hour and Rs 10 for half-an-hour, which will be halved when they become members. The charges will be the same for both battery-operated and manual bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firm-orders-1250-bicycles-battery-run-ones-in-demand/articleshow/80273185.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||UT proposes not to hike power tariff as dept in profit||CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to city residents, the UT electricity department has proposed not to hike power tariff for the financial year of 2021-22. The department in its power tariff petition submitted before Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) stated as the department has been making profit, it has decided not to propose any hike. The department made the suggestion in an annual revenue requirement (ARR) and tariff petition for 2021-22 submitted to the power regulatory body. Power bill may not go up as dept in profitThis will be the third consecutive financial year, when there will be no power tariff hike in Chandigarh. The last increase in the domestic and commercial electricity tariff was in 2018-2019. In the domestic category, the approved rate is Rs 2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units, Rs 4.80 in the slab of 151-400 unit. In the slab of above 400 units, the rate is Rs 5.20 per unit in the current fiscal. In the commercial consumer category, the power rate is Rs 5 in the slab between 0-150 units, in slab of 151-400, the rate is Rs 5.30 per unit. In above 400 slab, it is Rs 5.60 per unit. Last time, there was a hike in power tariff for 2018-19 financial year. At that time, the JERC had marginally increased rates in domestic and commercial categories and reduced them for the industrial category. In the domestic category, rates had been increased from Rs 2.55 to Rs 2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units, while there had been no change in the rate of Rs 4.80 in the slab of 151-400 units. In the slab of above 400 units, the rate had gone up from Rs 5 to Rs 5.20 per unit. Along similar lines, a small increase in the commercial consumer category had been made in 2018-19. In the commercial category, there was no change in the rate of Rs 5 in the 0-150 slab, while in the slab of 151-400, the rate was increased from Rs 5.20 to Rs 5.30 per unit. In above 400 slab, the rate was increased from Rs 5.45 to Rs 5.60 per unit. MONTHLY BILLING SYSTEMThe JERC, in its last year order, directed the UT electricity department to implement monthly billing system for all the categories except agriculture pumping system in the UT. The JERC had also directed the department to expedite the work on execution of the energy audit. The commission had also asked the department to submit a detailed report of voltage-wise transmission and distribution (T&D) losses along with the next tariff petition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-proposes-not-to-hike-power-tariff-as-dept-in-profit/articleshow/80257418.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 14, 2021||World||Pakistan stepped up crackdown on media, failed to stem violence against women, minorities in 2020: Report||NEW YORK: Human Rights Watch in its World Report 2021 said that Prime Minister Imran Khan-led Pakistan government intensified its crackdown on the media, political opponents and civil society in 2020, while failing to stem violence against women and minorities. The report mentions that authorities harassed and at times, prosecuted human rights defenders and journalists for criticising government policies. The government has also deployed the National Accountability Bureau (NAB), the country's anti-corruption watchdog, to detain political opponents and critics of the government, including the Dawn editor Mir Shakil-ur-Rehman, who was held without bail for six months. "Pakistan's continuing assault on political opponents and free expression put the country on an increasingly dangerous course... Threatening opposition leaders, activists, and journalists who criticise the government is a hallmark of authoritarian rule, not a democracy," said Brad Adams, Asia director at Human Rights Watch. Furthermore, the report highlights worsening violence against Pakistan's Ahmadiyya community in 2020, with at least four Ahmadis killed for alleged incidents of blasphemy. It also noted that the government failed to amend or repeal blasphemy law provisions, which have led to arbitrary arrests and prosecutions and has provided a 'pretext for violence' against religious minorities. Several leading women journalists had issued a statement in August, where they had condemned the "well-defined and coordinated campaign" of social media attacks, including death and rape threats, against women journalists and commentators whose views and reporting have been critical of the government. In September, a Lahore police chief made a public statement suggesting that a woman, who had been gang-raped on a highway in Punjab, was herself at fault because she should not have been "travelling without her husband's permission" on a motorway late at night. In addition, data from domestic violence helplines across Pakistan have indicated that cases of domestic violence increased by 200 per cent from January-March 2020, and further worsened during the Covid-19 lockdowns after March. Partial or complete Covid-19 lockdowns to prevent the spread of infection also had a disproportionate effect on women workers, especially home-based and domestic workers. (ANI)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/pakistan/pakistan-stepped-up-crackdown-on-media-failed-to-stem-violence-against-women-minorities-in-2020-report/articleshow/80257006.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Seven new entrants to BS Yediyurappa cabinet, excise minister H Nagesh quits||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday inducted seven ministers into his cabinet, including two defectors whose exit from the previous JD(S)-Congress government paved the way for the formation of the BJP government in July 2019. After nightlong suspense over the names on the list, the new entrants to the 17-month-old cabinet were MLAs Umesh V Katti (Hukkeri), Aravind Limbavali (Mahadevapura), S Angara (Sullia) and Murugesh Nirani (Bilgi); and MLCs R Shankar, MTB Nagaraj and CP Yogeshwar. Governor Vajubhai Vala administered the oath of office to the ministers at Raj Bhavan in a simple ceremony with limited guests, owing to Covid-19 protocol in place. Prominent among those who attended included BJP general secretary in charge of Karnataka Arun Singh and BJP state unit president Nalin Kumar Kateel. Late evening, excise minister H Nagesh was dropped from the cabinet and appointed chairman of the Dr BR Ambedkar Development Corporation, with the rank of cabinet minister. The incumbent chairman of the corporation, S Munikrishna, has been moved to Marketing Communication and Advertising Ltd. A communication from the CM’s office said Nagesh voluntarily resigned as minister and opted for a new post. The move came hours after Nagesh attended the cabinet meeting and expressed confidence that he would continue in office. Resentment as some MLAs feel left outWhile Shankar, Nagaraj and Yogeshwar — seen to have helped form the BJP government — were rewarded for their “sacrifice”, RR Nagar MLA N Muniratna reportedly fell off the list at the last minute following a direction from the central party leadership. During his campaign for the RR Nagar bypoll held in November last year, Yediyurappa had openly declared that Muniratna would be made a minister if he is elected. Soon after the expansion, Munirathna, along with deputy CM CN Ashwath Narayana, met Arun Singh and is understood to have made his case for a ministry. With the induction of Limbavali, Yediyurappa’s cabinet will now have eight ministers representing Bengaluru while Katti’s entry takes the Belagavi contingent to five. The number of MLCs rose to five, with Shankar, Nagaraj and Yogeshwar joining deputy CM Laxman Savadi and muzrai minister Kota Shrinivas Poojary. This is the third expansion of the Yediyurappa cabinet in 17 months and it is now at full strength — 34 — on the basis of the size of the House, as per constitutional norms. Resentment erupted after Yediyurappa announced the names of seven ministers earlier in the day. A dozen miffed party legislators expressed severe reservations about MLCs being made ministers, lack of representation to some regions and “seniority or sacrifice” being disregarded. Senior BJP MLA Basanagouda Patil Yatnal and MLC AH Vishwanath went on to accuse the chief minister of acting under blackmail while others alleged money had exchanged hands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/7-new-entrants-to-bsy-cabinet-excise-minister-nagesh-quits/articleshow/80257686.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||22 city galleries to participate in four-day art exhibition||In its ninth edition, the Mumbai Gallery Weekend will have 22 galleries and design venues participating. Talking about it to us, Tara Lal, gallerist says, “The challenge this year has been our inability to visit our artists’ studios and physically see the work being made for our show. But with the combination of Zoom and faith in our artists, we have brought together a show we are proud of.”  This coordinated art event brings together galleries, aims to engage diverse audiences with a host of exhibitions showing the best art being made in India and further afield. Rooshad Shroff one of the participating artists is a name synonymous with architecture, interiors and art and talking about the exhibition he says, “During the pandemic, the downtime allowed us to work on projects which we typically would not have the luxury of time to create.”  The MGW in the previous years has been about celebratory previews with artists being toasted. Tara says, “That might not happen this year, but we are so glad that we are on the path back to normality. All galleries in the city have been open for a while now and have safety protocols in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/22-city-galleries-to-participate-in-four-day-art-exhibition/articleshow/80258393.cms||Debarati S Sen
January 14, 2021||India||Vijay Mallya loses appeal bid over bankruptcy proceedings in UK high court||LONDON: Fugitive economic offender Vijay Mallya has failed to be granted an appeal hearing in the London high court to argue that the bankruptcy petition against him should be dismissed. On Wednesday his barrister Philip Marshall appeared before Justice Birss in the chancery division of the high court to make a renewed oral application for permission to appeal the decision by ICC Judge Briggs last year to adjourn the bankruptcy petition for at least six months to see whether settlement could be achieved, rather than dismiss it. Briggs had also allowed the Indian banks, to whom Mallya now owes around Rs 10,000 crore, to submit an amended petition after failing in their first one to declare they held security over some of Mallya’s assets in India, in breach of the Insolvency Act. Marshall said the petition should be dismissed as the debt is disputed as there is a case before the Supreme Court of India, which could lead to a compromise settlement. “The Supreme Court of India could impose a solution on the debtor and their creditors, irrespective of their consent, which disposes of the debt. This was addressed in the form of the expert report of Verma who said Mallya’s prospects of success were more than just fanciful,” he said. “Dr Mallya has put forward a proposal which is that he has various assets in India in the form of shares in UBHL and third parties and he says these assets are sufficient to meet the debts of the petitioning banks and to discharge those debts. This can only sensibly be resolved in India,” Marshall added. He also said if the bank’s breach in the first petition was deliberate, this was an abuse of process and the judge should dismiss the petition. He said the judge had erred by not taking the bank's security over UBHL (United Breweries Holdings Ltd) assets into account as well. Justice Birss refused permission to appeal on the grounds that there was no real prospect of success and said the argument about reaching a settlement in India could be raised in current proceedings, which were still ongoing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vijay-mallya-loses-appeal-bid-over-bankruptcy-proceedings-in-uk-high-court/articleshow/80258044.cms||NAOMI CANTON
January 14, 2021||India||150m cross-border tunnel unearthed in J&K||JAMMU: The BSF on Wednesday unearthed a 150m-long tunnel along the international border in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector, purportedly constructed to facilitate the infiltration of terrorists into India from Pakistan. This is the third such tunnel found in Jammu over the past six months. “On specific intelligence inputs, alert BSF troops detected the tunnel near Bobiya border outpost area in Hiranagar this (Wednesday) morning. The tunnel has an opening of about two-three feet, is around 20-30ft deep and 150m-long from the opening point with its origin towards Pakistani territory,” BSF IG (Jammu frontier) N S Jamwal, who visited the spot, said. On the opposite side is Pakistan’s Shakergarh, which is notorious for having launch pads and bases for terrorists. “With a spate in inputs regarding tunnelling activities by Pakistani elements, BSF carried out an anti-tunnelling exercise all along the international border to thwart infiltration bids,” Jamwal said. Sandbags with Pakistani markings found in the tunnel indicated the involvement of the Pakistani establishment in its construction, akin to the previously detected tunnels which also had such sandbags, he added. “Pakistan is always looking for an opportunity to push terrorists into J&K. They are continuing with the attempts but we are fully alert about the situation,” a BSF official said. Last year, the BSF had detected two similar tunnels in Samba district on August 28 and November 22, besides successfully neutralising infiltrators believed to have used these tunnels. Three Jaish-e-Mohammad ultras from Pakistan were killed in an encounter in Nagrota after they were intercepted aboard a Kashmir-bound truck in January last year, and four Pakistani terrorists armed with weapons and a huge cache of grenades were slain at the same spot on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/150m-cross-border-tunnel-unearthed-in-jk/articleshow/80259134.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 14, 2021||Jammu||150m cross-border tunnel unearthed in J&K||JAMMU: The BSF on Wednesday unearthed a 150m-long tunnel along the international border in Kathua district’s Hiranagar sector, purportedly constructed to facilitate the infiltration of terrorists into India from Pakistan. This is the third such tunnel found in Jammu over the past six months. “On specific intelligence inputs, alert BSF troops detected the tunnel near Bobiya border outpost area in Hiranagar this (Wednesday) morning. The tunnel has an opening of about two-three feet, is around 20-30ft deep and 150m-long from the opening point with its origin towards Pakistani territory,” BSF IG (Jammu frontier) N S Jamwal, who visited the spot, said. On the opposite side is Pakistan’s Shakergarh, which is notorious for having launch pads and bases for terrorists. “With a spate in inputs regarding tunnelling activities by Pakistani elements, BSF carried out an anti-tunnelling exercise all along the international border to thwart infiltration bids,” Jamwal said. Sandbags with Pakistani markings found in the tunnel indicated the involvement of the Pakistani establishment in its construction, akin to the previously detected tunnels which also had such sandbags, he added. “Pakistan is always looking for an opportunity to push terrorists into J&K. They are continuing with the attempts but we are fully alert about the situation,” a BSF official said. Last year, the BSF had detected two similar tunnels in Samba district on August 28 and November 22, besides successfully neutralising infiltrators believed to have used these tunnels. Three Jaish-e-Mohammad ultras from Pakistan were killed in an encounter in Nagrota after they were intercepted aboard a Kashmir-bound truck in January last year, and four Pakistani terrorists armed with weapons and a huge cache of grenades were slain at the same spot on November 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jammu/150m-cross-border-tunnel-unearthed-in-jk/articleshow/80261707.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 14, 2021||India||After saffron, J&K seeks GI tag for gucchi mushroom||JAMMU: After inclusion of saffron in the list of Geographical Indication (GI) tag products, Jammu & Kashmir wants to claim the same status for gucchi mushrooms from Doda. This mushroom variety is among the world's costliest food items that grows wild and is collected manually. Through Great Mission Group Consultancy, Pune, the J&K administration has submitted an application for its GI registration with the Registrar of GI Registry, Chennai. Ganesh S Hingmire, chairman of the consultancy group, presented the copy of GI application to J&K principal secretary, agriculture production & farmers welfare, Navin Kumar Choudhary, who lauded his efforts and also praised Sagar D Doifode, Doda deputy commissioner, for his painstaking efforts for the Doda gucchi project. Choudhary averred that Doda gucchi is one of the most popular, flavourful, medicinally beneficial mushroom species found in the forest areas of J&K. It is priced at anything between Rs 30,000 to 50,000 for a kilogramme. Scientifically named morchella esculenta, it is prized for its spongy, honeycomb texture and unique flavour. Choudhary said the GI tag will prevent unauthorized use of a registered geographical indication by others and provide legal protection to Doda gucchi mushroom, which in turn will boost its export. “It will also promote economic prosperity to locals in the geographical territory as the farming community follows the practice of collection of gucchi from the forest areas from generations together. They penetrate deep inside dense forests for its collection,” he said. On July 25 last year, the Government of India had issued a certificate of GI registration for saffron grown in Kashmir Valley.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-saffron-jk-seeks-gi-tag-for-gucchi-mushroom/articleshow/80259208.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 14, 2021||India||Railways to announce Rs 440 cr project in Bengal before state polls||NEW DELHI: Ahead of the upcoming assembly election in West Bengal, the railway ministry is all set to approve approximately Rs 440 crore fourth greenfield coaching terminal project at Dankuni near Kolkata. Currently, there are three such terminals - Howrah, Kolkata and Sealdah - and these are already congested. The project may be announced in the next couple of weeks, sources said. The Eastern Railway has sent the proposal to the Railway Board. The project site is barely nearly 15 km from Howrah. The announcement of this project is being seen as yet another attempt of the Centre to woo the voters in West Bengal where BJP is targeting to dethrone the Mamata Banerjee government. According to the proposal, Eastern Railway has got three coaching terminals and all these are now saturated from pit line capacity, platform availability and stabling line point of view. Moreover, there is a limited number of platforms at Howrah and Sealdah station to deal with 24 coaches. Due to non-availability of railway land, there is no scope for further expansion of these terminals, sources said. Dankuni is a suburban station under Howrah division of Eastern Railway, which has good connectivity with Kolkata by road and by rail. Officials said nearly 100 acre un-encroached railway land without infringing the existing infrastructure of the goods terminal. Sources said the project has good financial viability. “This will be for developing a mega coaching terminal with all modern infrastructure and other necessary facilities,” said a source. The project is also crucial considering that the Indian Railways is developing sectional capacity of the different sections of the golden quadrilateral and golden diagonals. The creation of new infrastructure will also meet the likely increased demand of mail-express trains from metro cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/railways-to-announce-rs-440-cr-project-in-bengal-before-state-polls/articleshow/80259243.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 14, 2021||India||Police arrest another China national in loan apps case||HYDERABAD: Telangana police on Wednesday arrested Chinese national HE Jian and an Indian associate from Thane in the illegal instant loan app case that has links across the country. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat said they came across the names of Jian, alias Mark, 26, and his Indian associate Vivek Kumar, as key operators of the Instant loan business after interrogating Liang Tian Tian, a Chinese woman, and two others picked up on December 25 from a Pune call centre. The officials have so far arrested five Chinese nationals. Three of them, Yi Bai, Liang TianTian, and Zhu Wei, alias Lambo, have been arrested in the past two months and booked in the instant loan app case. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August for running an online gambling racket in which a large number of Indians have lost crores of rupees. In the latest case, police landed in Thane after examining more than 100 laptops and documents seized in the Christmas day raid, and found Jian holed up there along with Vivek.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/police-arrest-another-china-national-in-loan-apps-case/articleshow/80259511.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||30-day interfaith marriage notice violates privacy, not a must: Allahabad high court||LUCKNOW: The Allahabad high court’s Lucknow bench has ruled that it should be optional rather than mandatory for an interfaith couple to give 30 days’ prior notice to a marriage officer to register their wedding under the Special Marriage Act, 1954. Enforcing a notice period on the couple is tantamount to intruding on their fundamental right to privacy and liberty, the court said. “If the couple doesn’t want to go for publication of the 30-day notice, the marriage officer has to solemnise their wedding forthwith,” Justice Vivek Chaudhary said while disposing of a habeas corpus petition filed by a Hindu man married to a woman who was born Muslim but converted before the wedding. Petitioner Abhisekh Kumar Pandey alleged that his wife Sufia Sultana was being held captive by her father because she converted and got married according to Hindu rituals. Justice Chaudhary based his judgment on three key observations. First, the law must keep evolving with time and societal change. Second, it shouldn’t violate anyone’s privacy, a fundamental right underscored in several orders of the Supreme Court. Lastly, when there is no provision of a 30-day notice period to get married under various personal laws, why should this be mandatory under the Special Marriage Act? The court, however, clarified that the onus would be on the marriage officer to verify the identity, age and valid consent of the couple and their eligibility to marry under the relevant law. “In case the marriage officer has any doubt, it shall be open for him to ask for appropriate details or proof as per the facts of the case,” the court said. Responding to an earlier directive, the father of Sufiya alias Simran had produced his daughter in court. During the course of the hearing, she and Abhisekh told the court that they were consenting adults who had married of their free will because they wanted to live together. Simran's father thereafter gave his personal consent to their marriage. While the case was amicably closed, the court took notice of the fact that under the Special Marriage Act, it is mandatory to give 30 days’ notice for an interfaith couple to legalise their union. Abhisekh and his bride had pleaded before the court that any such notice would be an invasion of their privacy and cause unnecessary social pressure and interference in their decision to marry. They also pointed out that many interfaith couples face the same challenge. The petitioner’s counsel said the circumstances had become even more difficult for couples in Uttar Pradesh under the Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, which treats conversion through marriage as illegal and punishable. He argued that in the light of changes in society, amendments to the Special Marriage Act and various judgments of the Supreme Court in regard to the privacy, liberty and freedom of choice of a person, it is imperative to revisit the provision for a 30-day notice period and understand whether this is to be treated as mandatory or directory in nature. Citing various orders of the Supreme Court and recommendations of the Law Commission of India in 2008, the court concluded: “...the procedure of publication of notice and inviting objections to the intended marriage in Act of 1954 thus has to be such that would uphold the fundamental rights and not violate the same...No reasonable purpose is achieved by putting the provision of 30 days notice publication under the Special Marriage Act.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/30-day-notice-for-interfaith-marriage-optional-says-hc/articleshow/80259570.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka plans tax hike, properties outside Bengaluru to get costlier||BENGALURU: Prices of properties in Karnataka outside the purview of Bengaluru city are set to go up with the state government proposing to hike property tax in all municipal corporations. The cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal to amend the Karnataka Municipal Corporation Act, 1976, to tweak property taxes. At present, residential and non-commercial buildings are taxed between 0.3% and 1% of guidance value and the amendment seeks to change it to 0.5% and 1.5 %. So far, 50 % of guidance value of property is considered capital value for tax calculation and it will be changed to 25% of guidance value. The amendment also envisages tax for vacant sites which are over 1,000sqft. At present, vacant sites are not taxed. The new rates will not be applicable to properties within BBMP limits since the city is now governed by the newly enacted BBMP Act. Law and parliamentary minister JC Madhuswamy said: “The amendment is in accordance with the Centre’s guidelines according to which property tax should be increased periodically. By complying with these guidelines, the state will be eligible for additional borrowing of 0.25% of the gross state domestic product.” The cabinet also approved Rs 25 crore for developing cultural and heritage centre in the name of late pontiff Balagangadharanatha Swami of Adichunchanagiri Mutt in Ramanagara district and Rs 200 crore for filling tanks in Tiptur taluk. It also decided to convene the joint session of the legislative assembly and council between Jan 28 and Feb 5.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/state-plans-tax-hike-properties-outside-bluru-to-get-costlier/articleshow/80258490.cms||---
January 14, 2021||India||Made to wait for over a year to convert, Gujarat man moves HC||AHMEDABAD: A 32-year-old Hindu man wanting to convert to Islam has moved the Gujarat HC for redress after being kept waiting more than a year for permission to change his religion, as mandated by the state’s anti-conversion law. Jignesh Patel, a marketing executive based in south Gujarat’s Bharuch, said in his petition that the district collector had withheld permission for him to officially become a practising Muslim despite an “inquiry” by the Bharuch sub-divisional magistrate establishing that he was under no pressure from anyone to convert. Patel had submitted his application to the district collector along with a full disclosure, including signed affidavits from his mother Vilasben and sister Sejalben, on November 26, 2019. He stated in the declaration that nobody had forced or lured him into deciding to change his faith. Patel mentioned in the application that he had been living like a Muslim for six years, including fasting during Ramzan, offering namaz and following other rituals associated with the religion. The application was supported by an affidavit from Imran Patel, the person who was to preside over the originally scheduled conversion on January 1, 2020. The district collector never responded to his request, Patel told the high court. Advocate MT Saiyad, who filed the petition on his behalf, said the inquiry report filed by the sub-divisional magistrate in February 2020 gave “a favourable opinion that Patel may be granted permission for conversion”. The HC has since directed the collector to take an informed decision on Patel’s application within eight weeks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/made-to-wait-for-over-a-year-to-convert-gujarat-man-moves-hc/articleshow/80259905.cms||Saeed Khan
January 14, 2021||India||Govt steps into WhatsApp row, ‘examining’ data-sharing update||NEW DELHI: The government has stepped into the raging privacy controversy over WhatsApp’s latest update and has started an “examination” of the new mandate that the company has asked users to agree to by February 8. “We are collecting details,” official sources told TOI, in an indication that the government is keeping a watch over the concerns around potential privacy violations in WhatsApp’s new updates that involves sharing certain business/transactional data with Facebook, the parent of the world’s biggest messenger. WhatsApp’s new privacy terms give it the right to share user data, including location, phone number, contacts list and usage pattern, with Facebook and its units such as Instagram and Messenger. The move has been questioned by privacy advocates, entrepreneurs such as Tesla founder Elon Musk, and certain government agencies abroad, citing Facebook’s poor track record in handling user data. Read Also‘We know WhatsApp has to compete for users’ trust on issue of privacy’NEW DELHI: WhatsApp is the most popular messaging app in India but its recent privacy changes have spooked users. Possibly for the first time, this has led to noticeable migration of users to alternative platforms like Signal. In an email interview with TOI, WhatsApp head Will Cathcart admitted theSources said the government’s concern stems from a variety of factors, including the ‘regulatory vacuum’ in the data protection space in India in the absence of a data protection law in the country. A bill for a data law is in the Parliament, but a law may be sometime away. "Also, the privacy update sought by WhatsApp in user agreement in European Union is seen as lenient while in India it is wide-ranging and may have terms that may potentially harm user privacy," the official source said. Read AlsoData privacy no more about nerds, everyone’s talking about it: Signal co-founder Brian ActonBrian Acton, co-founder of WhatsApp, left Facebook in 2017 and in 2018 co-founded Signal which is now being considered the gold standard of data privacy and has seen an unprecedented spike in downloads from Android and Apple users across the world. Following FB’s controversial use of user data,A detailed questionnaire sent to WhatsApp did not get any response. The government has already had many run-ins with WhatsApp and Facebook over several matters, including on the Cambridge Analytica data leak matter (where a CBI inquiry is on) and regarding the spate of lynching incidents that were blamed on the spread of fake messaging on WhatsApp. The messenger at that time had downright refused to pay heed to the government’s request to help disclose/identify the source of fake, inflammatory messages, saying its user chats are fully encrypted. The current issue is being discussed at the highest level in the IT Ministry, and any action or step on the matter will be taken only after that. The government may also seek certain explanations from WhatsApp regarding the proposed changes, though the company did not answer TOI’s queries to this effect.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-steps-into-whatsapp-row-examining-data-sharing-update/articleshow/80260037.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 14, 2021||India||Equity funds step in to rescue pandemic-hit schools||MUMBAI/HYDERABAD: A playground for 1,500 children, auditorium replete with surround sound, sun-lit classrooms with colourful furniture, 56,000 sq ft built-up space on a 6-acre campus, national board affiliation. Asking price: Rs 7 crore. Reason for sale: Promoter has other business interests. Listings like these are becoming more noticeable as school campuses across India are put on the block. The pandemic has seen a huge slice of the private affordable schooling space being snapped up, many by equity funds, as educational institutions invite partners to help bridge the gap in income and investment. Over the past four months, Crimson Education Management Services set up by private equity firm Cerestra Advisors has partnered or taken over 17 budget schools in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. “These schools were struggling as parents didn’t pay fees and they were expected to enhance their technology infrastructure to continue online learning. That’s where we stepped in,” said Jasmeet Chhabra, joint managing director, Crimson. Turn-around specialists are busy negotiating deals in the education sector as schools confront a shrinking of revenues due to the pandemic. The transformation involves pumping in investments to refurbish infrastructure, train teachers, infuse technology, and then re-opening in a new avatar with a higher sticker fee, which often forces parents to re-work their expenses or move away for other affordable options. Jai Decosta, CEO at K12 Techno Services, an e-learning firm which provides solutions for schools, said, “We received applications from 15 schools in Mumbai, 45 in Pune, 70 in Telangana, 12 from Bengaluru. They either want to sell or need loans to survive.” The reasons for seeking an exit vary from defaults on fee payment to lack of stable net connectivity and distress migration by families, all of which have their origins in the pandemic. “I do feel many schools will not be able to sustain their operations…I am hoping that citizens and corporations come together to support learning,” says Shaheen Mistry, founder, Teach for India. Given the churn, private equity funds have smelt an opportunity. “Lockdown caused a lot of financial stress to schools which annually charged fees of Rs 40,000 to Rs 85,000. We hope to empower them to become financially more sustainable and build infrastructure,” said Jasmeet Chhabra, joint managing director, Crimson. By end of 202l, Crimson hopes to have 50 schools under its belt. Francis Joseph, CEO of Crimson, said fee defaults were forcing school owners to deduct salaries and cut expenses, which was further affecting their performance. Better "financial and operational efficiency" would be the key to upgrade without hiking fees, he said. The company has partnered with Anisha Global Schools in Hinjewadi and Undri in Pune; and plans to invest about $100 million in all. Foundation Holdings which set up a joint venture with Ryan Group known as Ryan EduNation, has also launched a plan to partner budget schools in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. “Discussions are on with about 15 of which 80% are hot leads. These are largely across Patna, Jamshedpur, Bhopal, Lucknow,”said Akash Sachdev, managing director. Also, in “various stages of negotiation” is EuroKids International Ltd, which already runs more than 30 K–12 schools. “Apart from Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, within Maharashtra we are looking at Nashik and Nagpur," said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder and Group CEO. Through all this, the experiences of parents and faculty are mixed. While Rani Thomas, principal of Crimson Anisha Global School, Hinjewadi in Pune said getting a professional team on board has allowed her to concentrate on academics, Pia Sarogi in Hyderabad whose daughter’s school was bought over by a new company said, she was shocked to see the brazenness with which fees doubled in the next three years. The new management slowly brought in younger teaching staff that was rather "inexperienced", she said. Farida Lambay, co-founder of Pratham, says this shake-up may be the time for schools to review their priorities. “They must realise that education should be more of an equaliser than divider.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/equity-funds-step-in-to-rescue-pandemic-hit-schools/articleshow/80260072.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 14, 2021||India||Former TMC MP K D Singh arrested by ED in money laundering case||NEW DELHI: K D Singh, founder of the Alchemist Group and former Trinamool member of Rajya Sabha, was arrested by the Enforcement Directorate on Tuesday in a money laundering probe initiated in 2018. A special court in New Delhi has remanded him to three days of ED custody for custodial interrogation after the agency claimed that he was not cooperating with the investigation and was making contradictory statements. Singh was elected to Rajya Sabha from Jharkhand as a nominee of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha amid allegations of bribery, but soon crossed over to Trinamool Congress which made him in-charge of organisational affairs in the north. His switch to Mamata Banerjee's outfit was facilitated by the fact that he was the lone JMM member of Rajya Sabha and, hence, immune from the disqualification proceedings laid down under the anti-defection law. He fell out with Mamata and was not re-nominated. He was once seen as a successful entrepreneur with interests ranging from media and real estate to frozen poultry where his Republic of Chicken soon became a leading name. The ED has been investigating Singh’s Alchemist group since 2018 for alleged money laundering and its case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is based on an FIR registered by the Kolkata police. The anti money-laundering agency had in January 2019 attached the group’s properties worth Rs 239 crore in another case against Singh’s Alchemist Infra Realty Ltd, based on a SEBI prosecution complaint, In September 2019, ED officials carried out searches at 14 of his premises in Delhi and Chandigarh. Incidentally, ED’s action coincided with Mamata’s visit to New Delhi. The agency had then claimed it picked up digital documents and other evidence from Singh’s New Delhi residence that indicated circular transactions and huge investments in properties. The Kolkata police in its FIR had accused K D Singh, his son Karandeep Singh, Alchemist Township India Ltd, Alchemist Holdings Ltds and various other group companies and directors of cheating thousands of customers by falsely promising them high returns against investments in plots and flats. The ED said its own probe findings revealed that funds collected from the public were siphoned off to various other group entities. The banking transactions were layered through several shell companies to mislead the investigation. Various shell companies, replete with dummy directors, were created to launder these funds, the agency had said after the 2019 raids on his premises. When questioned by the ED, the “directors” denied having any idea about the transactions or the purpose for which the money was collected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/former-tmc-mp-k-d-singh-arrested-by-ed-in-money-laundering-case/articleshow/80260139.cms||---
January 14, 2021||World||Majority of House members vote for 2nd impeachment of Trump||WASHINGTON: A majority of the US House has voted to impeach President Donald Trump for a second time, just a week after he encouraged loyalists to "fight like hell" against election results a speech that was followed by a mob of his supporters storming the US Capitol. The House vote on an article of impeachment for "incitement of insurrection" was still underway Wednesday afternoon. During debate before the vote, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi asked Republicans and Democrats to "search their souls." Trump would be the first American president to be impeached twice. Trump "must go," Pelosi said. "He is a clear and present danger to the nation we all love." Actual removal seems unlikely before the Jan. 20 inauguration of President-elect Joe Biden. A spokesman for Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said the Republican leader would not agree to bring the chamber back immediately, all but ensuring a Senate trial could not begin at least until Jan. 19. Still, McConnell did not rule out voting to convict Trump in the event of a trial. In a note to his fellow Republican senators just before the House was to begin voting, he said he is undecided. "While the press has been full of speculation, I have not made a final decision on how I will vote and I intend to listen to the legal arguments when they are presented to the Senate," McConnell wrote. In the House, the momentum for action has been unstoppable. The impeachment proceedings came one week after a violent, pro-Trump mob breached the US Capitol, sending lawmakers into hiding and revealing the fragility of the nation's history of peaceful transfers of power. The riot has also forced a reckoning among some Republicans, who have stood by Trump throughout his presidency and largely allowed him to spread false attacks against the integrity of the 2020 election. While Trump's first impeachment in 2019 brought no Republican votes in the House, at least eight House Republicans announced that they would break with the party to join Democrats this time, saying Trump violated his oath to protect and defend US democracy. Among them was Wyoming Rep. Liz Cheney, the third-ranking Republican in the House and the daughter of former Vice President Dick Cheney. As two Republican lawmakers Washington Reps. Dan Newhouse and Jaime Herrera Beutler announced on the floor they would vote to impeach, Trump issued a new statement urging "NO violence, NO lawbreaking and NO vandalism of any kind." But he has repeatedly declined to take any responsibility for last week's riots. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy said for the first time that Trump does bear responsibility, acknowledging on the House floor before the vote that Biden is the next president and that radical liberal groups were not responsible for the riots, as some conservatives have falsely claimed. But McCarthy said he opposed impeachment, instead favoring a "fact finding commission" and censure. As for threats of more trouble from intruders, security was exceptionally tight at the Capitol with shocking images of massed National Guard troops, secure perimeters around the complex and metal-detector screenings required for lawmakers entering the House chamber. "We are debating this historic measure at a crime scene," said Rep. Jim McGovern, D-Mass. Though McConnell is declining to hasten an impeachment trial, a Republican strategist told The Associated Press the GOP leader believes Trump committed impeachable offenses and considers the Democrats' impeachment drive an opportunity to reduce the divisive, chaotic president's hold on the GOP. McConnell called major Republican donors last weekend to gauge their thinking about Trump and was told that Trump had clearly crossed a line. McConnell told them he was through with Trump, said the strategist, who demanded anonymity to describe McConnell's conversations. The New York Times first reported McConnell's views on impeachment on Tuesday. The stunning collapse of Trump's final days in office, along with warnings of more violence ahead, leaves the nation at an uneasy and unfamiliar juncture before Biden takes office. Trump faces the single charge of "incitement of insurrection." The four-page impeachment resolution relies on Trump's own incendiary rhetoric and the falsehoods he spread about Biden's election victory, including at a White House rally on the day of the Jan. 6 attack on the Capitol, in making its case for "high crimes and misdemeanors" as demanded in the Constitution. Trump took no responsibility for the riot, suggesting it was the drive to oust him rather than his actions around the bloody riot that was dividing the country. "To continue on this path, I think it's causing tremendous danger to our country, and it's causing tremendous anger," Trump said Tuesday, his first remarks to reporters since last week's violence. A Capitol police officer died from injuries suffered in the riot, and police shot and killed a woman during the siege. Three other people died in what authorities said were medical emergencies. Lawmakers scrambled for safety and hid as rioters took control of the Capitol, delaying by hours the tally of Electoral College votes that was the last step in finalizing Biden's victory. The Republican lawmakers who chose to vote yes, including Cheney, were unswayed by the president's logic. Their support of impeachment cleaved the Republican leadership, and the party itself. "The President of the United States summoned this mob, assembled the mob, and lit the flame of this attack," said Cheney in a statement. "There has never been a greater betrayal by a President of the United States of his office and his oath to the Constitution." Unlike a year ago, Trump faces impeachment as a weakened leader, having lost his own reelection as well as the Senate Republican majority. The president was said to be livid with perceived disloyalty from McConnell and Cheney, as calls mounted for her ouster. He was also deeply frustrated that he could not hit back with his shuttered Twitter account, the fear of which has kept most Republicans in line for years, according to White House officials and Republicans close to the West Wing who weren't authorized to speak publicly about private conversations. The team around Trump has hollowed out, without any plan for combating the impeachment effort. Trump leaned on Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina to push Republican senators, while chief of staff Mark Meadows called some of his former colleagues on the Hill. Trump was expected to watch much of Wednesday's proceedings on TV from the White House residence and his private dining area off the Oval Office. The House tried first to push Vice President Mike Pence and the Cabinet to intervene, passing a resolution Tuesday night calling on them to invoke the 25th Amendment to the Constitution to remove Trump from office. Pence made it clear he would not do so, saying in a letter to Pelosi, that it was "time to unite our country as we prepare to inaugurate President-elect Joe Biden." It's far from clear there will be the two-thirds vote in the evenly divided Senate needed to convict Trump, though at least two Republicans have called for him to "go away as soon as possible." The FBI warned ominously of potential armed protests by Trump loyalists ahead of Biden's inauguration. Capitol Police urged lawmakers to be on alert. Charges of sedition are being considered for rioters. Biden has said it's important to ensure that the "folks who engaged in sedition and threatening the lives, defacing public property, caused great damage that they be held accountable." Fending off concerns that an impeachment trial would bog down his first days in office, the president-elect is encouraging senators to divide their time between taking taking up his priorities of confirming his nominees and approving Covid-19 relief while also conducting the trial. The impeachment bill draws from Trump's own false statements about his election defeat to Biden. Judges across the country, including some nominated by Trump, have repeatedly dismissed cases challenging the election results, and former Attorney General William Barr, a Trump ally, has said there was no sign of widespread fraud. While some have questioned impeaching the president so close to the end of his term, there is precedent. In 1876, during the Ulysses Grant administration, War Secretary William Belknap was impeached by the House the day he resigned, and the Senate convened a trial months later. He was acquitted. Trump was impeached in 2019 over his dealings with Ukraine but acquitted by the Senate in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/majority-of-house-members-vote-for-2nd-impeachment-of-trump/articleshow/80260143.cms||---
January 14, 2021||India||Keep Varavara’s age & health in mind, HC tells NIA, Maha govt||MUMBAI: The Bombay high court on Wednesday asked the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Maharashtra government to consider the age and health of Elgar Parishad case accused Telugu poet P V Varavara Rao, while making submissions on his bail plea. The remark by the HC bench headed by Justice S S Shinde came on a plea filed by Rao’s wife Pendyala Hemalatha to grant him bail on medical grounds. In November 2020, Rao was shifted to Nanavati Hospital following the HC’s intervention on her interim plea regarding his deteriorating health. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh, for NIA, submitted two fresh medical reports from Nanavati Hospital. Rao’s advocate said he would argue after going through them. It was then that the judges reminded that Rao is over 80 years old. “Keep in mind his age and health conditions. We are all human beings. This is an issue about his health,” said Shinde, adjourning the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/keep-varavaras-age-health-in-mind-hc-tells-nia-maha-govt/articleshow/80260194.cms||---
January 14, 2021||India||Adultery should continue to be offence in armed forces, Centre tells SC||NEW DELHI: More than two years after adultery was struck off the list of offences in Indian Penal Code (IPC), the ministry of defence on Monday requested the Supreme Court to allow its retention for personnel in the armed forces, where the crime is referred to as ‘stealing the affection of brother officer’s wife’, which can lead to those found guilty being cashiered from service. Attorney General K K Venugopal and Additional Solicitor General Madhavi Goradia Divan told a bench of Justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and K M Joseph that armed forces operate in peculiar circumstances where jawans and officers are posted in forward inhospitable terrain, while their wives are taken care of by their units at the family accommodation, which are frequently visited by officers and JCOs to look after their well-being. Venugopal said when jawans and officers are at forward locations, they must be free from the worry of the well-being of their families and should not be perturbed by the thought that in the absence of adultery as an offence, as has been ruled by the SC in its September 27, 2018 judgment, someone may enter into an adulterous relationship with their family members. That is the reason why adultery should continue to be an offence categorised as “unbecoming conduct” under the Army, Navy and Air Force Acts, he said. The AG, however, also said the rules will apply to both men and women in uniform found guilty of adultery. Justice Nariman-led bench agreed with Venugopal and said Article 33 of the Constitution enables Parliament to enact laws for armed forces restricting fundamental rights of the personnel and that adultery could still continue as an offence under the ‘unbecoming act’ provision in the laws governing armed forces. However, the bench sent the MoD’s plea to the CJI for placing it before a five-judge bench as the judgment declaring ‘adultery’ provision in the IPC unconstitutional was rendered by a bench of the same strength. The MoD said, “Persons subject to Army Act, Navy Act and Air Force Act, by virtue of Article 33 of the Constitution of India, being a distinct class, any promiscuous or adulterous acts by such persons should be allowed to be governed by the provisions of Sections 45 or 63 of the Army Act, Sections 45 or 65 of the Air Force Act and Sections 54 (2) or 74 of the Navy Act being special legislation and considering the requirements of discipline and proper discharge of their duty.” Venugopal said, “In view of Article 33, whether the judgment in Joseph Shine would prevent the Armed Forces from proceeding against a person subject to the Army Act, who is guilty of what would in effect be an adulterous act? For this purpose, it may be pointed out that unlike Section 497 of IPC (adultery), the Armed Forces do not make a difference between a male or a female, who is subject to the Army Act, if they are guilty of an offence. In other words, dehors Section 497, the Army would equally proceed against a female subject to the Act, if she enters into an adulterous/illicit relationship.” “Applying the 2018 SC judgment, one would find that the first ground for invalidating Section 497, namely, that it was manifestly arbitrary, would be traceable to Article 14 of the Constitution. The second aspect mentioned that Section 497 was discriminatory towards women and treated them as chattel and thus violated Article 14 and the third aspect of the violation of privacy under Article 21, are all matters which would be covered by Article 33 of the Constitution, where the provisions of the Army Act would prevail, notwithstanding their being inconsistent with fundamental rights,” the ministry said. “One has to remember that the Armed Forces exist in an environment wholly different and distinct from civilians. Honour is a sine qua non of the service. Courage, and devotion to duty, even at the risk of one's lives, is part of the unwritten contract governing the members of the Armed Forces,” it said. “Therefore, ‘promiscuous or adulterous act’ by persons subject to the Army Act, Navy Act and Air Force Act would still be offences for which either criminal or disciplinary action could be initiated under Army Act Section 63 or Section 45 and under corresponding provisions of Navy Act and Air Force Act respectively, proceeding on the basis that these are acts of misconduct that would be covered by these two provisions,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/adultery-should-continue-to-be-offence-in-armed-forces-centre-tells-sc/articleshow/80260232.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Petrol price at record high in Kolkata, sparks private commute worry||KOLKATA: After the record diesel price, the price of petrol in Kolkata on Wednesday broke previous records to touch an all-time high of Rs 85.90 a litre. This will pull up the commuting cost as almost 80% of private four-wheelers and 90% of two-wheelers run on petrol. Petrol price breached the last record — of October 4, 2018 — to touch Rs 85.85 while diesel on Wednesday rose by 0.25 paise to Rs 78.21 per litre. During the first phases of unlocking, there was a significant spurt in purchase of personalized vehicles as people kept away from public transport. Back then, the stable and static fuel price provided an impetus. The fuel price stayed at Rs72.27 per litre in March 2020. There was a 52-day status quo between March 17 and June 6, when people bought vehicles and this was followed by no change in rates between June 30 and August 15, and a 58-day status quo in petrol price and a 48-day status quo in diesel price between September 22 and October 2 respectively. But the rising price of petrol has started hitting these buyers hard now, said transport economist Pradip Chakraborty. “The rising petrol price is a cause for concern. I bought a car to ferry my daughter and me to and from our respective workplaces during the pandemic. But now I am facing a huge problem. The EMI and rising petrol price are taking away a huge amount in commuting cost,” said Dawaraka Prasad Ghosh, a private company employee from Barisha Sakherbazar. “The fuel rates are being revised on a daily basis in line with benchmark international price and foreign exchange. However, government-controlled fuel retailers or oil marketing companies (OMCs) have moderated rates since the pandemic broke out. Moreover, the Rupee-Dollar exchange rate was also one of the major factors which influenced the price of petrol in India. Indian oil companies pay for the oil imported from other countries in Dollars, but their expenses are in Rupee,” said an OMC officer. The rise of petrol price can also trigger adulteration of fuel, felt some experts. “There are rackets that become operative around this time. These people mix petrol with low-grade fuel, like kerosene, and sell them to car or bike owners. They often say they have siphoned the fuel from government agencies to earn credibility. The adulterated fuel chokes the fuel injection system and leads to pollution,” said auto-emission consultant Somendra Mohan Ghosh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/petrol-price-at-record-high-sparks-pvt-commute-worry/articleshow/80257475.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||Make publication of 30-day notice under SM Act optional as it violates privacy: HC||LUCKNOW: Observing that making mandatory the provision of giving a 30-day prior notice before a marriage officer for the wedding under the Special Marriage Act 1954 invades fundamental rights of liberty and privacy, a Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court on Tuesday held that it be made optional for the couple. “If the couple doesn’t want to go for the publication of the 30-day notice, the marriage officer has to solemnize their marriage forthwith,” Justice Vivek Chaudhary said in his order. Disposing a habeas corpus petition filed by one Abhisekh Kumar Pandey, who alleged that his wife Sufia Sultana, who had changed her religion to become Hindu before getting married to him as per Hindu rituals, was in illegal confinement of her father, Justice Chaudhary based his judgement on three key observations: First, law must keep evolving with the change in time and evolution in the society; it shouldn’t violate privacy, fundamental rights and right to privacy as defined in several orders of the Supreme Court and finally when there is no provision of 30-day notice for getting married under various personal laws, why should this provision be made mandatory under Special Marriage Act? The court, however, clarified that it would be open for the marriage officer to verify the identification, age and valid consent of the parties or otherwise their competence to marry under the said Act. “In case, the marriage officer has any doubt, it shall be open for him to ask for appropriate details or proof as per the facts of the case,” the court added. On an earlier direction of the court, the father of Sufiya alias Simran appeared before the court along with her. During the course of hearing, the couple stated that they were major and married out of their free will and wanted to live together. Finally, the father of Simran also agreed to their wedding. The controversy between the parties ended but the court took notice of the fact that under Special Marriage Act 1954, it was mandatory to publish 30-day prior notice before the marriage officer solemnizes the marriage of the intending couple. The couple pleaded before the court that any such notice would be an invasion in their privacy and would have definitely caused unnecessary social pressure and interference in their free choice with regard to their marriage. They further state that such a challenge is being faced by a large number of people who desire to build a life with a partner of their own choice. Their counsel also stated that the situation may become more critical with notification of Uttar Pradesh Prohibition of Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance, 2020, as the same prohibits conversion of religion by marriage to be unlawful. He further argued that looking into the changing pattern of the society, amendments made to the Special Marriage Act, 1954 as well as the law declared by the Supreme Court in the last around a decade with regard to privacy, liberty and freedom of choice of a person, provisions of Special Marriage Act, 1954, directing publication of notice before marriage and inviting public objections, require a revisit to understand whether now with the said change they are to be treated as mandatory or directory in nature. Interpreting various pronouncements of the Supreme Court and recommendations of the Law Commission of India in 2008, the HC concluded that forcing the intending couple to publish the said notice infringed their fundamental rights to personal liberty and privacy. “...the procedure of publication of notice and inviting objections to the intended marriage in Act of 1954 thus has to be such that would uphold the fundamental rights and not violate the same. In case the same on their simplistic reading are held mandatory, as per the law declared today, they would invade in the fundamental rights of liberty and privacy, including within its sphere freedom to choose for marriage without interference from state and non-state actors, of the persons concerned,” the court observed. The HC said that marriages in all religions are made either under personal laws or under the Special Marriage Act 1954. “Under any personal law, no such notice is required and the priest solemnizes the marriage on the will of the intending couple and if legal objections arise later, they are free to move the competent court for redress. “ Then, no reasonable purpose is achieved by putting the provision of 30 days notice publication under the Special Marriage Act,” the court added. “ Thus, this Court mandates that while giving notice under the Special Marriage Act, it shall be optional for the parties to the intended marriage to make a request in writing to the marriage officer to publish or not to publish a notice of 30 days and follow the procedure of objections as prescribed under the Act,” Justice Chaudhary said. “In case the intending couple does not make such a request for publication of notice in writing, the marriage officer shall not publish any such notice or entertain objections to the intended marriage and proceed with the solemnization of the marriage,” the judge added. Justice Chaudhary further said it goes without saying that it shall be open for the marriage officer, while solemnizing any marriage under the SM Act to verify the identification, age and valid consent of the parties or otherwise their competence to marry under the said Act and in case he has any doubt, it shall be open for him to ask for appropriate details/proof as per the facts of the case.” High Court’s Observations: The society has an ever changing phenomenon. It keeps changing with time as per its new needs, expectation and other changing aspects. The very purpose of law is to serve the society as per its requirements; therefore, the law also keeps evolving with the changes in society. Thus, it would be appropriate, before coming to the Special Marriage Act, 1954 and its present relevance, to briefly visit the history and development of the law with regard to civil marriages in India.” “ (Under personal laws)....their (couples’) orally saying that they are competent to marry is regarded sufficient for solemnizing marriage under the personal laws. In case any party violates any condition of the said personal law, for example, if one of the parties conceals his/her marital status and commits second marriage; marriage is barred under any law (one of the parties is a minor and conceals age or marriage is within the degrees of the prohibited relationship etc.); the consent of any party is obtained by deceit or under pressure; or any other such circumstances arises, the issues are later decided by a court of law. But, the marriage takes place without any interference from any corner, even if it is later to be declared void. However, under Sections 6 and 7 of Act of 1954 the persons intending to solemnize a marriage are required to give a notice and the marriage officer thereafter is made duty bound to publish the notice for a period of 30 days and invite objections with regard to the same. Any person can object to the marriage on the ground that it violates any of the condition of Section 4 of Act of 1954. “There is no apparent reasonable purpose achieved by making the procedure to be more protective or obstructive under the Act of 1954, under which much less numbers of marriages are taking place, than procedure under the other personal laws, more particularly when this discrimination violates the fundamental rights of the class of persons adopting the Act of 1954 for their marriage.” “Thus this Court is required to consider the changes in the social and legal aspects, if any, that may impact the interpretation of the provisions of the Act of 1954.” “In Lata Singh Vs. State of UP 2006 the SC held: “This is a free and democratic country, and once a person becomes a major he or she can marry whosoever he/she likes. If the parents of the boy or girl do not approve of such inter-caste or inter-religious marriage the maximum they can do is that they can cut off social relations with the son or the daughter, but they cannot give threats or commit or instigate acts of violence and cannot harass the person who undergoes such inter-caste or inter-religious marriage.” “In another case in 2014, the SC found that found the right of freedom of choice in marriage to be a fundamental right and an inherent aspect of Article 21 of the Constitution of India.” “In Shakti Vahini case in 2018, the Supreme Court again held the right to choose a life partner, to be a fundamental right recognized under Article 19 and 21 of the Constitution. Once the said fundamental right is inherent in a person, the same cannot be scuttled. It found that it is the duty of the Court to remove any interference with the legitimate rights of the young couples or anyone associated with them. The Supreme Court also issued preventive, remedial as well as punitive measures to be followed and implemented by the State authorities.” “In Navtej Singh Johar and others vs Union of India (2018), the apex court observed: “The right of privacy is a fundamental right. It is a right which protects the inner sphere of the individual from interference from both State, and non-State actors and allows the individuals to make autonomous life choices.” “A nine-judge bench said in Puttuswamy vs Union of India case, 2017: Privacy is the ultimate expression of the sanctity of the individual. It is a constitutional value which straddles across the spectrum of fundamental rights and protects for the individual a zone of choice and self-determination…….privacy is one of the most important rights to be protected both against State and non-State actors and be recognized as a fundamental right.” “In view of the changed social circumstances and progress in laws noted and proposed by the Law Commission as well as law declared by the aforesaid judgments of the Supreme Court, it would be cruel and unethical to force the present generation living with its current needs and expectations to follow the customs and traditions adopted by a generation living nearly 150 years back for its social needs and circumstances, which violates fundamental rights recognized by the courts of the day. ...it is the duty of this court to revisit the interpretation of the procedure under challenge as provided in the Act of 1954.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/make-publication-of-30-day-notice-undersm-act-optional-as-it-violates-privacy-hc/articleshow/80259584.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 14, 2021||Goa||Resort told to remove pool in Agonda turtle site||Panaji: The Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority (GCZMA) has asked a resort in Agonda, Canacona, to remove a swimming pool structure erected within the turtle nesting zone. The order comes after the Goa Paryavaran Savrakshan Sangharsh Samitee filed an application before the National Green Tribunal (NGT). The tribunal then asked GCZMA to take action against temporary structures constructed along the Morjim, Mandrem, Galgibaga and Agonda beaches in Goa, which are turtle nesting sites. The swimming pool in Agonda was found to be constructed in the no-development zone without specific permission of GCZMA. GCZMA has directed the resort to remove the unauthorised structure within two weeks and has said a compliance report must be filed with photographic evidence before GCZMA. NGT had told GCZMA to ensure that ‘no beach beds are set up in the intertidal zone’, adding that ‘the practice is to lay beds very close to the waterline leaving little scope for turtles to move up’. Besides this, NGT has prohibited use of any vehicles on the turtle nesting beaches in Goa. Beach shacks cannot use illumination outside, while their lighting inside has to be muted. Playing of loud music beyond 6pm is also not permitted. “It should be made incumbent on shack licensees to play a proactive role in ensuring conducive condition to the turtles, besides information sharing with staff of forest department which monitors the entire coast,” the NGT order states. GCZMA has also been directed by the tribunal to recover compensation from violators. It came to the notice of GCZMA that the resort in Agonda was operating cottages by erecting structures in the NDZ area without any NOC from the authority. The violator was issued a showcause notice and after hearing arguments from both parties, GCZMA later decided to have the site inspected. This is because the offender was not featuring in the list of violators prepared by a three-member committee earlier. The site inspection report was submitted to the authority on November 25, 2020 and the GCZMA then decided to issue the demolition orders. The swimming pool in Agonda was found to be constructed in the no-development zone without specific permission of GCZMA. The resort has two weeks to remove it||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/resort-told-to-remove-pool-in-agonda-turtle-site/articleshow/80241351.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Vadodara||Four realtors sell same property two persons, booked||Vadodara: Four partners of a real estate firm were booked on Tuesday for selling a residential property on Ajwa Road to two different persons. The first buyer Devang Thakar, who is an engineering professor in Patan, lodged a complaint against Mahesh Patel, Kalpesh Patel, Hitesh Patel and Ghanshyam Patel when he learnt that they had sold the duplex to a man named Ishwar Bariya in January 2018. Thakar told police that when he decided to purchase the house in June 2013, he paid a token amount of Rs 1 lakh. A bill of sale between Thakar and the developers was registered. Later, when a loan was approved Thakar paid Rs 25 lakh to them in different amounts until October 2017. In July last year, when Thakar went to meet them for registering the sale deed and make a payment of Rs 2.3 lakh, the developers refused to accept. They made an excuse that the property now falls under the ‘disturbed area’ so a process will have to be done through collector’s office. When Thakar found it to be suspicious, he inquired with sub-registrar’s office. Thakar found that the bill of sale registered in 2013 was cancelled arbitrarily by the developers and they had sold the property to Bariya. A loan of Rs 34.9 lakh was also taken against the property, Thakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-realtors-sell-same-property-two-persons-booked/articleshow/80256107.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||‘People of state to win war against Covid’||BEGUSARAI: State assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Sinha on Wednesday asked youngsters to remember that the fundamental duties, which are part of the Constitution, obligate all citizens to preserve the unity and integrity of the country. Speaking as the chief guest of an event organized to mark the 76th foundation day of Ganesh Dutt College in Begusarai, Sinha said, “Bihar has shown the world how to get through hard times. With their knowledge and indomitable spirit, the people of the state will once again emerge victorious in the war against Covid-19.” The day also marked the birth anniversary of Ganesh Dutt, an eminent lawyer, educationist and administrator. Education minister Ashok Choudhary claimed that the state government laid great emphasis on imparting quality education to the students. Lalit Narayan Mithila University (LNMU) vice-chancellor Surendra Pratap Singh, who presided over the function, said, “In order to fulfil our endeavours, we require proper knowledge, patience and the right action.” MLAs Kundan Kumar and Raj Kumar Singh, MLC Sarvesh Kumar, LNMU registrar Mushtaque Ahmad and G D College principal Ram Awadhesh Kumar were also present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-of-state-to-win-war-against-covid/articleshow/80256384.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Surat||Chikki from hired kitchen adds crunch to festivities||Surat: With the age fast turning into a service provider’s platform, the sweetness of ‘home style’ chikki in Uttarayan too gets delivered to households, but from another kitchen. With Covid snatching even private space through work from home schedules, it’s a tightrope walk trying to balance work, home and celebrations.Therefore, the traditional recipes of gud (jaggery), till (sesame seeds) and the ultimate crunchy delight of chikki has mostly fallen out of flavour among homemakers, especially the younger generation. And so, who steps in to help? A Pune vendor who delivers homemade chikki from his kitchen with customers’ own ingredients from seeds and nuts to puff rice. This service has become a blessing for working women like Dr Shefali Radadiya. "Being a doctor, it is difficult for me to spare time to make the traditional chikki sweets and this service has been god sent,” she said.“We charge customers nominal labour charges for making the chikki. Customers bring their own ingredients and we add ours to make it taste better,” vendor, Manoj Patel in Varachha told TOI.Foram Dhawal Pahadiawala, a fashion designer by profession, who wants to add a homely touch to festivities amid the fast life said that the vendor service has been adding sweetness to her celebrations with homemade items.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/chikki-from-hired-kitchen-adds-crunch-to-festivities/articleshow/80255866.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Salt Lake, New Town residents reel under mosquito onslaught||Kolkata: Chinar Park resident Bidisha Roy has to shut the windows of her third-floor apartment before evening while New Town’s Rubaitul Quadir has covered his windows with mosquito guards. He also uses mosquito repellents and other safeguards for his two children. Residents of New Town, Rajarhat, parts of Salt Lake, Tegharia and VIP Road are struggling under an onslaught of mosquitoes for the past two weeks. Though this is not a new phenomenon on the eastern fringes of the city, the situation is acute this year. Residents have to shut windows in the afternoon and streets are becoming empty as people rush home to get away from the insects. Experts who visited the township to assess the situation say this species of mosquitoes breed in unclean water, which raises questions over sanitation and cleanliness. “The onslaught of mosquitoes once it is evening is unbearable. Though we always face this during this time of the year, the situation is acute this time. If we don’t shut the windows the entire house is filled with mosquitoes. But once the windows are shut the entire place becomes stuffy,” said Roy, a homemaker. Locals blame the spike in mosquitoes on the numerous vacant and under-construction plots where dirty water accumulates. “The situation has become such that one cannot even stand or sit in an open space for five minutes. More precautionary measures are required,” said Samaresh Das, chairperson of New Town Forum and News (NTFN), a local NGO. Entomologist Gautam Chandra, who visited New Town, said the mosquitoes are mostly of the Culex species which breeds in unclean water during this season. “It heavily breeds during this time and can fly up to 5km,” he said. “The thoroughfares are clean but there are so many construction sites which have become breeding grounds of mosquitoes,” said Mousumi Ghosh, a resident of a gated community in Action Area 1. “We shut windows from 3pm to keep mosquitoes away, but even that isn’t enough,” said Sankhadeep Roy Chowdhury, an AE Block resident. “This area has become a den of mosquitoes due to the canal and the weeds near the Metro station,” said Dipannita Bakshi, a BL Block resident. New Town Kolkata Development Authority (NKDA) chairman Debashis Sen said, “We held a meeting and urged our workers to intensify the mosquito-control drive.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/salt-lake-new-town-residents-reel-under-mosquito-onslaught/articleshow/80257436.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 14, 2021||Patna||Covid vax hope gives much-needed boost to healthcare workers in Bihar||PATNA: The time of fear is over. It is now time to wait for the prick of the syringe containing the life-saving vaccine. The front line Covid-19 warriors, health workers of government and private health facilities are now eagerly waiting for the messages on their mobile phones as to when and where they would have to reach to get the much-awaited vaccine shots. “The messages would be sent from Thursday, January 14, to the healthcare workers on their registered mobile phones,” said Patna DM Dr Chandrashekhar Singh. He said the healthcare personnel to be vaccinated would be selected randomly from among the doctors, nursing staff, paramedics, Asha workers, ANMs, sanitation employees, security guards and such others. All arrangements have been made and the vaccination centres are under regular watch by the district administration, the DM added. Kalpana Kumari, a nursing staff of the NMCH, which served as a dedicated Covid hospital for months, recalled the miseries of the corona ward and said the vaccine would now brighten the hopes of getting protected against the virus. “My entire life has changed under the fear of the coronavirus but now the biggest gift from medical scientists has come,” she said. Dr Anil Kumar, head of trauma and emergency of the AIIMS Patna described the arrival of the vaccine as a victory over the pandemic. He said, “ We encountered unexpected situations when even the doctors and staff attending the patients had to doubly protect themselves from the virus”. The news of the vaccination drive has brought cheers to Najir Kumar, 40, security staff of the primary health centre, Fatuha who has been on duty throughout the pandemic months. He said, “Being exposed all the time to both outsiders and hospital staff I always feared to get the deadly infection. Ab jaan bachane wala teeka aa gaya hai, dekhen mujhe kab milta hai.” Dr Rana NK Singh, an epidemiologist at the PMCH said he had been getting frantic queries from doctors and staff to be assured that their names were in the list of those to be vaccinated in the first phase. The arrival of the vaccine has given a great reason to rejoice to the hospital manager of NMCH Pranay Kumar, who had to shift his family to his village home in Lakhisarai district for six months for keeping them safe against the pandemic effect. “I cooked myself as none was there to help me during that peak period when I had to shuttle from the corona ward to the mortuary and also supervise the wrapping of bodies and their cremation,” he recalled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/covid-vax-hope-gives-much-needed-boost-to-healthcare-workers-in-bihar/articleshow/80257793.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||No ‘dahi-chura’ political feasts due to Covid||PATNA: The Covid-19 pandemic has taken a toll on the annual gala feasts of ‘dahi-chura’ and tilkut organised by political parties on Makar Sankranti, as this year the celebrations will not be held citing social distancing protocols. However, sources said any individual minister or a leader may organize a feast at a personal level, but no such get-together will be held by any political party. For instance, Patna mayor Sita Sahu organized a dahi-chura feast at Tailik Utsav Hall in Patna on Wednesday, which was attended by former road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav and other dignitaries. But the much-awaited dahi-chura organized by senior JD (U) leader and former state president Vashishath Narayan Singh at his Hardinge Road residence will be missed by the party workers as well as senior leaders. This traditional feast used to be attended by chief minister Nitish Kumar and other senior leaders cutting across party lines. JD(U) state spokesperson Arvind Nishad said, “Keeping in mind Covid-19 protocols, there will be no such feast this year. We will miss the get-together organised by dada as we all used to get a chance to meet one another and even our respected CM and seek blessings of our elderly.” RJD which has been skipping dahi-chura feast for more than a couple of years, will not be holding any get-together this year too. RJD’s national president Lalu Prasad has instead asked his party leaders as well as workers to distribute dahi-chura and tilkut among the poor on the occasion. Even BJP leaders are avoiding any political feast on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. Every year, the party’s MLC Rajnish Kumar used to hold a big feast, but spokesperson Nikhil Anand said because of Covid-19, any such get-together has been avoided. Congress state president Madan Mohan Jha also cited Covid-19 protocol as a reason behind holding no event at party office on the occasion of Makarsankranti. The Grand Old Party had organised a gala feast at Sadaqat Ashram which was attended by all the Mahagatbandhan leaders, including Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as well as VIP chief Mukesh Sahni and RLSP head Upendra Kushwaha, who was part of the alliance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/no-dahi-chura-political-feasts-due-to-covid/articleshow/80257909.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 14, 2021||Patna||NABARD to provide loan in farm sector||PATNA: The National Bank For Agriculture And Rural Development (NABARD), Bihar, has prepared a Potential Linked Plan (PLP) for 2021-22 to facilitate credit flow to agriculture sector in all 38 districts of the state, said its chief general manager (CGM) Sunil Kumar on Wednesday. He said the potential for credit flow has been assessed for each sector like crop, animal husbandry, dairy, poultry, fisheries, goat rearing, plantation and horticulture, farm mechanization, godowns and self-help group lending among others. Sunil told the media that an aggregation of the projections will be presented in the state credit seminar scheduled on January 15. “The Covid-19 pandemic has adversely impacted the economy. The only silver lining is the performance of agriculture sector, which has witnessed positive growth during the first half of the current fiscal. Foodgrain production reached an all-time high and the higher sales of tractors and motorcycle indicate demand in rural areas,” he said. “There are several gaps in the supply chains and resource management of the agri sector, starting form input supply to post-harvest management, marketing and credit supply. Banks need to actively provide credit for agriculture sector in Bihar,” the CGM said. Highlighting the NABARD role during the pandemic, Sunil said they provided refinance to commercial banks, regional rural banks and cooperative banks. “We also provide loans to state government at concessional interest rate of 2.75% per annum. During 2020-21, NABARD has sanctioned projects worth Rs1,833 crore so far, which is expected to create employment of about 1,90,000 man days,” he said Projects related to rural drinking water supply, roads and water resources have been sanctioned. The total disbursement under RIDF during the current year was Rs1,605 crore. Total disbursement by NABARD (refinance and RIDF) was Rs4,147 crore last year, he said. “We have already surpassed the disbursement of Rs4,202 crore till date and hope to cross an aggregate credit support of Rs5,000 crore by March 31, 2021,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nabard-to-provide-loan-in-farm-sector/articleshow/80256402.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||People to relish Makar Sankranti delicacies, fly kites today||PATNA: With the aroma of fresh ‘tilkuts’ wafting through the air and kites flying in the sky, shoppers thronged makeshift stalls selling Makar Sankranti delicacies on Wednesday. ‘Dahi-chura’, ‘til’, ‘gur’ and ‘khichadi’ are widely used during the harvest festival which will be celebrated on Thursday. According to a priest, Dinesh Pandey, devotees offer flowers and ‘til’ to the deities at temples and pray for peace and prosperity on Makar Sankranti. They also distribute ‘tilkuts’, curd and ‘chura’ among priests and the poor. Also known as Maghi, the festival marks the first day of the sun’s transit from Sagittarius (Dhanu) to Capricorn (Makar). Many devotees often take a dip in the Ganga on the occasion. Hanuman Nagar resident Kiran Mishra told this newspaper, “I will visit a Ganga ghat, perform rituals and pray for a prosperous year ahead.” Many people prefer making ‘til’ delicacies at home to buying them. While Kankarbagh resident Nidhi Kashyap has prepared ‘til ladoos’ and ‘chikkis’, 48-year-old Bibha Sinha has set curd using fresh cow milk. A large number of people also queued up outside dairy parlours in the city on Wednesday. The owner of a shop, Amrit Raj, said, “Although I had increased the supply of milk and curd to meet the customers’ demands, I ran out of everything today.” Meanwhile, residential societies that used to organize Sankranti feasts every year have decided to give them a miss this time due to the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/people-to-relish-makar-sankranti-delicacies-fly-kites-today/articleshow/80257886.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Posta flyover razing may begin by Jan-end||Kolkata: The Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) held a meeting on Wednesday with the four short-listed agencies who responded to the KMDA’s expression of interest to dismantle the dangerous portions of the incomplete Vivekananda Road flyover, also known as Posta flyover. The dismantling, sources said, may begin by the end of this month once an agency is selected, possibly by next week. Officers of the Kolkata traffic police also attended the meeting to plan the specifications of traffic diversions that would need to be implemented during the work. The work will see multiple traffic diversions around the Strand Road area. Kolkata traffic police, though, have suggested a week-long campaign to make people aware of the work before starting the process. The specifications are expected to be submitted to KMDA within a few days by the various stakeholders and both KMDA and police hinted work might begin on the Strand Road end close to the Old Mint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/posta-flyover-razing-may-begin-by-jan-end/articleshow/80257540.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar reports 294 new corona cases, 2 deaths||PATNA: Altogether 294 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Wednesday, taking the tally to 2,57,629. Officially, two deaths were reported, including one from Patna. However, with 2,52,249 recoveries, there were 3933 active cases in Bihar. Of the new cases, 99 were from Patna, taking its tally to 50,996. However, with 48,979 recoveries and 401 deaths, there were 1616 active cases in the district. Covid-19 cases from some other districts included Begusarai (20), Nalanda (15), Muzaffarpur (14), Siwan (11) and Kaimur (11). The health department stated that 391 people had recovered in the past 24 hours and the state’s recovery rate was 97.91%. In the same time period, 95,129 samples were tested in Bihar. AIIMS-Patna reported two deaths. They were a 45-year-old man of Simra village in Purnia district and another 72-year-old woman from Purani Quila in Siwan. As per the information shared by hospital’s nodal incharge for Covid-19, Dr Sanjeev Kumar, ten fresh patients were admitted and five were discharged on Wednesday. There were 132 patients in the hospital. At NMCH, there were eight patients as on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-reports-294-new-corona-cases-2-deaths/articleshow/80257732.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Man chokes to death on live fish||Barasat: A 28-year-old man died after a live fish, which he held in his teeth, slipped down his throat and choked him. The victim had been fishing in a canal at Hasnabad in North 24 Parganas on Wednesday morning when the accident happened. According to locals, Gaffar Gazi, a resident of Harikati in Hasnabad, had gone fishing without a net or fishing rod. “He caught a koi fish with his hands and then held the live fish in his teeth while trying to catch another. The fish suddenly slipped into his mouth and got stuck in his throat,” he said. Locals took him to Hasnabad State General Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/man-chokes-to-death-on-live-fish/articleshow/80257490.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
January 14, 2021||Patna||IndiGo manager’s murder: Police probe tender, real estate angles||PATNA: Police are investigating the murder of IndiGo airline’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh (42) from financial angle involving some tender or real estate business issues. Singh was shot dead inside his SUV in front of his Kusum Vilas apartment residence at Punaichak in Patna on Tuesday evening. Police said the postmortem was conducted at IGIMS late Tuesday night. ADG (headquarters) Jitendra Kumar said special task force (STF) was assisting the probe as professional killers were involved in the murder. “IG (central range) is supervising the investigation and City SP (central) is leading the special investigation team (SIT) formed to crack Singh’s murder case,” he said and added: “Police would crack the case soon.” Police sources said Rupesh, a native of Jalalpur village in Saran, had strong political and bureaucratic connections in state and outside due to his position as well as friendly and courteous behaviour. They said he had also been involved in social works at Chhapra for the last two years. The officer said professional contract killers were hired for the job with elaborate planning to kill Singh. Another officer said at least six youths on three separate bikes had reached near Singh’s apartment minutes before his arrival, indicating that someone had passed information about his leaving the airport premises. “A sim card issued in Uttar Pradesh was found to be active near the place of murder around the same time when the incident happened,” he said. Singh was posted as station manager of the IndiGo airline at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport for the last several years. “Primarily, it’s a blind case for us but we are also looking into it if Singh had invested somewhere in real estate or had any connection with any big construction work,” a police officer privy to the investigation said, preferring anonymity. Police sources said Singh was shot six times and five pellets were extracted from his body during postmortem. “Six empty cartridges of 7.65mm were recovered from the spot,” a source said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indigo-managers-murder-police-probe-tender-real-estate-angles/articleshow/80257978.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||Prakashotsava: Patna Sahib station gears up to welcome Sikh pilgrims||PATNA: In view of the 354th ‘Prakashotsava’ or birth anniversary of Guru Gobind Singh, which will be celebrated at the Takhat Sri Harmandir Ji Gurdwara from January 18 to 21, elaborate arrangements are being made at the Patna Sahib railway station that falls under Danapur division of the East Central Railway (ECR). While reviewing the preparations on Wednesday, Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said the station’s facade would be illuminated with lights and additional sanitary staff roped in to clean the platforms, foot overbridges and circulating areas. “All the Covid-19 health protocols are being followed and the waiting rooms, platforms and ticket reservation counters sanitized regularly. There are also provisions for safe drinking water on each platform and emergency medical assistance,” the DRM told this newspaper. He added, “Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel will maintain law and order and help the passengers reach the gurdwara safely. A ‘may I help you’ booth will also become operational from January 18 to guide the pilgrims.” At present, altogether 44 special passenger trains halt at the Patna Sahib station. The railways has also provided two-minute temporary stoppages to 14 pairs of trains at the station in view of ‘Prakashotsava’. “Announcements are being made about the arrival and departure of special passenger trains at the station,” Kumar said. Later, the DRM along with senior divisional commercial manager Adhar Raj, senior divisional engineer Sujit Kuamr Jha and others visited the gurdwara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/prakashotsava-patna-sahib-station-gears-up-to-welcome-sikh-pilgrims/articleshow/80257950.cms||Kumod Verma
January 14, 2021||Business||Light and medium trucks pick up speed in Q3||Chennai: Sudden pick up in e-commerce activity has pushed sales of small trucks in the October-December quarter by 14%. The 5-15 tonne category truck sales went up from 21,000 units in Q3FY20 to 24,000 units in Q3FY21. Most of this recovery is on the back of a surge in e-commerce related bulk purchase particularly in September-October. “The demand for light and small trucks has gone up because of the sudden increase on the e-commerce front and the resultant demand for vehicles for last mile connectivity,” said Rajeev Singh, partner & leader-automotive, Deloitte India. Truck marketers for their part say the e-commerce surge is being aided by other factors. “Along with e-commerce other categories that have done well are fuel bowsers and rural crop movement. As for e-commerce that segment picked up in August and is still doing well,” said Vishal Mathur, senior VP, Volvo Eicher Commercial Vehicles. “Robust rural economy and better-performing e-commerce segment has led to demand improvement in small, intermediate and light commercial vehicles The offtake continues to be higher than retail to support sequential month on month growth in retail and ensuring healthy inventory levels,” said Girish Wagh, president CV business unit, Tata Motors which has seen a 10% YoY jump in intermediate and light commercial vehicles in Q3 and an 8% jump in December alone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/light-and-medium-trucks-pick-up-speed-in-q3/articleshow/80258700.cms||Nandini Sen Gupta
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||‘Jai Jawan, Jai Kisaan’ mantra for Lohri this yr||Kolkata: Covid and the ongoing protests against the farm laws cast their shadows on Lohri celebrations in Kolkata, leading to suspended or scaled-down gatherings at the clubs and homes on Wednesday. This year, the celebrations included spending some moments with the jawans near Wagah border. Satnam Singh Ahluwalia, chairman, IHA Foundation, said, “We have always organized a grand Lohri celebration. We hold huge gatherings across communities. But this year, we called off the festivities as a mark of protest against the farm laws and because of the ongoing Covid situation. Instead, we joined the jawans near Wagah border and spent some time with them, said Ahluwalia, who travelled to the Wagah border with his family and volunteers. Sanjay Lamba, former president of Calcutta Punjab Club, said the celebrations were held as a token. “The club has limited the number of attending members and we took adequate precautions to avoid crowding. “We tried to maintain the tradition of bonfire, to commemorate and honour the season of harvest,” he said. Vivek Kapoor, general secretary of Punjabee Bradree, said, “Fewer people attended the function and dinner. However, the enthusiasm was the same.” Manjit Singh Jetta, president of Netaji Bhagat Singh United Forum, said the volunteers and members suspended celebrations this year. “We stand in solidarity with the farmers and burnt the copies of the three farm laws in the bonfire as a mark of protest. We also organized a congregation of all religions at the Sarat Bose Road crossing,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/jai-jawan-jai-kisaan-mantra-for-lohri-this-yr/articleshow/80257520.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||City gears up for a new start with harvest festival||Kolkata: Across city homes, Thursday will be a day of new beginnings as the sun goes into Uttarayan, marking the end of winter and advent of longer days. Kolkatans spent Wednesday spring cleaning and buying raw materials for delicacies traditionally savoured on Makar Sankranti, a harvest festival across communities. Known by different names — Pongal by Tamils, Lal Loi by Sindhis, Makara Sankranti in Odisha, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Goa and Bengal, Sankranthi by the Telugu-speakers, Uttarayan by the Gujaratis and Ghughuti by the people of Uttarakhand — a common practice of the festival is the use of jaggery and sesame seeds to make sweets. In Bengal, the day is also known as Poush Sankranti and almost every household acquires fresh date palm jaggery or nolen gur to make pithe and patisapta. The Assamese celebrate Magh Bihu, also known as Bhogali Bihu, on the day of Sankranti. “I have made white til laddus for family and friends and black til laddus for the pundits. This is a typical Gujarati custom. The day will also be spent flying kites, another Uttarayan special,” said Shweta Badiyani, a resident of Bhowanipore. Her brother, Yogesh Tanna, a publisher, has stocked up on kites and rues that this time it will not be community event. In Maharashtrian homes, the sweets are ready and everything that is not needed is thrown out to make space for new. “We say ‘Til gur ghya ani god god bola’, which means the sweet jaggery will bring on sweet talk and positive vibes,” said Lalita Bagadthey, who has made her ‘gulachi poli’ and added that this year the stream of friends gathering for haldi-kumkum-bindi will be missed. “In Tamil homes, the festivities started on Wednesday, which was Bhogi Pongal. Thursday will be celebrated as Thai Pongal and Friday will be Mattu Pongal,” said Swaminathan Ramani Iyer, who has restaurants in the city. “At home we are making Ven Pongal, a spicy breakfast, and Sakkarai Pongal, a sweet made with jaggery,” said B Rajesh, another restaurant owner. Odhiya households procured Makara Chaula or newly harvested rice, bananas, coconut, jaggery and khoi to offer to the Gods, said entrepreneurs Bijay and Mina Lenka, residents of New Alipore. For the Sindhis, making of til chikkis in jaggery — bhorindas — is one of the main things to look forward to. Geeta Sambtani spent the day making these to stock up for Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/city-gears-up-for-a-new-start-with-harvest-festival/articleshow/80257511.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 14, 2021||Patna||Gaya Jn gets panel interlocking system||GAYA: The Gaya Junction is now equipped with a modern panel interlocking system that will lead to more safety, increased speeds, and smooth movement of trains. According to the public relations officer (PRO) of Deen Dayal Upadhyaya railway division, Md Iqbal, the new system has replaced the traditional electromechanical interlocking system and will ensure faster movement of trains and greater frequency. Eliminating the need for multi-cabin operations, all interlocking points and signals will now be operated electrically from a central location — the B-cabin of the Gaya Junction yard. After the installation of the modern panel interlocking system, a trial run of a diesel locomotive was successfully conducted at the Gaya Junction on Tuesday. Senior officials of the Deen Dayal Upadhyaya railway division were present on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/gaya-jn-gets-panel-interlocking-system/articleshow/80256411.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||Scientists ask farmers to grow organic vegetables||BHAGALPUR: Scientists and experts at Bihar Agricultural University (BAU) have suggested farmers to grow organic vegetables. “Organic vegetables are good for health and environment as well as economical growth of farmers,” the scientists said at a five-day training camp for farmers, which concluded on Monday. Laying importance on organic vegetable farming, R K Sohanay, director-education extension at BAU, said, “Central and state governments are encouraging farming of organic vegetables on the banks of the Ganga via organic corridor. The governments are encouraging the stakeholders to take up farming under various schemes and increase farm productivity,” he said. R N Singh of BAU said focus on organic vegetable farming is increasing day-by-day. Abhay Mankar, deputy director (training) at BAU, who coordinated the training programme, said the BAU scientists imparted training to the stakeholders on 21 different topics related to organic vegetable farming. “Organic farming has multi- dimensional benefits for all, including the consumers and the growers,” he said. He added, “Organic farming saves the environment, keeps the soil alive and helps the soil to retain its nutrients by using the wastes and organic materials that get converted into bio-fertilizers, which release nutrients to crops. A sustainable eco-friendly environment without any pollution is achieved through organic farming.” Makar said organic vegetable farming excludes synthetic inputs, such as chemical fertilizers, pesticides, hormones and additives. “The vegetables produced through organic farming methods have high nutritional quality and are healthy for human consumption,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/scientists-ask-farmers-to-grow-organic-vegetables/articleshow/80256478.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Ram Janmabhoomi Nyas general secy offers prayers at Har-ki-Pauri, asks volunteers to support building of Ram temple||Haridwar: The general secretary of Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Nyas, Champat Rai reached Haridwar on Wednesday and offered prayers at Har-ki-Pauri where he asked the volunteers to support the Nidhi Samarpan campaign for the building of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Addressing the workers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) after offering prayers, Rai said, “All the movements for the building of Ram temple in Ayodhya started from Haridwar and now it’s time to celebrate after struggling for 492 years. All the workers and volunteers must take part in the Nidhi Samarpan campaign which will start from January 15 across the country.” VHP’s district president Nitin Gautam told TOI, “After offering prayers to the Ganga, all the workers took blessings from Champat Rai.” Prior to this, Bajrang Dal activists took out a rally from Jwalapur to Har-ki-Pauri. Bajrang Dal activist Anuj Walia told TOI, "Our target is to reach around one lakh families in Haridwar for the campaign and teams have been formed for the same."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ram-janmabhoomi-nyas-general-secy-offers-prayers-at-har-ki-pauri-asks-volunteers-to-support-building-of-ram-temple/articleshow/80256316.cms||MS Nawaz
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||First consignment of 1.58L doses of Covid-19 vaccine reaches Varanasi||Times News Network Varanasi: The first consignment of 16 boxes containing 1.58 lakhs doses of Covid-19 vaccines reached Varanasi on Wednesday. The vaccine consignment, which reached LBS International airport by Vistara UK-621 flight, was taken to regional drug warehouse near DDU district hospital from where the shares of 14 districts of Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and Azamgarh divisions were dispatched by road for the commencement of the mega vaccination drive from January 16. Vistara UK-621 flight landed with the first consignment of the vaccine at LBS International airport at 11.30am. The airport spokesman said that the vaccine boxes were immediately off loaded and taken to 5 ton capacity cold chain facility at cargo terminal of airport amidst tight security arrangements of the CISF personnel. Later, under the supervision of airport director Flt. Lt. Akashdeep, this vaccine consignment was handed over to joint director and divisional nodal officer Dr Anshu Singh and nodal officer for Corona vaccine Dr Sher Mohammad, SP (protocol) Anurag and SDM Pindra Jai Prakash. District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that from airport the vaccine consignment had been shifted to regional drugs warehouse store amidst tight security arrangements. When sought details about the arrival of 1.58 lakhs doses of vaccine, divisional commissioner Deepak Agrawal told TOI, “This consignment contains the vaccine doses for initial phase vaccination scheduled in four divisions of east UP region. As per the list available with officials here, apart from Varanasi, Chandauli, Ghazipur and Jaunpur districts of Varanasi division, the vaccine doses of Prayagraj, Kaushambi, Fatehpur, Azamgarh, Ballia, Mau, Mirzapur and Sonbhadra were also packed in the same boxes.” With the completion of the process of transportation, the officials, especially of the health department, started finalizing the preparation for the beginning of the vaccination drive scheduled to begin from January 16. The officials said that from regional drugs warehouse the vaccines will reach the cold chain storage facilities created in each district. In Varanasi, this facility has been created at the community health centre, Chaukaghat campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/first-consignment-of-1-58l-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-reaches-varanasi/articleshow/80256594.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Allahabad||Experts find over four dozen new archaeological sites in city||Prayagraj: A team of experts from department of Ancient History, Culture and Archaeology at Iswar Saran PG College, conducted a survey along the Ganga and Yamuna, from Jhunsi to Sringverpur and from Daraganj to Kali Paltan in Kaushambi district, on both sides and found more than four dozen archaeological sites.The survey stretched over 70 km on the ground and 3-5 km (in width) on both sides of the rivers.The exploration was done under college principal and head of department, Prof Anand Shankar Singh as project director along with assistant professor Jamil Ahmad as his deputy and the team. It is perhaps, for the first time, that an archaeological survey of such magnitude has been done in this area.“The survey covered over 80 villages on both the shores of the Ganga in Phoolpur, Sadar and Soraon tehsils of Prayagraj district and Chail tehsil of Kaushambi district. We marked and documented 50 sites of archaeological importance from where a large number of archaeological remains from Chalcolithic period (around 3,000 to 2,000BC) to the Mughal period and later, were found,” said Prof Singh.The remains include various types of potteries, terracotta, semi-precious stones, microliths (1cm to 8cm stone tools), beads, stone and iron tools and objects made of bone and ivory, he added.The area on either side of the Ganga, except for Shringverpur and Hetapatti, has not yet been extensively excavated. The human habitat in the area could be more than 4,000 years old, Singh added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/experts-find-over-four-dozen-new-archaeological-sites-in-city/articleshow/80256148.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Held for blackmail, man owns up to con||Ahmedabad: A Chandkheda man's attempt to blackmail a teenager by threatening to post her photographs online proved unlucky when his arrest revealed that he was also accused of cheating another man out of Rs 1.36 lakh. The cybercrime cops have now arrested arrested Suraj Gavle, 25, for both crimes. The cybercrime cops nabbed Gavle after he threatened to post nude photographs of a 19-year-old Naroda resident on social media. Cybercrime officials said, “The teenager said that she got a whatsapp message from the accused’s phone number, claiming to be from an intimate wear company. He told her that the company was sending free lingerie to women who sent their photographs in the nude or in their intimate wear. The girl sent her photographs. A while later, Gavle threatened to post the photographs online if the girl did not agree to his demands. The girl approached us on Tuesday,” said ACP (cybercrime) Jeetendra Yadav. The cops traced his number and arrested Gavle. During interrogation, it came to light that Gavle has also been accused of cheating Chandkheda resident Kumar Vora by offering him a loan of Rs 5.8 lakh at yearly interest rate of 1.2%. "Vora fell for it. The accused took Rs 1.36 lakh as taxes and processing charges from Vora then stopped attending his calls,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/held-for-blackmail-man-owns-up-to-con/articleshow/80257509.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi slams IndiGo manager’s murder, asks Nitish to quit home dept||PATNA: Senior leaders of opposition parties on Wednesday raised the issue of the brutal murder of budget airline IndiGo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh in Patna and slammed the government over the continuously deteriorating law and order situation across the state. The opposition parties called for chief minister Nitish Kumar to relinquish the charge of home (police) department if he was unable to handle the department and put an effective control on the frequent incidents of serious crimes such as murder, gang rape and bank robberies. Raising concerns over the dare-devil act of murder of the IndiGo manager “just two kilometers away from the CM’s residence”, the Leader of Opposition in Bihar assembly, Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, on Wednesday demanded the immediate arrest of those involved in the crime. He also sought an “impartial probe” into the incident. “If the CM is unable to manage the home (police) department, he should hand over the charge of the department to any other person,” Tejashwi said alleging that Nitish had failed to handle the home (police) department. “I have repeatedly said that CM Nitish Kumar is tired now. He is unable to manage the administration of the state. He should now take rest,” Tejashwi told reporters outside the residence of his mother Rabri Devi here. Tejashwi further said while campaigning during the assembly polls in the state in 2020, PM Narendra Modi had used all sorts of nomenclature for the people of Bihar. “The PM Modi used phrases like ‘Jungle RaaJ Ka Yuvaraaj.’ Who is now the Maharaja of this Jungle Raaj? Where is PM Modi now? I want to ask the BJP leaders to explain to people who is the Maharaja of Jungle Raj?” Tejashwi asked. Taking a swipe at the state BJP leaders, Tejashwi further said, “One thing is ridiculous in Bihar is that BJP is part of the state government but its leaders, too, are crying foul over the deteriorating law and order situation. The BJP’s senior leaders in the state have frequently been raising questions over the bad law and order scenario, even though they have two deputy chief ministers in the coalition government led by Nitish Kumar.” Earlier, Tejashwi in a tweet said, “If Nitish Kumar is not able to control law and order in the state, he should resign.” Reacting over Singh’s murder, Congress national general secretary Tariq Anwar said the incident was ample proof that Nitish has lost his grip on law and order in the state. LJP state president and Samastipur MP Prince Raj said, “Incidents of serious crimes are being continuously committed in the state for the last two months and people have completely lost faith in the police administration.” Terming the incident of murder of IndiGo manger as a tragic incident, the LJP MP said the CM who is also holding the charge of the home department, should take effective steps to maintain law and order across the state. The BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Vivek Thakur said the state government must hand over Singh’s murder case to the CBI if the state police fail to solve it within five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-slams-indigo-managers-murder-asks-nitish-to-quit-home-dept/articleshow/80258043.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||Leaders across party lines oppose proposal to hike property tax||Pune: Leaders across political parties have opposed the 11% property tax hike for 2021-22 proposed by municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar.The leaders claimed that the hike would not be justified amid the Covid-19 pandemic. Civic activists have also termed the move as an injustice to tax payers. The hike is likely to be rejected as it is facing significant opposition. “The tax hike should not be effected. Such an increase is not valid and should be rejected outright. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) can explore other options for increasing the revenue,” said Deepali Dhumal, leader of opposition in the PMC. Chairman of the standing committee Hemant Rasane said that a hike is not expected. “The financial condition of common citizens is affected due to the pandemic and lockdown. Introduction of a tax hike will not be wise now,” he said.He added that a special meeting will be called to debate the proposed hike. The final call on approving the hike will be taken after the meeting.The 11% property tax hike is expected to increase PMC’s revenue by Rs130 crore. Owners of nearly 10.6 lakh properties would be affected by the hike.Citizens’ group Sajag Nagrik Manch has demanded that the property tax hike proposed by Kumar should not be approved. “If approved, it will be an injustice to tax payers, who are paying tax diligently. PMC is offering discounts to tax defaulters and proposing a hike for regular tax payers. The double standards will send a very wrong message to common citizens,” said Vivek Velankar of the group.He said that the civic administration must recover property tax arrears amounting to Rs1,218 crore from defaulters. Even pending water tax of Rs400 crore is to be recovered. However, Velankar pointed out, hardly any effort has been made to recover the arrears.The civic body has mopped up Rs1,300 crore as property tax in the three quarters of 2020-21. It is the highest ever revenue collection for the civic body. Around Rs370 crore were recovered with the help of the amnesty scheme offered to defaulters. Nearly 80% waiver was given in the penalty on tax arrears in the amnesty scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/leaders-across-party-lines-oppose-proposal-to-hike-property-tax/articleshow/80258761.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||On Wed, 96 new Covid cases, 78 recoveries, 1 death||Panaji:Goa reported 96 fresh Covid-19 cases, 78 recoveries and one casualty, taking the count of active cases to 813 on Wednesday. The mortality count rose to 751. A 50-year-old woman from Vasco, who was diagnosed with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on admission, succumbed to the virus after two weeks of treatment. She was also suffering from diabetes, hypertension, bronchial asthma and hypothyroidism. The case positivity rate on Wednesday stayed at 5% and recovery rate at 97%. The day also saw 19 hospital admissions and 68 recoveries. Few centres that saw their caseloads rising were Panaji, Candolim and Porvorim. Meanwhile, the caseloads of Ponda and Chimbel remained static. Most other centres reported one or few cases, and some none. In South Goa, the Balli primary health centre reported the least number of cases, while in North Goa it was Casarvarnem.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-wed-96-new-covid-cases-78-recoveries-1-death/articleshow/80259755.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||Home guards DIG launches internal probe||PATNA: DIG, home guards and fire services, Pankaj Kumar Sinha on Wednesday reached Munger to conduct an internal inquiry into the killing of a home guard jawan, Mohammad Zahid (48), in police encounter on Bariyarpur police station premises after he had opened fire on them in the wee hours of Tuesday. Zahid, about whom police claimed to be mentally depressed and undergoing medication, was assumed to be a Maoist as he neither identified himself nor surrendered even after repeated announcements by the police using megaphones during the shootout which had lasted for almost one and a half hours. When asked, Munger SP Manavjit Singh Dhillon said the senior officer of the home guard and fire services was conducting a parallel inquiry into the case on several issues. “At least 10 police firearms, including pistols and AK-47 rifles used by the police personnel in the firing, had been seized as per law,” Dhillon said. He said all these firearms would be sent for forensic analysis after seeking permission of the competent authority. “Magisterial inquiry in the matter is going on,” he said. In reply to a query, the SP said at least 49 rounds were fired by the police in reply to the ten rounds fired by Zahid on the police personnel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/home-guards-dig-launches-internal-probe/articleshow/80256364.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||‘Brave’ film set in convent part of KIFF competition||Kolkata: Director Deepesh T’s fourth feature film, ‘Aquarium’, is the only Indian film selected to compete in the International section for Innovations in Moving Images at the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF), where the prize money is Rs 51 lakh. Last year, his film, titled ‘Karuppu’, on colour discrimination was at KIFF too. ‘Aquarium’ is set in a convent and features two nuns with different perspectives on Christ and sexuality. For many who watched it at Nandan on Sunday, it was perhaps one of the boldest and most controversial movies to have been screened at the festival. KIFF chairperson Raj Chakrabarty, who was present at the screening, lauded the director for choosing such a “brave subject”. Others wished the making and the ending were a little different. Deepesh isn’t sure if he should be called a “brave” director. “I’m always open about what feels right to me. When an actress was persecuted in Kerala and I came to know that a prominent actor was involved in it, I reacted and protested against the Malayalam film organization which took an anti-woman stance,” he said from Kannur, where he is shooting a film on transgender issues. According to the director, he has been privy to stories of how religious orders are often misogynistic. “I am aware of the anti-feminist acts in monasteries. There are two nuns who live near my house and they have narrated various incidents which I used for my film. When we say an aquarium, we refer to the beautiful fish inside a glass cage. It’s nice to see the fish, but they do not have the freedom to enjoy the world outside. My film is meant to support women, especially nuns,” he said. Film-making, according to him, is a “political activity”. “I make films based on topics that haunt, delight or make me depressed. Threats will be there. There have been attempts to intimidate me,” he said. Deepesh refers to the Sister Abhaya murder case that became a national talking point. The CBI court had found a priest and a nun guilty of her murder. “This case proves that the abuse I show in my film happens in life. But, my film is not based on this case,” he said. Deepesh is upset that his film was not selected for the International Film Festival of Kerala. “Even though Kerala is governed by the communist party, their political activities take place within the religious framework. I feel that is the reason my film was not selected at IFFK. With elections knocking on the door, I believe this decision was taken for the fear of vote-bank politics. It is sad to see that even progressive movements are going backwards when it comes to exposing truth. In that context, KIFF’s selection of ‘Aquarium’ is significant. I would be grateful and happy if the Bengal government can give me a memento that I will cherish,” the director added. Chakrabarty has taken note of the request. “Once the festival gets over, I will have the memento sent over to him,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/brave-film-set-in-convent-part-of-kiff-competition/articleshow/80257485.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 14, 2021||Patna||Seven get life term for raping 13-year-old Nalanda girl||PATNA: A special POSCO court of Biharsharif in Nalanda sentenced seven persons to rigorous imprisonment for life on Wednesday after finding them guilty of raping a 13-year-old girl while she kept begging for mercy and recording the video of their heinous crime and making it viral on social media platforms. The court of ADJ-VII Mohammad Manzoor Alam also slapped a fine of Rs 5,000 on each of the convicts and failure to pay the fine would result in six months’ additional simple imprisonment. The convicts who have been sentenced to rigorous life imprisonment are Mithun Kumar, Ranjan Kumar, Rahul Kumar, Karan Kumar, Ashish Kumar, Raj Kumar, Sonu Kumar. The court also simultaneously sentenced three year’s imprisonment to Rahul and Sonu after finding them guilty under sections 66 (E) and 67 of The Information Technology Act. Court also slapped a fine of Rs 1,000 each on both convicts and failure to pay it would result in three months’ additional imprisonment. All the sentences would run concurrently. Court has also allowed a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to the victim. The FIR in connection with the incident was registered on the statement of the victim with Rajgir police station of Nalanda on September 25, 2019, after the video of the incident became widely circulated. The case was put for speedy trial in less than two months after an intricate technical and scientific investigation by the police conducted on the direction of then Nalanda SP Nilesh Kumar to ensure that there is strong evidence against convicts for sentencing them. Police had ensured facial recognition of all seven accused youths visible in the video through forensic analysis in the case. Besides, police had also produced independent witnesses in the case who had identified the accused in the video. The special public prosecutor (POCSO Act) Sushil Kumar had ensured deposition of 19 witnesses. The incident took place on September 19, 2019, when the victim had gone to attend her coaching classes early morning. The victim had met with one of her friends with whom she went to visit Vipulgiri hills. The seven convicts were already present there who thrashed the victim’s friend forcing him to flee and then took turns to rape her by pointing a knife and recorded the entire act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/seven-get-life-term-for-raping-13-year-old-nalanda-girl/articleshow/80256341.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 14, 2021||Patna||Attractions galore at Rajgir as Venu Van, new park, bird fest set to open||PATNA: A green bonanza awaits nature lovers as the refurbished and expanded Venu Van and the newly built park near Ghora Katora in Rajgir will be inaugurated on Friday. This will be followed by the formal inauguration of a three-day bird festival at Naga and Natki on Saturday. Also, the upcoming Rajgir Zoo Safari and Nature Safari will be thrown open for people in February. These attractions will be inaugurated by chief minister Nitish Kumar along with deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, who also holds charge of the environment, forest and climate change department. Interacting with media persons on Wednesday at Aranya Bhawan, Prasad said the idea behind these initiatives was to bring people closer to nature and also tap tourism opportunities. On the three-day bird festival which will start from January 15, Prasad said it has been christened ‘Kalrav’ to evoke the chirping of birds and it is for the first time that such a state-level event is being organized. “Ornithologists, conservationists and other experts will attend the bird festival. Like Nagi and Natki, there are several places where a large number of migratory birds come to the state and we will tap the potentialities of all these places,” he added. The department’s additional chief secretary Dipak Kumar Singh said such bird festivals will now be held as yearly events and at different wetlands and bird sanctuaries to attract attention to all these areas. “We will continue this state-level bird festival from November to February at different places. These festivals will be open for common people,” he further said, adding, experts at these events will explain to people how to recognize different migratory birds. Singh said a state-level authority was formed last year to conserve a large number of wetlands all across Bihar. “There are 133 such wetlands which are spread over more than 100 hectares and out of these 25 have been taken up initially and their management plan is being developed,” he added. On projects in Rajgir, Singh said Venu Van has been expanded and additional facilities like meditation centres, cafeteria, an open theatre near a pond and more varieties of plants have been added. He said, “A four-acre park has been developed near Ghora Katora with a watchtower, play area and sitting area. We will also be inaugurating Rajgir Zoo safari and Rajgir Nature Safari in February.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/attractions-galore-at-rajgir-as-venu-van-new-park-bird-fest-set-to-open/articleshow/80256394.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 14, 2021||Patna||Five more flights at Patna airport from tomorrow||PATNA: Five more flights will be available at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport from January 15 under the ongoing winter schedule, which will remain effective with minor changes till March-end. It will increase the number of flights at the city airport by 9%. IndiGo will resume the direct flight between Patna and Chandigarh from January 15 after 10 months gap. The flight 6E- 717/718 will operate six days a week (except Sundays). It will depart from Patna at 8pm and reach Chandigarh at 9:55pm. On return journey, it will leave Chandigarh at 1.45pm and touch down at Patna airport at 3.35pm. Besides, one more flight on Bengaluru sector will also resume. SpiceJet is also to resume its flight (SG- 407) to Surat from January 15. The airline’s senior manager (corporate) Anand Deora said the flight from Surat will land at Patna airport at 2.40pm and take off from Patna at 3.10pm for Kolkata. The flight will operate on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays. At present, no direct flight is available on Surat-Patna route. The airline will also resume one flight each on Mumbai and Chennai route from mid-January. Presently, the airport is handling 42 arrivals and departures per day, that would be increased to 47 from January 15. The city airport has direct connectivity to Delhi, Kolkata, Chennai, Pune, Mumbai, Amritsar, Hyderabad, Ahmedabad, Bengaluru, Lucknow, Guwahati and Varanasi. According to airport director Bhupesh CH Negi, the flights have been scheduled in such a way that the bunching of aircraft will be avoided in case of delay due to foggy conditions. The Airports Authority of India (AAI), Patna, has earlier taken the decision to operate only four flights per hour to avoid congestion inside the terminal building in case of delays as there is no scope for further expansion of the existing terminal building. The construction work for the redevelopment of Patna airport is in full swing. The number of frisking counters and security checkpoints has been increased. The number of x-ray machines for the baggage and check-in counters also increased from three to four and 15 to 21, respectively. Meanwhile, IndiGo will start flight operations from Darbhanga airport from February. However, the routes are yet to be decided.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/five-more-flights-at-patna-airport-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80257610.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 14, 2021||Patna||DM forms eight cells for inoculation in Patna district||PATNA: DM Chandrashekhar Singh on Wednesday formed eight cells to ensure hassle-free rollout of vaccination drive for the healthcare workers at 16 selected sites in Patna district on January 16. These cells are to look after site management, law and order, storage and transportation of vaccines, adverse event following immunization (AEFI), information, education and communication (IEC) activity, immunization and training, CoWIN portal and control room. Each cell comprises ADM-rank official, sadar district officer, block district officer, district immunization officer and health personnel to discharge different responsibilities throughout the drive. Singh told this newspaper that the site management cell will be set up at the district health office in Patna to see the preparations at different vaccine centres. “The team will ensure the availability of furniture, internet connectivity, entry and exit points, hand sanitisers, vaccine opening devices, syringes, biomedical waste management and dustbin at the vaccine centres. Other preparations at the three-room set up — one waiting room, one vaccination room and an observation room — will also be managed by this team,” he said. The immunization and training cell will organize workshop at district and block level and to ensure the availability of vaccinators at different selected sites. The storage and transportation cell will be operated by the State Health Society. It will ensure the storage of vaccine in cold-chain storage from district to block level and delivery of vaccine to session site. CoWIN portal will monitor the registration of beneficiaries on the digital platform. The DM said to deal with adverse effect, the AEFI cell formed at NMCH and PMCH will prepare medicine kit and ambulance. Any beneficiary who develops complications during vaccination should immediately be taken by an ambulance to the nearest hospital. “Under the law and order cell to be managed by the ADM, police personnel will be deployed at each vaccine centre to manage the crowd and maintain social distancing. The IEC cell will organize awareness generation activities through the IEC materials at vaccine centres,” Singh said. He added: “People, who want to get the information about the vaccines can contact District Registrar and Counselling Centre at Chajjubagh. The control room at DRCC will organize orientation programme for common people and also rebut the rumours.” Besides, special officers will be deployed to oversee the inaugural day inoculation programme at different vaccination centres. The officers will perform the same role as sector magistrates do during elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/dm-forms-eight-cells-for-inoculation-in-patna-district/articleshow/80257720.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 14, 2021||Patna||3,488 people avail minorities employment loan in Katihar||KATIHAR: A serpentine queue of applicants was seen at the district minority welfare department office on Wednesday for document verification to seek loan under the Mukhyamantri Alpsankhyak Rojgar Rin Yojana. The process had started on December 15 and January 13 was the last date for document verification under the loan scheme for 2019-20. “Approximately 3,488 aspirants have availed the facility in the district. Under the scheme, 70% people belonging to minority community in rural areas and 30% in urban areas can avail this facility,” said Tarique Raza, the district minority welfare officer. He said the scheme comes under the state minority welfare department and is monitored and controlled by the Bihar State Minority Welfare Financial Corporation. “A sum of Rs7 crore will be allocated to the applicants. Financial assistance will range between Rs1 lakh and Rs5 lakh. Majority of the loan seekers have been availing the scheme for self-employment as well as expansion of their existing businesses,” Raza said. Some of the applicants expressed satisfaction over the scheme. Md Tanweer Ahmad (24) of Gorgama Gerabari said, “I have taken a loan of Rs4 lakh at the rate of 2.5% for the business purpose. The scheme is good for the minority community. It will help in expanding their businesses.” Tanweer is planning to expand his footwear business. Najma Khatoon (40) of Hariganj Mohalla in Katihar town said she wants to set up a shop of ladies garments as well as expansion of the existing business at Mangal Bazar. “I took a loan of Rs5 lakh for expanding the business at Mangal Bazar of the town,” she said. Md Imtiyaz Alam (32) of Choudhary Mohalla said he had taken took a loan of Rs2 lakh for establishing a shop for bike accessories. “I have a shop but I also want to set another of bike accessories,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/3488-people-avail-minorities-employment-loan-in-katihar/articleshow/80256469.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||4L use ER ticketing app after restoration||Kolkata: Nearly 3.9 lakh suburban passengers of Eastern Railway (ER) have opted for the ‘UTS on Mobile’ app over the past six days, since it was restored. The app — that was extremely popular among suburban commuters and those purchasing unreserved tickets — had been shut down after the suspension of scheduled trains due to the pandemic. The app has been restored for ER and South Eastern Railway (SER) now that services have resumed in these zones. “This was a technically difficult task. Many suburban systems have still not opened services to all. The app was shut down to prevent people from purchasing tickets unchecked,” said Soumitra Majumdar, principal chief commercial manager, ER. The e-wallets linked to the app reflected the pre-lockdown balance, which was a relief for many who thought that it would have to be forfeited. According to Kamal Deo Das, CPRO, ER, nearly 1.5 lakh people in the Howrah division and 2.4 lakh in the Sealdah division have used this app since it was restored on January 6.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/4l-use-er-ticketing-app-after-restoration/articleshow/80257558.cms||Jayanta Gupta
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||AICC panel looking into issues raised by Pilot: KC Venugopal||Jaipur: AICC general secretary KC Venugopal on Wednesday said the issues raised by former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot during the rebellion by 19 MLAs against chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership are being looked into by a committee formed for the purpose.“The committee’s work is on,” Venugopal said during his visit to Jaipur. The Congress leader, who is a Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, met Gehlot at the CMR. Venugopal said he came to take feedback from the state government on issues that need to be raised in the upcoming Parliament session. Gehlot was recently appointed AICC observer to oversee party’s campaign in the upcoming assembly elections in Kerala, the home state of Venugopal. Congress state president Govind Singh Dotasra paid a visit to him.The AICC general secretary is part of the three-member panel that was constituted in August last year after Pilot and his loyalist MLAs rebelled but later called a truce after assurances by the party's central leadership. One of the committee members, Ahmed Patel, died in November. AICC general secretary in-charge of Rajasthan, Ajay Maken is the third member.The Pilot camp had rebelled seeking active participation in governance and flagged concerns over the "manner of functioning" of chief minister Gehlot. Pilot, who was sacked as deputy chief minister and Congress state president following the revolt, was assured that the committee would resolve the issues raised by him. The committee was still to be make it recommendations, while the party has begun reconstituting the state organisation. Political appointments and cabinet expansion are next in line. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aicc-panel-looking-into-issues-raised-by-pilot-kc-venugopal/articleshow/80258784.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||January 18 last date to confirm RTE admissions||Pune: Beneficiaries of Right to Education (RTE) quota admissions in waiting list can confirm their admissions by January 18. The admissions have been going on nine months and it will be the last chance for students to confirm their admissions. Joint director of education department overlooking RTE admissions in the state said, “The admissions will be closed after this round so all the students whose names are in the waiting list must confirm by Monday. No changes will be made or no admission will be granted after this date.” As many as 86,875 students in Maharashtra have so far received admissions under the RTE quota in private schools. Pune district has the maximum admissions under this scheme with 11,135 in 972 schools. Patil said the reason behind good admissions is awareness about the scheme among the beneficiaries. “The admissions are reaching a new high every year. Each year, the figures improve over the previous year. It is a gradual improvement,” he said. The admissions started in March 2020, after which the lockdown slowed down the process. The admissions resumed in June last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/january-18-last-date-to-confirm-rte-admissions/articleshow/80258753.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Stage set for vaccine drive on January 16||AHMEDABAD: Usually adult vaccination drives are tagged with reluctance among citizens. This poses a major challenge for the health department. For over a month, following a poor registration for vaccination among health and frontline workers, the city municipal corporation went on an overdrive to mobile-register 55.8k doctors and healthcare workers, across government and private institutions. Apart from this, officials have been seeking guidelines in case of absentees, if a beneficiary misses their vaccination turn. Dr Nayan Jani , state immunization officer says, “The stock of vaccines that arrived since Tuesday have reached all 33 districts and 8 municipal corporations and has been stored at designated cold storage facilities.” Some 37,500 frontline workers have consented. “But we have a gut feeling that less than 50% of them will turn out. The other reason being, that the vaccine has been approved under emergency and doctors are usually bothered about complications like inflammations that may kick in after a week. But the vaccine is safe,” said a senior Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) official. The official added that nearly 7.3 lakh citizens above 50 years of age have registered, while 22,905 individuals below 50 years have registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/stage-set-for-vaccine-drive-on-jan-16/articleshow/80258832.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Business||You spent 39% more time on mobiles in 2020: App Annie report||Chennai: With Indians on Covid-19’s stay-at-home mode for most of 2020, time spent on smartphones surged by almost 39% in the year, with most spending 4.6 hours a day, up from average 3.3 hours a day in 2019. App downloads in India grew by almost 30% year-on-year to 24.27 billion downloads in 2020. By app store consumer spend, India ranked 25th but saw 35% YoY growth in consumer spend through in-app purchases and subscriptions to $500 million, AppAnnie’s annual ‘State of Mobile’ report released on Wednesday, showed. India continues to hold its place as the second-largest market worldwide for app downloads after China. “If we assume the average user spends eight hours sleeping, that is equal to nearly 30% of all waking time spent on mobile. Games were the most downloaded and represented two out of every five downloads,” Lexi Sydow, senior insights manager, App Annie, told TOI. 2020 also saw Facebook-owned apps dominate monthly active users rankings in India as the now-contentious WhatsApp and Facebook emerged as top two apps in India on the basis of usage. At an average 21.3 hours per month per user, time spent on WhatsApp grew 25% from 2019. Time spent on Facebook grew 15% YoY and Instagram recorded a 10% growth in usage in 2020. With India banning the use of short videos app TikTok in June, the app was pushed down to the fifth among social apps compared to last year when it recorded the highest YoY growth of 240%. Ludo King and PubG Mobile were the top games apps recording maximum most monthly active users. Finance apps found special preference among Indians in 2020 as time spent by users on the top five investments and trading apps grew 75% year-on-year in India outpacing global growth of 55%. At over 177 billion hours, video streaming, another key category, saw a 40% growth in time spent. YouTube and MX Player among the most-used apps recording 25% and 20% year-on-year growth respectively. With people preferring to eat home-cooked food during Covid-19, the food and drink apps category saw a 35% decline in usage. “While use of food delivery apps often peaked near the beginning of the pandemic in most markets, India had an initial decline due to logistical impacts before rising again in the summer,” AppAnnie said. Interestingly, BevQ, Kerala’s liquor sale virtual queue management app, was the app with highest YoY growth in sessions followed by Domino’s Pizza and Fresh to Home. With people confined to their homes, education apps, (170%), business apps (120%), health and fitness (80%) were among categories that experienced highest year-on-year growth in downloads in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/you-spent-39-more-time-on-mobiles-in-2020-app-annie-report/articleshow/80258758.cms||Sindhu Hariharan
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Private schools to GET affordable online education content||AHMEDABAD/GANDHINAGAR: In what may offer competition to private online education platforms in the country, the Gujarat government has decided to incorporate a company called Gujarat Education Technologies (GET) Ltd. A resolution on this was passed recently by the state education department. Compared to subscription charges of Rs 30,000 to Rs 50,000 a year charged by leading ed-tech companies, GET aims to provide richer content for Rs 1,500 to Rs 3,000 per year for private schools, sources said. In the case of government schools, GET aims to provide content free of cost. “In the next two or three years, GET aims to clock net revenues of around Rs 500 crore a year, after making world-class learning content available at minimal cost to around 4 million students at private schools and free of cost to 7 million students at government schools,” said Vinod Rao, education secretary. GET shall be an autonomous company of the government of Gujarat, under the administrative control of the secretary, primary and secondary education, and establish the required technology-based e-learning systems and provide quality content through partnerships with technology and content providers and build a framework for online education at affordable prices, according to the government resolution. GET will produce high-quality learning content engaging the best content-developers in this sector, and provide it to students at private and government schools from the academic year April, 2021, it said. To ensure quality and acceptability, the content will be vetted by a content approval team consisting of the best subject teachers from private schools. Private schools affiliated with the Gujarat State Education Board are required to purchase NCERT textbooks, supplied by the State Textbook Board. These schools have the option of purchasing other reference titles from private publishers. In a similar manner, Gujarat Education Technologies’ digital content will be the primary digital content that private schools affiliated to Gujarat State Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board should subscribe to with the option to consume other digital content as additional reference content. The e-content costs for government and grant-in-aid schools will then be cross-subsidized from the revenues generated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pvt-schools-to-get-affordable-online-education-content/articleshow/80257526.cms||Bharat Yagnik
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Winter break in U’khand HC from January 18||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) will go on a month-long winter break from January 18, but the court will be closed from Saturday onwards because of the weekend. A vacation bench, however, will sit during this break and will hear important matters. The court’s registry will also remain open during the vacation. The Chief Justice on Tuesday nominated judges for the winter break. According to the court’s orders while Justice NS Dhanik will sit and take up important matters from January 18 to 24, Justice Sharad Kumar Sharma will sit from January 25 to January 31. Meanwhile, Justice Ramesh Chandra Khulbe will take up matters from February 1 to February 7, Justice Alok Kumar Verma will sit from February 8 to 14 and Justice Ravindra Maithani will finally take up the cases from February 15 to 21. The court is scheduled to restart from February 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/winter-break-in-ukhand-hc-from-january-18/articleshow/80256326.cms||Prashant Jha
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Monang Patel externed from city for 6 mths||Ahmedabad: Gujarat high court on Wednesday granted conditional bail to Monang Patel, son of Raman Patel, owner of Popular Builders, in connection with the complaint of domestic violence lodged by his wife Fizu with Vastrapur police. Whie granting bail to him, Justice Vipul Pancholi externed him from Ahmedabad for six months. He will be allowed in the city only once a month to mark his presence before police authorities. Monang was arrested along with his father and uncle Dashrath Patel on August 28 after Fizu levelled charges of domestic violence under Sections 498A and 307 of the IPC for attempt to murder. Later, Raman and Dashrath were arrested in various other land-related disputes. The HC took into consideration that Monang had no criminal antecedent. According to the prosecution, Monang had only abetted the co-accused in the attempt to murder. He was used as a tool in the crime by his father and uncle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/monang-patel-externed-from-city-for-6-mths/articleshow/80257550.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Aides help fugitive escape from Barmer police custody||Jaisalmer: A fugitive who had been on the run for 14 years and was nabbed by a team of Kanpur police and state ATS managed to escape from custody with the help of his aides under Sadar police station in Barmer on Wednesday evening.Barmer SP Anand Sharma said Kanpur police was in search Chandra Prakash Jani, a resident of Sheo area, who wanted in a 14-year-old case of excise act. Kanpur police took help of Rajasthan ATS and both teams caught Jani from Sheo panchayat samiti. ATS and Kanpur police had not informed local police about the operation.He said 16-17 aides of Jani followed the police teams in four vehicles and attacked them near Harsani Fanta and got Jani released.ATS informed Sadar police and later barricades were erected in the entire Jodhpur range. However, no case has been lodged in this regard.Notably, Chandra Prakash Jani is the representative of pradhan of Sheo panchayat samiti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/aides-help-fugitive-escape-from-barmer-police-custody/articleshow/80258812.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid fines reach Rs 3.6 cr in 4 days||Ahmedabad: Gujarat police, in the four days just before Uttarayan, collected fines totalling Rs 3.63 crore from 36,500 people, for breaching the notification regarding the use of masks and barring spitting in public. DGP Ashish Bhatia said since January 8, police have been taking stern action in cases of such violations.“We registered 1,763 cases for violation of the notification across the state. Under Section 207 of the Motor Vehicles Act, we have impounded 3,117 vehicles and 2,944 people have been arrested,” added Bhatia. According to figures released by the DGP’s office in Gandhinagar 9,005 people were fined a total of Rs 90,56,000 on on January 8; 9,300 people paid Rs 92,55,000 on January 9; 8,983 persons coughed up Rs 89,40,000 on January 10 and 9,132 persons paid Rs 90,89,000 on January 11, for not wearing masks or spitting on roads.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/covid-fines-reach-rs-3-6-cr-in-4-days/articleshow/80258842.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand tourism dept to hold national winter games in Auli||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand tourism department will organise national winter games in Auli, said secretary (tourism) Dilip Jawalkar on Wednesday. The official also maintained that the state will organise an international Yoga festival in Rishikesh, like the past several years, with Covid-19 regulations in place. While addressing a meeting of the officials of Uttarakhand Tourism Development Board (UTDB), Jawalkar instructed the officials to ensure proper arrangements of electricity, water supply, medical, security, and equipment which would be used during the event. He also said that the review of the Auli Walkway, Ropeway, Chairlift, and Skylift should also be done before the event. He further suggested that a Destination Development Committee should be formed, including the local people, Municipal Cooperation, Hotel Association members, and others for better work coordination. He also said that a Skii School should be set up in Auli for the people seeking skiing training in Uttarakhand. Ashish Chauhan, general secretary, Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam (GMVN), said that the first phase work for Poma Skiing Lift was recently completed. The work of revamping the proposed chairlift in the second phase came to halt due to Covid-19 but it has restarted. “The repairing works of the Artificial Snow Making Operator System, Combined Pump, Dialog Cables, Compressor, Air Supply System, Mobile, and Static Gun, Snowmaking System were also completed recently,” added Chauhan. With regard to the preparation of the International Yoga Festival, Jawalkar said that astrology experts and foot massage counters should also be added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-tourism-dept-to-hold-national-winter-games-in-auli/articleshow/80256332.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Covid vaccine reaches districts as Andhra Pradesh gears up for January 16 rollout||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported 203 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the cumulative case load to 8,85,437, even as large-scale preparations are on to vaccinate health staff in the first phase on January 16. The state received 20,000 doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on Wednesday, apart from the 4.77 lakh Covishield doses it received on Tuesday. The Covid-19 toll increased to 7,134 as one more patient from Krishna district succumbed to the virus. As many as 231 patients were discharged from treatment facilities on Wednesday. Seven districts recorded single-digit case numbers, while new cases remained under the 50-mark in all districts. There are currently 2,382 active cases, 8,75,921 cumulative recoveries and 7,134 fatalities. The state conducted 44,679 coronavirus tests and detected 203 cases on Wednesday, translating to a positivity rate of less than 0.5%. The state has so far conducted 1.24 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall positivity rate of 7.1%. The mortality rate has remained stable at 0.8%. Meanwhile, after receiving 4.77 lakh Covishield doses on Tuesday, Andhra Pradesh got about 20,000 Covaxin doses in an air-shipment at Vijayawada airport on Wednesday. The health department completed the shipping process of the Covidshield vaccine to district cold chain stores by Wednesday afternoon. Vizianagaram joint collector R Mahesh Kumar said 15 vaccination centres are being set up in the district to inoculate 17,000 healthcare workers starting January 16. Srikakulam got 26,500 vaccine doses. Visakhapatnam district collector V Vinay Chand said the district is prepared for the vaccination drive. “Visakhapatnam district received 47,500 vaccine doses on Wednesday. As the vaccines are temperature sensitive, they have been stored in specific temperatures in the cold chain system. Round-the-clock police security has been provided at the vaccine store alongside CCTV surveillance, which can also be watched from the state control room,” said Vinay Chand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/covid-vaccine-reaches-districts-as-ap-gears-up-for-jan-16-rollout/articleshow/80256353.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Now, Maharashtra CM refers to Osmanabad as Dharashiv||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena erased all doubts about its stand on renaming certain cities when on Wednesday CM Thackeray referred to Osmanabad as Dharashiv (named after 6th century caves) in a tweet, days after using Sambhajinagar for Aurangabad on the official CMO handle, reports Sujit Mahamulkar. While the Sena chief has always referred to Osmanabad as Dharashiv in his speeches, this is the first time he did so on the CMO’s handle. This time there was no response from Congress and NCP, unlike when he mentioned Sambhajinagar for the first time on January 6. After the Sambhajinagar tweet, the Congress had raised an objection within three hours. At the time, state Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat had said that no one should use the name of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj to play politics. The NCP had said that such renaming was not part of the common minimum programme. Reacting to the Congress and NCP objections, Thackeray had on January 8 said that Aurangzeb was not a secular person, so he anyway did not fit into the common minimum programme of the MVA. On Wednesday, the state cabinet approved a government medical college in Osmanabad with a student capacity of 100 and a 430-bed hospital, and Thackeray’s tweet was to announce this. The tweet, which was in Marathi, said the state cabinet had approved a government medical college in “Dharashiv-Osmanabad”. It carried a prominent photograph of minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh of the Congress while there was a small photograph of Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress in a corner. Osmanabad is named after the last ruler of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan, while Dharashiv is derived from the name for the sixth-century caves near the city. A Congress minister who was contacted for comment refused to react, suggesting state Congress president Thorat be contacted. There was no reaction from the Congress on Twitter, unlike a week ago. For 25 years at least, the Shiv Sena has referred to Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, Osmanabad as Dharashiv and Ahmednagar as Nagar in its mouthpiece Saamna. Thackeray follows the same policy in his speeches, which now the chief minister’s office is following on the CMO Maharashtra Twitter handle. During the 1995-1999 Sena-BJP alliance government, the state had issued a notification about renaming Aurangabad city, but a Congress corporator had gone on to move court on it. The Supreme Court had put a stay on the notification, which was withdrawn by the Congress government after 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/now-cm-refers-to-osmanabad-as-dharashiv/articleshow/80259762.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Institute files cop complaint against online proctors||MUMBAI: A week after students from a premier management institute complained about online proctors harassing them after exams, the institute filed a police complaint. Authorities did not divulge details about the complaint; insisted they would pursue it to a logical end. An officer, however, claimed no FIR had been filed. The institute formed an internal committee comprising deans and legal representatives and is expected to submit a report by next weekend.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/institute-files-cop-plaint-against-online-proctors/articleshow/80259761.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Punishment imposed on khadi employee on graft charges set aside||Madurai: Observing that the disciplinary and appellate authorities had awarded punishment to an employee of the Tamil Nadu Khadi and Village Industries Board without properly considering the facts, the Madras high court has set aside the punishment awarded to him. The court further directed to give all the consequential service and monetary benefits to the petitioner within eight weeks.The court was hearing a petition filed by K Ramesh, a khadi assistant grade I working at Kabisthalam under Kumbakonam unit challenging the punishment of stoppage of increment for one year without cumulative effect.The punishment was imposed on the petitioner on charges - misappropriation of 1.200kg of white silk worth about Rs 2,772 in 2000. After verification of records by the assistant director, he made corrections in the records through the khadi inspector with an intention to misappropriate 1.200kg of white silk without the knowledge of the assistant director and irregularities in distribution of raw materials of paavu, silk and jarigai to the weavers.Justice J Nisha Banu observed that out of three charges, the disciplinary authority himself had held that the first charge relating to misappropriation has not been proved and the same was also accepted by the appellate authority. When the disciplinary authority itself found that the first charge has not been proved, the second charge also should go out as both the charges are interrelated.The judge said that moreover, it is not in dispute that the petitioner had not corrected the stock register and it is only the khadi inspector who made the correction. If the petitioner had an intention to misappropriate, he would have corrected the stock register himself and not through the inspector.The judge observed that while the inspector also should have been issued with the charge memo, he was not issued with any memo for the correction made in the stock register. “The inspector was freed and the petitioner has been made a scapegoat and thus, the petitioner alone has been discriminated,” observed the judge.With regard to the third charge of irregularities, the judge observed that when there is no specific rule or procedure to point out the irregularities, the authorities cannot blame the petitioner and impose punishment. Moreover, dishonesty is the main ingredient so as to make out misconduct. In the absence of dishonest intention, a misconduct cannot be made out, observed the judge.The judge observed that disciplinary as well as the appellate authority without considering the above aspects, have erroneously imposed punishment on the petitioner. Hence, the judge set aside the punishment order.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/punishment-imposed-on-khadi-employee-on-graft-charges-set-aside/articleshow/80258845.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 14, 2021||Agra||Bus row: Agra court grants bail to UP Cong chief Lallu||Agra: An Agra court on Thursday granted bail to Uttar Pradesh Congress chief Ajay Kumar Lallu in connection with protests held by his party at the UP-Rajasthan border in May against the UP government’s decision of not allowing the entry of buses arranged by his party for ferrying the stranded migrant workers returning to their homes during the Covid-19 lockdown. Lallu had surrendered in the court after non-bailable warrants were issued against him as he failed to appear in the court after the expiry of his interim bail on January 5. However, two other Congress leaders AICC secretary Vivek Bansal and former MLA Pradeep Mathur booked along with Lallu had appeared in the court after the expiry of their interim bail.Agra district government counsel Basant Gupta told TOI that additional district and sessions judge Umakant Jindal had granted them bail upon furnishing a surety bond of Rs 25,000 each. Fatehpur Sikri police had booked Lallu, Bansal and Mathur under sections 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Epidemic Act on May 19.Interacting with mediapersons after the bail, Lallu said, “Our fight against the government will continue. We did not bend and would never do. We are fighting against their policy of suppression.”Lallu said the court had granted him interim bail on May 20, but later Lucknow police arrested him in a second case registered in connection with the bus row.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/bus-row-agra-court-grants-bail-to-up-cong-chief-lallu/articleshow/80254089.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Ex-DGP takes over as RTC MD||Vijayawada: RP Thakur has been posted as vice-chairman and managing director of APSRTC, as per a government order issued on Wednesday. Thakur, a former DGP, is currently commissioner of printing and stationary and will continue to hold additional charge of that post as well. Thakur was transferred from the post of DGP immediately after the YSRC came to power and transferred to printing and stationary department. Former intelligence chief A B Venkateswara Rao, however, was not given any posting and later was suspended for alleged violation of service rules. The APSRTC post is usually held by DG-rank IPS officer. NV Surendra Babu was the last DG-rank officer to hold the position. After his transfer, MT Krishna Babu, an IAS officer, and Madireddy Pratap, an ADG rank IPS, held that position. With Thakur’s posting, the position is again held by a DG-rank officer. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ex-dgp-takes-over-as-rtc-md/articleshow/80256373.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Art as vaccine against corona despair||Ahmedabad: The tree was about 5 feet tall, most of its leaves were missing — it looked like a shelf with the majority of its books unreturned. Yet, Pandit Birju Maharaj saw in the tree a forest of implications. “That tree over there…,” Panditji pointed out during a 2018 interview with TOI, “...doesn’t it look like a dancer with the hip bent and the arm thrust forward to make a dramatic point!” Panditji’s art, Kathak, derives from “katha” or “story”. He and his disciples were featured in the concluding session of the e-Saptak finale, on Wednesday. The Saptak stage can be crossed with a few strides, but in that space Panditji has related kathas that cover the infinite cultural acreage of mythology, human condition, and the power of nature. In the sumptuous horror of the battlefield in “War and Peace”, Leo Tolstoy makes Nikolai Rostov say: “In myself alone and in that sunshine there is so much happiness; but here... groans, suffering, fear, and this uncertainty and hurry...”. In the sunshine, Rostov can finally see his own perplexity about his passion to become a war hero. The monumental setting is the stage for an individual’s awakening. Panditji can turn on that sunlight in any setting — in a garden with a 5-foot tree, at the Saptak venue, or on a digital streaming platform. Indeed, it is owing to classical notables such as Panditji that Saptak-2021 was a success. The organizers took the festival online this year because Covid had made it impossible for rasikas to attend the annual event in person. But as Panditji’s tree has shown, it is the mind that gives remote access to meaning; so the site of contemplation shouldn’t matter. Of course, rasikas hope to be amid the luxuriant foliage of “wahs” next year because human company has become as valuable as artistic pleasure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/art-as-vaccine-against-corona-despair/articleshow/80257563.cms||Kannan Somasundaram
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||‘Major growth in organic products during pandemic’||Kota: At least 91 per cent organic sellers and 89 per cent consumers have confirmed that there has been a substantial growth in both sale and consumption of organic products during the pandemic in Rajasthan.In the midst of Covid with vaccine still to be made available for the aam aadmi, a remarkable surge in the sales of organic products has taken place in the country over the last 10 months, which has encouraged several organic retailers to come up overnight. This change has occurred because of the changing eating habits of consumers, who are turning to organic food in order to enhance immunity. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/major-growth-in-organic-products-during-pandemic/articleshow/80258843.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Now, Maharashtra CM refers to Osmanabad as Dharashiv||MUMBAI: The Shiv Sena erased all doubts about its stand on renaming certain cities when on Wednesday CM Thackeray referred to Osmanabad as Dharashiv (named after 6th century caves) in a tweet, days after using Sambhajinagar for Aurangabad on the official CMO handle, reports Sujit Mahamulkar. While the Sena chief has always referred to Osmanabad as Dharashiv in his speeches, this is the first time he did so on the CMO’s handle. This time there was no response from Congress and NCP, unlike when he mentioned Sambhajinagar for the first time on January 6. After the Sambhajinagar tweet, the Congress had raised an objection within three hours. At the time, state Congress leader Balasaheb Thorat had said that no one should use the name of Chhatrapati Sambhaji Maharaj to play politics. The NCP had said that such renaming was not part of the common minimum programme. Reacting to the Congress and NCP objections, Thackeray had on January 8 said that Aurangzeb was not a secular person, so he anyway did not fit into the common minimum programme of the MVA. On Wednesday, the state cabinet approved a government medical college in Osmanabad with a student capacity of 100 and a 430-bed hospital, and Thackeray’s tweet was to announce this. The tweet, which was in Marathi, said the state cabinet had approved a government medical college in “Dharashiv-Osmanabad”. It carried a prominent photograph of minister for medical education Amit Deshmukh of the Congress while there was a small photograph of Maha Vikas Aghadi leaders Uddhav Thackeray, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar of the NCP and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat of the Congress in a corner. Osmanabad is named after the last ruler of Hyderabad, Mir Osman Ali Khan, while Dharashiv is derived from the name for the sixth-century caves near the city. A Congress minister who was contacted for comment refused to react, suggesting state Congress president Thorat be contacted. There was no reaction from the Congress on Twitter, unlike a week ago. For 25 years at least, the Shiv Sena has referred to Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar, Osmanabad as Dharashiv and Ahmednagar as Nagar in its mouthpiece Saamna. Thackeray follows the same policy in his speeches, which now the chief minister’s office is following on the CMO Maharashtra Twitter handle. During the 1995-1999 Sena-BJP alliance government, the state had issued a notification about renaming Aurangabad city, but a Congress corporator had gone on to move court on it. The Supreme Court had put a stay on the notification, which was withdrawn by the Congress government after 1999.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/now-cm-refers-to-osmanabad-as-dharashiv/articleshow/80261754.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||India||In Bhopal, Covid vaccine arrives to celeb’s welcome||BHOPAL/INDORE: The first batch of Covid vaccine arrived to a celeb’s welcome in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, three days ahead of the nationwide rollout. Over 2.7 lakh vaccine doses arrived in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur, and the process of transporting them to other districts began right away. In Bhopal, which got 94,000 doses, people on bikes and cars trailed the cavalcade carrying the vaccines from the airport. The buzz on the street was ‘aa gaya!’ The administration had kept it under wraps and though people knew the vaccines would arrive on Wednesday, the exact time was kept confidential. Mediapersons hung around Bhopal airport since early morning and when an IndiGo flight touched down with the precious cargo just after 11am, a wave of excitement surged through the crowd. It took just eight minutes to offload the vaccines and put them in specially insulated vans. And when the five vans set off, escorted by police vehicles, and trailed by a fleet of mediapersons, people on the street realised “it” was here. Some turned around and followed the vans just to be part of the excitement. At the Kamla Park centre, where the vaccines were stored, a huge crowd gathered and swelled so quickly police had to be deployed as a precaution. “I have seen a family member die of Covid last year. For people like me, this vaccine is no less than Sanjeevani. I was eager to see it,” said Dharam Lal, a shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-bhopal-covid-vaccine-arrives-to-celebs-welcome/articleshow/80260241.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Disburse relief to victim’s relatives: HC to TNSTC||Madurai: The Madras high court has directed the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) to disburse compensation to the family of a person who was killed in an accident after a government bus collided with his cycle in Trichy district. The court also dismissed the civil miscellaneous appeal by the corporation challenging the order of the Motor Accidents Claims Tribunal in Trichy district. The deceased, Seetharaman was working as a delivery man in a courier company. In October 2014, Seetharaman was going on his cycle near the Chatiram bus stand, when an overspeeding government bus rammed his cycle. Seetharaman died on the spot. Following this, the family members of Seetharaman approached the tribunal seeking Rs 20 lakh compensation. Since the tribunal came to a conclusion that the accident took place only due to rash and negligent driving on the part of the bus driver, liability was fixed upon the owner of the vehicle. Hence, the tribunal directed the TNSTC to pay Rs 17,65,000 with 7.5% interest per annum from the date of petition till the date of deposit. The judge observed that by taking into consideration all the facts, the tribunal has rightly fixed the monthly income of the deceased as Rs 10,000 while awarding the compensation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/disburse-relief-to-victims-relatives-hc-to-tnstc/articleshow/80258848.cms||Kaushik Kannan
January 14, 2021||Agra||Protesting farmers don’t even know what they want: Hema Malini||Agra: After the Supreme Court stayed the implementation of the newly enacted three farm laws on Tuesday, BJP MP from Mathura, HemaMalini, said that the protesting farmers do not even know what they want and can’t explain the problems they have with the new Acts. The actor-turned-politician also alleged that farmers were being misled and that they are agitating against the Acts at the behest of some vested interests. She claimed that the farmers from Mathura’s villages have never complained to her against the laws and are very happy with these. “It was not nice to see mobile towers being vandalised in Punjab. Our government has called them (agitating farmers) for talks repeatedly, but they don’t have any agenda,” she said. The MP further said that it is good that the Supreme Court has stayed the implementation of the three new agriculture laws. This was very much required to calm down the situation, she said.Talking about the Covid-19 situation in the country, she said, "Corona is not yet over. People should follow all safety protocols. Some people from our party also lost their lives to Corona. I want to appeal to the general public that it has not ended yet; continue to be cautious. Now, bird flu has come up, and in such a situation everyone should take care of themselves and their families,” she said.When asked about the Covid-19 vaccine, she said, “I would definitely be vaccinated when my turn comes.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/protesting-farmers-dont-even-know-what-they-want-hema-malini/articleshow/80255374.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 14, 2021||Allahabad||HC: Bail plea under SC/ST Act should be placed timely||Prayagraj: The Allahabad high court on Monday held that the bail applications/appeals under SC/ST Act have to be placed before the concerned court on expiry of seven days from the date of service of notice on government advocate. Besides, the court directed that the bail applications should be processed expeditiously and placed before the court for hearing in a reasonable and definite time-frame. The court passed these directives when, while hearing a bail application, it was brought to its notice that bail applications of accused under SC/ST Act are being unduly delayed on the pretext of either non-service on victim or ground of non-appearance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/hc-bail-plea-under-sc/st-act-should-be-placed-timely/articleshow/80256180.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Anand Teltumbde didn’t attend Elgar Parishad, says bail plea||MUMBAI: Refuting allegations that he was one of the conveners of Elgar Parishad, arrested activist and academic, Anand Teltumbde, in his bail plea said he had made a brief visit to Shanirwada on December 31, 2017, to meet his wife’s nephew and sister-in-law and that he was in Pune to attend the wedding of his former classmate’s son. The plea said the former classmate had booked 16 rooms in the same hotel, including one for Teltumbde. “The investigating officer has deliberately either not recorded the statement (of the former classmate) or must have recorded but not sent with the chargesheet as he must have realised that it is not supporting the prosecution at all,” the bail plea said. “Even otherwise, due to the differences the applicant (Teltumbde) had, he did not take any further part and did not attend the Elgar Parishad at all,” the bail plea added. The NIA in its chargesheet has said on December 31, 2017, Elgar Parishad at Shaniwarwada, Pune, was funded by the banned CPI (Maoist) as part of a conspiracy to create unrest. The investigating agency alleged provocative speeches by the activists of Kabir Kala Manch promoted enmity between various caste groups. This, they said, led to the January 1, 2018, caste clashes at Koregaon Bhima. Referring to one of Teltumbde’s (70) published books, the plea said this evidence indicates he was critical of Maoist ideology. Denying the NIA’s claims in its chargesheet that he used to attend international conferences under the guise of academic visits, the plea said he had attended a conference in Paris in 2018 and that its organiser had written a letter following the allegations by the police against the university. “She (organiser) informed the applicant (Teltumbde) vide an e-mail that the provost of her university has also written to the French Embassy complaining against these allegations,” the plea said. Citing lack of evidence, the plea states the letters allegedly seized from co-accused Rona Wilson are addressed to someone else. “The letter refers to one ‘Anand’. But there is nothing in the chargesheet to show this accused had knowledge about the contents of the letter or had acted upon the letter or is the Anand mentioned in the letter...Thus conspiracy is stillborn...” the plea said. The plea further said despite hailing from a poor family, Teltumbde, due to his sheer brilliance and hard work had reached the position he has in Indian society and was a world renowned Dalit scholar. “However, casteist forces cannot digest this fact and have implicated him in an attempt to belittle his achievements and to humiliate the Dalit community,” the plea said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teltumbde-didnt-attend-elgar-parishad-says-bail-plea/articleshow/80259772.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Report dead birds on helpline: Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has urged citizens to report any sick or dead bird sightings in their areas on the helpline numbers 1800222309 and 1800222310. On Wednesday, local BJP leader Ramchandra Gharat called NMMC to inform about two dead crows at Turbhe node.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/report-dead-birds-on-helpline-nmmc/articleshow/80259764.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur cardiologist gets int’l recognition||Jaipur: A city-based cardiologist, Dr Rajiv Gupta has been ranked 1st in the country and 108th globally in the area of specialization — general and internal medicine — in the list issued by Stanford University (USA) of the 1,00,000 most impactful scientists in the world. Dr Gupta is currently working as chairman of preventive cardiology and internal medicine at a private hospital. He is also a board member of the world heart federation, Geneva and adjunct faculty at a number of universities. He has been working in the field of cardiovascular epidemiology and heart disease prevention research for the past 40 years and has more than 1,000 publications in peer reviewed journals. His research has identified importance of risk factors such as hypertension, high cholesterol, stress and diabetes in epidemic of heart diseases in the country. Currently, his research is on working on health systems and healthcare level interventions to improve cardiovascular health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-cardiologist-gets-intl-recognition/articleshow/80258846.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bareilly||Man abducts, rapes minor girl & films act||Bareilly: A 16-year-old girl of a village under Pakhwada police station in UP’s Moradabad was allegedly abducted and raped by a man in Rampur, who also “filmed the act”, a month ago. Now, the accused is allegedly forcing the girl to marry him while threatening to make the video public. After the girl had gone missing on November 19, the girl’s family informed police, who found her abandoned in a private bus three days after the abduction, said police. However, an FIR in this connection was not registered. The girl’s family approached police again on Tuesday with a complaint that the accused was now putting pressure on the girl to marry him and had even threatened to make the video clips of the act public, said police. Following the complaint, the accused — Ramesh, a resident of Pajaba village under Milak police jurisdiction in Rampur — was booked under relevant sections. In his complaint to police, the girl’s father alleged that the accused lured his daughter and abducted her a month ago. “The girl was found abandoned in a private bus three days after her abduction. She told her family that the accused had raped her and filmed the act on his mobile phone. The accused is now forcing her to marry him while threatening to upload the clips on social media platforms if she refused,” said Moradabad senior superintendent of police Prabhakar Chaudhri. “An investigation is going, and police are trying to nab the accused. Besides, the call details of the accused are being examined,” added the SSP. Station house officer of Pakhwada police station Rajni Dwivedi said, “Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against the accused under sections 376 (punishment for rape), 363 (punishment for kidnapping) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and appropriate sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused is absconding.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-abducts-rapes-minor-girl-films-act/articleshow/80255378.cms||Maria Khan
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Govt wants to scrap appointment of ‘disinterested’ trainer at flying club||Nagpur: In further setback for reopening plans of Nagpur Flying Club (NFC), the Maharashtra government on Wednesday demanded scrapping appointment of chief flying instructor (CFI) Capt Shivkumar Jaiswal, stating that he seems disinterested in the job. The government’s reply came even as the court slammed it last week for failure to restart the British-era club for over a year after its clear orders. Thanks to the government apathy, the prestigious club has been closed for the last three years, depriving aspirants of getting training in flying aircraft at reduced rates in comparison to commercial academies. In an affidavit on Monday, the government demanded that Jaiswal’s appointment made in July 2019 be kept on hold to save Rs5 lakh per month needed to be paid to him, as there would be no work for next few months till the NFC is restarted. “It would be better if CFI’s selection process is scrapped and new applications invited so that there’s better competition for the post,” the government said. A division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor adjourned the hearing for two weeks after petitioner’s counsel Shriniwas Deshpande sought time to file a reply on affidavit. The government affidavit further stated that maintenance regarding airworthiness of aircraft is about to be completed. For further mandatory process, the NFC needs to appoint a new CFI before the inspection by Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) for flying training organization (FTO) approval. “The maintenance manager has completed all works required to acquire the airworthiness review certificate (ARC) of our fleet of four aircraft. However, his work will have to be counter checked by an aircraft maintenance engineer of another club. This is referred to as dual inspection, and Yuvraj Jadhav from Indore will be visiting the NFC when summoned for this purpose,” it said. The government added that 44 instruments of the four aircraft required to be bench-checked and overhauled as those weren’t utilized for over three years. This contract was awarded to International Aircraft Services Limited of Bhopal. “When the parts are received back in good condition, those would be fitted in the respective aircraft. 100% advance payment has already been made for this work.” The affidavit blamed Covid-19 lockdown from March 24 for bringing NFC’s operations to a grinding halt. “Except washing and cleaning of aircraft, no work is being done. Irrespective of flying activity, basic maintenance is vital to prevent them from deteriorating. Therefore, basic engineering staff like maintenance manager, continuing airworthiness manager, and four technicians are retained. The post of assistant flight instructor can be kept vacant till the time flying operations resume,” it said, adding that it would complete all formalities within three months. The HC was hearing a PIL by late Flt Lt Shridhar Ghatate, who approached the HC, after the prestigious British-era club stopped operating in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/govt-wants-to-scrap-appointment-of-disinterested-trainer-at-flying-club/articleshow/80258851.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Infighting in Uttarakhand Congress intensifies as Rawat again asks party to declare CM face for 2022 polls||Dehradun: Continuing with his aggressive mode, senior Congress leader and former Uttarakhand chief minister Harish Rawat has reiterated his stand that the party needs to declare a CM face on priority so that people of Uttarakhand can make comparisons with the BJP’s CM candidate before exercising their franchise. He has stressed upon making the forthcoming assembly elections a fight over local issues. In his social media post, he also mentioned how he is being ignored in party events. On Wednesday afternoon, the ex-CM posted a message on Facebook in which he pointed out how he was allegedly ignored during a party event and wrote that Uttarakhand Congress doesn’t find him fit to be part of the coterie. He repeated that it was important to declare a CM face as it would help the party. Rawat said, “We should encourage youth leaders to take control. I want to promote a generation change as it will encourage other state units to make such decisions.” The social media posts of the ex-CM have evoked a strong response from Indira Hridayesh, leader of opposition, who said, “The last elections were held under your (Rawat’s) leadership. You contested from two seats — without consulting us — and lost from both seats. In 2017, we could not even secure a seat from each of the 13 districts. Had we won at least one seat from each district, we would have at least 13 MLAs in the state assembly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/infighting-in-uttarakhand-congress-intensifies-as-rawat-again-asks-party-to-declare-cm-face-for-2022-polls/articleshow/80256379.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 14, 2021||Allahabad||Settle homebuyers grievance within 3 months, directs HC||Prayagraj: In a major relief to flat buyers across the state, the Allahabad high court recently directed competent authorities under the UP Apartment Act, 2010 and UP Industrial Area Development Act, 1976 or any other enactment to decide the grievance of the homebuyers or their associations positively within three months from the date it is brought to their knowledge. This should be done by reasoned and speaking order under intimation to the aggrieved persons, the court said in its order, issued in the form of a general mandamus (a judicial remedy in the form of an order from a court to any government, subordinate court, corporation, or public authority, to do some specific act). Besides, the competent authority should ensure that before any decision is taken, a right of audience is given to the parties concerned, the court further directed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/settle-homebuyers-grievance-within-3-months-directs-hc/articleshow/80256165.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 14, 2021||Madurai||HC quashes FIR against advocate||Madurai: The Madras high court quashed the FIR which was registered against an advocate who participated in anti-CAA protest in Madurai. The court was hearing the petition filed by an advocate S Vanchinathan. Justice R Hemalatha said that a perusal of the FIR by the S S Colony police in Madurai, it is found that six people including the petitioner were protesting against the amendments made to the Citizenship Laws. According to the complainant, who is the sub-inspector of police, the petitioner and others by their act had not only committed public nuisance, but also caused hindrance to the free flow of vehicular traffic on the road. The government advocate contended that the investigation is already completed and chargesheet has also been made ready against the accused for the alleged offences punishable under Sections 143, 341, 290 of IPC and Sections 71A(1), 73 of Tamil Nadu City Police Act. The judge observed that it is to be pointed out that no untoward incident had taken place. The petitioner is a practising advocate and also a member of a political party. The petitioner has organised the protest and the FIR has not disclosed any act of violence. Hence, the judge allowed the petition and quashed the FIR registered against the petitioner. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hc-quashes-fir-against-advocate/articleshow/80258854.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||CM does ‘rudrabhishek’, to attend khichdi ritual||Gorakhpur: Chief Minsiter Yogi Adityamath on Wednesday morning, performed Rudrabhishek at his residence in Gorakhnath temple. He reached Gorakhpur on Tuesday evening for Makar Sankaranti and Gorakhpur Mahotsav closing ceremony. The Rudrabhishek was performed by acharyas of Sri Gorakhnath Sanskrit Vidyalaya under the guidance of Pradhan Purohit Acharya Ramanuj Tripathi Vedic. The religious rituals continued for one hour and at the end aarti and prasad distribution was done. On Tuesday evening, the CM inspected the Khichdi fair venue in Gorakhnath temple and on Wednesday morning, after taking blessings of Brahmleen Mahant Avaidyanath and Mahant Digvijaynath and taking part in puja, he spent half an hour in goshala. On Thursday morning, as per the age-old tradition of Gorakshpeeth, CM Yogi will offer khichdi to Baba Gorakhnath on the occasion of Makar Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-does-rudrabhishek-to-attend-khichdi-ritual/articleshow/80256651.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Covid cases dip but public defies safety norms||VISAKHAPATNAM: As active Covid-19 cases continue to decline, a new trend has emerged in the Port City—violation of Covid-19 protocols of wearing masks, ensuring social distance, disinfecting and hand hygiene. Medical experts say hardly 15 to 20% of the public are wearing masks the correct way or following social distancing and hand hygiene. Doctors, however, have cautioned against complacence, fearing it may trigger a second wave of the disease, especially after Sankranti when movement in public transportation will be high. Speaking to TOI, joint secretary (south) of Indian Public Health Association (IPHA) Dr P J Srinivas said, “Implementation of Covid-19 protocols is not carried out and public is not at all serious about the situation. The district administration should impose fines on public if they are found not wearing masks or penalise commercial establishments for not maintaining social distancing among the customers. Strict enforcement of rules regarding conducting of functions in hotels and halls is required ensuring that the gathering permitted should not exceed limit and norms are followed.” Covid-19 nodal officer (north-coastal Andhra) Dr P V Sudhakar said, “Whenever I pass the Beach Road, I find barely 10-15% of the public wearing the mask properly. While some have stopped wearing masks, 30-40% carry the mask with them, dangling from the chin or in their hands. Covid-19 safety norms should be strictly followed at least till March-end and then rules can be relaxed only if new cases stop surfacing and widespread vaccination is carried out.” As per health officials, Covid-19 cases in Vizag started to surface late, from May-June, and was restricted to sporadic cases in March and April. The occurrence of a second wave cannot be ruled out and may start after the Sankranti rush. R Raghu Prakash, principal scientist and scientist-in-charge, Central Institute of Fisheries Technology Research Centre, said, “Prevention is better than cure. With vaccines arriving, public is least bothered about safety now. Some consider Covid-19 as just a simple viral fever. But it has been proved in many cases that even after getting cured, people are suffering adverse effects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/cases-dip-but-public-defies-safety-norms/articleshow/80256390.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 14, 2021||Allahabad||House of Atiq’s close relative razed in Kasari Masari||Prayagraj: A joint team of Prayagraj Development Authority (PDA), police and district administration on Wednesday demolished a house belonging to the close relative of former MP Atiq Ahmad in Kasari Masari area in Prayagraj. The two-story house was constructed illegally by Rashid alias Neelu without sanctioning of map from the agency concerned. The joint team reached the site in Kasari Masari area on Wednesday afternoon, and completed the demolition work by 5 pm. Heavy police force was deployed near the site to tackle any untoward incident. Two JCB demolished the house in three hours. PDA (Zonal Officer) Sat Shukla told TOI that the two story house was constructed on 300 square yards of land without sanctioning of map from the agency concerned. The joint team started the process of demolishing the house of the henchman of former MP amidst tight security. The cost of the house was estimated worth Rs 4 crore. Police, meanwhile, said over half-a-dozen criminal cases were also registered against Rashid alias Neelu with different police stations of the city. Rashid is an active member of Atiq’s gang.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/house-of-atiqs-close-relative-razed-in-kasari-masari/articleshow/80256187.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Harvest festivities drive away Covid blues||Ahmedabad: The coronavirus pandemic may have got everyone’s spirit down but Amdavadis rang in the new year on a hopeful note. The cheer continues with a slew of festivities this week. Communities from various states are celebrating their harvest festivals, muted but unique in its own way. While Gujaratis get busy tying ‘kinya’ to their kites for Uttarayan celebrations, the Punjabi community observe Lohri while the Assamese prepare for Bohali Bihu. The festivities are extra special this year as Amdavadis remember with gratitude the joy of having a plateful of food during the lockdown, or being forced to manage with little or no vegetables during the sudden week-long shut down last year. The coronavirus pandemic may have got everyone’s spirit down but Amdavadis rang in the new year on a hopeful note. The cheer continues with a slew of festivities this week. Communities from various states are celebrating their harvest festivals, muted but unique in its own way. While Gujaratis get busy tying ‘kinya’ to their kites for Uttarayan celebrations, the Punjabi community observe Lohri while the Assamese prepare for Bohali Bihu. The festivities are extra special this year as Amdavadis remember with gratitude the joy of having a plateful of food during the lockdown, or being forced to manage with little or no vegetables during the sudden week-long shut down last year. Celebrating Lohri Usually observed a day ahead of Makar Sankranti, Lohri is predominantly observed by the farming community in Punjab to mark the end of sowing season. “Generally, it involves family and friends gathering around a bonfire, singing songs, dancing, and having a feast. For us, celebration will be restricted to a few family members this time. Our feast comprises vegetarian preparations with sweets and savouries,” said Gaurav Mehta, businessman. Prepared for PongalPongal is celebrated mainly in Tamil Nadu when rice and sugarcane are harvested. Celebrations often involve making pongal – a rice and lentil dish which has both sweet and savoury variants. The four-day affair starts on January 14. “Traditionally, while making pongal, we let it boil over to signify abundance of fresh harvest. Having stayed in Gujarat for 35 years, our platter comprises of sweet and savoury pongal, undhiyu and jalebi. It is a perfect balance to our South Indian roots and Gujarati upbringing,” said Anusha Iyer, a professional. Gearing up for Bihu Traditionally celebrated in Assam, Magh Bihu or Bhogali Bihu., which also marks the end of winter months, will be observed on Friday. On the eve of Bihu, also known as Uruka, dishes like pitha (pancake), chira (flattened rice preparation) and laru (laddoos) are prepared for the next day. “We have a bonfire and feast on the night of Uruka. This time, we will not have any such celebrations. I will reminisce about the festivities while savouring some local preparations,” said Anup Phukan, who runs a music academy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/harvest-festivities-drive-away-covid-blues/articleshow/80258857.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||Vulture census to be held on January 15||LUCKNOW: A vulture spotted sitting in its nest is an indication that there could be an egg. The pair never leaves the egg alone. At least one of the parent is always incubating it. October to December is the mating and breeding period for vultures. Mostly by January the chick is out in the nest after an incubation period of 45 days. Armed with facts like these, field staff of the forest department will take up the vulture census on January 15 using GPS all over the state. The field staff at all forest divisions will start the survey as early as 6.30am. “Vulture is a big creature and that will make sightings easy,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator, Institute of Wildlife Sciences, LU. The census is being done by the UP State Biodiversity Board and Institute of Wildlife Sciences, Lucknow University. Vultures are monogamous. The pair is formed after a long courtship and for a lifetime. Also, the pair lays only one egg in a mating season. Survival rate of the chicks is very low. The census will find out locations where different species of vultures nest, roost, mate and breed in state. The sites may be close to each other. Vultures being colonial beings are easy to search for. Except the King Vulture which is mostly found as a single pair, others flock together. The census may throw up data for areas other than Vulture-prone regions which are Pilibhit, Lakhimpur Kheri, Bareilly, Sitapur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Unnao and Lalitpur. Need for more data Vultures are protected under Schedule (I) of the Indian Wildlife Protection Act and are critically endangered Vultures are on a wane in UP. Traditionally found in Terai and Bundelkhand region, sightings have reduced of late There are many threats that vultures face besides habitat destruction To revive and conserve its population, the foremost need is to have data on its numbers, spread, density, behaviour and habitat UP HOME TO 8 SPECIESWhite-backed, long-billed, slender-billed; Egyptian and King vulture are permanent residents Cinereous, griffon and Himalayan griffon are migratory||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vulture-census-tobe-held-tomorrow/articleshow/80259589.cms||Neha Shukla
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||Gorakhpur no more ‘Chicago of East’, says Ravi Kishan||Gorakhpur: Gorakhpur MP Ravi Kishan inaugurated the bird-watch exhibition at Gorakhpur Mahotasav on Wednesday. “Gorakhpur is not known as ‘Chicago of the East’ anymore. Instead, it is now becoming a place where people can enjoy the sweetness of nature and watch migratory birds visiting the city from across the world, specially during winters. This has been possible due to the far-sightedness and efforts of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath who gave a U-turn to the city which is not infamous for criminals, gunshots and mafias anymore. Residents of Gorakhpur are lucky to be able to watch a large variety of migratory birds visiting their city,” said Kishan on the occasion. “I am thankful to CM Yogi for establishing a zoo in Gorakhpur which has a separate space for birds,” he added. More than 200 pictures of birds clicked by four wildlife photographers of Gorakhpur, and 1,000 postal tickets of India and abroad were showcased in the exhibition, organized under the joint aegis of Heritage Foundation, Shaheed Ashfaqullah Khan Zoo and Gorakhpur forest department. The programme was held near Ramgarhtal Lake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gorakhpur-no-more-chicago-of-east-says-ravi-kishan/articleshow/80256662.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||Mob sets police vehicle afire after youth shot dead||Varanasi: Two groups belonging to different castes indulged in violence after one Arvind Ram, 24, was shot dead in Asalpur village under Chiraiyakot police station in Mau district on Tuesday night. Enraged over the killing, people belonging to Arvind’s caste attacked the house of the accused and gangster Rahul Singh and later also set 112 service vehicle of the police and a motorcycle ablaze. The people belonging to Rahul’s caste also retaliated after which tension gripped the village. District magistrate Mau Amit Singh Bansal and SP Sushil Ghule reached the spot along with heavy police force and PAC. Arvind was the nephew Shambhu Ram, the prime witness in the killing of former village head Munna Rao Baghi, killed an year ago by seven persons including Rahul. The SP Mau said, “Arvind had gone for running practice with two other youths of his village on Tuesday late evening when assailant opened fire on Arvind and fled the scene. Terrorised by the attack Arvind’s companions also fled.” After the incident, villagers took Arvind’s body to the village. When the 112 police reached the village they attacked them. The policemen somehow managed escaped but the angry mob set their vehicles on fire. Later they also attacked the house of the accused and later both the groups indulged in brick batting. On being informed, police from several police station and PAC were rushed to Asalpur while the DM and SP also reached the spot. The police somehow managed to pacify the situation but they had to struggle hard till wee hours to trace the body of Arvind, which was later recovered from the house of the village head. The body was sent for postmortem. The SP said that police and PAC have been deployed in the village in the view of tension. On the complaint of Arvind’s family a named FIR against Rahul Singh has been lodged and police teams have been engaged to arrest him. Initial investigation of police revealed that Munna Rao Baghi was murdered an year ago, said the SP adding that seven persons including Rahul were accused in the case. Except Rahul, other six accused were arrested and sent to jail while they all had been booked under Gangster Act. Police had announced a cash reward of Rs 25,000 on Rahul. In Baghi murder case, Shambhu Ram was among the prime witnesses, he said adding it is suspected that Arvind was targeted in the same old enmity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/mob-sets-police-vehicle-afire-after-youth-shot-dead/articleshow/80256626.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||Seaplane service to start from Ramgarh lake: UP CM Yogi Adityanath||GORAKHPUR: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath announced on Wednesday that a seaplane service will be launched soon from the Ramgarh Tal in Gorakhpur. Speaking at the closing ceremony of Gorakhpur Mahotsav 2021, CM Yogi said, “Today, we have nine flights from Gorakhpur to all major cities in the country, and international flights would start from Kushinagar International Airport soon. In the coming days, in any emergency, people would be able to fly to any corner of the country from the circuit house by boarding a seaplane.” CM Yogi performs Rudrabhishek at his residence in Gorakhnath templeThe seaplane service will give another travel option even as road and air connectivity from Gorakhpur is improving. The CM said, “The speciality of seaplane is that it can land both in water and at the airport.” Yogi said the final assault on Covid-19 would start with vaccination from January 16 under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi and appealed to people to patiently wait for their turn for vaccination. Stressing on Atmanirbhar Bharat and Vocal for Local, he said, “We started the one district one product (ODOP) scheme on January 24, 2018 to mark Uttar Pradesh foundation day. UP Diwas was never celebrated earlier.” Yogi said that recent Diwali was unique as China-made diyas and Lakshmi-Ganesh idols were shunned and local products were used after many years. “A terracotta artist from Gorakhpur sold products worth Rs 8 lakh at Lucknow Shilp Mela in just three days,” he added. CM Yogi said that Gorakhpur has the potential to become a garment manufacturing hub and the state government is making all efforts for it. Referring to the year-long celebrations to mark the 100 years of Chauri Chaura incident, Yogi said, “Chauri Chaura incident on February 4 gave a new turn to the freedom struggle. Programmes would be held at all martyr memorials in each district to pay tributes to freedom fighters and martyrs.” Ministers Sidharth Nath Singh, Dr Neelkanth Tiwari, MP Ravi Kishan Shukla and other dignitaries were also present on the occasion. CM unfurls UP’s highest tricolourChief Minister Yogi Adityanath also virtually inaugurated the Buddhadwar Gate at Padleyganj and unfurled the state’s highest tricolor at Ramgarh lake. The tricolor is 246 feet high and 540 square feet in area and can be seen from 15 km distance. CM confers Gorakhpur Ratna award on nine eminent peopleChief minister Yogi Adityanath also distributed nine tricycles to differently-abled people personally as total 100 tricycles were distributed. He also gave Gorakhpur Ratna award to nine eminent personalities of Gorakhpur, including bhajan singer Nandu Mishra, chief warden, civil defence, Dr Sanjeev Gulati, ophthalmologist Dr Narendra Mohan Seth, Meenakshi Narayan, a team member of discovering God particle, Dr Ram Chet Chowdhary for finding five varieties of Kalanamak rice, hockey player Olympian Ali Syeed, Arjun awardee hockey player Prem Maya, international wrestler Amarnath Yadav and industrialist Jyoti Maskara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/seaplane-service-to-start-from-ramgarh-lake-cm/articleshow/80256602.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||UP Board students to learn about Ganga conservation||Lucknow: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has decided to include Ganga conservation and related subjects in the curriculum of secondary education, making UP the first state in the country to do so. On the initiative of the Namami Gange department, the UP Secondary Education Board (UPSEB) has accepted the proposal to include Ganga conservation subject at both high school and intermediate level. Following this, a proposal to include Ganga conservation and prevention of water pollution in the curriculum has been prepared and the UPSEB has sent it to a committee of Hindi experts for consideration. Once the committee approves the proposal, the subject will be included in the syllabus. With this, students here will learn ways to save the holy water of the Ganga from getting polluted and the journey of the Ganga from the Himalayas to the Bay of Bengal. Yogi’s decision to link Ganga cleanliness campaign with the youth is to spread Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s concept of ‘Nirmal and Aviral Ganga’ among children. The initiative, said officials, will not only enhance the knowledge of children, but will also give a new momentum to the Ganga cleanliness. The Namami Gange and the state government’s rural water supply department have directed the secondary education department to implement new courses and activities related to the Ganga pollution in schools and also make it compulsory for students to take part in Ganga cleanliness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-board-students-to-learn-about-ganga-conservation/articleshow/80259606.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra nod sought for new Purandar airport location||PUNE: Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao has written to the principal secretary of civil aviation seeking the state government’s intervention to shift the proposed international airport at Purandar to a new site, about 10km away from existing one which has seen agitations by villagers. Rao told TOI, “I have sent a proposal for shifting the site to a place comprising Mavdi, Pimpri, Rajuri, Naugaon, Rise-Pise and Pandeshwar villages.” A report prepared by the district collector mentions that the percentage of irrigated land in these villages was much less than at the existing site. Rao’s letter stated that a proposal for an alternative site was sought after meetings held by the civil aviation and defence officials last month. Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh and his officials were told to prepare a report for a new site in the same area. The divisional commissioner said Deshmukh submitted a report as per the recommendation of the sub-divisional officer of Daund-Purandar to consider the site 10km away from the place identified earlier for the airport. The collector’s report mentioned that the percentage of irrigated land was less in Mavadi, Pimpri, Rajuri, Naygaon, Rise-Pise and Pandeshwar villages and so land acquisition would be easier for the project. The Purandar airport project was announced in October 2016. The site proposed earlier for it covered seven villages and 2,823 hectares of land. But the agitation of the villagers stalled the land acquisition process and so alternative sites were considered, the divisional commissioner’s letter stated. Purandar MLA Sanjay Jagtap has been strongly recommending a change of site of the delayed project. He had recently met defence minister Rajnath Singh in Delhi. “While I am aware about the letter of the divisional commissioner, an approval needs to come from the state government. I am sure that the new site will not trigger any protests,” Jagtap told TOI. Sources close to Jagtap said if the state government approved the change of site, the airport project would need an approval from the ministry of civil aviation. Officials at the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Limited (MADC) said they had no clue about the fresh development. “There have been some meetings in Delhi over this and the we had urged the Airports Authority of India (AAI) to inspect the new sites, but its response is still awaited,” an official of the MADC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-nod-sought-for-new-purandar-airport-location/articleshow/80258879.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Madurai||77 Covid cases in south TN, 67 in central dists||Madurai/Trichy: The 10 southern districts of the state reported 77 fresh Covid-19 cases on Wednesday taking the tally to 1,34,671, which include 855 active cases. Meanwhile, the central region registered 67 fresh cases taking the tally to 74,935, which include 636 active cases. According to the health department bulletin, no deaths were reported in the south, while the central region recorded one death on Wednesday. All the districts in the southern region recorded less than 15 cases each. Madurai (13) recorded the highest, followed by Kanyakumari (11), Dindigul (10) and Tirunelveli (10). The other districts recorded less than 10 cases each. Tenkasi (4) and Tuticorin (4) recorded the lowest, followed by Sivagangai (5), Ramanathapuram (5), Virudhunagar (6) and Theni (9). Except for Kanyakumari (179) and Madurai (155), the other districts have less than 100 active cases each. Four districts – Ramanathapuram (29), Tenkasi (35), Sivagangai (45) and Theni (48) – have less than 50 active cases. In central TN, Thanjavur (24) registered the highest number of fresh cases pushing the tally to 17,440. Trichy reported 17 cases and its tally climbed to 14,439. Rest of the districts except Perambalur restricted its fresh cases in single digits with Ariyalur recording one case, Tiruvarur four cases, Pudukottai five cases, Karur and Nagappattinam eight cases on Wednesday. Peramablur continued without reporting cases keeping its tally at 2,259, which included only one active case. The region so far discharged 73,362 patients. Trichy recorded one death pushing the regional toll to 937. A 75-year-old man from Trichy died at a private hospital on January 12 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and Covid-19 pneumonia. Testing positive for Covid-19 on January 10, the patient was admitted to the hospital on January 11 with cough and difficulty in breathing. The patient already had comorbid conditions of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Out of the eight districts, Trichy is at the second spot with 179 Covid-19 related deaths in government and private hospitals, while Thanjavur is on top with 243 casualties. Perambalur is at the bottom with 21 deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/77-covid-cases-in-south-tn-67-in-central-dists/articleshow/80258892.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kanpur||Work on 400 of 506 Metro pile caps completed||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) has completed the construction of 400 pile caps out of the 506. In order to provide a well-built foundation to the structure, the piles are caved inside the ground and pile caps are formed by integrating groups of piles and then piers (pillars) are cast on them for the elevated viaduct of the Metro structure. Alongside, the finishing of Metro stations and civil construction work of Metro depots are also in full swing. The erection of the pre-engineered building (PEB) at IIT-K, the first Metro station of Priority Corridor, has been completed along with the cessation of finishing work. A total of 22 PEB columns have been placed in IIT-K. Now, galvanized iron sheets (opaque) and polycarbonate sheets (transparent) will be installed on them which will cover the elevated Metro station from the top. These structures are fully strengthened and save construction time, which has always been the primacy of UP Metro. All the PEB structures for workshop building have also been erected, that is being prepared for maintenance of Metro coaches or trains, at the Polytechnic Metro Depot. A total of 60 PEB columns have been erected in the workshop building. The preparation for laying Metro tracks at Metro Depot is in full swing and the work to set up its track beds is also being executed. Track beds can be considered as a base for laying ballast Metro tracks. By assuring city people to provide a world-class metro service within the stipulated time frame, MD, UPMRC, Kumar Keshav, said, “After the inauguration of civil construction work of Kanpur Metro on November 15, UP Metro engineers while overcoming all challenges, sustained the pace of work constantly and proved their commitment and duty. The civil construction works are now in their final stages. Last month, UP Metro completed the piling of priority corridor and now after the construction of 400 pile caps the work is in the final stage.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/work-on-400-of-506-metro-pile-caps-completed/articleshow/80256734.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||MoEFCC report calls for better protection in Tipeshwar, Painganga sanctuaries||Nagpur: Those thinking that a sanctuary teeming with tigers is the best, think twice. The Management Effectiveness Evaluation (MEE) of 11 national parks and wildlife sanctuaries in Maharashtra has placed Tipeshwar (148 sqkm) with 11 tigers at sixth rank, while the Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary topped the list. The MEE is defined as the assessment of how well national parks and sanctuaries are being managed — primarily, whether they are protecting their values and achieving the goals and objectives. The evaluation in India is based on the global MEE framework, which includes six elements — context, planning, input, process, output, and outcomes. Based on these, there are 30 ‘headline indicators’ customized and developed in the Indian context. The MEE was carried out in 2018-19 by the MoEFCC & Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, has called to strengthen the corridor between Tipeshwar-Painganga sanctuaries and Kawal tiger reserve in Telangana, so that the entire area may be managed according to landscape principles. The MEE report was released by environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday in Delhi. Among the 11 protected areas (PAs) in the state, Thane Creek Flamingo Sanctuary topped with a score of 75.92 followed by Sanjay Gandhi National Park (75.80), Mayureshwar Supe Sanctuary (75), all falling in ‘very good’ category. Yedsi Ramlinghat (72.41), Sagareshwar (71.50), Tipeshwar (70.80), Naigaon Peacock (66.40), Yawal (65.80), Nandur Madhameshwar (64.60), Tungareshwar (64) and Painganga (62.06), all fell in ‘good’ category. Though Tipeshwar has 11 tigers as per the Phase IV estimation done in 2020, the MEE has asked officials concerned to pull up their socks to improve management of Tipeshwar- Painganga, which was once proposed to be a tiger reserve. The report has called for the rehabilitation of Ekamba, Sandabi, Paroti, and Jevrala villages in Painganga on priority to create undisturbed forest for the sanctuary. There are 14 villages in Painganga putting huge biotic pressure on the sanctuary. Besides, there is a need to strengthen the protection mechanisms and construct fully equipped protection camps with wireless systems. The MEE has also called Painganga out for lack of tourism facilities like a dedicated website, interpretation centre, or ecotourism plan. It has called for dividing the Kharbi range into two ranges for effective management and protection, and vacant posts need to be filled up at the earliest. Eco-development activities need to be taken up through EDCs in the adjacent villages. The sanctuary has 27 EDCs that are functioning. “The sanctuary borders are not clearly demarcated. The borders are porous. Boundary pillars have been erected along the boundary of the park, but not along the entire length. About 50% of the forest is under plantations, which is not very suitable for the ungulates. The infrastructure is inadequate for the field staff, and the facilities at protection camps (water, lights, cots, fencing) are poor,” the report states. Tipeshwar is surrounded by 26 villages with one village, Pitapungri, within the sanctuary boundary. There is heavy cattle grazing on the periphery, but the cattle do not enter deep inside the sanctuary. Illicit felling of trees such as teak and sandalwood is taking place in the sanctuary. The forest is fire-prone in summer. The threat of poaching exists and three tigers have been accidentally snared. Since it has a source population for tigers, efforts must be made to declare Tipeshwar a tiger reserve and protect the tigers and the habitat better. With this cycle of evaluation of 146 national parks and wildlife sanctuaries during 2018-19, India has completed one cycle of evaluation of all terrestrial NP&WLS. Also, the list of 146 PAs includes 25 in a repeat cycle of evaluation. These 25 PAs were first evaluated in 2006 and again evaluated in the second repeat cycle during 2018-19. In comparison to the previous cycle of evaluation, there is considerable improvement in most of the PAs. For example, Sanjay Gandhi National Park had a score of 62.10 (2006) and was in the ‘good’ category but now has scored 75.80 and placed under the ‘very good’ category. THE TOP ELEVEN Thane Creek Flamingo: 75.92 (Very Good) Sanjay Gandhi NP: 75.80 (Very Good) Mayureshwar Supe: 75.00 (Very Good) Yedsi Ramlin Ghat: 72.41 (Good) Sagareshwar: 71.50 (Good) Tipeshwar: 70.80 (Good) Naigaon Peacock: 66.40 (Good) Yawal: 65.80 (Good) Nandur Madhameshwar: 64.60 (Good) Tungareshwar: 64.00 (Good) Painganga: 62.06 (Good)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/moefcc-report-calls-for-better-protection-in-tipeshwar-painganga-sanctuaries/articleshow/80258904.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||SP names veterans Hasan, Chaudhary as its candidates for council elections||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav on Wednesday named party veterans Ahmad Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary as candidates for the forthcoming Vidhan Parishad election. Elections for 12 seats of the legislative council are slated to be held on January 28. The SP has the assembly strength to get just one candidate elected. The party will have to rely on votes from disenchanted members of the house belonging to other parties for the victory of its second candidate. Of the 12 seats for which elections are to be held, BJP is expected to secure 10 seats. Neither the Congress nor the Bahujan Samaj Party have the numbers to secure a seat. As a result, parties will have to fight it out for the 12th seat. What however will make the elections interesting is BSP supremo Mayawati’s November 2020 statement wherein she announced that her party will ensure defeat of SP candidates in the Council elections even if she had to side with the BJP. Having attacked the BJP over incidents of crime in UP and the farm laws, BSP will now find itself in a difficult situation politically. Names of Ahmed Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary were finalised at a meeting of party MLAs chaired by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav at the party headquarters on Wednesday morning. Apart from finalising the candidates, the party chief also announced the names of members who will be the proposers for the two candidates. A veteran in SP, Ahmad Hasan has been a Mulayam loyalist and close to Akhilesh as well. Leader of opposition in the legislative council, Ahmad Hasan was a minister in Akhilesh cabinet. The second candidate Rajendra Chaudhary happens to be another SP veteran who has been with Akhilesh all through and was a close associate of Mulayam Singh as well. Party secretary and national spokesperson Chaudhary was also a minister in Akhilesh cabinet and is known for his clean image.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-names-veterans-hasan-chaudhary-as-its-candidates-for-council-elections/articleshow/80259586.cms||Pervez Siddiqui
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Panel to ready draft for affordable urban plots||Amaravati: The state government has constituted a high-level committee to ready the blueprint for providing house sites at affordable prices to the middle class in urban areas. The committee will study the issue of readying the layouts in urban areas by acquiring land from private individuals. The committee will also study modalities to procure land from private individuals in such a way that it should be affordable for people to buy plots. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy had recently directed the municipal administration department to study the issue of giving house sites to the middle class in urban areas at affordable prices. This is going to be another big scheme to supplement the ‘Housing for All’ project after the government granting house sites to nearly 31 lakh poor people both in urban and rural areas. Keeping in view the troubles of the common man in purchasing house sites in private layouts, many of which are in violation of rules, the chief minister asked officials to explore options of offering house sites in layouts to be readied by urban development authorities. “Why should people face troubles after putting in their money in the purchase of house sites in private layouts? Why can’t we help them buy a small piece of land to realise their dreams of owning a house in urban areas?” the CM had asked the officials. Since the layouts to be readied by the urban development authorities would be free of litigations and abide by all rules, the CM is of the view that it would help people in making a safe investment. “The government is investing a huge amount to create infrastructure in suburban areas only to help people. Creating such infrastructure in legal layouts would be more beneficial,” said the CM.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/panel-to-ready-draft-for-affordable-urban-plots/articleshow/80256397.cms||Samdani MN
January 14, 2021||Kanpur||First consignment of Covishield vaccine reaches Chakeri airport||Done/ALVI Times News Network Kanpur: The first consignment of vaccine against Covid-19 landed at the city’s Chakeri airport on Wednesday afternoon. The consignment was received by officials, including additional director, health, Dr GK Mishra. Under tight security arrangements, the vaccine stock was shifted to the chief medical officer (CMO) campus at Ramadevi where it has been stored amid adequate security arrangements. Dr Mishra told mediapersons that the consignment, containing 6,400 vials of Covishield vaccine, had reached Kanpur. He said in the first phase of inoculation drive, the vaccine would be administered to 21,000 health-workers in the city. The present stock of the vaccine could be administered to 64,000 people. The vaccination drive will commence at 14 centres on January 16, he added. The vaccine would be transported to 21 vaccination centres from the cold chain maintained at the CMO office. There are 11 vaccination centres in the urban areas and 10 in the rural areas of the city. “Each vial of the vaccine will have 10 doses. To preserve the vaccine, it is important to maintain the cold chain. The health teams have already been trained for administering the vaccine”, Dr Mishra further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/first-consignment-of-covishield-vaccine-reaches-chakeri-airport/articleshow/80256719.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 14, 2021||India||Karnataka files 2 cases under anti-cow slaughter law||BENGALURU/CHIKKAMAGALURU: The Karnataka government is ready to make some changes to the new rules banning cow slaughter to prevent instances of vigilantism, law and parliamentary minister J C Madhuswamy said on Wednesday, even as two cases were registered under the newly-promulgated anti-cow slaughter law at Sringeri. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, came into effect last week. One of its provisions offers legal protection to people who “act in good faith” to prevent cow slaughter. There are concerns that this will encourage vigilantism. After a cabinet meeting, Madhuswamy told reporters that the government was open to making changes to the law. “We have, with good intention, included a provision that empowers common people to stop those transporting cows for the purpose of slaughter. If we are convinced that it leads to vigilantism and hooliganism, we will definitely consider changing it,” he said. The clarification came a day after the Karnataka high court observed that even farmers transporting cattle for farming could be arrested and prosecuted. The court, hearing a PIL against the law, sought the government’s response on the issue. After reporters mentioned two recent incidents in which farmers were harassed, Madhuswamy said that there was a possibility of vigilantism. “I agree that there are such possibilities. But we will not tolerate goondaism in the name of cow protection,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/karnataka-files-2-cases-under-anti-cow-slaughter-law/articleshow/80260277.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Pits dug on periphery threat to Chowmahalla Palace||HYDERABAD: Unauthorised constructions and excavations in and around Chowmahalla Palace continue to be taken up in a brazen manner in violation of heritage rules. A visit by TOI to the area has revealed that an illegal building is being raised along the exterior wall of the palace, which is right beside the Clock Tower gate, despite the palace authorities filing an official complaint with the GHMC commissioner and zonal commissioner on October 1, 2020. Locals and heritage activists, who raised concerns about the ongoing works, said the palace could suffer irreparable damage if the authorities do not stop the construction work immediately. Mohammed Shafiullah, a city-based historian and member of Deccan Heritage Trust, said: “It is definitely a cause for alarm. The GHMC should impose a blanket ban on any constructions in and around Chowmahalla Palace.” He said there have been similar building violations in and around the palace when it was not in use 15-20 years ago. “The palace is historically important and needs to be preserved as it was the seat of power in the Deccan region for almost 200 years from 1750 to 1950,” said Shafiullah. Heritage activists said up until the reign of the last Nizam, the area of Chowmahalla Palace was 51.66 acres and spread up to Shalibanda. “But now, the present palace area is just 12 acres,” an activist pointed out. In the letter to the GHMC, the palace authorities said deep pits were dug up in a plot along the external wall of the palace, which caused cracks and also exposed the foundation of the boundary wall of the palace. “The deep pits are now filled with water, endangering both the compound wall and the palace. The plot is located to the right of the premises bearing municipal No. 20-4-214/22/B. Mohammed Omer, claiming himself to be the owner of the property, has begun digging deep pits and laying iron frames for pillars in preparation of construction activity on the plot,” the palace authorities complained in the letter. Officials said seepage of water had been noticed from the damaged foundation of the boundary wall posing danger to the palace, which was constructed with lime and mortar. “According to the heritage rules, any construction cannot be taken up along the exterior wall of the palace. We do not know how the municipal authorities allowed this construction to happen. Our advocate has filed a complaint to the GHMC commissioner and officials concerned asking them to stop the construction activity,” said director of Chowmahalla Palace G Kishan Rao. GHMC Charminar zonal commissioner Ashok Samrat said: “We will inspect the area and take immediate action in case it is an unauthorised construction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pits-dug-on-periphery-threat-to-chowmahalla-palace/articleshow/80258959.cms||Moulika.KV
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||38 firms in fray for New Ayodhya project, global consultant will be picked by Feb 5||AYODHYA: At least 38 firms, including global companies are in the fray to bag the contract of developing Ayodhya into a world-class smart city, which includes a blueprint for an international airport, four-lane roads, underground wiring, five-star hotels, developed townships, guest houses for all states, theme parks and international-level facilities. And the process to pick a global consultant team has begun and will be completed by February 5, said, Ayodhya Development Authority vice-chairman Vishal Singh. However, the development authority has increased civic limits, straddling neighbouring districts of Gonda and Basti to acquire land for New Ayodhya to circumvent space crunch in the ancient city, which is crisscrossed by lanes and bylanes with Saryu river jutting into the temple town from three sides. Talking to TOI, Vishal Singh, who’s also municipal commissioner, said, “We have received 186 plans from 38 firms for the dream project. The authority has shortlisted 13 blueprints and included them in the request for proposal. We hope to finalise the consultant by February 5.” Four leading European ropeway-and-ski lift manufacturers have been shortlisted to implement the Rs 1,000-crore venture, considered a giant leap to decongest the ancient city crisscrossed by lanes and bylanes and make it ready for 1-crore pilgrim footfall when the temple comes up. “We are planning to hire the biggest global firm that manufactures and install ropeways. We are zeroing in on a location to set up the ropeway outstation, where devotees can embark on the ride. The destination station will be close to Ramjanmabhoomi or inside the premises for seamless movement of pilgrims,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/38-firms-in-fray-for-new-ayodhya-project-global-consultant-will-be-picked-by-feb-5/articleshow/80259591.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||AAP to deploy 40 MLAs to UP on 2022 poll mission||LUCKNOW: To begin their work for the 2022 assembly elections, AAP will be sending around 40 MLAs to UP to meet volunteers, talk about Delhi’s model of development and get more people to join AAP. Former minister Somnath Bharti’s visit to Amethi and Rae Bareli was part of this strategy except the MLA is currently in jail for having used derogatory language against chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Most of the MLAs who have been asked to come are those who have links with the state or have the highest number of voters from UP and Purvanchal in their constituencies. “The 40 MLAs have been assigned multiple constituencies which they have been asked to visit, interact with members, give them guidance and assess the party’s strengths and weaknesses there. They will then relay to the party leadership,” said Vaibhav Maheshwari, AAP spokesperson. AAP announced its decision to contest the 2022 assembly elections in December, following which deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia came to Lucknow to hold a debate with a representative of the UP government over the Delhi and UP models of development. The party intends using its work in the health and education sectors as the basis for their campaign in the state. “AAP won all seats with a high population of Purvanchal votes. Most of these are located in east Delhi areas, like Shahdara, Mayur Vihar, Patparganj etc. MLAs from these areas have a strong connect with people from UP which can be used in the state itself. Among those who will be working in UP over the next few months are Manish Sisodia, Nitin Tyagi, Akhileshpati Tripathi, Rajendra Gautam, Rakhi Birla, Pawan Sharma, Ajesh Yadav, Naresh Yadav etc,” said a senior party worker. The visits started in December and will wind up by the end of January. Subsequently, the party will review the reports submitted by the MLAs and chalk out a plan of action for the next phase of campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/aap-to-deploy-40-mlas-to-state-on-2022-poll-mission/articleshow/80259612.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai doctor’s plea for custody of her daughter rejected||MUMBAI: Rejecting a city doctor’s plea for temporary custody of her five-year-old daughter, a magistrate court questioned how the child would be looked after while she was away at work. “The applicant submitted that she is residing as a paying guest and she has obtained a house in the near locality. She submitted copy of the agreement on record. If applicant will go to work, who will take care of the child?” the court said. The court reasoned that even as her estranged husband was working, the fact that he lived in a joint family would ensure the child is well looked after. It said since the father had made allegations against the woman’s character, the girl had to be kept in “proper and safe custody”. tnn“By considering allegations by respondent No 1 (husband) on affidavit, at this stage it will not be just and proper to handover in temporary custody of applicant,” the court said. The woman’s plea for custody is pending before the family court. The woman has filed a domestic violence complaint against the husband and in-laws. She said she married in February 2010. The woman said for five to six months after marriage, the man treated her well. Thereafter, he and his family tortured her physically and mentally. She accused the family of sexual harassment. The man and his family denied the allegations. He submitted that she had cheated on him with four men after marriage. The man said he he was forced to file a divorce case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-plea-for-custody-of-her-daughter-rejected/articleshow/80259875.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||More birds die in Parbhani, Latur||Aurangabad: Amid confirmed presence of Avian Influenza in Maharashtra, more birds have died in Parbhani and Latur districts among some of the confirmed incidents in Marathwada, putting government authorities on their toes. Parbhani district, which has registered the first case of bird flu in the state on January 10, has reported fresh death of 426 hens from Kupta village of Selu taluka. The first case was reported from at Murumba village in the district. Parbhani district collector Deepak Mugalikar on Wednesday said that these birds have died over a period of last few days in batches with different owners. “The samples of dead birds have been sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal, for testing to detect the presence of Avian Influenza. The necessary precaution is already taken till the laboratory reports come in,” he said. Mugalikar said that the culling of over 8,000 hens at Murumba village was over. Latur is another district from Marathwada region which has reported outbreak of bird flu. Latur’s Animal Husbandry Officer Rajkumar Padile said that hens as well as crows have been found dead in parts of the district. “In fresh incidents, Vanjarwadi from Renapur taluka has reported deaths of 25 hens whereas 38 such birds have died from Khurwadi in Ausa taluka over a period of 48 hours. Few crows have been found dead in Pangao village of Renapur taluka and Latur Road in Chakur taluka. Necessary samples of dead birds have sent for testing,” he said. Earlier, Kendrewadi village from Ahmedpur taluka has reported deaths of 133 hens and Sukni village has recorded deaths of 25 such birds in a roadside incident. Padile said that over 11,000 hens from both these sides were culled as per the laid down protocol. “The sale of poultry products is banned within a radius of 10 km where confirmed cases of bird flu have been reported,” he said. Among other districts, Beed has confirmed presence of bird flu with the Avian Influenza found to be cause of death among 11 crows from Mugagao village of Patoda taluka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/more-birds-die-in-parbhani-latur/articleshow/80257594.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||City resident 1st double amputee to get prostheses at CMCH||Coimbatore: A 49-year-old Somanur resident has become the first double amputee to be fitted with prostheses on both legs at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital’s artificial limb reconstruction centre. Chinnasamy, 49, became dependent on his family for basic needs like using the toilet and being moved out of his bed after he lost his second leg six months ago due to uncontrolled diabetes. “Chinnasamy lost his right leg to amputation four years back as it had gangrene formation till the knee. Six months ago, he lost his left leg due to uncontrolled diabetes,” director of the institute of orthopedics at CMCH Dr Vetrivelchezhian said. "So, we did prosthesis for the first leg around a month back and prosthesis for the second leg, a fortnight back," he added.The patient has been undergoing training for walking for the past 15 days. “I feel like a toddler who is being taught to walk again,” Chinnasamy said with a smile when asked how he feels to be walking again. “I may not be able to return to work as a weaver, but I don’t need to use the bedpan anymore or be a burden to my wife,” he added.Earlier, patients had to struggle travelling all the way to get prosthesis done, or approach private clubs for donations. It can cost up to Rs 3 lakh in private hospitals and centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-resident-1st-double-amputee-to-get-prostheses-at-cmch/articleshow/80257596.cms||Pratiksha Ramkumar
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||Khichdi Mela to be polythene-free: Yogi||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath urged devotees to bring khichdi in cloth or paper bags for offering at Gorakhnath temple as the entire temple complex is polythene-free zone. Khichdi Mela will begin on January 14, but devotees have already started offering khichdi. CM Yogi arrived at Gorakhnath temple and inspected the Khichdi Mela Ground. Gorakhpur Municipal Corporation has declared the temple complex area as polythene-free zone and put up posters, banners. Arrangements have been made to provide cloth and paper bags to pilgrims who bring khichdi in polythene. The Khadi department, municipal corporation, prison department, Indian Medical Association and others are assisting in making and distributing bags.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/khichdi-mela-to-be-polythene-free-yogi/articleshow/80256700.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Varanasi||Khadi fashion show a hit at Gorakhpur Mahotsav||Gorakhpur: A khadi fashion show was organized and sponsored by the Khadi and Village Industries Board in Gorakhpur on Tuesday and Wednesday at the two-day Gorakhpur Mahotsav, which is annually held since 2016. The Wednesday’s sequence was also witnessed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. A sequence of khadi fashion show with only male models was showcased in front of Yogi during the closing ceremony on Wednesday. Designers Runa Bannerji and Asma Hussain also came to the stage at the end, and thanked the CM. The participating fashion designers and models thanked the CM for giving them the opportunity to showcase innovative apparels made using India’s age-old fabric, khadi, amid the ongoing Covid-19 crisis. There were three sequences in the fashion show on Tuesday, and a Tanura dance performance which attracted huge rounds of applause. The first sequence included dresses of a Lucknow-based fashion designer and social worker, Padma Shri Runa Bannerji. She presented tussar silk dresses in natural and pastel colours. The second sequence was a display of Rupika Gupta’s Indo-Western dresses. The last sequence at the hit show was presented by another Lucknow-based fashion designer Asma Hussain, who has showcased Indian khadi dresses at the international level as well. The theme of her dresses was ‘Khadi Mein Shadi—Mehfil’, which included a variety of wedding dresses. “I used handwoven fabric made by artisans of Varanasi and surrounding areas. I have plans to work with Gorakhpur handloom artisans as well,” said Hussain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/khadi-fashion-show-a-hit-at-gorakhpur-mahotsav/articleshow/80256688.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Caution to curb Kaipo che fun in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: The chorus of ‘Kaipo che!’ and screeching of horns will be somewhat subdued this Uttarayan because of Covid-spurred curbs on gatherings and kite-flying. Pol-dwellers have restricted entry into terraces; only residents and their family members will be allowed in. So few outsiders will be able to celebrate Uttarayan at pols this year. Kite-flying festivities always meant gatherings of friends and families. Huge groups savoured undhiyu and jalebi and snacked on ponk, chikki, mamra laddoos, ber and sugarcane. “I used to visit the pol with my friends or some 15-20 of us used to gather on the terrace and enjoy flying kites and devouring delicacies,” said Milan Parikh, a Jodhpur resident. “However, this time, it will be a muted celebration due to the pandemic and we will be mostly indoors. My son is fond of flying kites so he might step out.” Amid the restrictions, many plan to take advantage of the long weekend and flock to nearby destinations and watering holes. This has led to hotels brimming with tourists from Gujarat. “Resorts and heritage properties in Udaipur, Kumbhalgarh, Mount Abu and even those at Diu, Daman, Saputara, and Gir-Somnath are full,” said Manish Sharma, secretary, Travel Agents’ Federation of India (TAFI), Gujarat. Sharma added: “Uttarayan festivities involve people enjoying in groups which will not be possible due to the restrictions imposed by the government. So people are preferring to venture out.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/caution-to-curb-kaipo-che-fun/articleshow/80259021.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kanpur||Now, bird flu confirmed in two dead crows in Kanpur zoo||KANPUR: After a report which arrived on January 9 confirmed that red jungle fowls died in Kanpur zoo due to bird flu or ‘avian influenza’, the district administration on Wednesday received another report which confirmed bird flu in two crows, carcasses of which were found on the Kanpur zoo campus last week. The lab report stated the presence of avian influenza in water samples which were sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal for tests. The zoo authorities said that no bird was found to be dead or unwell on the park campus on Wednesday. They said that this week no bird has died or even shown signs of illness, and therefore, they are apparently in good health. “Strict biosecurity measures are already in place and all laid down protocols are being followed,” said zoo director Sunil Chaudhary. “We are keeping an eye on the health of the birds. The sanitation drive continued on Wednesday. All animal enclosures, especially aviary, are being sanitised on a daily basis,” he added. Recently, Kanpur zoo administration had sent samples of water and soil collected from several places on the zoo campus to Bhopal for ascertaining the presence of avian influenza. As was suspected by the vets, the virus was in fact found to be present in the water and soil of the zoo. On January 9, a report from the ministry of fisheries, animal husbandry and dairying had confirmed the death of red jungle fowls due to avian influenza, also known as bird flu. On the same day, Kanpur zoo had been closed down for the visitors, and the surrounding one-kilometre area was declared as containment zone. The zoo administration is now slightly relieved to know that no other bird has been found to be unwell or dead this week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/now-bird-flu-confirmed-in-two-dead-crows-in-kanpur-zoo/articleshow/80256743.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 14, 2021||Meerut||Meerut scribe posts stalkers' photo on Twitter, cops nab accused within 24 hours||LUCKNOW: Acting swiftly on a complaint lodged by a woman journalist on social media, Meerut police on Wednesday arrested two persons on charges of stalking and harassment. The action came after the chief minister’s office took cognisance of the tweet and directed the cops to arrest the stalkers. Dear @meerutpolice could you please find out these guys who were continuously stalking and Eve teasing me from hapu… https://t.co/vULjXgAQeU— Anchor Charul Sharma (@Charuls4) 1610276156000Additional director general of police (ADG), law and order, Prashant Kumar said, “A woman journalist from Meerut was chased by two bike-borne youths on January 10. Showing courage, she took a photograph of the stalkers and posted it on Twitter, seeking police help to nab them.” “Dear Meerut police, can you trace these people who are constantly harassing me from Hapur to Nai Sarak. I could not note the vehicle number as it did not have a number plate on it,” the journalist wrote on the micro-blogging site. “Following instructions from the CM office, Meerut police swung into action and arrested the culprits, identified as Shahbaz and Mohammed Wasik,” the ADG said. He said the Meerut police cracked the case despite there being no number plate on the two-wheeler. “Cops have also seized the vehicle,” he added. “I am proud of the UP government and police department. Every girl in the state is safe as long as we have such heroes with us,” the complainant said, adding that girls should click a picture of stalkers if they face such a situation and post it on Twitter tagging UP police and the state government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/scribe-posts-stalkers-pic-on-twitter-cops-nab-them-in-24-hours/articleshow/80259654.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur will be first city to formulate river mgmt plan||Kanpur: To keep Ganga clean and to check wastage of water, Kanpur will be the first city of the country to formulate a river management plan. National Institute of Urban Affairs, New Delhi and National Mission for Clean Ganga and Kanpur Municipal Corporation are making efforts in this direction. A meeting to this effect was held here on Tuesday in which Rajeev Ranjan, general manager Namami Gange Mission, informed about the project. According to municipal commissioner Akshay Tripathi, a report in this regard would be prepared in the next two months. The municipal commissioner said that saplings would be planted on the banks of Ganga, and the residents would be asked to keep the ghats clean and free from pollution. It was suggested that treated water from the sewage treatment plant (STP) should be used for irrigation purposes. “STP water will be used for cleaning roads within three km radius from STP while the treated water will be used in irrigation of parks and plants”, said the municipal commissioner. The treated water would save the water supplied by the jal sansthan, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-will-be-first-city-to-formulate-river-mgmt-plan/articleshow/80256831.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kanpur||Four missing Etawah girls found in Mumbai||Kanpur: Etawah police on Wednesday traced the location of four girls, including three minors who went missing from the Civil Lines locality of Etawah on Monday while on way to their school, in Mumbai. “The girls, aged between 13 and 18 years, had left their houses on Monday morning for their school and were missing since then. Their families had made a police complaint. The girls were found in Mumbai on Wednesday and a local police team has left for Mumbai to bring back the girls to Etawah,” police said. “The girls claimed that they had left their houses after quarrelling with their parents owing to some domestic issues,” said Inspector Civil Lines Anjan Kumar Singh. The parents of the girls who are residing in the Civil Lines locality of Etawah lodged a complaint on Monday night. “We registered the case and began a probe. During technical investigation we found that the girls were in Mumbai,” said the inspector further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/four-missing-etawah-girls-found-in-mumbai/articleshow/80256765.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||NER’s economical train service makes travel affordable for Nepali workforce||Lucknow: After resuming trade with Nepal, Indian Railways have started a pilot project to run a special economical train service for the neighbouring country’s citizens, who travel to various parts of India for jobs. The initiative was taken up by northeastern railway’s Lucknow division. On January 8th and 10th, a separate non-AC coach in Rapti Sagar express ferried about 200 Nepali workforce to Ernakulam from Gorakhpur on economical fare. Identifying the project as a part of friendly diplomacy with the Himalayan neighbour, divisional railway manager of Lucknow division, Monica Agnihotri said, “We started the project to explore opportunities to generate more revenue for railways and contacted local travel operators to understand the possible business model which could be win-win for Nepali workforce, Nepali tour operators as well as Indian Railways.” “We found that at any given point of time, a poor worker of Nepal was shelling out more than Rs 5,000 just to travel to distant locations like Ernakulam, Mumbai and Chennai for jobs. The travelling time was also close to 90 hours via private bus, which is uncomfortable for long journeys. Therefore, we offered economical train service to Nepal citizen so that they can travel up to far south of the country by merely shelling Rs 2,000 per berth and the journey would take about 50 hours,” said Agnihotri, under whose leadership Lucknow division generated highest revenue from selling railway scrap and received an award for green power generation. Given the positive response from passengers, NER Lucknow division is likely to roll out the service on a permanent basis. “The project will help in growing more strong relations with Nepal,” she further said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ners-economical-train-service-makes-travel-affordable-for-nepali-workforce/articleshow/80259598.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||11 held for duping loan defaulters||MUMBAI: Police busted a fake call centre and arrested 11 persons, including six women, who used to impersonate as bankers to dupe loan defaulters. Police are trying to find out how they got access to the list of defaulters. A search is on for two main accused, known as Arya and RN Kadam. Police have recovered 131 SIM cards, seven CPUs, four laptops, seven mobiles, a router and fake letterheads of various banks. The accused have been booked for cheating, forgery and under the IT Act, said DCP Pranay Ashok. The fraud came to light after the gang duped a senior citizen, Sunil Mhatre. Mhatre had taken a personal loan of Rs 2.5 lakh from Bajaj Finance and Rs5 lakh from Indiabulls. During the lockdown in April 2020, he sought a moratorium from the two banks, which was granted. “In November last year, he got a call from a certain Raj and Arya who claimed they were from Bajaj Finance. They made a settlement offer and said he could pay just Rs17,500 instead of the total outstanding of Rs 34,000,” said an officer. The complainant asked Raj if he could help him settle the Indiabulls loan too. Raj told him he had a friend working for India Bulls. He was subsequently made an offer. On November 23, the complainant paid Rs 21,500 to Kadam, who issued a settlement letter. It was only December 2, when an Indiabulls executive arrived at Mhatre’s house to seek payment, that the latter realised he had been duped.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/11-held-for-duping-loan-defaulters/articleshow/80259872.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 14, 2021||Pune||Man wanted since 1993 in kidnapping case of girl arrested from Mumbai||Pune: A man (50) wanted since 1993 in a case of kidnapping a 17-year-old girl from Kothrud was arrested recently from Kandivli.Acting on a tip-off, the city police crime branch zeroed in on him. On Tuesday, a local court remanded him in magisterial custody and later ordered his release on bail.The girl’s mother had lodged an FIR in 1993 accusing the man, then working as a washerman, of kidnapping her daughter. The man went on to marry the girl (now a 44-year-old woman) and they lived all these years together at Kalyan, Thane and Kandivli, where he was working as a security guard in a housing society, the police said. The couple have three children, with their eldest daughter married and having a baby boy.The complainant (the mother of the arrested man’s wife) identified the man after the police brought him to the city. “The complainant has now told us that she does not intend to pursue the case because the couple are from a poor economic background and are living a happy married life. A supplementary chargesheet will be filed in the court,” sub-inspector Santosh Patil of the Kothrud police said.Assistant public prosecutor Kiran Bendbhar said, “The suspect was released on bail after his lawyer furnished documents showing that he was suffering from high BP and breathing problems.”Lawyer Rajendra Sonawale, who represented the man in the court, said, “After the chargesheet is transferred to the sessions court, we shall seek consent of the complainant and file a proposal for compromising the case at the earliest.”The couple could not be contacted as they are not using cellphones. Assistant inspector Zubair Mujawar from the crime branch said, “Police naik Dhananjay Tajane had secured from a known person the cellphone number of a suspect, declared a proclaimed offender in a 27-year-old kidnapping case. We then traced his location at Kandivli (West) and brought him to Pune. During questioning, the man admitted to having taken away the girl from her mother’s custody as he wanted to marry her.”Inspector (crime) Balasaheb Bade from the Kothrud police said, “We have not invoked a charge of rape in the case because the long passage of time leaves little scope for medical examination of the woman..”Sub-inspector Patil said, “The man and the girl had fled to Uttar Pradesh and got married. The couple’s family members were initially opposed to their marriage but relented later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-wanted-since-1993-in-kidnapping-case-of-girl-arrested-from-mumbai/articleshow/80258945.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||CM orders high-level probe in alleged fund misappropriation by animal husbandry dept||Dehradun: Days after BJP leader and MP Maneka Gandhi wrote to Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat alleging misuse of funds by the state animal husbandry department from a Rs 3,000 crore loan provided by the World Bank, the CM on Wednesday set up a high-level probe in the matter. The high-level probe will be conducted by senior IAS officer Manisha Panwar and its report is to be submitted within 15 days. An order regarding this was issued by chief secretary Om Prakash on Wednesday. Earlier, Gandhi equated the alleged fraud to Bofors and Coal scams. “To steal money from a loan is the worst kind of theft since the whole country has to pay back what one man has stolen,” read Gandhi’s communication, a copy of which is with TOI. In her seven-point letter to CM Rawat, Gandhi alleged that the CEO of Uttarakhand Sheep and Wool Development Board, Dr Avinash Anand, misused crores of rupees borrowed from the World Bank for development works. Citing an RTI reply, she said the loan amount has been misused for personal and professional luxuries of officials, including engaging a personal consultant with a monthly salary of Rs 2.5 lakh. The letter added, “He has kept a consultant whose monthly salary is Rs 2.5 lakhs per month, greater than that of the chief secretary. This is far more than what is allowed for consultants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cm-orders-high-level-probe-in-alleged-fund-misappropriation-by-animal-husbandry-dept/articleshow/80256400.cms||Shivani Azad
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Karaikudi trader files complaint against deputy CM’s brother||Madurai: A trader has lodged a complaint with the Karaikudi DSP Arun alleging that O Raja, brother of Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, and some others abducted him and got him to sign on blank papers when he asked them for a payment that was due from them.A higher police official said they were investigating the case, as there seemed to be lapses in the complainant’s claim. They were investigating as to why he had delayed filing a complaint. Palani, 41, of Nethaji Garden in Karaikudi deals with imported furniture. In his petition, he said Raja and his son Amar bought a sofa set worth Rs 2.10 lakh for a school owned by them in Periyakulam in Theni district on July 13, 2019. They had threatened him when he asked for the payment, he alleged. On December 11 last year, a gang came to his house around 9am and abducted him. Palani said that they had taken him to Trichy and kept him in room number 201 in Abiramni Hotel and threatened him to sign on blank stamp papers. When he refused, he was taken to the Rosi Vidyalaya, a school owned by Raja in Periyakulam in Theni district, and made him to sign on the papers at knifepoint. They then dropped him off on the main road in Periyakulam.The trader has said that he had then contacted his relatives in Karaikudi. He returned home in a vehicle his relatives brought. After seeking his lawyer’s advice and issuing a notice, Palani lodged a complaint with the Karaikudi DSP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/karaikudi-trader-files-complaint-against-deputy-cms-brother/articleshow/80258962.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Police to livestream jallikattu||Madurai:Madurai district police will livestream Alanganallur and Palamedu jallikattu events on Facebook, Twitter and YouTube. Police have urged the public to follow the Madurai District Police social media pages and watch the events. Madurai district police superintendent Sujit Kumar has appealed to people to make use of the option and watch the events from home. The state government has restricted the number of spectators by 50% due to Covid-19 outbreak, and many people will not be able to attend the event, police said. Due to the restrictions, police expect more people to watch the action through social media this year. The Palamedu jallikattu will be held on January 15 and Alanaganallur on January 16. Hundreds of police personnel will be deployed to restrict crowd movement. All the roads leading to the venue will be blocked and will be manned by police, officials said. Links for live streaming https://m.facebook.com/Maduraidistrictpolice/ https://twitter.com/Maduraidistpol1?s=08 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_IWA960qoMddMm6fN5yusw||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/police-to-livestream-jallikattu/articleshow/80258931.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||AMC appoints staffers to shoo away birds at zoo||Aurangabad: The Aurangabad municipal corporation (AMC) authorities have appointed two dedicated men to shoo away birds visiting Siddharth Garden and zoo premises. In addition, a number of scarecrows have also been erected in and around the zoo premises. The zoo in Aurangabad houses various species of 48 birds, including peacocks, turkey hen and others. Already taking advantage of some small cuts in the large cage housing varieties of birds, a huge number of crows have entered the cage. Due to ready availability of meat and fish that is served to the birds, the crows have multiplied. Zoo director BS Naikwade told TOI, “Daily large numbers of birds, including eight peacocks come to the cage for interacting with the birds in the cage. Considering the break out of bird flu, we have started taking precautions.” “The possibility of some birds getting infected elsewhere and during their visit to the zoo infecting the ones lodged here, may result in to disaster,” said Naikwade. Moreover, staffers at the zoo are also taking care that birds do not sit on the cages housing other wild animals as they attract a large number of birds that come for eating pieces of leftover meat. The zoo staffers are using metal objects to create noise and shoo away the birds that are coming to the zoo-based cages as well as large trees that are housed in the zoo. Not taking any chance, a training session for AMC’s ward as well as the zoo staffers was organized by the state veterinary department on Wednesday. Health authorities said that Marathwada is being considered as an epicentre of bird flu which is a viral infection. Already the district administrations in different parts of the region have ordered culling of hens after samples confirmed of infection in the birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/amc-appoints-staffers-to-shoo-away-birds-at-zoo/articleshow/80257599.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Fun-starved film buffs heed Master’s call, make beeline for cinema halls||Coimbatore: Cinema halls in the district bounced back to business with the release of Vijay-starrer Master on Wednesday.For the first time in the last two months, theatres ran houseful shows, said M Subramaniam, president of Tamil Nadu Theatre and Multiplex Owners Association. “Tickets for the next two days are sold out. The response shows that the business will pick up gradually,” he told TOI.The positive response from audience shows that they are willing to visit theatres to watch good movies, said K Rajamannar, president of the Coimbatore, Tirupur, Nilgiris and Erode Distributors Association. “This would encourage producers to release their movies on big screens. Most of the theatres will have five shows per day till Sunday and then it will be reduced to four shows,” he said. “The standard operating procedure was followed. People wore face masks and maintained social distancing. Theatres were fumigated after every show. Only packed food was served.”Theatres that opened in November, nine months after the state government closed them to control the spread of Covid-19, were screening old movies. Attendance was thin, around 15%, till Tuesday.Earlier this month, theatre owners and actors urged the state government to allow them function with full seat occupancy. Though the government agreed and issued an order, it was withdrawn after the central government cited Covid-19 safety violations.While some operators cancelled shows due to the low footfall, some started providing private screening offers. “As there is a huge demand for the tickets, it is difficult to arrange private screening. We would resume private screening after a few weeks,” said Subramaniam. Film buffs were happy to get back to theatres. “With the number of Covid-19 cases coming down and the government relaxing lockdown norms, we did not want to miss out the opportunity of watching a good movie on a big screen with friends,” said M Krishna.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fun-starved-film-buffs-heed-masters-call-make-beeline-for-cinema-halls/articleshow/80257602.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Chowmahalla Palace was official residence of Nizams||Hyderabad: Built by Nizam Salabat Jung, Chowmahalla Palace dates back to the late 18th century when construction began in 1750. It was completed in the mid-19th century during the reign of the fifth Nizam, Afzal-ud-Daulah Mir Tahniyat Ali Khan. The palace was the official residence of the Nizams of Hyderabad while they ruled the state. Princess Esra, wife of Prince Mukarram Jah, the titular eighth Nizam, took up restoration of the heritage structure in 2005. She had approached the municipal corporation and got the top floors of all the buildings demolished at that point of time. The work was completed in 2010. The palace also bagged the Unesco Asia-Pacific Heritage Merit Award for culture heritage conservation in 2010 .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chowmahalla-palace-was-official-residence-of-nizams/articleshow/80259869.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||NU plans to confer LLD on CJI Bobde in mid-April||Nagpur: Nagpur University (NU) is making ambitious plans to make the occasion of conferring doctor of law (LLD) degree on Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad Bobde, a memorable one. The administration, under vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, is planning to merge the special convocation for bestowing the prestigious degree on the CJI along with a regular one, probably in mid-April. The administration also plans to get Constitution Park — coming up at NU’s Dr Ambedkar Law College — inaugurated by the CJI. For all these events, however, the NU administration needs a formal approval from its Senate. “Since the regular Senate meeting will be held in February last week, we’re contemplating conducting an emergency one on this subject shortly. Else, the event would get delayed. We will discuss suitable dates with our officials,” Chaudhari told TOI. Former registrar Neeraj Khaty, who accompanied the VC, said they would first talk to the state public works department (PWD) about the completion date of the Constitution Park. “Only after their confirmation will the convocation date be finalized and tabled before the Senate for approval. We want the state-of-the-art monument to be inaugurated by the top judicial officer of the nation,” he said. Management council member Vishnu Changde, who had first raised the issue of awarding LLD to the CJI, said the administration needed to expedite the process as justice Bobde’s tenure would come to an end on April 23. “Ideally, the honorary degree should be bestowed on him before he superannuates from the post for which he was being felicitated. NU administration should take this into consideration and expedite its decision-making process. It would be a big honour for the entire university to felicitate such a legal luminary,” he said. Other NU statutory members disclosed to TOI that earlier it was decided to confer Doctor of Literature (DLitt) on justice Bobde. But when old records were checked, it came to fore that former CJI Mohammed Hidyatullah was also honoured by NU with an LLD degree in the past, and accordingly, the nomenclature was changed. “The students, too, would be delighted to receive their degrees along with justice Bobde, who would be bestowed with an honorary degree. We will overwhelmingly support any such NU proposal, if tabled. The NU administration needs to act fast and cut the red tape for holding the convocation before CJI’s retirement,” the members said. On NU’s wish list Merging regular & special convocations to fete CJI Inauguration of Constitution Park from his hands Students & CJI to be conferred degrees in same event Inviting legal luminaries & big dignitaries for event||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nu-plans-to-confer-lld-on-cji-bobde-in-mid-april/articleshow/80258950.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Covid-19 vaccines arrive in city||Coimbatore: The much-anticipated Covid-19 vaccines arrived in the deputy director of public health’s office in the city on Wednesday.The 73,200 doses allotted for the Coimbatore regional vaccine storage included doses allotted for Erode, Tirupur and Nilgiris also.However, on the day the vaccines arrived, the state government reduced the number of vaccination booths for the first day of the programme from 10 to five. This means only 500 health workers will get vaccinated on the first day in the district, instead of 1,000.The doses arrived in seven boxes — including 13,800 for Erode, 13,500 for Tirupur and 5,300 for Nilgiris. “As many as 40,600 doses came in 406 vials, with each vial containing 10 doses. We have also been given 1.38 lakh syringes,” said vaccination programme’s nodal officer Dr Bharani Kumar.The doses and syringes meant for the other three districts were dispatched on Wednesday evening. Coimbatore’s vaccine doses will be stored in the regional vaccine storage in the deputy director’s office.Just as officials were discussing when the doses would be sent to the vaccination booths selected on Saturday, the health minister announced that the number of vaccination booths would be reduced by half. In Coimbatore, where the vaccine was supposed to be administered at 10 centres, would now be administered at five centres — with 100 people getting the jab in each centre. “Private medical college hospitals have been removed from the list of centres for day one. The five centres are Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Pollachi GH, Sulur GH, Mettupalayam GH and Nalattipalayam PHC,” said Kumar. Regarding selection of beneficiaries for day one, officials have been instructed to not force any beneficiary, even if they have been registered for the programme by their institution. “We have been instructed to ensure that not even one of the 500 beneficiaries are forced into getting the vaccine. We have also been instructed not to administer the vaccine to anyone with health issues including fever, cold, co-morbidities, and breastfeeding mothers, among others,” said an official. Details of the selected willing beneficiaries who will take the vaccine on Saturday will be keyed into the CoWIN app on Friday evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/covid-19-vaccines-arrive-in-city/articleshow/80257601.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmers burn copies of farm laws to mark Bhogi||Coimbatore: Farmers here burnt copies of three contentious farm laws to mark the Bhogi festival on Wednesday after the All India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) coordinating committee called for a state-wide symbolic demonstration.The laws are ‘unwanted and bad’ for farmers, like the old and unnecessary stuff that had to be burnt on the day, they said.While some farmers burnt the copies in their houses, others attended small gatherings to do so.District secretary of AIKS V R Palanisamy said more than 500 farmers in the district participated in the demonstration. “In areas like Pollachi, Kinathukadavu and Madukkarai, farmers posted pictures of themselves burning copies of the Act in their houses with their family members. In every village, at least 20 farmers participated in the demonstration. We also organized small gatherings across the city,” he said.Ilango, district president of AIKS coordinating committee, said the leaders explained about how the Supreme Court’s temporary halt to the three laws could also be a ploy to break farmers’ unity. “We have asked farmers to not only bring copies of the law but garbage from their houses for burning. We also explained why we should not back down unless the laws are repealed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-to-mark-bhogi/articleshow/80257598.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Indore||Vaccine gets a celeb’s welcome, over 3.9 lakh doses arrive in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL/INDORE: The first batch of Covid vaccine arrived to a celeb’s welcome in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, three days ahead of the nationwide rollout. Over 3.90 lakh vaccine doses arrived in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur, and the process of transporting them to other districts began right away. In Bhopal, which got 94,000 doses, people on bikes and cars trailed the cavalcades carrying the vaccines from the airport. The buzz on the street was ‘aa gaya!’ Indore got the first consignment of 1.52 lakh doses of Covishield.It will be distributed among 15 districts of Indore and Ujjain division. Escorted by police, the vaccine was transported from the airport to the regional vaccine storage centre situated at MG Road. Jabalpur got the lion’s share — 1.5 lakh.  Gwalior will get its share on Thursday. Armed police escorted the vaccines in Bhopal too. The administration had kept it under wraps and though people knew the vaccines would arrive on Wednesday, the exact time was kept confidential. Mediapersons hung around Bhopal airport since early morning and when an Indigo flight touched down with the precious cargo just after 11am, a wave of excitement surged through the crowd. It took just eight minutes to offload the vaccines. Citizens follow vax van to catch a glimpseAnd when the vaccine-laden vans set off, escorted by police vehicles, and trailed by a fleet of mediapersons, people on the street realized “it” was here. Some turned around and followed the van just to be part of the excitement. One of them was Dhirendra Shrivastava, a private firm employee. “Obviously, I was curious about the vaccine. It’s even more important for me as four of my family members had tested positive. Though they have recovered, I don’t want them or anyone else to get infected. This is a big day,” said Shrivastava. At the Kamla Park centre, where the vaccines were stored, a huge crowd and swelled so quickly that police had to be deployed as a precaution. “I have seen a family member die of Covid last year. For people like me, this vaccine is no less than Sanjeevani. I was eager to see it,” said Dharam Lal, a Jehangirbad-based shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/vac-gets-a-celebs-welcome-over-3-9l-doses-arrive-in-mp/articleshow/80264013.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Patrolling to be intensified in Nashik ahead of Makar Sankranti||Nashik: The Nashik city police have decided to intensify patrolling and set up check points at various locations in the city on Thursday to ensure that there is no untoward incident during Makar Sankranti celebrations. DCP of Zone 1 unit Amol Tambe said, “Patrolling would be intensified across the city on the occasion of the festival. The patrolling teams will keep vigil to check if banned nylon manja is being sold or revellers are using these banned strings for flying kites.” Over the past fortnight, the city police has increased its action against sale of nylon manja after the banned product slit throat of a woman on the Dwarka flyover last month. Besides, nylon manja worth lakhs of rupees was seized from various shops in the city over the last two weeks. Tambe said that police will keep an eye on revellers who have already purchased nylon manja and may fly kites with it on Makar Sankranti. In addition, police will also maintain bandobast at market places to ensure that there are no cases of thefts, robberies, etc. in the city. Senior PI Suraj Bijli of the Nashik Road police station said, “On the instructions of our senior officers, we will deploy our personnel at several market places for security reasons.” Free primary treatment for minor injuries from kite string injuries Ashoka Medicover Hospitals Nashik has decided to provide free consultation and counselling to people who may get injured from kite strings and also provide them with free primary treatment for minor injuries they may suffer during kite flying competition. A release by the hospital stated that all its employees took an oath to not use nylon strings for flying kites at hospital premises.“I will celebrate Makar Sankranti but by conserving the environment and health. I will practise social distancing and will not use nylon manja during the kite festival. I will make sure that this message reaches maximum citizens,” the oath stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/patrolling-to-be-intensified-in-nashik-ahead-of-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80257623.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 14, 2021||Nashik||24 birds die in span of four days in district||Nashik: The animal husbandry department has noted death of 24 birds between January 10 and January 13 with samples of the same being sent to the Disease Investigation Agency (DIA) Pune for ascertaining the cause of death. “We received calls from people informing about the death of birds. The samples of the dead birds were sent to DIA Pune and we are awaiting the reports of the same,” Assistant commissioner of animal husbandry, Nashik, GR Patil said. According to Patil, the district office received information about the death of 24 birds — most of them singular cases except for the death of birds in Surgana and Sinnar talukas. The officer pointed out that on January 10, the death of Greater Coucal or Crow Peasant was reported from Igatpuri while similar singular deaths of crows and swans were reported from various other talukas. On Tuesday, the office received a call from Surgana informing them about the death of nine crows, following which a team of officials rushed to the incident spot and collected the samples of the dead birds. The next major incident was reported from Sinnar taluka on Wednesday in which ten birds — four ducks and six others — were reported dead in small pond. “All the samples have been sent to Pune DIA for investigation,” Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/24-birds-die-in-span-of-four-days-in-district/articleshow/80257605.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 14, 2021||Goa||Shripad’s wife to be cremated at Adpai today||Panaji: The last rites of Vijaya Naik, the wife of Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik will be performed at her native village Adpai in Ponda on Thursday. She died in a car accident along with Dr Deepak Ghume, while travelling with the minister in Karnataka on Monday. Naik, who sustained multiple fractures, is undergoing treatment at Goa Medical College (GMC). His condition has improved, doctors said. On Thursday, Vijaya’s body will be kept at her Sao Pedro residence in Ribandar and the public will be able to pay their last respects between 8am and 9am, according to a statement issued by the family. Her body will be then taken to Adpai and kept for public homage from 9.30am till noon. Funeral procession will then proceed from her residence to Adpai cemetery. She is survived by sons — Siddhesh, Saish and Yogesh, daughter-in-laws — Swanupa, Pratiksha, Aditi and grandchildren — Ayansh, Ayush and Parthavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripads-wife-to-be-cremated-at-adpai-today/articleshow/80259940.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Daily wage worker raped by two youths in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: A 35-year-old woman was allegedly kidnapped and raped by two youths under the guise of offering her a lift on their motorcycle near Tempalli village under Gannavaram mandal on Tuesday night. The incident came to light after the victim lodged a complaint at Atkuru police station on Wednesday morning. According to Atkuru police, the victim is a daily wage labourer and was on her way to her hometown in Tempalli from Balliparru village to celebrate Sankranti. En route, two youngsters from the same village, offered to drop her. Trusting them, the woman got on the bike as she recognised both of them as daily wage labourers from Tempalli. The accused then took her to an isolated place where both of them allegedly raped her before leaving her at the spot. The woman also alleged that she was assaulted by the accused while they committed the act. Police took the woman to Vijayawada Government General Hospital for a medical examination. A team has been formed to apprehend the absconding youths. A case has been registered at Atkuru police station and an investigation is underway. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/daily-wage-worker-raped-by-two-youths/articleshow/80256417.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||It will be difficult if civic bodies don’t act against illegal structures: Bombay high court||MUMBAI: Bombay high court on Wednesday said if municipal corporations don’t take action against unauthorized constructions, the situation will become quite difficult. The observation by a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni was made while hearing a suo motu PIL following the Bhiwandi building collapse on September 21, 2020, that claimed 39 lives. Mumbai, Thane, Kalyan-Dombivli, Ulhasnagar, Navi Mumbai, Vasai-Virar and Bhiwandi-Nizampur corporations were added as respondents. The judges noticed that BMC’s reply did not mention the number of unauthorised structures in Mumbai and action initiated against them. “If corporations are not interested in implementing provisions of the statute, the situation will become quite difficult,’’said the CJ. The judges said only KDMC had demolished 10,000 illegal structures over five years and it “seems to be proactive” “Why have you not given figures?’’ asked the CJ. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare, for BMC, replied that 40% of 421km of Mumbai is occupied by slums. He said there is data of buildings putting up extra floors but exact data may not be available in case of slums. He said in 24 wards, detection of illegal structures is done during usual rounds and on receiving complaints. There is also is a system in place to address complaints. Amicus curiae Sharan Jagtiani batted for scientific data gathering of illegal structures and fixing of accountability. “We do not have identity (of illegal constructions) by way of grid or matrix. If there are brazen illegal constructions, should we not start with holding officers accountable?’’ he asked. The judges referred to a Madras high court order that observed that till a demolition takes place, the person putting up an illegal construction must pay double tax. “Many measures can be taken. There is no will by corporations... are heading for what God knows,’’ remarked Justice Kulkarni. The judges said two floors of the Bhiwandi building were unauthorised and “lives lost were not in proportion to illegality and dereliction of duty by officers” “Pandemic has taught us many things,” said Justice Kulkarni, adding that a migrant who comes to work in Mumbai is not expected to check if a structure is safe.``Human life cannot be so cheap,’’ he added. The Bhiwandi building housed some migrants. Referring to the Fort building collapse, Justice Kulkarni said, “It was right in front of the municipal commissioner and it falls like a pack of cards.” Adjourning the hearing to March 3, the judges sought data on ward-wise notices to illegal structures, action taken, and how accountability will be fixed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-it-will-be-difficult-if-civic-bodies-dont-act-against-illegal-structures/articleshow/80259915.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Indian embassy helps 2 Hyderabad women stuck in Abu Dhabi||HYDERABAD: The Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi has responded to the plea of a woman from Hyderabad to rescue her mother and sister who were trafficked to Abu Dhabi in the guise of providing them jobs. Bilqees Begum and her daughter Sameena Begum, residents of Mir Momin Saheb Pahadi in the Old City, who were allegedly duped by travel agents and taken to Abu Dhabi, will be provided an emergency certificate (emergency passport) to travel back to Hyderabad. “The embassy will also provide air tickets to them. The procedural formalities for their repatriation are under way. They will be repatriated as soon as the formalities are completed,” Gaurav Kumar Singh, attache (community affairs), embassy of India, Abu Dhabi, informed Hina Begum in a mail. She was informed that Bilqees and Sameena had approached the embassy on December 28, requesting for repatriation. Both are currently staying at a friend’s accommodation in Abu Dhabi. “Their sponsor has marked them as absconders,” the embassy said. Social worker and MBT leader Amjed Ullah Khan in an appeal to Union external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the two women were cheated by a travel agent and taken to Abu Dhabi. Bilqees and Sameena were promised 1,200 dirhams (Rs 23,000) each per month as salary for working as housemaids. Since lockdown, the family was facing financial crisis and searched for jobs. They were approached by local travel agent Abbas. On reaching Abu Dhabi, they were received by a woman, said to be sister of Abbas who handed them over to an agency. The mother-daughter were made to work in the house of a Yemeni family. They were reportedly not paid by the recruiting agency for the last one year. When the situation became unbearable, they reached out to the Indian embassy in Abu Dhabi for help.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/indian-embassy-helps-2-city-women-stuck-in-abu-dhabi/articleshow/80258981.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 14, 2021||Pune||Deemed conveyance stuck in collection of documents||Pune: Inordinate delays in procuring old sanction plans and commencement certificates from government departments is proving to be a hurdle for housing societies to get the deemed conveyance. The State Housing Society Federation members have approached the state government authorities to continue the deemed conveyance drive for the entire year and not just till January 15.Of the 2.5 lakh registered cooperative housing societies and apartments in the state, only 50% have completed the process, members said.Issues in procuring Index-II documents of unsold flats, registering the document for deemed conveyance and paying stamp duty and even entries in the property cards are big deterrents, state housing federation vice president Suhas Patwardhan said.Deemed conveyance makes the society the owner of the land on which the building is located. In 2012, the state government announced deemed conveyance where the society can bypass the builder who fails to execute it and get it from the registrar. Despite the law, only 50,000 societies have been able to register their deemed conveyance.Residents from several housing societies who are conducting workshops agreed that the 15-day drive currently underway is too short and more awareness needs to be created. Advocate and activist Radhikesh Uttarwar, who recently conducted a drive for housing societies, said ,“While many societies have gone in for a deemed conveyance, only a few are able to finally register the document. There are several localised issues between developers and land owners and even residents who do not get their documents which becomes a problem for the society.” Patwardhan, who has initiated camps or drives across the city with local activists, said the state government needs to focus on addressing the issues of the housing societies who may want to get their conveyance done but are held back because of several hiccups like getting the documents from Index-II to unsold flats which are in possession of the developer and final entries in property cards. Other members of the federation said it is mandatory for the builder to transfer the land and the building to the society within four months of the completion of the project.“Ideally, builders should be taken to task for their failures, but here we have the flat owners who are put in the dock. There are provisions in MOFA (Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act) to imprison the builder and that should ideally be applied,” Patwardhan said.Residents said it was difficult for members to run to different departments and fill multiple forms for deemed conveyance. “A one-window system would have helped. The government must address these issues rather than just conduct a drive,” Ramesh Prabhu said.“Those who cannot carry out the process online can approach us and our office will help all societies,” cooperation department officials said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/deemed-conveyance-stuck-in-collection-of-documents/articleshow/80258974.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Farmers stage protest against pipeline project||Coimbatore: Farmers staged a protest in front of the Tirupur collector’s office on Wednesday, urging the district administration to stop the works related to the Irugur – Devangonthi Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project carried out by the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited.“Farmers affected by the project staged a sit-in protest at Kandiyankovil village panchayat in Pongalur block after officials issued land acquisition notice and invited them for negotiations in September. Subsequently, revenue department officials assured to stop the work. Now, revenue officials have issued notices to 130 farmers in Pandiyur, Sivanmalai, Keeranur and Maravapalayam in Kangeyam taluk in the district,” said R Kumar, district secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Association. The project proposes to lay pipeline through six villages in Tirupur district for about 20 kilometres, Kumar said. “It will affect over 250 farmers. We have been requesting the government to lay the pipelines along the road instead of laying it in the middle of agriculture land,” he said. “Farmers would not be able to grow mango trees as their roots go deep. They will not be allowed to take heavy vehicles through farmland, which means they will not be able to take vehicles to drill bore well.”TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/farmers-stage-protest-against-pipeline-project/articleshow/80257615.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Two, including 17-yr-old boy, killed in car accident||Coimbatore: Two people, including a 17-year-old boy, were killed in a car accident near Perur in the city on Tuesday night.The deceased were identified as M Sanjeev Kumar, 20, a resident of Alandurai and his relative V Anandharaman, 17. “They were returning to Alandurai from Sennanur. When they were near a marriage hall on the Coimbatore - Siruvani road, Sanjeev, who was driving the vehicle, turned it to the left to avoid the median and crashed into a tree,” a police officer said.The duo sustained serious injuries. Though the Perur police rushed them to a nearby hospital, they were declared as brought dead. Police have booked a case.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/two-including-17-yr-old-boy-killed-in-car-accident/articleshow/80257621.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Equity funds bail out pandemic-hit schools||Mumbai/Hyderabad: A playground for 1,500 children, auditorium replete with surround sound, sun-lit classrooms with colourful furniture, 56,000 sq ft built-up space on a 6-acre campus, national board affiliation. Asking price: Rs 7 crore. Reason for sale: Promoter has other business interests. Listings like these are becoming more noticeable as school campuses across India are put on the block. The pandemic has seen a huge slice of the private affordable schooling space being snapped up, many by equity funds, as educational institutions invite partners to help bridge the gap in income and investment. Over the past four months, Crimson Education Management Services set up by private equity firm Cerestra Advisors has partnered or taken over 17 budget schools in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh. “These schools were struggling as parents didn’t pay fees and they were expected to enhance their technology infrastructure to continue online learning. That’s where we stepped in,” said Jasmeet Chhabra, joint managing director, Crimson. Turn-around specialists are busy negotiating deals in the education sector as schools confront a shrinking of revenues due to the pandemic. The transformation involves pumping in investments to refurbish infrastructure, train teachers, infuse technology, and then re-opening in a new avatar with a higher sticker fee, which often forces parents to re-work their expenses or move away for other affordable options. Jai Decosta, CEO at K12 Techno Services, an e-learning firm which provides solutions for schools, said, “We received applications from 15 schools in Mumbai, 45 in Pune, 70 in Telangana, 12 from Bengaluru. They either want to sell or need loans to survive.” The reasons for seeking an exit vary from defaults on fee payment to lack of stable net connectivity and distress migration by families, all of which have their origins in the pandemic. “I do feel many schools will not be able to sustain their operations…I am hoping that citizens and corporations come together to support learning,” says Shaheen Mistry, founder, Teach for India. Given the churn, private equity funds have smelt an opportunity. “Lockdown caused a lot of financial stress to schools which annually charged fees of Rs 40,000 to Rs 85,000. We hope to empower them to become financially more sustainable and build infrastructure,” said Jasmeet Chhabra, joint managing director, Crimson. By end of 202l, Crimson hopes to have 50 schools under its belt. Francis Joseph, CEO of Crimson, said fee defaults were forcing school owners to deduct salaries and cut expenses, which was further affecting their performance. Better "financial and operational efficiency" would be the key to upgrade without hiking fees, he said. The company has partnered with Anisha Global Schools in Hinjewadi and Undri in Pune; and plans to invest about $100 million in all. Foundation Holdings which set up a joint venture with Ryan Group known as Ryan EduNation, has also launched a plan to partner budget schools in tier-2 and tier-3 cities. “Discussions are on with about 15 of which 80% are hot leads. These are largely across Patna, Jamshedpur, Bhopal, Lucknow,”said Akash Sachdev, managing director. Also, in “various stages of negotiation” is EuroKids International Ltd, which already runs more than 30 K–12 schools. “Apart from Mumbai, Hyderabad and Bengaluru, within Maharashtra we are looking at Nashik and Nagpur," said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder and Group CEO. Through all this, the experiences of parents and faculty are mixed. While Rani Thomas, principal of Crimson Anisha Global School, Hinjewadi in Pune said getting a professional team on board has allowed her to concentrate on academics, Pia Sarogi in Hyderabad whose daughter’s school was bought over by a new company said, she was shocked to see the brazenness with which fees doubled in the next three years. The new management slowly brought in younger teaching staff that was rather "inexperienced", she said. Farida Lambay, co-founder of Pratham, says this shake-up may be the time for schools to review their priorities. “They must realise that education should be more of an equaliser than divider.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/equity-funds-bail-out-pandemic-hit-schools/articleshow/80259936.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Leopard falls in well in Sircilla village, creates scare||Hyderabad: A leopard which fell in an agricultural well in Malkapur village in Rajanna Sircilla district created a scare among the villagers. Forest officials have sought the assistance of the department in Hyderabad to assist in rescuing the big cat from the well. Hundreds of villagers rushed to the well to take a look at the leopard. It was at around 11 am on Wednesday when a farmer, K Suresh, who owns the agricultural well, noticed some disturbance in the water. When he peeped closer, he saw the leopard much to his shock. Forest officials said the animal must have accidentally fell into the well on Tuesday night after it strayed into the village from the nearby hillocks. Villagers talked about sighting a leopard in the vicinity in the recent past. With instances of two persons killed by a man-eater tiger in Asifabad district fresh in their minds, the villagers urged the forest officials to trap the leopard and send it back to the forest. However, rescuing the big cat turned out to be a task as there are no steps leading to the well. Officials said they will have to first tranquilise it before finding a way to reach it. Arrangements are on to get a cage and leave it in the forest once the animal is brought out of the well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-falls-in-well-in-sircilla-village-creates-scare/articleshow/80259907.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 14, 2021||Lucknow||VHP crowdfunding for Ram Temple to begin with celebs on Makar Sankranti||Lucknow: The mega public outreach programme of Vishwa Hindu Parishad to mobilise funds for Ram temple in Ayodhya is set to kick off from Friday with the right-wing outfit planning to connect with celebrities, including film personalities and politicians in the first phase. Talking to TOI, VHP national secretary general Milind Parande said, cadres would reach out to celebs in every state on Makar Sankranti. “Personalities from field of politics, films, industry and art would be request to donate and the drive will continue till Magh Poornima on February 27,” he said, claiming it to be one of the biggest apolitical outreach programmes in independent India. Parande said, the crowdfunding campaign will also include seers from across the country. “VHP has set a target of reaching out to over 4 lakh villages nationwide. “We will contact over 11 crore families, thereby roping in 55 crore people in the campaign,” he said. The VHP leader said, the organisation would deploy at least 1 lakh functionaries in every state. “So nearly 40 lakh karyakartas would fan out across India,” he said. Parande said, hundreds of non-political organisations have agreed to support the campaign. As per the plan hammered out by VHP, cadres would carry coupons of Rs 10, Rs 10 and Rs 1000 and those contributing Rs 2,000 and more would be gifted with photographs of Lord Ram and a model of Ram temple. In 1989, at the peak of Ram Temple movement, VHP mobilised residents of nearly 3 lakh villages to donate `shilas’ (stones) and managed to collect Rs 1.25 crore, said a top functionary. The outfit plans to go back to those villages to fructify its vow on temple construction. VHP also seeks to use the occasion to spread the concept of ‘Ramatva’. “The idea is to make people realise that the temple belongs to people of the entire country,” a senior VHP leader said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vhp-crowdfunding-for-ram-temple-to-begin-with-celebs-on-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80259625.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Minister thanks Stalin for helping increase AIADMK’s vote bank||Tuticorin: Expressing confidence that AIADMK (alliance) will win more than 200 assembly segments and form the government for the third time in a row, information and publicity minister Kadambur C Raju has said that the upcoming election is not a competition for change in power but for continuance of good governance. Speaking to reporters in Kovilaptti on Wednesday, the minister expressed his thanks to DMK leader M K Stalin for increasing the vote bank of the AIADMK. “The more Stalin talks about us, our vote bank is getting stronger,” Raju said.On the demands put forward by various parties to form an alliance, he said that they will be considered by the AIADMK.The minister also said that the government has allotted funds for the international film festival to be held at Goa. This year too, two Tamil films Asuran and Thaen will be screened at the film festival. “The Tamil film industry has grown at par with Hollywood,” he said.He also took a dig at DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin, saying that there was a time when film producers has no other option but to sell their films to his firm (Red Giant Movies). “Now, even small producers are able to produce films and release them,” he said.Raju added that the government had made the cine industry more inclusive, wherein anyone can enter it. He also accused the DMK of providing free televisions to households to benefit the cable service provider in their family and the government of Tamil Nadu is the first in the country to provide satellite television connectivity at a very nominal fare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/minister-thanks-stalin-for-helping-increase-aiadmks-vote-bank/articleshow/80258978.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||Vaccine gets a celeb’s welcome, over 3.9 lakh doses arrive in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL/INDORE: The first batch of Covid vaccine arrived to a celeb’s welcome in Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, three days ahead of the nationwide rollout. Over 3.90 lakh vaccine doses arrived in Bhopal, Indore and Jabalpur, and the process of transporting them to other districts began right away. In Bhopal, which got 94,000 doses, people on bikes and cars trailed the cavalcades carrying the vaccines from the airport. The buzz on the street was ‘aa gaya!’ Indore got the first consignment of 1.52 lakh doses of Covishield.It will be distributed among 15 districts of Indore and Ujjain division. Escorted by police, the vaccine was transported from the airport to the regional vaccine storage centre situated at MG Road. Jabalpur got the lion’s share — 1.5 lakh.  Gwalior will get its share on Thursday. Armed police escorted the vaccines in Bhopal too. The administration had kept it under wraps and though people knew the vaccines would arrive on Wednesday, the exact time was kept confidential. Mediapersons hung around Bhopal airport since early morning and when an Indigo flight touched down with the precious cargo just after 11am, a wave of excitement surged through the crowd. It took just eight minutes to offload the vaccines. Citizens follow vax van to catch a glimpseAnd when the vaccine-laden vans set off, escorted by police vehicles, and trailed by a fleet of mediapersons, people on the street realized “it” was here. Some turned around and followed the van just to be part of the excitement. One of them was Dhirendra Shrivastava, a private firm employee. “Obviously, I was curious about the vaccine. It’s even more important for me as four of my family members had tested positive. Though they have recovered, I don’t want them or anyone else to get infected. This is a big day,” said Shrivastava. At the Kamla Park centre, where the vaccines were stored, a huge crowd and swelled so quickly that police had to be deployed as a precaution. “I have seen a family member die of Covid last year. For people like me, this vaccine is no less than Sanjeevani. I was eager to see it,” said Dharam Lal, a Jehangirbad-based shopkeeper.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vac-gets-a-celebs-welcome-over-3-9l-doses-arrive-in-mp/articleshow/80258970.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka ready to tweak law to curb cow vigilantism||BENGALURU: A day after the high court made observations on the recently passed anti-cow slaughter ordinance, law minister JC Madhuswamy said the government is ready to make changes to prevent vigilantism in the name of protecting cattle. The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Ordinance, 2020, came into effect last week. One of its provisions offers legal protection to those who “act in good faith” to prevent cow slaughter. The high court had said without supporting rules, even farmers transporting cattle for farming could be arrested and prosecuted. Hearing a PIL, it sought the government’s response on the issue. Madhuswamy said, “We have, with good intention, included a provision that empowers common people to stop those transporting cows for the purpose of slaughter....” Minister: Govt won’t tolerate hooliganism“If we are convinced that it leads to vigilantism and hooliganism, we will definitely consider changing it,” the state law minister said after the cabinet meeting. Asked about recent incidents in which farmers transporting cattle were harassed, Madhuswamy said, “I agree that there are such possibilities. But we will not tolerate goondaism in the name of cow protection. We will abide by the court’s verdict. The law, as such, is not new; it has been in force since 1964. The only change we have made is that we have banned slaughter of even cows aged above 13.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/ktaka-ready-to-tweak-law-to-curb-cow-vigilantism/articleshow/80260382.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Agra||Pipeline leakages cause inadequate water supply in 15 localities||Agra: Around 15 localities in the city suffered from inadequate water supply due to leakages in pipeline and other mechanical faults on Wednesday. Even after several complaints, the Jal Sansthan failed to send water tanks. Meanwhile, foul-smelling contaminated water was supplied in a few localities including Awas Vikas, Sadar Bhatti, Prakash Nagar, Chandra Nagar, parts of Dayalbagh and Kamla Nagar locality etc. Due to damage in the pipeline, water supply in two dozen localities remained affected on Monday. These include Awas Vikas, Sikandra, Dayalbagh, trans Yamuna, Baluganj, Mantola, Subhas Bazaar, Transport Nagar, Kailash road, Balkeshwar Locality, Belanganj, Daresi, Rawatpara, Noori Darwaza, Shahganj, Madia Katra, Lohamandi, Idgha etc. General manager of Agra Jal Sansthan RS Yadav said, “We are working towards fixing all the leakages. Pipelines are too old and weak and hence unable to bear the pressure of water. We are working on a plan to lay a new pipeline in areas where frequent leakages are surfacing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/pipeline-leakages-cause-inadequate-water-supply-in-15-localities/articleshow/80254896.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Rain threat looms large over jallikattu||Madurai: The unseasonal rain is likely to be a spoilsport during the jallikattu games this year as the water content will turn the red mud floor very slippery though it is covered with coconut husk as a precaution. Slushy hay and husk could be a big spoiler for the games this year. Arrangements for the first game of the season in Avaniapuram are progressing at a slow pace as the area received rain on Wednesday. Another whole day of rain could stall the game this year, the organisers said. Barricades were erected at places where the audience was supposed to stand. Tight security arrangements are being made in Avaniapuram as Congress leader Rahul Gandhi is expected to witness the game. Meanwhile, the organisers of the famous jallikattu at Periya Suriyur in Trichy have kept their fingers crossed as incessant rain is refusing to withdraw as the event is slated to be held on Friday. The venue may not be conducive for conducting jallikattu if rain continues through the day on Thursday and Wednesday night. The jallikattu enclosure is usually covered with husks to ensure that bull tamers do not get injured when they fall down. But, the incessant rain that continued in Madurai throughout the day made it difficult to prepare the ground at the jallikattu venues, as the wet hay and husk will be a discouraging factor for the bulls. “Animals, which have been trained on hard soil, would definitely be comfortable on this slushy soil and there are chances of the animals panicking if they lose foothold on the ground,” said Arunkumar Malayalam, a bull owner. An organiser of the Avaniapuram game said that coconut husk is usually laid and now they are planning to increase its height for more protection, but a high layer of slushy hay could spoil the game. K Manikandan, a bull tamer, said that wet husk and hay could become slippery and dangerous. Even in Alanganallur where the game will be inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on January 16, the arrangements are progressing at a very slow pace. Periya Suriyur conducts jallikattu on the second day of Pongal festival, which is celebrated as Mattu Pongal. Out of the total budget of Rs 15 lakh, the organising committee has spent 70% for the preparations. “We have no option but to pray to God as we may not get permission if the rain continues,” said member of the organising committee of Periya Suriyur jallikattu, S Raja Manikandan. The village tank, Periyakulam, which is the jallikattu venue over the last few years, is brimming with water. Now the venue has been shifted to a vacant land on the north side of the village. “In case the event is cancelled, we will have to seek permission of the village deity to postpone it for another day,” said Raja. While 400 bull tamers have been given tokens, bull owners are yet to be given the tokens. The organising committee is planning to disburse token on Thursday evening, once the district administration gives permission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-threat-looms-large-over-jallikattu/articleshow/80258983.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Gang of dacoits busted, property worth lakhs seized in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: An 11-member inter-state gang, which includes two receivers, involved in dacoities and burglaries were arrested on Wednesday. They reportedly stole a huge quantity of copper wire and other electrical material from various construction sites in the suburbs of the city. Addressing a press conference on Wednesday, Cyberabad police commissioner VC Sajjanar said the 11 members — Pradeep Kushwaha, Kuldeep, Madhav Singh, Dharmender Singh, Sanjay and Manish Kumar, all natives of Rajasthan, in coordination with Nihal Singh, Kuldeep, Madhav Singh, Dharmender Kumar, all from Uttar Pradesh — committed offences in the city. These 10 persons along with Vijay Kumar, a resident of Hafeezpet, were arrested on Wednesday. Police said they recovered Rs 55 lakh worth stolen property, which includes huge quantities of copper wire bundles, panel boards and others besides a country-made pistol and an SUV vehicle from their possession. Officials said the gang had committed dacoities and burglaries at RC Puram, Dundigal, Shankarpally and Narsingi. In the last one week, the accused had committed five offences in the suburbs. “The accused used to approach staff of different construction companies as most of them are electricians. On the pretext of seeking employment, they used to recce the construction sites. Later, with the support of other gang members, they used to commit offences between 11pm and 3am. In some cases, the accused had overpowered and bound site watchman and other staff and threatened them with the country-made weapon while committing offences,’’ Sajjanar said. According to police, Manish Kumar, who owns an electrical store, had bought stolen property from the accused at a cheap price. The commissioner said they have information that most of the arrested persons have previous criminal history and they were verifying with police of Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan to gather more information. Officials said the accused were nabbed based on CCTV footage in which they were found using a vehicle with Rajasthan registration number.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gang-of-dacoits-busted-property-worth-lakhs-seized/articleshow/80258994.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||NMC, cops start drive against users, sellers of nylon manja||Nagpur: Following the death of a 23-year-old engineering graduate Pranay Thakre, whose throat was slit by a nylon manja on Tuesday near Jattarodi Chowk, Nagpur city police and nuisance detection squad (NDS) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Wednesday launched a drive against kite flyers using nylon manja.The Imambada police have booked an unidentified kite flyer under section 304 (A) and relevant sections of the law for Thakre’s death. The NDS conducted a search in all the 10 zones across the city and found several youths flying kites with nylon manja. Many voluntarily handed over nylon manja to the NDS, while many tried to resist the drive. A man near Buddh Park in Ashi Nagar zone argued with the NDS team when it seized the chakri with nylon manja from a boy. The NDS squad led by commandant V Tambe nabbed 62 youths, especially children, using the nylon manja. The squad nabbed the highest 12 youths, especially teenagers, in areas under the Ashi Nagar zone. “Nine cases were detected in Lakadganj zone areas while eight and seven cases were detected in Nehru Nagar and Dharampeth zones, respectively,” said deputy municipal commissioner (sanitation) and in-charge of NDS team Dr Pradip Dasarwar.Commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B told TOI that instructions have been issued to all police stations and civic cops to seize nylon manja and prosecute those flying kites with the banned string.Eight police stations too found 15 people using nylon manja. Different police stations too carried out actions against sellers in their respective jurisdiction. As per information, as many as 31 cases were registered under sections 5, 15 of Environment Protection Act with different police stations. The police have also seized around 554 nylon manja with chakri. The NDS team also seized 167 chakris of nylon manja and 2,780 plastic kites. The civic cops also recovered Rs24,000 fine from the offenders.“Every year, the authorities issue circulars banning selling, storing or buying nylon manjas. From this year, the city police have decided to register cases against people buying the nylon manja to fly kites,” said Kumar.Radhakrishnan said, “We have also instructed the NDS f all 10 zones to be alert and prohibitory orders have been issued against selling, storing, and flying kites with nylon manja. If there is any violation, we will file offences. Till last year, cases were filed only against the sellers. But this year, action will be taken against buyers too.”“If anyone notices anybody using nylon manja, complaint can be lodged on 100. If the kite flyer is a minor, then action will be taken against their parents,” said the CP.Meanwhile, a delegation of Vidarbha Taxpayers Association (VTA) led by its president Shrawankumar Malu met the CP and demanded that nylon manja be declared as corrosive substance.Malu told the CP that despite High Court’s suo motu PIL and various warnings by the police department, there is no control on use and sale of nylon manja as it is being sold by mentioning ‘not for kite flying’ or similar slogans on the packing.VTA secretary Tejinder Singh Renu requested police that nylon manja (thread) should be declared corrosive substance under section 37(b) of the Maharashtra Police Act, 1951, and those found storing, selling or using should be booked and punished under relevant sections of Indian Penal Code. “Furthermore, police need to conduct surprise checks, including random verification of thread being used by people for kite flying. Informers too should be roped in,” he said .The youth wing of Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday gheraoed the office of mayor Dayashankar Tiwari demanding action against officers concerned following the death of an engineer due to nylon manja on Tuesday. Had the NMC department concerned been vigilant, markets would not have been flooded with the banned manja, said the party’s youth wing and added that the manja is still available because officials are hand in glove with the sellers.Meanwhile, the CP on Wednesday evening issued an order to launch a special drive on Makar Sankranti when kite flying is at its peak. Cops will be on toes the entire day to nab sellers and flyers using nylon manja. The CP while presiding a meeting at police gymkhana clarified that apart from registering cases, offenders will be put behind the bars, if needed.BoxDeadly stringNDS seizes nylon manjaZone—————— CasesLaxmi Nagar--———— 4Dharampeth-————- 7Hanuman Nagar--——- 5Dhantoli-—————-- 4Nehru Nagar-————- 8Gandhibagh-————- 3Satranjipura-————- 4Lakadganj-—————- 9Ashi Nagar-————-- 12Mangalwari-————-- 6CITY POLICE ACTIONPolice station -————- ActionWadi ————————- 01Wathoda ——————— 01Kalamna ——————— 08Shanti Nagar —————- 01Tehsil ———————— 01Ajni ————————— 01Yashodhara —————— 01New Kamptee ————— 01||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-cops-start-drive-against-users-sellers-of-nylon-manja/articleshow/80256448.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 14, 2021||Nashik||13 hospitals in dist given Kayakalp Award||Nashik: As many as 13 government health centres in Nashik district were felicitated with the Kayakalp Award at a programme held through video conferencing on Tuesday in the presence of union health minister Harshawardhan Mishra. State health minister Rajesh Tope also attended this virtual programme from Mumbai while district civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande, additional civil surgeon K R Srivas, medical officer Anant Pawar and other health officers and employees participated in the programme from Nashik civil hospital. Instituted by the union health ministry, this award is given to encourage cleanliness and hygiene in public health facilities. Internal and peer-assessment as well as state level assessment processes were carried out at all the district hospitals, general hospitals, women’s hospitals and rural hospitals in 2019-20. A team of examiners had also visited the Nashik civil hospital in March last year for the assessment. The competition is based on parameters of cleanliness, infection control and contractual service evaluation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/13-hospitals-in-dist-given-kayakalp-award/articleshow/80257632.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Man held for offensive posts on social media in Andhra Pradesh||GUNTUR: The Crime Investigation Department (CID) on Wednesday arrested Sodadasi Praveen Chakravarthy, a pastor, for posting videos denigrating another religion on social media. The pastor, who is a native of East Godavari district, was booked under sections 153(A), 153(B) (1) (C), 505 (2), 295 (A), 124(A), 115 IPC r/w 66 (F) of the IT Act, 2000. Based on a complaint by Singam Venkata Sri Lakshminarayana of Guntur, CID additional DGP PV Sunil Kumar directed CID additional SP Vijay Paul to investigate the case. A CID team verified Chakravarthy’s social media posts and concluded he had posted the videos to create unrest by making damaging comments against a religion. The CID team arrested the pastor and produced before the court in Guntur on Wednesday. “Chakravarthy has committed a grave crime by making such posts and videos on social media,” said CID ADGP Sunil Kumar, adding that Chakravarthy is an accused in four similar cases and a history sheet was opened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/man-held-for-offensive-posts-on-social-media/articleshow/80256446.cms||Samdani MN
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Bharat Bio’s Covaxin supply begins, vials go to 11 cities||HYDERABAD: Dispatches of India’s first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin began on Wednesday morning, with thousands of vials of the vaccine (each vial containing 20 doses) being air-shipped to 11 cities across the country. Escorted by police vans, refrigerated trucks carrying the vaccine vials began rolling out of Bharat Biotech’s Genome Valley facility post 4 am and headed straight to the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport from where they were shipped out on multiple flights. Bharat Biotech said the first batch of vaccines was shipped to Ganavaram (Vijayawada), Guwahati, Patna, Delhi, Kurukshetra, Bangalore, Pune, Bhubaneswar, Jaipur, Chennai and Lucknow. However, the company did not specify the number of vials or doses that were dispatched on Wednesday. Bharat Biotech has bagged an order for 55 lakh doses of Covaxin from the Indian government. Multiple airlines like Air India, IndiGo, SpiceJet, Air Asia, Vistara and logistics services provider Blue Dart were involved in the air-shipment exercise, aviation sources said. According to RGIA officials, the GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo team handled 35 boxes of Covaxin, each weighing an average 26 kg. All the flights departed between 5 am to 12 noon,” said an RGIA spokesperson, adding that the temperature of the vaccine cargo was maintained between 2 and 8 Degree Celsius. The first consignment of Covaxin flew out of Hyderabad onboard national carrier Air India’s flight AI 559 to Delhi. The flight departed at 6.45 am from Hyderabad with three boxes containing around 20,000 doses and weighing about 80.5 kg, AI officials said. This was followed by no-frills carrier SpiceJet’s freighter flight SG 7555 that ferried three boxes weighing around 90 kg on its 8.50 am flight that landed in Bengaluru at 10.23 am. IndiGo too said it transported Covaxin shipments from Hyderabad to cities like Pune, Vijayawada, Guwahati, Patna and Bhubaneswar via flights 6E 6516, 6E 7201, 6E 6538, 6E 154 and 6E 266, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bharat-bios-covaxin-supply-begins-vials-go-to-11-cities/articleshow/80259939.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nurse, attendant saved 40 babies, moms from neo-natal ward||Nagpur: At least 40 more newborns and their mothers admitted in ward numbers 6 and 7, also known as post-natal care unit ward, too had a miraculous escape from January 9 fire at Bhandara district general hospital.The neo-natal ward was full with newborns, their mothers and relatives when the rescuers were trying to find a way inside the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) where a devastating fire left 10 premature babies dead.The 40 babies are believed to have been saved by nurse Monica Mohankar, attendant Anita Moghre and her husband Sunil Moghre.The neo-natal ward and SNCU are both located on the first floor of the hospital and share a common door, which the rescuers — a male ICU nurse, two security guards, two nurses, an ambulance driver and telephone operator — were trying to break open to gain entry inside the SNCU. Ultimately, 17 babies (seven alive and 10 dead) were removed by entering the unit through an emergency door above civil surgeon’s chamber. Though the rescuers couldn’t eventually gain entry into the SNCU from ward numbers 6 and 7, the smoke clouds had starting entering the neo-natal ward. Of the 10 dead babies, seven had died of asphyxiation. Nurse Monica Mohankar and attendant Anita Moghre were on duty at the ward numbers 6 and 7. On Wednesday, a couple of videos were circulating on social media explaining how Mohankar and Moghre saved 40 babies. The hospital administration has been accused of keeping this incident under wraps.One of the staff members, who is a rescuer too, said before going outside they raised an alarm and asked all occupants to immediately vacate the ward 6 and 7. “It was not our priority, but we knew the smoke would have soon filled the C-section ward because the door had been damaged while trying to enter the SNCU from there. We don’t know what happened next,” said the staffer.In the video, Anita is seen telling that she was panicked and called her husband Sunil, who is a local activist, for help.Sunil Moghre said when he reached the hospital, he only saw people lying on the floor. “Anita, others and I started helping mothers to escape from the ward along with their babies. We also went to ward numbers 12 and 16 on the second floor to alert the inmates there,” he said.The 40 mothers and their babies were shifted to ophthalmology department building, which is on the left side of the main building. Meanwhile, the inquiry panel appreciated the efforts of Baban, Manoj Chilkar, male nurse Ajit Purjekar, security guards Gaurav Rehpade and Shivam Madwi who helped in the rescue of inmates of the post-natal care unit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nurse-attendant-saved-40-babies-moms-from-neo-natal-ward/articleshow/80256465.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Guv to give Rs2L each to kin of deceased infants||Nagpur: Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Wednesday visited Bhandara district civil hospital and announced financial assistance of Rs2 lakh each to families of 10 infant who died in the fire on January 9. Some families told TOI that they were not aware of any additional compensation but had so far received state’s aid of Rs5 lakh. A couple of them didn’t have bank accounts when the state government had handed them over cheques of Rs5 lakh. A family from Ravanwadi said it was told that a cheque worth Rs2 lakh announced by the PM Narendra Modi would be handed over on Thursday.As per a press note, the governor announced assistance of Rs2 lakh each to the families from his discretionary grant. Considering this amount is in addition to other compensation payouts, the families stand to receive around Rs10 lakh so far.Congress party’s district office bearers too have handed over Rs20,000 while some other organizations are donating small amounts to the 10 families.Earlier, the Behre family from Bhojapur had said that it didn’t have bank accounts and had demanded jobs, and caste status for the community instead of Rs5 lakh. On Wednesday, the family members said their accounts have been opened and they have deposited the cheque.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guv-to-give-rs2l-each-to-kin-of-deceased-infants/articleshow/80256468.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Due to late exams, teachers lose leave privilege, summer vacation down to 1 wk||Panaji: As the pandemic has delayed the entire academic schedule for 2020-21, pushing forward the state board exam dates, many secondary school teachers will be left with barely a week of summer vacations this year. The board exams for Class X will end on May 31, while schools are expected to reopen by June 7 or 8 for the academic year 2021-22. Adding to teachers’ woes, the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education also asked schools to ensure teachers are available for the exam work. The board has said no leave, except for maternity, should be granted to teachers during this time. The teachers’ association, in a representation to the directorate of education (DoE) on January 2, had sought compensatory leave for the days lost during the last summer vacations. But this request was turned down by the DoE stating that ‘your request is not tenable’. During 2020 also, the Class X exams were pushed forward due to the pandemic, leading to teachers losing their vacation days. “No leave of any other employee or any government employee, including the office of the DoE has been curtailed till today. This injustice is inflicted only on teachers. The discrimination of teachers by DoE has sent a wrong message in the teaching community. We earnestly request you to credit earned leave in the account of teachers equal in number to that of vacation curtailed,” the teachers’ association had said to the DoE in their representation. The teachers said that if crediting earned leave to them is not possible, then teachers should be allowed to work from home till schools reopen for students. The All Goa Secondary School Teachers Association (AGSSTA) has also taken objection to Diwali and Christmas vacations being curtailed for the academic year 2020-21. “The teachers are entitled to the vacation like other employees. The teachers are neither entitled to 30 days of earned leave nor any sick leave. The provision of vacation is as per the Education Act and it cannot be curtailed by circulars. Teachers had already given up half of their summer vacation of May 2020 on account of SSC examination and correction thereafter,” AGSSTA had said. In another circular, Goa Board said there is no change in the scheme of examination for non-practical subjects of Class XII for the general streams. “First and second formative examinations in non-practical subjects are to be conducted as per the dates provided by the directorate of education. As per the request of some of the heads of the schools, the schools are permitted to make minor variations in the dates of these exams,” the board stated. In a normal year, the Class XII exam would begin in the last week of February and end by mid-March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/due-to-late-exams-teachers-lose-leave-privilege-summer-vacation-down-to-1-wk/articleshow/80258980.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||2 mobile snatchers held in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Kolhapur police have arrested two robbers on Tuesday everning after they tried to snatch mobile phone of a teenager. The incident took place when the girl was going for an evening walk in Kotwal Nagar. While the girl was walking, two suspects approached her and tried to snatch her phone. She protested and fought them off, resulting in the suspects falling off their bike. She then called for help and caught them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/2-mobile-snatchers-held-in-kolhapur/articleshow/80257671.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Coolie-Begar movement centenary: Remembering Kumaon’s biggest non-violent revolt against British||Pithoragarh: Pithoragarh: Termed as a ‘bloodless revolution’ by Mahatma Gandhi, it was on January 14, 1921, that the farmers of Kumaon rose in revolt against the Coolie-Begar system of the British government. According to this system, each village head in the region was tasked to maintain a register with names of all the local farmers who can be used as coolies for carrying the luggage of the travelling British officials, soldiers, mountaineers and surveyors free of cost. The farmers were also supposed to provide the British officials with milk, vegetables and fruits. In the Kumaon region, almost 90% of the locals were suffering due to this system as they were all involved in agriculture. However, during the Uttarayani Mela in 1921, village heads of the region threw their registers in the Saryu to protest against the oppressive practice. On the day, thousands of farmers marched to Bageshwar and took an oath that they will no longer work for the British. The efforts of the protesters finally bore fruit when the British were forced to introduce a bill to put an end to the practice. “Kumaon came under the control of the East India Company in 1815 and in 1860, the Imperial Government of Britain took direct control of the region. Till 1890, there was no organised movement against the Coolie-Begar and a few individuals who raised voice against it were crushed ruthlessly by the British government,” said hisorian and Padma Shri awardee Shekhar Pathak. On January 14, 1921, local leaders went to Bagnath temple and pledged to abolish the practice of Coolie-Begar. “Thereafter, the village chief threw the register with the names of farmers, who were called for service under the system, in Saryu river,” said Pathak.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/coolie-begar-movement-centenary-remembering-kumaons-biggest-non-violent-revolt-against-british/articleshow/80256445.cms||Prem Punetha
January 14, 2021||Pune||NIOS students take board exams today without books to study from||Pune: Many standard X and XII students from the National Institute of Open Schooling (NIOS) board are angry about their practical examination slated for Thursday and theory examinations on January 22. They said they have not received their books nor have they attended a single class, and had no clue what they would write in the theory part to be submitted during the practical examination. The board sends books to the students once they register. Many complaints tweeted by students spoke about the lack of study material, both online and offline, no information about the practicals except for the date, and a lack of response from the helplines numbers. Students that TOI spoke to said the staff manning the helplines are brusque and never give useful information.A student from Rajasthan, who will appear for standard XII examination on Thursday, said, “Of the four subjects, I have not received books for two. I tried looking for the learning material online, but the course material is insufficient and does not cover all the topics. We have had no classes to clear our doubts. Practical exams are starting tomorrow and till now there is no instruction on how to make the file for submission. When we try to call the headquarters, the staff tells us to contact the regional office and the regional office tells us to call the Delhi office.”Another student from Guwahati said,“ Of the six subjects, I have received books for only two. I have made the files for the practicals, but I have no clue whether they are correct and there is no one to solve my doubt. This board is lax,” the student added.“All the study material is available on our website. Swayam and eVidya channel are used for eight hours daily. NIOS community radio is also used for teaching and learning. National level experts are teaching through our educational channels and a daily up-date available on our website. We are following the instructions of ministry of education to conduct exam,”Anubha Sahai, India Wide Parents’ Association president, had written to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights about these problems. The commission forwarded the communication to the NIOS’s director. “There is no reduction in syllabus like the other boards. NIOS exams in September could have helped these students save a year. Despite the exams being postponed, the board has not done what it was supposed to for the students,” Sahai said.Saumya Rajan, NIOS regional director for Pune said all measures will be taken to keep students appearing for the exams safe from Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nios-students-take-board-exams-today-without-books-to-study-from/articleshow/80259064.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Rain dampens Pongal shopping in Madurai city||Madurai: People braved the rains, muddy and pothole filled roads in the city and the suburbs to shop for Pongal as the price of many goods required for the festival skyrocketed. Price of all the vegetables including pumpkin, yam, banana, beans, brinjal, ridge gourd and others increased nearly to twice the rates of last Sunday’s price. Pumpkin which sold for Rs 10 a slice was sold for Rs 15 to Rs 20 on Wednesday. Sweet potato sold for Rs 100 a kg, compared to just Rs 30 last week. “People ask for a small portion of vegetables, for Rs 10 and that leads to us incurring a loss, and rains have also affected the supplies to the market,” said P Shanmugam a trader. Flower prices also were very high on Wednesday, as the Madurai Central flower market, had less than a quarter of its normal supply. Coordinator of the Madurai Flower Markets Associations, S Ramachandran said that the festival season, coupled with the lack of supply as rains affected the flowering, resulted in the prices shooting up. Jasmines sold for Rs 3,000 a kg, and less than 500kg of jasmine arrived at the market. Floral garlands, kadambam which is usually Rs 10 a strand were sold at Rs 25 on Wednesday. All the roads were slushy and muddy, and the sugarcanes kept on the roadsides became heavy with mud. A pair of five-foot-tall sugarcanes were sold for not less than Rs 70. Turmeric prices also were high compared to last year. A pair of small plants with their turmeric tubers intact cost Rs 25 and a bigger bunch Rs 40. Banana leaves were sold for as much as Rs 40 a bundle of five large leaves and Rs 20 for a bundle of small leaves. Potters said that their sales had been affected badly as they could not make enough pots to meet their demand. “As it was raining I decided to buy a mud stove but the price was too high. The stove that sold for Rs 35 last year is Rs 150 and it was beyond my budget,” said T Sakunthala of Arapalayam. Kolam powder sellers were also affected as the demand for the colourful powder went down as people were uncertain about the weather on the festive day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rain-dampens-pongal-shopping-in-madurai-city/articleshow/80259011.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||‘Custodial death’: Agnelo Valdaris’s father files protest plea||MUMBAI: In the alleged custodial death of 25-year-old Agnelo Valdaris in 2015, his father and two other victims have filed protest petitions before the sessions court opposing the earlier chargesheets submitted by the CBI against the accused policemen that invoked the lesser charge of causing hurt. The protest petitio-ns sought that the investigati-ng agency file a supplementary chargesheet under the enhanced charge of murder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/custodial-death-valdariss-father-files-protest-plea/articleshow/80259951.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thane||Thane: School chairman gets three years for abetting carpenter’s suicide||THANE: Thane sessions court convicted the chairman of a city school for abetting the suicide of a carpenter and sentenced him to three years’ rigorous imprisonment on Tuesday. Judge Shailendra Tambe convicted accused, Sibi Ippan, 57, chairman of Holy Family High School on Ghodbunder Road and also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000. Prosecutor, Varsha Chandane, in her submission stated the victim, Lallan aka Dudhnath Vishwakarma, 40, had been working as a carpenter in the school for nearly 25 years. His salary was Rs12,000, but according to his wife, who is complainant in the case, Ippan gave him only around Rs2,000-Rs5,000, which often led to a quarrel between the two. Allegedly frustrated and depressed at not being paid his dues, Vishwakarma hanged himself in the school premises on March 18, 2013.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/school-chairman-gets-3-yrs-for-abetting-carpenters-suicide/articleshow/80259947.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Poultry operators told to avoid contact with migratory birds||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) has asked poultry operators to ensure that birds — both local and foreign — do not come in contact with poultry birds to stop the spread of bird flu and, thereby, curb deaths of poultry birds. A workshop in this connection was held at KMC headquarters on Wednesday. During the workshop, poultry owners and chicken meat suppliers were educated about avian influenza which has hit several states. The flu virus is transported through migratory birds. Poultry birds are mostly captive and, in some cases, free range mainly in the rural households. Veterinary officer of KMC Vijay Patil said, “We have places such as Rankala lake, Rajaram Lake and a few other sites in the district where migratory birds arrive. They come into contact with local birds such as crows and ducks. We asked poultry operators to ensure that they whisk away such birds from the surroundings of pultry farms.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/poultry-operators-told-to-avoid-contact-with-migratory-birds/articleshow/80257660.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Goan pilgrim on foot mowed down by truck||Bicholim: Vishwas Sawant, 60, a former panch member of Karapur Sarvan village panchayat in Bicholim taluka, was mowed down by a truck while on a walking pilgrimage. Sawant, who resides at Lalbag Vithalapur-Sakhali, had participated in a walking pilgrimage to Shirdi. On Tuesday evening, he was killed after being knocked down by an unidentified truck on the Kolhapur-Satara highway. He was part of a group of about 100 devotees who had set out from the Shri Rashtroli Sai Baba Temple in Sangolda for Shirdi. The group was scheduled to reach Shirdi on January 22. Sawant had managed to complete 609km on foot when the accident took place. The truck driver fled from the scene, onlookers said. He fell into an iron barrier on the side of the road and sustained grievous physical injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goan-pilgrim-on-foot-mowed-down-by-truck/articleshow/80258975.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops arrest man posing as advocate||Hyderabad: LB Nagar police on Wednesday arrested a fake advocate, who allegedly created a fake court order and shared it to his client. LB Nagar police said one G Sham Sunder approached a person who claimed that he is an advocate. The victim hired the advocate to appear for him in a civil dispute with regard to his property in Chengicherla. After a few days, the self-claimed advocate shared a court order copy to Sham, who, on verification with court officials found that the order was fake. When the client checked with the accused, he continued to claim that it was an original court order. LB Nagar police registered a cheating and forgery case against the accused. Meanwhile, police collected reports from Telangana State Bar Council, who clarified that the accused is not an advocate. Similarly, the concerned local court authorities also clarified to police the court order shared by the accused is fake.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-arrest-man-posing-as-advocate/articleshow/80259068.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||13-member panel to evaluate liquor ban in Chandrapur||Chandrapur/Mumbai: The state government has finally agreed to examine the issue of liquor ban in Chandrapur district and instituted a 13-member committee for the purpose.The erstwhile BJP government had banned sale and consumption of liquor in Chandrapur district from April 1, 2015, following the initiative of then finance minister Sudhir Mungantiwar. On Wednesday, state home department announced the committee led by former principal secretary Ramanath Zha, having eight non-government members and invitee members — Chandrapur police superintendent, district surgeon, district women and child development officer, district social justice officer and divisional deputy commissioner of excise department, Nagpur division. The committee will make a comparative study of social and economic impact before and after the ban. The state has asked the committee to submit its report in a month.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who is also Chandrapur guardian minister, is against the ban as it has led to smuggling of spurious liquor into the district. Earlier, the issue was discussed in a meeting held on September 30, 2020, under the chairmanship of excise minister Balasaheb Thorat, which was attended by home minister Anil Deshmukh and Wadettiwar himself.Liquor is also banned in Wardha and Gadchiroli districts. However, the committee has been appointed only for Chandrapur. Paromita Goswami, social activist who fought for the liquor ban in Chandrapur, said, “It is a partisan, unfortunate and condemnable approach of the government that it is reviewing only Chandrapur liquor ban and not of Wardha and Gadchiroli. There is nothing wrong to review, but the government should review the implementation. It was not expected from progressive state like Maharashtra and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.”Wadettiwar had always been supporter of lifting of the prohibition citing its total failure. He had announced to review the impact of prohibition in Chandrapur during his first visit to the city as guardian minister and had instituted a committee under collector in January 2020. The collector’s committee had gathered 2.82 lakh opinions from people, institutions and organizations and had compiled facts and figures related to the impact of the ban on domestic violence, crime, health, revenue, industries, business, tourism etc. The opinions included 2.61 lakh petitions (memorandums) in favour of revoking the ban, whereas only 20,585 were in support of its continuation. Wadettiwar had planned to put it before the cabinet, but the matter was held back due to emergency arising out of Covid-19 pandemic.The latest committee will study the 2.82 lakh opinions before submitting its recommendations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/13-member-panel-to-evaluate-liquor-ban-in-chandrapur/articleshow/80256482.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 14, 2021||Pune||One in net for setting 15 motorcycles on fire||Pune: Several two-wheelers, CCTV cameras and water and drainage lines were gutted in a housing society in Chinchwad after a 26-year-old man set his friend’s bike on fire in the early hours of Wednesday following a dispute over a trivial issue. The blaze engulfed 14 more two-wheelers in the parking lot, completely destroying five of the vehicles and partially damaging 10. CCTV cameras, water and drainage lines, too, were damaged. The entire parking lot and the first floor of the building turned black due to the fire. Madhukar Bacche, chairman, Om Ganesh housing society at Kakade Township in Chinchwad, said, “As soon as the fire broke out, residents of the society came down and poured water on the motorcycles. Otherwise, the incident could have taken a more serious turn.” CCTV cameras on the society premises have captured the incident. The man scaled the compound wall of the society around 2.30am and went towards his friend’s motorcycle. “He set it on fire and fled the spot. The fire spread within minutes,” Bacche said. He said, “We identified the man with the help of the CCTV footage. He used to regularly visit his friend in our building.” “He and his friend from our building had purchased a camera for Rs 1.2 lakh. The man’s friend, who stays in our building, told us that the IT professional was not paying his part of the share, which is why he sold off the camera. ,” Bacche said. Sudhakar Kate, senior inspector, Chinchwad police, told TOI, “We have arrested the man under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. His act could have posed danger to the lives of residents in the building.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/one-in-net-for-setting-15-motorcycles-on-fire/articleshow/80259070.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Commission to hear issues of child rights violations||Panaji: The Goa State Commission for Protection of Child Rights has appealed to people to raise issues of deprivation and violation of child rights at a special session on Friday at the office of the deputy collector, Mormugao. The ‘Justice at Your Door Step’ session between 3pm and 5pm is open to anyone with grievances regarding the protection of children and their rights. The commission has stated that people don’t require to send them complaints in advance but can raise these directly at the hearing. Under the commission for protection of child rights 2005, the commission is empowered to inquire into violation of child rights and recommend initiation of proceedings in such cases, examine all factors that inhibit the enjoyment and rights of children who are affected by terrorism, communal violence, riots, natural disaster, domestic violence, HIV/AIDS, trafficking, maltreatment, torture, exploitation, pornography and prostitution and recommend appropriate remedial measures. The commission also has the right to look into matters relating to children in need of special care and protection, including children in distress, marginalised and disadvantaged children, children in conflict with law, juveniles, children without family and children of prisoners, and recommend remedial measures. It must also inquire into complaints and take suo motu notice of issues affecting children as well as spread child rights literacy among society, and promote awareness of the safeguards available for protection of these rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/commission-to-hear-issues-of-child-rights-violations/articleshow/80259007.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||3 held for robbery at knife-point||Madurai: The Tallakulam police in Madurai have arrested three people in connection with a robbery incident, which took place last month and recovered properties worth Rs 2 lakh. An armed gang barged into a house in the early hours of January 28 and tied T Saroja, 66, and her mother and robbed the gold jewellery they were wearing at knife point. They also looted cash and jewellery kept inside a bureau and escaped with gold weighing 27 sovereigns and Rs 85,000 cash. While a case was registered based on the complaint from Saroja, a team consisting Tallakulam crime inspector B Ganesan and sub-inspector Sundareswaran arrested the accused. The accused were identified as G Nagaraj, 39, from Poolangulam near Andarkottaram, P Azhagar,42, from Sakkimangalam and M Kathirvel,34, from Seeman Nagar in Karuppayurani. Police said they picked up the accused near Rajaji Park. On being inquired, they confessed to the robbery. After recovering the stolen valuable, they were produced before a judicial magistrate and lodged in a prison.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/3-held-for-robbery-at-knife-point/articleshow/80259071.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Tribal associations take Rane’s letter with a pinch of salt||Margao: Several scheduled tribes associations of Goa supporting the Melauli villagers in their anti-IIT protest have taken health minister Vishwajit Rane’s letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant expressing his opposition to the project with a pinch of salt. They have vowed to continue with the agitation until all their demands, including transfer of land ownership status to the villagers, are met. Addressing media persons in Margao on Wednesday, representatives of Gakuved (Gavda Kunbi Velip Dhangar) Federation, Adivasi Sanghatana Quepem, Scheduled Tribes Association Sao Jose de Areal, and Goenchea Kul Mundkarancho Avaz, accused Rane of “harassing” the villagers through various ways, including by way of transfers of government employees to distant places, and later by using police force to thrust the project upon the villagers. They further said that the police deployment at Melauli was done at Rane’s behest to facilitate the demarcation of the land for the IIT project. “We accuse the chief minister and health minister for inciting violence in Melauli in connivance with the Goa police,” they said. Stating that Rane’s changed stance was “just an eyewash,” the protesters said, “After a few months once the people withdraw their protest, the government may enforce its hidden agenda of going ahead with the project.” They have demanded a written assurance from the government that the project will be scrapped, or a notification or a cabinet decision to that effect. Pointing out that Form I and IV (land ownership document) has been modified to reflect IIT Goa Society and Goa government as occupants in survey No. 67/1 consisting of nearly 14 lakh sqm that has been proposed for the project, the ST associations demanded that those names be deleted and the land transferred to villagers. They have further demanded that the police drop all FIRs booked against the protesters, that all those government employees who were transferred out of Sattari be reinstated, and PI Sagar Ekoskar be terminated from service for “misbehaving” with the elderly women protesters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tribal-associations-take-ranes-letter-with-a-pinch-of-salt/articleshow/80259968.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||HC rejects plea accusing Wadettiwar of suppressing criminal cases||Nagpur: In a relief to social welfare minister Vijay Wadettiwar, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Wednesday rejected a plea filed by former MLC Mitesh Bhangdiya, accusing the former of suppressing ten criminal cases while applying for passport on May 29, 2001.A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote clarified that since the relief and rehabilitation minister surrendered his passport, and it was impounded by the passport office here, there’s no point in keeping the petition pending.The judges also rejected petitioner’s prayers to keep the petition pending till investigations by the passport office into allegations against Wadettiwar are completed, terming them premature.Bhangdiya, through counsel Shreerang Bhandarkar, accused Wadettiwar of allegedly committing an offence under the Passport Act, 1967, by hiding information about his criminal antecedents. According to him, the Bramhapuri MLA had applied for a passport for a second time on January 25, 2007, but again suppressed the same information. Subsequently, he was issued a passport on May 11, 2012, for the second time, without verification.Earlier, the petitioner filed many complaints with the state government and ministry of external affairs (MEA) against the minister before moving HC. He claimed that Wadettiwar had wrongly mentioned in his affidavit to the passport office that his address was of Mumbai, whereas he stays in Gadchiroli and mentioned the same address on his income tax return forms.Despite an adverse verification report submitted by the police, passport was issued to the minister, which shows a nexus between the officials and him, Bhangdiya alleged.After the petition was filed, the passport office impounded Wadettiwar’s passport on December 18 and later he surrendered it personally at the Passport Department’s Seminary Hills office. He had told TOI that his passport form was filled by the agent and it was the passport office’s duty to conduct verification before issuing it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-plea-accusing-wadettiwar-of-suppressing-criminal-cases/articleshow/80256477.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Woman who came to GMCH from Bhandara survives||Nagpur: After the fire in Bhandara district general hospital on Saturday, a 60-year-old woman with chest pain and paralytic symptoms travelled from Paoni to the casualty department in Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH), Nagpur, without check-up and medication. She has survived.On January 10, TOI had reported how a 40-year-old woman Covid-19 survivor died on way to GMCH from Bhandara. She needed oxygen and was undergoing treatment in ICU. The 60-year-Malabai Ramchandra Nagpure too was sent to GMCH in the same ambulance as the 40-year-old. After four days, officials at the hospital gave details of the patient on Wednesday.The woman’s son told TOI that the family underwent a torrid time but are now happy that she is alive. “We brough our mother to the rural hospital at Paoni around 11pm on Friday. After a check-up, the doctors gave medicines. Doctors said she had high blood pressure and needed to be taken to Bhandara district general hospital,” he said. The hospital is about 45 kms from Paoni. “The doctor allotted us an ambulance around 30 minutes past midnight,” said the son.They reached the hospital at 2am. “We took her to the casualty ward and waited for 15 minutes. When the doctor turned up, a nurse came and informed about the fire. The doctor then suggested that we take her to GMCH in Nagpur. The doctor at Bhandara did not check her and give any medicine,” he said.In the ambulance with the 40-year-old woman who was on a stretcher, the son, his wife and the sick mother shared a seat. “We reached Nagpur at around 3.30am,” he said.Diagnosed with high BP, doctors started treating her. Though she got discharged on Monday, the trio are staying back as the doctor has told her to come to hospital for a few days to check her BP.Bhandara district civil surgeon Dr Pramod Khandate on January 9 had stated that he was not aware of any patient being referred to GMCH.Relatives of the 40-year-old deceased woman had demanded compensation.IN A NUTSHELL*60-year-old woman reaches Bhandara hospital from Paoni complaining of chest pain and paralytic symptoms*Doctor at casualty suggested relatives to take her to GMCH* Sent with another 40-year-old woman patient in same ambulance *40-year-old was on stretcher, other woman and family on a seat*40-year-old woman dies before reaching GMCH*60-year-old woman admitted and survives||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/woman-who-came-to-gmch-from-bhandara-survives/articleshow/80256474.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 14, 2021||Goa||Suppliers in a soup amid bird flu scare & poultry transport ban||Panaji/Margao: The bird flu scare coupled with the government ban on transportation of birds and eggs from neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka has led to concerns among stakeholders about the impact on their businesses if the situation persists. The All Goa Poultry Association on Wednesday demanded that the ban on chicken supply to the state be lifted, even as meat and poultry dealers said the situation was yet to spiral into a crisis despite their sales having dwindled considerably over the past few days. “A few days before the government issued the ban order, the sale of chicken and eggs had come down by 50% as people grew wary of consuming chicken and poultry products. With the ban order, sales figures have dropped further,” Prisco Sequeira, one of the leading suppliers of broilers and poultry products in the state, told TOI, adding that with no chicken and eggs coming into Goa since Wednesday, the state could soon face scarcity of these products. “All that was available on Wednesday were dressed chickens. Once stocks are exhausted, there will be an acute shortage,” another dealer said. Dr Vishwanath Bhave, a veterinary doctor who works with a private hatchery in Ponda to supply chicks to traders in Goa, said that the current chicken population in Goa is not enough to meet the state’s demand. “Of the total requirement, Goa produces hardly 10% of chicken. The government must review its order in another 10 days after gauging the situation,” he said. While president of the All Goa Poultry Association Jaikrishna Naik told TOI he would write to chief minister Pramod Sawant to lift the transportation ban, restaurant owners across the state also expressed concerns about the impact the situation would have on their businesses. “As the availability of chicken and eggs from outside states has stopped, we are now relying on domestic suppliers for our requirements of chicken and poultry products. Currently, the situation has not affected us much. But if domestic supply is curtailed, we may face problems,” J P Jaggi, owner of a leading restaurant from Margao, said. For meat eaters, a deja vu of sorts awaits as this is the second time over the past month that they will be facing shortage of a meat. In December, scarcity of beef had led to several shops shutting down until supply picked up again. The South Goa administration had on Tuesday banned transportation of birds and eggs into the district from Maharashtra and Karnataka “either directly or indirectly” in view of the bird flu outbreak in these two states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/suppliers-in-a-soup-amid-bird-flu-scare-poultry-transport-ban/articleshow/80258984.cms||Nida Sayed
January 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala facing a financial crisis: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said that the state witnessed a financial crisis during the pandemic and lockdown period as it had severely affected tax and non-tax revenue collection. According to the prepared rough estimates, the total revenue of the state till November 2020 was Rs 52,057 crore. There has been a dip of 23% in revenue from the state’s owned resources, 65.6% dip in non-tax revenue and 38.5% dip in the central tax revenue share to the state. Because of the pandemic there has been a decrease of Rs 2,400 crore in NRI deposits. Similarly, there has been a considerable decrease in deposits in commercial banks too during this period. It is estimated that commercial banks faced a decrease of Rs 138.3 crore towards deposits. The financial crisis of the state further deepened as the Centre lowered the borrowing limit of states. The pandemic had severely affected diverse sectors alike; the production and the services sectors were affected. Goods movement had come to a halt during this period. Even though the production sector has opened up, we cannot predict how long it will take to attain normalcy, said the finance minister. ‘Conspiracy against KIIFB’ The finance minister said there is a widespread conspiracy to sabotage the functioning of KIIFB. The CAG report that found fault with KIIFB should be seen as a part of it. While speaking in the assembly during question hour, the finance minister said KIIFB has become a role model for the entire country and it has set a comprehensive development of the basic infrastructure of the state. When everyone had disowned KIIFB, in the last five years it has shown remarkable performance in the state, he said. “Those targeting to sabotage the state’s development have been eyeing to destroy KIIFB. The opposition had demanded a comprehensive audit of funds used by the KIIFB. This was done to create a controversy. The opposition was well aware that KIIFB itself has an audit mechanism of its own. The assembly itself had framed the law for KIIFB,” said Isaac. The CAG did not even mention any discrepancies during its repeated audit of KIIFB funds. Even in the CAG draft report, there was no mention about any misuse of funds. However, in the final report they came up with some strange observations. This was purposefully done to destroy KIIFB, said Isaac. KIIFB, in its earlier days, used to take loans of Rs 500 crore and conducted development works. Now the scene is different. It has undertaken works worth Rs 5,000 crore. This has irked certain quarters. They were wondering how a state can take so much loan for developmental activities. These people are behind the conspiracy to sabotage KIIFB, said the finance minister. “A constitutional body like CAG should not have indulged in such practices. It was in fact intruding into the federal powers of the state,” said Isaac. The finance minister said that the government has not decided on KIIFB’s second phase as it has already taken over projects worth Rs 65,000 crore. If the original plan was to mobilise Rs 50,000 crore for development works, the projects now sanctioned are worth Rs 65,000 crore. Hence no new or additional projects are being sanctioned by KIIFB now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/state-facing-a-financial-crisis-fm/articleshow/80256533.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Doctor held for sexual harassment in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: Police arrested an orthopedic doctor for sexually harassing a Dalit patient who sought treatment for a strain on her elbow at Kanchikacherla town in Krishna district on Wednesday. According to sub-inspector of Kanchikacherla police station Ranganathan, the incident happened on January 3 and they received a complaint on January 7. The investigation revealed that the doctor, Rajendra, sought sexual favours from the patient after collecting her personal details prior to consultation at his clinic in Vijayawada. In her complaint, the woman alleged that the doctor also insulted her by raking up her caste. After leaving the premises, the woman told her family about the incident. Police said they questioned the doctor and placed him under arrest. “The woman issued a statement saying that she went to the clinic as she was suffering from excruciating pain on her elbow. The complainant claimed that the doctor tried to make inappropriate advances towards her,” SI Ranganathan told TOI. Police said that they have registered a case against the doctor at Kanchikacherla police station and produced him before the local mahila sessions court. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/doctor-held-for-sexual-harassment/articleshow/80256483.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||DIAT pupil to represent India in hackathon||Pune: Madhu Raut, a student of MTech cyber security at the Defence Institute of Advanced Technology (DIAT), a deemed university of the Defence Research and Development Organisation, has been selected to represent India at ‘ASEAN-India Hackathon-2021’. The hackathon will be held online from February 1 to 4 via a digital collaborative form. Raut cleared the technical test and interview conducted by the Ministry of Education’s Innovation Cell and the All India Council for Technical Education. She will be part of a six-member team.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/diat-pupil-to-represent-india-in-hackathon/articleshow/80259094.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Monserrate rules out Taleigao’s merger with CCP for upcoming civic elections||Panaji: Taleigao will not be merged with the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) for the upcoming elections expected to take place in March, Panaji MLA Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate told reporters on Wednesday. He, however, didn’t deny that it wouldn’t be done in the future. “We may think of it some time in the future, but this is not the time. The process of election has already started as far as CCP is concerned and there is no proposal which has gone to anyone (to include Taleigao panchayat within CCP’s jurisdiction). I know the pulse of the people of Taleigao and I know what’s best for them,” Monserrate said, adding that there will continue to be 30 wards within the CCP. When asked about the need to bring it under CCP when in fact it was he who took it out of Panaji municipality in the past and made it a panchayat, he said that was almost two decades ago and that times and circumstances had changed. “That was 18 years back. At one of my public meetings I had promised that. That time the panchayat was forcibly taken. It was taken under the municipality under different circumstances. It was in the municipality for almost six years because there was a clash between two groups there. That was the reason,” he said. Monserrate said he had promised the panchayat to his electorate.  “When I said that no one actually believed me. I brought the panchayat alone. My clear demand when Parrikar was the CM and when he was forming the government. I had put one demand, if you’re giving me the panchayat I’m supporting you. He had promised and he did it. Now it has been 18 years,” Monserrate said. Revenue minister and Taleigao MLA Jennifer Monserrate also assured the constituents that there is no proposal to merge Taleigao panchayat into CCP. TOI on Wednesday had reported that if the Monserrates had their way and increased their wards from 30 to 50, there would be 29 wards in Taleigao and 21 in Panaji. Replying to criticism, he said, “People know me well. It (criticism) doesn’t affect me. Let me not criticise others. I know the pulse of the people and we will decide what is good for Taleigao. We—Jennifer and me—know what is best for Taleigao. I will not let the people of Taleigao down.” A group of residents from Taleigao under the banner of Taleigaocho Ekvot Against Merger (TEAM) on Wednesday strongly opposed the move to merge Taleigao panchayat with the CCP. At a press conference in the city, TEAM convener Pundalik Raiker said that the proposal is against the letter and spirit of law. Accompanied by the residents, Raiker questioned the Panaji MLA for coming up with the move. “If Monserrate wanted to merge the panchayat into CCP, then why did he go ahead with the proposed panchayat ghar by allowing fields to be destroyed?” he said. He also said that if Monserrate wants to include Taleigao into the CCP, then why did he recreate it into a panchayat from then Panaji municipal council. In the 90s, when Somnath Zuwarkar was the Taleigao MLA and minister, the village panchayat was merged into the then Panaji municipal council which Monserrate fulfilled as an election promise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/monserrate-rules-out-taleigaos-merger-with-ccp-for-upcoming-civic-elections/articleshow/80259010.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Two chain snatchers held at Verna||Vasco: In a chain snatching case, Verna police arrested two accused - Chicalim resident Aslam Kalagar, 25, and Ajay Singh, 21, a resident of Quepem. Both accused were trapped when they arrived at Verna for a chain snatch attempt. On Wednesday, Verna police received a tip-off that Kalagar, who was involved in chain snatchings at other locations, is set to come with Singh at Verna for another attempt. Accordingly, the police waited at the location to apprehend the accused red-handed. A month back, both had snatched the chain of a woman walking by the road near the Verna church. The chain was worth Rs 80,000. Kalagar has a record of chain snatchings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/two-chain-snatchers-held-at-verna/articleshow/80259067.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Terai farmers burn copies of agri reform laws on Lohri||Rudrapur: On the occasion of harvest festival Lohri on Wednesday, farmers of Uttarakhand’s Terai region — known as the rice bowl of the state — burnt copies of the three new farm laws at several places in the Udham Singh Nagar district. The agitation started in Rudrapur with a protest march — from the grain market to Maharaja Ranjit Singh Park — taken out by hundreds of farmers, their wives, and kids. At the Maharaja Ranjit Singh Park, protesters lit the traditional Lohri bonfire and burnt the copies of the three new laws in it. Tejender Singh Virk, president of Terai Kisan Sabha (TKS), who came to participate in the protest from Delhi-Ghazipur border, said, “We decided to burn the copies of the farm laws to protest against these legislations. We will not accept these laws as they are not in the interest of farmers. Thus, the government must repeal them.” In a similar vein, Sandeep Singh Cheema, former vice-president of zila panchayat, said, “Until the Centre accepts all the demands of the farmers, our agitation will continue.” The protest in Rudrapur was led by Bibi Jagir Kaur, a Bigwara village local, who said, “The Punjabi community has an enriched history of struggle. Our Gurus have taught us not to bow before injustice. We will not stop until the Modi government revokes these draconian laws.” Similar protests were held in other towns — Jaspur, Kashipur, Bazpur, Gadarpur, Sitarganj, and Khatima — of the district. During the protest, Virk also announced to ghearo the residence of state education minister Arvind Pandey. This comes after Pandey went to Delhi last month with some farmers to meet the Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and express his support for the new agri reform laws. Ever since, Pandey has been shown black flags in his constituency twice. Meanwhile, a few villages of the district have put a ban on the entry of political leaders who are backing the new farm laws. In Shivpuri village of Bazpur, locals have passed a resolution to boycott BJP ministers and all the MLAs who are supporting the three laws. The locals have also put up banners reading “anti-farmer politicians not allowed to enter the village”. Similar banners have also been put up in Banskhera and Barakhera villages of Gadarpur constituency. It is worth mentioning that the Supreme Court, on January 12, “suspended” the “implementation” of three farm laws in a bid to persuade agitating farmers to come to the “negotiation table”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-burn-copies-of-agri-reform-laws-on-lohri/articleshow/80256494.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Parrots and peacocks negative, but deaths continue||Nagpur: Amid cases of dying birds coming up from different parts of the region, there is some good news too. Samples of the parrots, pigeons and peacocks found dead in Nagpur and Yavatmal districts, respectively, have been found to be bird flu negative. At the same time, one crow found dead in Gondia has tested positive for the H5 protein of the virus.Meanwhile, the unusual mortality of both poultry and non-poultry species continued in the region.After Yavatmal, eight peacock deaths were reported in Wardha, apart around 30-odd more poultry dying in the same farm in Bhandara taking the total numbers to 79 there. The toll continued for the third day at a farm in Lingta village of Yavatmal’s Kelapur taluka with over 500 poultry birds dying there till Tuesday.The public in general has been asked not to touch dead birds and report the same on animal husbandry department’s helpline 0712-2525306 to report such cases. At Mouda in Nagpur district, 14 poultry birds were reported dead at a backyard farm, said sources. Tests are awaited for rest of the samples.Last week, 40 parrots and five pigeons were found dead at Kondhali, over 40km from Nagpur. Out of these, samples of four parrots, a pigeon and two peacocks were sent for testing and found negative in the first stage itself. Eight peacocks had died in Yavatmal, out of which samples of two were sent.The 45 birds which included parrots and pigeons were the first reporting of unusual mortality from Vidarbha in the light of bird flu scare. This was followed by 265 poultry deaths reported at Kalmeshwar in Nagpur district. Poultry deaths were reported in other parts of the region too.As part of the bird flu protocol, carcasses of birds are sent to western regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory at Pune and later to the National Institute of High Security Disease (NISHAD) at Pune. No bird flu virus was found at Pune where the H protein is confirmed. There was no need to send samples of parrots, pigeon and peacocks further to Bhopal where N protein is confirmed in the next stage.In Bhandara, the district administration has issued strict restrictive orders including home quarantine of farm workers. However, sources in animal husbandry department say such measures are not needed till the reports arrive. The human handlers can be directed to take precautions like Covid as they can be kept under surveillance. No other districts have issued orders like Bhandara, said sources.An isolation ward has been set up at the wild life department’s transit treatment centres to keep the birds coming there away from each other.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/parrots-and-peacocks-negative-but-deaths-continue/articleshow/80256492.cms||Shishir Arya
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||ASI stops work on land near Bibi-ka-Maqbara||Aurangabad: Stiff opposition from a former corporator and his supporters notwithstanding, the Archeology Survey of India (ASI) has managed to stop the construction of a road on ASI-owned land in the vicinity of the Bibi-ka-Maqbara, the monument that was commissioned in 1660 by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb. It is a replica of the Taj Mahal. The process of stopping the road work sparked a verbal spat between former corporator Afsar Khan and superintending archaeologist Milan Kumar Chauley in the presence of police personnel and Shiv Sena MLA Pradeep Jaiswal. Chauley was heard accusing Khan of threatening the ASI employees with a firearm in the past. Khan then responded by questioning why ASI did not lodge a police complaint. This was followed by summoning of Wakf official Syed Faiz, who stated that the land belongs to Wakf. Chauley even produced a letter he sent to the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) with a request to reconsider its decision of allocating funds for construction of the road as well as a retaining wall on the ASI-owned land surrounding a protected monument. Civic body authorities have reportedly sanctioned Rs 15 lakh for the construction of road and Rs 25 lakh for the retaining wall, against which the ASI has registered a strong objection. A couple of days back, a team of ASI officials had reached out to Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta. When contacted, Khan said, “The land where the road is being constructed, belongs to the Wakf board and Wakf’s NoC was obtained before starting of the work worth Rs 40 lakh.” He blamed the ASI of taking possession of private properties, including the parking space and the land belonging to a Mutawalli. The claims by Khan have been countered by ASI officials, including Chauley, who said that they are exploring legal options to curb land around monuments being gobbled up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/asi-stops-work-on-land-near-bibi-ka-maqbara/articleshow/80255503.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MNS and BJP pan Shiv Sena as Tesla heads to Bengaluru||MUMBAI: Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) and BJP hit out at Shiv Sena on Wednesday as American electric vehicle giant Tesla announced it had registered a company in Bengaluru. “Tesla drives into Karnataka. This is a shock to the Page 3 minister,” MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande tweeted on Wednesday. Last October, environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had said the state had held discussions with the Tesla team, inviting it to Maharashtra. Thackeray had tweeted, “I had the opportunity to participate in a video call by Industries Minister @Subhash_Desai ji with @Tesla team to invite them to Maharashtra. I was present not because of just the investment but my firm belief in electric mobility and sustainability.” टेस्ला कंपनी पळाली कर्नाटकला पेज 3 मंत्र्यांना झटका" बोलाची कढी बोलाचा भात" https://t.co/tvtD9CJLXT— Sandeep Deshpande (@SandeepDadarMNS) 1610509853000 BJP MLA Atul Bhatkhalkar tweeted on Tuesday, “Entrepreneurs don’t come to the state just by showing off and tweeting... They have to earn their trust.” A Sena minister said they still hoped Tesla would come to the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mns-bjp-pan-sena-as-tesla-heads-to-bengaluru/articleshow/80257335.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Tribunal gives nod for coop institution elections||Kolhapur: Political atmosphere in Kolhapur district is likely to heat up further with the state cooperative election tribunal issuing an order to conduct the elections for cooperative institutions. The tribunal, in its order issued on January 12, has sought the initiation of the procedure that was suspended owing to various reasons. The process is likely to begin from January 18. The elections to cooperative institutions were postponed twice — due to Covid-19 and implementation of loan waiver scheme of the state government. The period of earlier order, which postponed the elections, came to an end on December 31. The fresh order was issued on Tuesday because of gram papnchayat elections the counting for which will be held on January 18. Elections to 45,276 cooperative institutions in Maharashtra were postponed by the tribunal as it was not practical for them to conduct the election. Elections to cooperative housing societies, which has less than 250 members, will be held in the second phase. In Kolhapur district, elections to around 3,000 cooperative institutions — including prominent institutions like Gokul, Kolhapur District Central Cooperative Bank, number of sugar mills, banks and market committees — will be held within the next few months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tribunal-gives-nod-for-coop-institution-elections/articleshow/80255515.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand receives first batch of Covid vaccine||Dehradun: Uttarakhand received 1.13 lakh vaccine doses on Wednesday which will be administered to around 50,000 healthcare workers and doctors. A special aircraft operated by SpiceJet arrived at Jolly Grant airport with vaccines which will immediately be moved to respective districts, the health officials said. A maximum of 28,000 health department personnel will be vaccinated in Dehradun followed by 18,000 in Haridwar and 12,000 in Nainital. Health secretary Amit Negi informed that the vaccination campaign will start at 41 centres in the state on Saturday. The process will be live broadcasted to the Centre. “We received Covishield vaccine today afternoon and it has been brought from the airport under the prescribed cold chain system to the State Central Drug Store at Dehradun, where it is stored in a walk-in-cooler. The distribution of the vaccine from the central drug store will be done to all the districts and regional vaccine warehouses by Thursday,” said Negi adding that each beneficiary will get two doses of the vaccine from these 1.13 lakh doses within a gap of four weeks. Three categories of healthcare workers will get vaccinated in the first round, which includes 1,640 healthcare workers of central health units like ONGC hospital and AIIMS Rishikesh, 3,450 doses will be given to armed force medical services while 1,07,530 doses will be administered to healthcare workers of the state government and private health professionals in Uttarakhand. The health secretary also claimed that the next consignment of vaccines is likely to be received by the state soon. The health department has estimated that the entire healthcare professionals will be vaccinated in the first two rounds of vaccination. When asked about the reluctance of healthcare staffers in taking the vaccine, Negi said that the vaccine is totally safe and tested, and awareness about the same is being created among the masses. “The initial 50,000 shortlisted beneficiaries will be approached and will be urged to take the vaccine. In case anyone doesn’t want to take it, as it’s voluntary, we will seek further guidance from the Centre on this,” he added. Meanwhile, with 209 cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Wednesday, the novel coronavirus tally reached 94,170-mark. Four Covid-19 deaths were reported here taking the total to 1,593. The total recoveries touched 88,761 with 289 people recovering from the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-receives-first-batch-of-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80256479.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: M K Stalin promises to waive farm, jewel, education loans if he wins poll||CHENNAI: DMK president M K Stalin on Wednesday promised to waive farm loans, jewel loans for less than five sovereigns and education loans of students if the DMK comes to power after the upcoming assembly election in Tamil Nadu. Participating in Pongal festivities at Natham village in Tiruvallur district, Stalin promised to waive farm and jewel loans. Subsequently, in a separate statement offering Pongal wishes to the people of Tamil Nadu, Stalin added education loans to the party’s waiver promise. “The DMK has always stood for the welfare of the farmers. When MGR was the chief minister and the AIADMK was in power, farmers led by Narayanasami Naidu staged an agitation in Chennai demanding reduction of electricity charges by one paisa. But the then AIADMK government did not heed to that. When the DMK came to power and Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi) became chief minister in 1989, he passed a law offering free power supply to agriculture pump sets,” Stalin said in his address at Natham village. In the run-up to the 2006 assembly election, the DMK promised to waive cooperative loans, estimated at Rs 7,000 crore. People were sceptical how it could be done, Stalin recalled. “The first order that Kalaignar signed, soon after assuming charge as chief minister in 2006, on the stage where he was sworn in, was to waive cooperative loans to the tune of Rs 7,000 crore,” Stalin said. The BJP government at the Centre has now enacted three farm laws, which will affect the livelihood of farmers. Hence farmers are protesting across the country. “The DMK opposed it in both houses of Parliament, while the AIADMK supported the three laws. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court stayed the farm laws. While this is only a temporary reprieve and we are not satisfied with that, when the DMK comes to power this time, we will oppose the farm laws until they are withdrawn,” Stalin said. Further, when the DMK comes to power, the government will waive all farm loans, irrespective of the category of farmers, he said. The DMK had promised the voters in the run-up to the 2019 LS polls that farm loans and education loans would be completely written off.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stalin-promises-to-waive-farm-jewel-edu-loans-if-he-wins-poll/articleshow/80257733.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh spends over Rs 8,000 crore on free power to farmers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The state energy department on Tuesday stated that the government is taking steps to make the free power scheme a role model for the country by implementing direct benefit transfer (DBT) in it. Under DBT, the government will deposit the entire subsidy in farmers’ accounts and farmers will pay the distribution companies. State energy secretary Srikant Nagulapalli said, “The DBT is a farmer-friendly policy that would empower farmers to question power utilities to supply quality power to the agriculture sector. It enhances the accountability and responsibility among power utilities.” Srikanth said the government is spending Rs 8,353.58 crore on the scheme. Energy minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy said the government had immediately sanctioned Rs 1,700 crore to upgrade feeders across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/state-spends-over-rs-8k-cr-on-free-power-to-farmers/articleshow/80256501.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Government resolution revised on recruitment of police personnel||MUMBAI: The state home department issued a revised government resolution (GR) allowing Maratha candidates to avail benefits of 10% economically weaker section (EWS) quota in police recruitment. The GR stated that Maratha (socially and educationally backward classes-SEBC) candidates can avail benefits of EWS, but candidates will have to choose between EWS benefit or appear from the open category for the test. On January 4, the order had said that since Supreme Court stayed SEBC quota, recruitment will be done without SEBC reservation and the candidates will have to apply under open category. Last Thursday, the state home minister announced that the January 4 GR had been cancelled. An official said Maratha candidates will now get relief in age limit and application fees as EWS candidates. Under EWS, the upper age limit is 33, instead of 28 for open category. While fees will be Rs350, instead of Rs450, which is for open category candidates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gr-revised-on-recruitment-of-police-personnel/articleshow/80259966.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Metro weekday ridership over 10,000 in Jan||Nagpur: With the gradual opening up of society, ridership of Nagpur Metro has increased significantly over the past few months. In October and early November, the average ridership on weekdays was just over 3,000. In January it is well over 10,000.Ridership is significantly higher on Sundays than weekdays. This implies that a large number of people are still boarding the Metro for joyrides. In the last few Sundays, ridership is over 20,000.A MahaMetro spokesperson, however, said that a regular ridership of over 10,000 on weekdays showed that a large number of people were using the Metro for genuine travel and not joyrides.A MahaMetro spokesperson said that several measures were being taken to increase ridership. "We went to industries in MIDCs of Butibori and Hingna and urged the employees to use the Metro. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) runs feeder buses from Khapri and Lokmanya Nagar stations. The response from employees as well as employers was very positive," he added."There are many colleges on Hingna Road but they are closed. While students are studying through online classes, the teachers have to report to work. We have urged them to use the Metro," said the spokesperson.The agency has launched a campaign to promote the common mobility card — Mahacard all over the city.MahaMetro has taken several innovative steps to up the figure. These include renting the train for birthdays, allowing bicycle riders to take their machines in the trains, making it a hangout joint for senior citizens, providing free feeder service at Nagpur airport etc.Under its ‘Celebrations on Wheels’ scheme, a person can book the train for birthdays, pre-wedding shoots, marriage anniversaries etc for one hour by paying Rs3,000. "We have allowed bicycle riders to carry their machines in the train. We are not charging anything for the bicycles," said the spokesperson.With ridership of Nagpur Metro crossing pre-Covid levels, MahaMetro has been able to rake in money through leasing commercial spaces in its stations, wrapping its trains with advertisements, permitting use of the space below its viaduct for advertising, co-branding of Metro stations etc. Other than this, non-ticket revenue is coming from transit-oriented development (TOD), royalty on automatic fare collection (AFC) system etc. BACK IN BUSINESSDATE----------------------RIDERSHIPJan 3--------------------------21,741Jan 4--------------------------12,677Jan 5-----------------------11,471Jan 6-----------------------13,622Jan 7------------------------8,390Jan 8------------------------12,606Jan 9------------------------13,250||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/metro-weekday-ridership-over-10000-in-jan/articleshow/80256509.cms||Ashish Roy
January 14, 2021||Pune||Physicist awarded order of national merit by France||Pune: Rohini Godbole, an honorary professor at the Indian Institute of Science, has been awarded the order of national merit by France.She received the award for her contribution to collaboration between India and France and commitment towards promoting enrolment of women in science.Godbole is one of the top high-energy physicists in the country.“I have been working with French scientists and collaborating with them for the past 30 to 35 years. We have run several scientific programmes in cooperation and some of the biggest exchange projects between the two countries have been conducted, some in India and some in France,” she told TOI on Wednesday.Godbole said that the order of merit conferred on her not only recognises her contribution to science, but also takes note of the two books on women in science that she had written. “It was a very pleasant New Year gift for me. I had no clue something like this was coming and they were even considering me for this,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/physicist-awarded-order-of-national-merit-by-france/articleshow/80259135.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Actor Sonu Sood meets Sharad Pawar, discusses Juhu hotel row||MUMBAI: Amid the row over alleged conversion of a residential building into a hotel in Juhu, actor Sonu Sood met NCP supremo Sharad Pawar at his residence on Wednesday. An NCP functionary said the meeting lasted an hour and Sood briefed Pawar on the controversy over his hotel. While the exact reason for Sood’s meeting with Pawar was not known, it raised eyebrows since it came days after the BMC filed a police complaint against Sood for allegedly converting a six-storey residential building in Juhu into a hotel without the required permissions. The BMC had asked the police to take cognisance of the offence under the Maharashtra Region and Town Planning Act for unauthorised additions, alterations and change of user. “We don’t know the exact reason for the meeting. But it is learnt that Sood did talk about the way the BMC had issued a notice to him and filed a police complaint. Sood reiterated that he had not done anything illegal and explained how the hotel had been used for housing Covid-19 warriors during the pandemic,” the NCP functionary said. The BMC on Wednesday urged the Bombay high court to dismiss the actor’s petition seeking to restrain it from carrying out demolition at his property. The actor moved the high court after the Dindoshi city civil court refused to restrain the BMC from taking action against alleged unauthorised alterations at the building on AB Nair Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/actor-meets-pawar-discusses-hotel-row/articleshow/80259964.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 14, 2021||Nashik||NDCC to attach bank accounts of wilful defaulters||Nashik: The Nashik District Central Co-operative (NDCC) bank — the largest co-operative bank with around 200 branches — has started the process of attaching accounts of the wilful defaulters in other banks as the financial institution has outstanding dues to the tune of Rs 1,700 crore. Speaking to TOI, CEO of the bank Shailesh Pingle said that under section 156 of the Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act, 1960, the bank can attach the bank accounts of defaulters with accounts in other banks. “The cooperative department’s joint registrar office has given the nod to the NDCC bank for starting the attachment process of the defaulters,” he said. According to the CEO, the bank has prepared a list of all the defaulters with their addresses and it is in the process of sending the list to other banks depending on the locality where the defaulters live. Once other banks receive the list, they will attach the bank accounts of defaulters. Pingle said that the bank has set a deadline of February 15 to complete this entire process of sending the list of defaulters to other banks. “We have to take this extreme step as these defaulters are not repaying their dues despite several reminders,” he said, but but refused to disclose the total number of wilful defaulters. Moreover, the bank has also introduced a one-time settlement (OTS) option for the loan defaulters and the scheme is in effect till January 31. Under this scheme, the defaulters will get 50% waiver on the interest amount on loan if they repay the basic loan amount.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/ndcc-to-attach-bank-accounts-of-wilful-defaulters/articleshow/80255534.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 14, 2021||Pune||Gang-of-six robs man of Rs 1,000||Pune: The Wakad police on Wednesday launched a search for a gang of six men who are absconding after robbing a man of Rs1,000 and damaging eight vehicles at Adinathnagar in Rahatani on Tuesday. They robbed the victim and damaged his car and seven more parked vehicles after he refused to give them money, an officer said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/gang-of-six-robs-man-of-rs-1000/articleshow/80259160.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Teams on alert as more water released into Thamirabarani||Tirunelveli: Two national disaster response force (NDRF) teams and three state disaster response force teams were deployed in Tirunelveli district as water released into the Thamirabarani river increased to 53,273 cusecs late on Wednesday evening. District collector V Vishnu said that 301 people (including 141 women and 60 children) from inundated areas across the district were evacuated and relocated to nine relief shelters. The disaster teams were station at Vikramasingapuram, Ambasamudram, Cheranmahadevi and in the city. Eighty-seven vulnerable areas in the district are monitored round-the-clock.Due to heavy discharge into the river on Tuesday night, Meenakshipuram, Kailasapuram, CN Village and parts of Vannarpettai were inundated. Tirunelveli Corporation commissioner G Kannan announced stoppage of drinking water distribution from Thursday to Saturday (three days) as the infiltration wells in the river were submerged.Electricity supply was disconnected to the low-lying areas as a precautionary measure to avoid accidents. The discharge from Manimuthar submerged low-level bridges, culverts and roads downstream. The low-level bridge at Seevalaperi on the Palayamkottai – Aruppukottai highway was submerged. Traffic was closed on the Tirunelveli to Tiruchendur highway due to the overflowing Karunkulam.According to the district administration 25,914 cusecs from Manimuthar, 23,980 cusecs from Papanasam and 3,379 cusecs from Gadana were released. While 51,000 cusecs was discharged on Tuesday night following heavy downpour in the ghats, it reduced to around 32,858 on Wednesday morning as intensity of the rains reduced.Heavy rain in the afternoon and evening reflected with inflow to the reservoirs and outflow increasing. “It excludes inflow from smaller rivers and canals feeding the river downstream,” a PWD water resources organisation official told TOI. The district recorded average rainfall of 111mm rainfall in 32 hours from 8am on Tuesday to 4pm on Wednesday. Papanasam recorded 253mm, followed by Manimuthar (207mm) and Ambasamudram (137mm).The Tenkasi district administration on Wednesday evening announced a ban on bathing at all the falls in Courtallam – Main Falls, Old Falls, Five Falls and Tiger Falls – till January 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/teams-on-alert-as-more-water-released-into-thamirabarani/articleshow/80259174.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj to get 5 books a month||MUMBAI: A special NIA court on Tuesday allowed Elgar Parishad accused Sudha Bharadwaj to access five books from outside Byculla jail every month. The court also said the superintendent should carefully check if the books contain objectionable material. Last month, Bharadwaj and co-accused Gautam Navlakha and Hany Babu had sought access to five books sent by family and friends every month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/elgar-accused-bharadwaj-to-get-5-books-a-month/articleshow/80259983.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Tax dues will be written on property papers: KMC||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC), in order to recover the property tax dues, has started registering the pending amount on the official property documents. The civic body recently added the property tax dues, of around Rs 33 lakh, of two properties from Belbaug area of B ward of the city. According to the tax officials, 100 owners in the same ward have property tax dues of around Rs 2.5 crore. Across the city, a total of 1,181 owners have defaulted on a whooping amount of Rs 35 crore towards property tax. Vinayak Aundhkar, acting chief of property tax department, said, “We had issued seizure and auction notices to both the property owners who have defaulted on their payments. Now, we have started registering the amount due on property documents with the help of the tehsildar office. Once the registration is done, it will be considered as loan taken against the property or property is mortgaged for loan. In such cases, the owners will no be able to sell the house or take loan on that property. They will have to clear the dues before any transaction of the property is carried out. We are going to take similar action against other owners.” The KMC is lagging behind in tax collections and with the current financial year going to end in next two months, the civic body is still to collect Rs 215 crore from various taxes, including property and water taxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/tax-dues-will-be-written-on-property-papers-kmc/articleshow/80255540.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chennai||We respect Sasikala, says AIADMK ex-min||Chennai: Former minister S Gokula Indira of the AIADMK on Wednesday said VK Sasikala, aide of the late chief minister J Jayalalithaa, “was a leader of the party and we respect her. She stood by Amma. No one will accept anything like this against a woman.” Indira, who is the party spokeswoman, was speaking at a meeting at Anna Nagar against DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin, condemning his derogatory remarks against Sasikala and CM Edappadi K Palaniswami. Gokula Indira was one of the senior functionaries, who met Sasikala in prison ahead of the merger of the factions led by Edappadi K Palaniswami and O Panneerselvam in August 2017. When contacted, Indira said EPS fell at Sasikala’s feet at Koovathur resort, where he was chosen as CM candidate, out of gratitude. Sasikala is due to be released from prison on January 27.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/we-respect-sasikala-says-aiadmk-ex-min/articleshow/80257784.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Cold wave tightens its grip on Delhi, very dense fog expected for 2 days||NEW DELHI: Cold wave gripped Delhi on Wednesday as minimum temperature dropped to 3.2 degrees Celsius, four notches below normal, at Safdarjung, the city’s base station. Track the pollution level in your cityMet officials said the minimum temperature was dipping mainly due to cold winds blowing from hilly areas and absence of cloud cover. Very dense fog was recorded at Palam during morning hours, with visibility dropping to zero. Moderate fog was recorded at Safdarjung and the visibility was 200m during morning. India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued an “orange” alert for Thursday and Friday as there are chances of dense to very dense fog. The minimum temperature was the lowest at Lodhi Road at 3 degrees Celsius. The maximum temperature was 18.5 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. In this month, two cold wave days have been reported. A cold wave day is declared when the minimum temperature is 4 or more notches below normal or when the minimum temperature is less than 4 degrees Celsius. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at IMD and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said that besides the cold northwesterly winds from snow-capped mountains in the western Himalayan region, “lack of cloud cover makes the day warm while the heat quickly dissipates at night”. According to IMD, the minimum and maximum temperatures will be around 3 and 18 degrees Celsius on Thursday. Cold wave conditions are predicted on Thursday too. “The minimum temperature may rise slightly from January 15 to 19,” said the Met official. Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality deteriorated on Thursday as it entered “very poor” category. The overall air quality index (AQI) was 354 as against 293 on Wednesday. System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research, a central forecasting body, predicted no quick relief in the next few days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/cold-wave-tightens-its-grip-on-delhi-very-dense-fog-expected-for-2-days/articleshow/80257752.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||7 vehicles vandalized||Pune: Thirteen men torched and vandalized seven vehicles and two bicycles in Narhe and Bibvewadi on Tuesday between 2.30am and 3.30am. In the first incident, the Sinhagad police arrested a youth and his accomplice in Narhe. In the second incident, the Bibvewadi police have booked 11 persons, mostly minor boys. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/7-vehicles-vandalized/articleshow/80259185.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Rs 14.4cr siphoned from Nanded bank||Aurangabad: Unidentified online cheats have siphoned Rs 14.4 crore from a Nanded district-based cooperative bank. The police have registered a case of cheating and have slapped relevant sections of the Information and Technology Act on the suspects. The case was registered at the Wazirabad police station on Tuesday. Police said the amount had been transferred from the Shankar Nagari Sahkari Bank’s common pool account, which it shared with IDBI bank (that is its service provider), sometime between December 17, 2020, and January 2, 2021. Nanded superintendent of police Pramodkumar Shewale told TOI, “As per the preliminary probe, an amount of Rs 14.4 crore has been transferred to 289 different bank accounts.” Majority of these bank accounts have been found to be registered in Delhi-NCR. A handful of the accounts have been seized and the process to reverse the transactions (to the tune of Rs 70 lakh) is underway. The officer said considering scale of the case, a special investigation team, headed by additional superintendent of police Vijay Kabade, has been formed and sub-divisional police officer (city) Vikrant Gaikwad has been tasked to personally supervise the probe at the grass-root level. Shewale said a team of IT experts too have been roped in. Police officials are also taken aback by the fact that transactions of such a large amount went unnoticed for a fortnight. As per the complaint lodged by cooperative bank’s chief officer V D Raje, all the money was transferred through RTGS and NEFT. It first came to the bank’s notice on January 6, following which, a complaint was lodged with the Shivajinagar police, but no case was registered. The police, however, have blamed the bank authorities of delaying the lodging of the complaint. Cooperative bank’s director and former MLA Omprakash Pokarna, questioned the security and scrutiny of the service provider bank and said that this bank should have been more vigilant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/rs-14-4cr-siphoned-from-nanded-bank/articleshow/80255546.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 14, 2021||Pune||Drop in sale of synthetic manja in black market||Pune: The demand for synthetic manja has dipped and shopkeepers claim there is no stock in their stores for Makar Sankranti. The ban on synthetic and glass-coated manja has been in place since 2017 but the products make their way into the market due to heavy demand. Kite flying is an integral part of the festival. The sale of kites is hitting a low for some, while others have seen a boom in business. “For kites and manja generally, we have low stock. There are a few varieties and options but most of the stock is from last year. This year, we do not have any new items for Sankranti. The prices remain the same as they were last year,” said a kite shop owner in Camp. “Last year, due to the lockdown just weeks after the festival, we were completely out of business for several months. But we are back this year and business has picked up,” said a kite seller based in Rasta Peth. “This year, the ban has been more strict and there has been almost no stock. Those who have stock left over from last year are selling it at an exorbitant price so customers are also not willing to spend that much,” said another kite seller in Bhavani Peth. Another shopkeer in Camp said, “Demand is high for Bareilly manja made in Uttar Pradesh.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/drop-in-sale-of-synthetic-manja-in-black-market/articleshow/80259193.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Jail inmate stabs another with kitchen knife||Ludhiana: An inmate has stabbed another inmate using a kitchen knife in Ludhiana Central Jail, Tajpur Road, following a verbal spat.The accused has been identified as Lucky, who live in a slum near Durga Mata Mandir. He was convicted in a drug peddling case.Complainant Suresh Kumar, 36, who is also a convict in a drug peddling case, stated that on January 10, Lucky had confronted with him with the allegation that he was staring at him in the kitchen. Suresh said he told Lucky that there must be some misunderstanding, as he had not stared at him, but Lucky started abusing him.Other inmates intervened in the matter and resolved the issue. Thereafter, they both left from there. After some time, Lucky came back with a kitchen knife and stabbed him in his stomach. The other inmates nabbed Lucky and informed the jail officials. Thereafter, he was rushed to Rajindra Hospital, Patiala.Investigating officer from police station Division number 7, assistant sub-inspector Paramjit Singh said the victim has not suffered serious injuries. The police have lodged an FIR against Lucky under section 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/jail-inmate-stabs-another-with-kitchen-knife/articleshow/80256527.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Case count at 25,182 as 38 more test positive||TNNLudhiana: No death of a Ludhiana resident due to Covid-19 was reported on Wednesday, even as the virus claimed the life of a patient from HP at a city hospital. Thirty-eight Ludhianvis and 14 outsiders tested positive on the day.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said the district toll tally stood at 976 and that of outsiders has risen to 461.To date, 5,65,006 persons have been tested.Of the 38 new cases, 19 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), eight positive cases’ contacts, five from OPD, five through tracing process and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,182 and that of outsiders 3,796.So far, 23,893 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.88% of the total cases.There are 310 active cases. The number of persons home quarantined is 846. On Wednesday, 37 persons were quarantined and 2,253 samples collected.There are 147 ventilators in private hospitals, including four of the government installed at CMCH.Two patients from outside the district are on ventilators.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/case-count-at-25182-as-38-more-test-positive/articleshow/80256529.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||After Covid pause, Delhi Metro’s Skywalk at NDLS on track||NEW DELHI: After facing many delays, challenges and the Covid-19 outbreak, the skywalk planned at New Delhi Railway Station, which would help passengers reach the nearby Delhi Metro stations without crossing four lanes of busy traffic with baggage in tow, is finally on track and expected to become operational by May. The 210-metre state-of-the-art skywalk, which will be an extension of the foot overbridge inside the railway station and take commuters directly to New Delhi Metro Station, Airport Express Line, autorickshaw bays and parking lots, is being constructed by Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) in collaboration with Northern Railway. In the pipeline for nearly three years, the project faced delays soon after taking off in 2019. A ban on construction in the winter of 2019 first delayed it, then came the pandemic. Construction work resumed with Covid-19 safety guidelines in place and the skywalk has now started taking shape. The project is expected to help streamline the traffic flow on the Ajmeri Gate side. At present, commuters on the Ajmeri Gate side of the railway station have to walk a considerable distance to reach New Delhi Metro Station and Airport Express Line. On the other hand, those coming out of the Metro station have to cross the road, enter the railway station and then climb a foot overbridge to reach the platform. Another reason for the long detour to reach the Metro stations is because DMRC has made the gate closest to the railway station restricted for exit only to avoid crowding. Those entering the Metro station have to take a long walk to reach the other gate, which also leads to Airport Express Line. By May, the foot overbridge will be extended till Airport Express Line parking building across Bhavbhuti Marg, thanks to the skywalk. There will be escalators and elevators to take passengers to the different gates of the Metro stations, autorickshaw and taxi bays and the parking lot. The skywalk will have a contemporary and sleek design and be a lightweight structure with metal and glass fittings. It will have an open design to ensure ventilation. It will have a canopy to protect commuters from the harsh weather. A plaza will also be made with a small visitors’ lounge offering comfortable seating and toilet facilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-covid-pause-metros-skywalk-at-ndls-on-track/articleshow/80257788.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||District health dept to take responsibility for first Kumbh Mela bathing festival||Haridwar: As no infrastructure related to medical care has so far been developed by the Kumbh Mela administration, the officials of the religious fair have now asked the Haridwar district health department to ensure health arrangements for the first bathing festival of Kumbh Mela on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Thursday. According to officials, the mela administration hasn’t even finalised the land for installing the 150-bed fabricated hospital for the Kumbh Mela. Dr AK Senger, Kumbh Mela health officer, told TOI, “We are still in the planning phase and hope that all the facilities will be completed before the shahi snan in March. We are yet to identify the land for the installation of the 150-bed base hospital for the Kumbh Mela but it will be finalised soon. Meanwhile, we have asked the district health department to take responsibility for the Makar Sankranti bathing festival on Thursday.” Also, the district health department has deployed 20 teams on borders, railway stations and at different points of the Mela area. However, there is no ICU facility in Haridwar as yet. Although two CCU beds have been reserved in the district hospital, patients in critical condition will be shifted to AIIMS Rishikesh. Notably, there are no burn units or other critical care facilities in the Haridwar district hospital and the Mela Hospital is being used as Covid-19 care centre. DM Haridwar C Ravishankar told TOI, “We deployed 20 health teams for thermal screening and other medical facilities in Kumbh area including district borders, railway station, and interstate bus terminal. Two medical teams will be positioned in the Har-ki-Pauri area and the CCR tower region. The district hospital will be used as the base hospital and the coronavirus antigen testing will be done before initiating the treatment of patients. We have also hired beds in private hospitals for emergency situations while 5,000 beds facilities have been reserved for the Covid-19 patients/suspects.” On the other hand, the Kumbh Mela police is fully prepared to organise the first bathing festival and teams have been deployed at different places to ensure that Covid-19 guidelines are maintained. Sanjay Gunjayal, IG, Kumbh Mela, told TOI, “Companies of paramilitary force and PAC have been deployed. We will alert the pilgrims regarding the use of masks and ensuring social distancing while bathing. The police teams are also imposing penalties on people for not following Covid-19 guidelines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/district-health-dept-to-take-responsibility-for-first-kumbh-mela-bathing-festival/articleshow/80256510.cms||MS Nawaz
January 14, 2021||Madurai||Madurai cinemas ‘master’ crowd thronging for Pongal release||Madurai: Theatres in Madurai city witnessed some decent crowd with the release of actor Vijay’s film Master after several months. Although theatres were allowed to operate from November 10, they did not attract much crowd in the absence of movies from popular actors.The special show showcased early in the morning received a large turnout as fans showed keen interest in watching the movie as early as possible. However, less crowd was witnessed for the other regular shows. Most of the theatre owners sold tickets and tokens online to avoid the crowd. However, a few theatres sold tickets through counters, resulting in mad rush flouting all Covid-19 norms. All the theatres ensured that only those wearing mask enter the halls, but many theatres did not check the temperature and provide hand sanitisers, moviegoers said.Theatre owners said that they ensured that only 50% of seats are filled. More than 20 screens in Madurai city screened Master movie resulting in distribution of crowd, they said.R M Annamalai, former state president of Tamil Nadu theatre owners association said: “Theatres managed the crowd well by selling tickets online. Mostly fans turned up for the movie on the first day. We expect family audience from Thursday onwards.”He said theatres will attract crowd for only for the first three days. After that, they will find it difficult to fill 30% of the seats. Fans were excited to watch their favourite actors on the screen after more than a year. They were visibly overjoyed as they entered the theatres proudly holding tickets. “We were waiting for this day. For us Pongal festival has already started. We were yearning to experience a movie in a theatre,” S Kathiravana, a fan said.Christhu Raj, another fan said “We shelled out more than Rs 500 for a ticket on the first day for Bigil (2019 October release), but we got the ticket today for just Rs 300. We are very happy as tickets are easily available this time,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/madurai-cinemas-master-crowd-thronging-for-pongal-release/articleshow/80259190.cms||V Devanathan
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Tukaram Mundhe now state rights body secretary||The CM on Wednesday announced new postings for four IAS officers, including Tukaram Mundhe as state human rights commission secretary in place of Vijay Kumar Gautam, who has taken over as additional chief secretary of water resources department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mundhe-now-state-rights-body-secy/articleshow/80259996.cms||Prafulla Marpakwar
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||App to integrate ULB revenue sources||Hyderabad: Telangana government is set to launch Pattana Pragathi programme from February 24 in all urban local bodies (ULB) where integration of all revenue sources of ULB will be conducted. Municipal administration department, in coordination with NRSC, has developed ‘Bhuvan Integrated Application’ by mapping all properties in all ULBs and capturing all major revenue sources of ULBs such as property tax, trade license, water tax, advertisement tax, cell towers etc. Through this application, realistic data is being captured with an aim to increase tax base without actually increasing the tax rates component.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/app-to-integrate-ulb-revenue-sources/articleshow/80259211.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Pune||Trio booked for selling nylon thread||Pune: The city police crime branch on Wednesday booked three people, including a woman, for selling nylon manja to customers.  The sale of nylon manja has been banned by the state government yet it is available in the local market. The police registered three FIRs against kite sellers with shops located at Nana Peth, Khadki and Yerawada for illegally selling nylon manja to customers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/trio-booked-for-selling-nylon-thread/articleshow/80259212.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||MSEDCL warns against kite flying||Pune: The Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) has warned people to stay away from the overhead high- and low-tension wires, transformers and the feeder fillers while flying kites on Makar Sankranti. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/msedcl-warns-against-kite-flying/articleshow/80259209.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves its order as Sonu Sood, BMC spar on||MUMBAI: It was a Bollywood actor and the BMC sparring again before the high court over a demolition notice on Wednesday. The actor, this time, was Sonu Sood, and the high court reserved its order on his plea for interim protection against any demolition of construction in a six-storey residential Juhu building where the BMCsaid he runs an “illegal hotel”. “He claims to own the entire building, but while his name is on the 6th floor flats, the documents still reflect other names as owners on other floors,” said the city civil court last month while dismissing his plea to restrain the BMC from taking coercive steps following a notice it issued him in October for “unauthorised construction and additions contrary to sanctioned plan”. Justice Prithviraj Chavan, who heard the matter, at one point asked Sood’s counsel where was his “cause of action” — set of facts to justify suing — and said: “Plaint shall be rejected if the plaint does not disclose a cause of action. Your plaint does not disclose a cause of action.” The judge asked Sood’s counsel, Amogh Singh, to check the court papers, which he did. Sood has flouted sanction plans of January 1992 for the building and has admitted in his reply that he has done some work and has no permission for change of use from residential to commercial hotel yet, submitted senior counsel Anil Sakhare with advocate Joel Carlos for the BMC. Singh said the “hotel” was used for frontline police personnel too in the lockdown. Sakhare said Sood “suppressed” details of his premises being demolished twice, once in November 2018 and again in February 2020, as he was reconstructing the razed part. Singh denied any suppression and said that since the latest notice being challenged was “vague” and bereft of details of even which floor was in alleged violation, the earlier concluded demolition action was not considered germane to the present law suit. Singh said Sood was being “singled out” and “being treated differently” and the law needs to be followed in his case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-reserves-its-order-as-sood-bmc-spar-on/articleshow/80259989.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu to dig for treasure at 3 more sites||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu state archaeology department will soon begin excavations at three more sites — Korkai (Tuticorin), Gangaikonda Cholapuram (Ariyalur) and Mayiladumparai (Krishnagiri), said T Udhayachandran, the department’s principal secretary and commissioner. This is in addition to the ongoing excavations at Keeladi cluster, Adichanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal. “We have got permission from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA) for excavations in the seven sites. The department will also conduct field studies in Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Krishnagiri and Vellore,” he said in a statement issued on Wednesday. The Korkai excavation, according to Udhayachandran, will reveal more about the Thamirabarani river valley civilization because excavations are already on in sites such as Adichanallur and Sivagalai in the same region. “The Korkai excavation will make the picture of the Tamirabarani valley civilization complete,” he said. The state government has sanctioned Rs 3 crore for conducting archaeological excavations in the state for 2021. “The ongoing excavations at Keeladi cluster, Adichchanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal brought out positive results. And it’s the main reason behind getting immediate permission from the CABA to begin excavations at sites like Korkai, Gangaikonda Cholapuram and Mayiladumparai,” he said. Besides, some heritage institutes and universities have sought permission for conducting excavations at some significant sites in Tamil Nadu. The Sharma Centre for Heritage Education has sought permission for excavation in Sendrananpalayam in Tiruvallur district while Alagappa University has sought permission to conduct excavation in Ilanthakarai in Sivaganga district. The Tamil University, Thanjavur, has applied for permission to carry out excavation at Moolapalayam in Coimbatore and the University of Madras has sought permission to conduct excavation at Vasalai in Vellore. Tamil Nadu Open University has submitted its proposal to conduct excavation at Porpanikottai in Pudukottai district. “If all proposals get approved by the CABA, the state will have more than ten sites under excavation in 2021. That would be the highest in the country,” said Udhayachandran. “Even in the case of archaeology department, Tamil Nadu has most excavations (seven sites) among state archaeology departments in the country,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tn-to-dig-for-treasure-at-3-more-sites/articleshow/80257803.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi govt will give vaccines for free if Centre can’t: CM Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: If the Centre doesn’t provide the Covid-19 vaccine for free, then Delhi government will offer it to the city’s residents without any charge. This was announced by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday. “I had appealed to the central government to provide free vaccine to all citizens of the country,” said Kejriwal, while handing over a cheque of Rs 1 crore to the family members of Corona Warrior Dr Hitesh Gupta, who died after contracting the disease while being on duty at Karkardooma dispensary of Delhi government. The CM added, “Ours is a poor nation. A pandemic like this has affected us after over a 100 years, since 1918 when the Spanish Flu hit humankind. There are a lot of people who will not be able to afford the vaccine.” Delhi Medical Council expressed gratitude towards Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain for the gesture. “This will go a long way in building confidence in the medical fraternity and their families,” said Dr Arun Gupta, president, Delhi Medical Council. While visiting the dependents of Dr Gupta at their house in IP Extension, Kejriwal expressed his gratitude for the doctor’s sacrifice for the people of Delhi. After a long fight with Covid-19, the doctor succumbed to the infection in November 2020. The CM added that the government would do whatever it could to support the family. “Dr Gupta was serving patients during the pandemic. He got infected and, unfortunately, lost his life after being hospitalised. I have provided his family Rs 1 crore as assistance. Life can hold no monetary value, but I hope this compensation will help the family in the long term. His wife is well-educated and she will be provided a government job,” said Kejriwal. Talking about the rollout of the vaccination drive in Delhi, where 8,900 people would be given the shots at 75 booths spread across the capital, Kejriwal said that the first preference would be given to healthcare personnel and frontline workers. “I hope that the struggle of the past year will come to an end and people will get some relief from the pandemic. I want to appeal to everyone to not spread any misinformation about the vaccine. I believe that the central government, scientists, etc have followed all protocols and safeguards before releasing the vaccine. There should be no doubt regarding it,” said the CM. In the first phase, a priority group of 51 lakh people — healthcare staff, frontline workers and people either aged above 50 or below 50, but with comorbidities — are being given the shots for free.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-govt-will-give-vaccines-for-free-if-centre-cant-cm/articleshow/80257806.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nagpur reports nearly 60% of Vidarbha’s cases on Wed||Nagpur: All districts in the region reported Covid deaths in single digit, with Nagpur remaining at the top of the chart with seven fatalities on Wednesday. Gondia district officials didn’t issue daily figures. Buldhana and Amravati didn’t report any death. The daily caseload of the region remained below 800-mark. Nagpur district reported nearly 60% (467) cases out of the 782 reported in the region. There were 17 deaths in the region during the day which also saw 735 recoveries. Apart from seven in Nagpur, deaths were also reported from Bhandara (2), Wardha (2), Chandrapur (2), Gadchiroli (1), Yavatmal (1), Washim (1), taking the toll to 6,762. The new cases came from Nagpur (467), Bhandara (32), Wardha (32), Chandrapur (14), Gadchiroli (12), Akola (30), Amravati (53), Yavatmal (63), Buldhana (62) and Washim (11). The caseload has reached 2,62,405. Of the 735 recoveries reported during the day, Nagpur contributed 358, Bhandara (32), Wardha (50), Chandrapur (39), Gadchiroli (6), Akola (38), Amravati (85), Yavatmal (48), Buldhana (71) and Washim (8), taking the total to 2,47,798. Now, 7,588 patients are under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 50-year-old man from Kelapur on Wednesday, which took the Covid toll to 415. Also, 697 test reports were received in the day of which 63 were positive. As on Wednesday, 444 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Eighty-five discharge as against 53 new cases took the district’s total recoveries to 19,764 (96.40%) and caseload to 20,503 on Wednesday. The day did not see any Covid death. This left 334 patients under treatment. Chandrapur: Two deaths were reported on Wednesday, while Covid caseload scaled by 14 in the day. The Covid toll has now increased to 380. There was also discharge of 39 patients during the day. Total Covid cases now jumped to 22,756, whereas the number of recoveries has risen to 22,058. The district is left with 318 patients under treatment. Wardha: With two more deaths due to coronavirus on Wednesday, district’s toll reached to 289, while 32 new Covid patients took the caseload to 9,583. Meanwhile, 50 patients got discharged in the day, taking the number of recoveries to 8,961, while 333 patients are under treatment. Two women — 63-year-old from Wardha and 65-year-old from Selu — died due to coronavirus on Wednesday. Gadchiroli: The toll mounted to 105 after two deaths reported on Wednesday. Caseload increased by 12 to reach 9,214 while six patients were discharged, taking the recoveries to 8,989. Now, the district has 120 active cases. Washim: The district reported one death on Wednesday, At 11, it had the least number of daily cases in Vidarbha on Wednesday. The caseload is 6,815. Eight patients were discharged, taking the recoveries to 6,552. The toll is 152 while there 152 active cases. Buldhana: No Covid death took place while 62 new cases and 71 recoveries were reported. According to official data, the district has reported 13,116 cases, including 12,639 recoveries and 157 deaths, leaving 320 active cases. Bhandara: The district reported two Covid deaths, 38 new cases and 32 recoveries. The caseload is 12,864, including 12,174 recoveries and 311 deaths. Now, there are 379 active cases. Akola: The district reported 30 new cases and 38 recoveries. One death on Wednesday took the toll to 326. The caseload climbed to 11,006 while recoveries touched 10,085. Now, there are 598 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nagpur-reports-nearly-60-of-vidarbhas-cases-on-wed/articleshow/80257837.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 14, 2021||Coimbatore||Tamil Nadu to dig for treasure at 3 more sites||CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu state archaeology department will soon begin excavations at three more sites — Korkai (Tuticorin), Gangaikonda Cholapuram (Ariyalur) and Mayiladumparai (Krishnagiri), said T Udhayachandran, the department’s principal secretary and commissioner. This is in addition to the ongoing excavations at Keeladi cluster, Adichanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal. “We have got permission from the Central Advisory Board for Archaeology (CABA) for excavations in the seven sites. The department will also conduct field studies in Tiruvannamalai, Salem, Krishnagiri and Vellore,” he said in a statement issued on Wednesday. The Korkai excavation, according to Udhayachandran, will reveal more about the Thamirabarani river valley civilization because excavations are already on in sites such as Adichanallur and Sivagalai in the same region. “The Korkai excavation will make the picture of the Tamirabarani valley civilization complete,” he said. The state government has sanctioned Rs 3 crore for conducting archaeological excavations in the state for 2021. “The ongoing excavations at Keeladi cluster, Adichchanallur, Sivagalai and Kodumanal brought out positive results. And it’s the main reason behind getting immediate permission from the CABA to begin excavations at sites like Korkai, Gangaikonda Cholapuram and Mayiladumparai,” he said. Besides, some heritage institutes and universities have sought permission for conducting excavations at some significant sites in Tamil Nadu. The Sharma Centre for Heritage Education has sought permission for excavation in Sendrananpalayam in Tiruvallur district while Alagappa University has sought permission to conduct excavation in Ilanthakarai in Sivaganga district. The Tamil University, Thanjavur, has applied for permission to carry out excavation at Moolapalayam in Coimbatore and the University of Madras has sought permission to conduct excavation at Vasalai in Vellore. Tamil Nadu Open University has submitted its proposal to conduct excavation at Porpanikottai in Pudukottai district. “If all proposals get approved by the CABA, the state will have more than ten sites under excavation in 2021. That would be the highest in the country,” said Udhayachandran. “Even in the case of archaeology department, Tamil Nadu has most excavations (seven sites) among state archaeology departments in the country,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/tn-to-dig-for-treasure-at-3-more-sites/articleshow/80261732.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Wait is finally over: Covid vaccines to reach city today||Ludhiana: With Covid-19 vaccination drive set to be launched from January 16, the vaccine stock is expected to reach Ludhiana on Thursday. Healthcare workers will be given the first shots in the next three days, according to the health department officials.Confirming that the vaccine consignment is expected to reach Ludhiana on Thursday, civil surgeon Dr Sukhjivan Kakkar said it would be stored at his office facility. The vaccine would be brought in a special van and delivered at various vaccination sites in the same vehicle the next day, he said.The civil surgeon said earlier they had set up 40 vaccination sites and deployed 52 teams to administer the shots, but later the number of sites was increased to 101, where 112 teams have now been deputed.“We expect to complete the first part of the first phase of the vaccination drive in three days, when the healthcare workers will be vaccinated,” said the civil surgeon. Until Tuesday, 30,516 healthcare workers had registered themselves for it. The next shots would be given to them after 28 days. Dr Kakkar said the sites for vaccination include government hospitals up to the community health centre (CHC) level and private hospitals with more than 100 employees. He added that there are 67 cold chain points in the district for storing the vaccine.According to the health department officials, to ensure that the teams work properly and in a hassle-free manner, one supervisor has been deputed for every two teams, who will monitor these aspects.An official said six vaccination sites have been set up at civil hospital, Ludhiana, four at Mother and Child Hospital (MCH), Vardhman, two each at sub-divisional hospitals at Khanna and Jagraon, and as many at civil hospitals in Raikot and Samrala. Also, two sites each have been set up at CHCs at Payal, Pakhowal and Sahnewal, and one site each at Sidhwan Bet and Manupur CHCs. The official further said in private establishments, 10 sites have been set up at DMCH, eight at CMCH and three each at Mohandai Oswal Hospital and Fortis Hospital. They expect to vaccinate at least 10,000 healthcare workers at these sites, with around 100 of them vaccinated at each centre. Frontline workers’ registration onA health department officer said the registration of frontline workers—including police personnel and civic body staff, among others—to be vaccinated has also started in the district. Each department would upload the data on CoWin app and then share the same with the health department.The officer said the guidelines to be followed for starting their vaccination is expected in about a week’s time and as of now, it is not clear whether they are to be vaccinated immediately after the healthcare workers are given the first shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/wait-is-finally-over-covid-vaccines-to-reach-city-today/articleshow/80256565.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 14, 2021||Goa||Quit if IIT project stays in Sattari, Vijai tells Vishwajit||Margao: Goa Forward Party (GFP) president Vijai Sardesai, while welcoming the move of health minister Vishwajit Rane of writing to chief minister Pramod Sawant for scrapping the proposed IIT project at Melauli, egged him on to quit from the cabinet if he was sincere about his support to the people’s protest. “If the project is not shifted out of Sattari, then Vishwajit Rane should quit from the cabinet and be with his people. This is the only way his people will stand with him. Vishwajit has a future, he should quit the government if his demand to scrap IIT is not met, then only he will be able to move forward,” Sardesai said while speaking to mediapersons on the sidelines of a function on Wednesday. Sardesai also urged waste management minister Michael Lobo and water resources minister Filipe Neri Rodrigues to emulate Rane’s move and write to the chief minister if they were against coal transportation and double-tracking. “Mere statements will not do. They should immediately write to the chief minister stating that they are opposed to coal and its transportation and that the ongoing project of double tracking is meant to facilitate coal movement,” Sardesai said. “If the government doesn’t respond to their request then they should move out of the cabinet and quit the BJP as a sign of responsibility and accountability to the people.” He further accused the chief minister of “taking instructions from Delhi and implementing those directions which are in interest of the Delhi lobby and not of Goemkars.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/quit-if-iit-project-stays-in-sattari-vijai-tells-vishwajit/articleshow/80259998.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||Three more held for Aundh robbery||Pune: The city police on Tuesday night arrested three more men in connection with the assault on a watchman and armed robberies at five flats at Shailesh Tower society in Aundh on December 28. Two beat marshals from Chatushrungi police had reached the society, but fled the scene after spotting the robbers. A team headed by senior inspector Anil Shewale and Rajendra Mokashi arrested Ravisingh Shamsingh Kalyani (22), Hukumsingh Ramsingh Kalyani (28) and Sangatsingh Ajmersingh Kalyani (37), all residents of Ramtekdi in Hadapsar. On January 2, the city police arrested Bintusingh Shamsingh Kalyani (24). Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said “The suspects had gone to Aundh in a stolen car. They stole the car on December 27, 2020, from a spot in Vishrantwadi. We have recovered the car from their possession.” Gupta said that the police received a tip off that the suspects were again planning a robbery at Hadapsar and they were found at a spot located on Solapur highway. “With the arrest, we have solved five cases of theft and one robbery case,” he said. The robbers had stolen a television set and silver ornaments, collectively worth Rs 1.23 lakh, from the five flats in the society. “The suspects smashed the television set, but we will recover the silver ornaments from them,” he said. Gupta said that police have seized sharp weapons from their possession.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/three-more-held-for-aundh-robbery/articleshow/80259213.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Virtual shows to hardsell NDLS revamp||NEW DELHI: Rail Land Development Authority (RLDA) will conduct virtual road shows on the New Delhi station redevelopment project for potential investors and developers from countries such as Singapore, Australia, Dubai and Spain. The online shows will be organised from January 14 to January 19 to introduce international real-estate developers to the proposed revamp, along with the project concept and its components, an official said on Wednesday. A walk-through will be showcased for in-depth understanding, said RLDA. “The redevelopment of New Delhi railway station is among our flagship projects that will boost tourism prospects and usher in a socio-economic transformation of the region,” said Ved Parkash Dudeja, vice-chairman of RLDA. The project has two distinct components — the station component consisting of a new terminal building along with amenities, railway offices, quarters and ancillary railway work, while the second component is the station estate — retail space, commercial office space, hotels and residential area. The station is proposed to be a multi-modal hub for transport integration and development. It will be the first project to be undertaken on the transit-oriented development concept in Delhi-NCR. It is at the “request for qualification” stage with the due date being February 2.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/virtual-shows-to-hardsell-ndls-revamp/articleshow/80257804.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||16-year-old ‘raped, burned’ alive in Muzaffarpur||PATNA: Three persons were detained on Wednesday in connection with alleged rape and murder of a 16-year-old girl at a village under Sahebganj police station area in Muzaffarpur. The incident took place on January 3. But the girl’s father lodged an FIR on January 11, accusing four youths of the village of raping his daughter and burning her alive in his house. Police came to know about the matter after the victim’s father, who works with a private firm in Jalandhar, reached Muzaffarpur and lodged the case. When asked, Saraiya SDPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma said forensic experts on Wednesday visited the room where the girl’s burned body was found. “The detained villagers are being interrogated to know who pressurised the family to dispose of the body without informing the police,” the SDPO said. He said police, after preliminary investigation, found that a boy living in the victim’s neighbourhood had leaked her private photographs among his friends after developing relationship with the girl. “Several village boys came to know about it after which she locked her inside bedroom and immolated herself. Police found in investigation that the room’s door was locked from inside and it was broken to get entry,” he said. Sharma said some villagers played a key role in pressuring her grandparents to cremate the body and suppress the matter. “When her father reached Muzaffarpur, the villagers kept pressurising him for two days not to take the matter to the police due to which the FIR was lodged after so much delay,” he said. He said the prime accused is 20 years old. “He and his three friends are evading arrest,” he said. The SDPO said the victim used to live with her elder sister and grandparents in the village. “Their mother died in 2016. Her father got them shifted here from Jalandhar for proper care,” he said. He said raids were being conducted to arrest the four youths and those who got the body cremated by pressurising the family. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/16-yr-old-raped-burned-alive-in-muzaffarpur/articleshow/80257779.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 14, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Food delayed, 2 rottweilers maul farm worker, 58, to death||CUDDALORE: Two pet Rottweilers mauled a 58-year-old worker to death in a farm near Chidambaram in Cuddalore district on Tuesday. Initial inquiries revealed that the worker, who fed the dogs in the morning regularly, had got to feeding them late on Tuesday, when he was attacked. Police said the victim, K Jeevanantham of Vallampadugai, had been working on the farm spread across 10 acres at Puduboolamedu since 2013. N Vijayasundaram, 56, a Congress functionary from Chidambaram, owns the land. Vijayasundaram bought two Rottweiler dogs three years ago and raised them on the farm to boost security and assist Jeevanantham in protecting the crops. Police said Jeevanantham usually fed the dogs as soon as he reached the farm in the morning. “On Tuesday, though he reached the farm as usual, he went to feed the pets just before leaving the farm in the evening, when the dogs went berserk and attacked him,” said a police officer. Though Jeevanantham ran helter-skelter to escape, the dogs chased and attacked him targeting the head. The dogs ripped apart his two ears and bit all over his face, killing him on the spot. The breed, known for having an unpredictable temperament, is banned in several countries such as Spain, Italy, France, Portugal, Romania, Ukraine, Russia and Israel and many states in the USA. India has not imposed any restrictions on any dog breed so far. The other workers alerted Vijayasundaram and Vijayasundaram’s wife V Umadevi reached the farm and managed to control the dogs. Jeevanantham’s wife J Kavitha, 45, lodged a complaint with the Chidambaram taluk police. A police team reached the farm, recovered the body and sent it to the Chidambaram government general hospital for post-mortem. Police registered a case under section 174 (death under suspicious circumstances) of the code of criminal procedure (CrPc) and began an investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/fed-late-2-rottweilers-maul-farm-worker-58-to-death/articleshow/80257808.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||No celebrations, villagers burn copies of farm laws on Lohri||Ludhiana: With farmers protesting near Delhi borders, Lohri celebrations were subdued in the villages of the district. “How can we celebrate Lohri when around 25 villagers from our village are sitting at the dharna site, fighting for repealing of the farm laws. It is a matter of life and death for us. It is better to fight than die of hunger later. It has been Punjab’s culture to fight injustice. Of the 121 freedom fighters hanged to death during India’s freedom struggle, 96 belonged to Punjab. This clearly shows our spirit,” said Sukhjit Singh of Diwala village, which was not seen in celebratory mode on Lohri.In many villages, residents burnt copies of “black” farm laws and celebrations were low-key. “We cannot think of celebrating when about 70 farmers have achieved martyrdom fighting against the black laws. We burnt copies of these laws on Lohri. There was no festive spirit as happiness, which is a must for any celebration, was missing from villagers’ faces,” said Kamaljit Singh, a farmer from Chakar village. Manjeet Singh of Dhindsa village, who has been at Singhu border for the past about 45 days, said, “We haven’t celebrated the festival as we are fighting a battle for survival and know that our villagers are also not celebrating. We heard that they have burnt copies of the laws,” he said. “In 12,500 villages of the state, people have burnt the copies of agriculture laws. There are around 200 villages in Sidhwan Bet, Jagraon, Raikot, Hambran and Sudhar, and all these places saw burning of laws’ copies. We had 100 copies, which villagers took for burning on Lohri,” said Kanwaljeet Khanna, general secretary of Inquilabi Kendra Punjab. He added that unlike previous years, there was no dancing and singing around the bonfire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-celebrations-villagers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws-on-lohri/articleshow/80256585.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Chilled to bone: City colder than Shimla, Kangra||Ludhiana: Ludhiana was colder than hill stations in neighbouring Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday night.According to the meteorological department, the minimum (night) temperature in Ludhiana on Wednesday was 3.8 degrees C, which was two degrees less than normal and 2.6 degrees less than a day before. Shimla recorded a low of 5.7 degrees C and Kangra 4.4 degrees C. Another district of HP, Una had a night temperature of 5.2 degrees C.In the state, Amritsar was the coldest at 3.5 degrees C, followed by the industrial hub and Patiala (6.4 degrees C).It was, so far, the coldest night in the month in the past two years. The previous year, the lowest night temperature (4.1 degrees) was recorded on January 16. In 2018, the mercury had plummeted to 3 degrees C on January 22.The maximum (day) temperature in the city on Wednesday was 12.7 degrees C, which was 6 degrees less than normal. On Tuesday, the day temperature was 16.2 degrees (2 degrees less than normal).A bright sun is not on the cards. “Skies are likely to be generally cloudy on Thursday. In the next three days, expect fog / mist in mornings followed by partly cloudy skies. During this time, the day temperature may increase, but that of the night is likely to remain below normal,” said a Chandigarh meteorological department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/chilled-to-bone-city-colder-than-shimla-kangra/articleshow/80256583.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Loan app racket: Telangana cops pick one more Chinese from Thane||HYDERABAD: Telangana police on Wednesday arrested Chinese national He Jian and an Indian associate from Thane in the ongoing illegal instant loan app case that has links across the country. Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagawat said they came across the names of Jian, alias Mark (26), and his Indian associate Vivek Kumar, as key operators of the instant loan business after interrogating Liang TianTian, a Chinese woman, and two others picked up on December 25 from a Pune call centre. The officials have so far arrested five Chinese nationals. Three of them, Yi Bai, Liang TianTian and Zhu Wei, alias Lambo, have been arrested in the past two months and booked in the instant loan app case. The fourth, Yah Hao, was arrested in August for running an online gambling racket in which a large number of Indians have lost crores of rupees. He is in jail In the latest case, police landed in Thane after examining more than 100 laptops and documents seized in the Christmas day raid, and found Jian holed up there along with Vivek. They were first produced in a local court and brought to Hyderabad on prison transit warrant. Police froze Rs 30 crore parked in different bank accounts and said Jian operated 24 mobile phone applications, which are into the disbursement of loans at high-interest rates. “The apps through which loans have been disbursed had no valid licence from Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to run Non-Banking Finance Companies (NBFCs),” Bhagawat told a media conference. Explaining their modus operandi, Bhagawat said that after one week of sanctioning the loan to a customer, Jian and his associates would harass people to return the money. “The defaulters were harassed and defamed through calls and messages to all persons in his/her telephone call list,” said Bhagawat. Investigations have so far revealed that Jian came to India in 2019 on a business visa. “He came as a representative of Chinese nationals Xu Nan, Xu Xinchang and Zhao Qiao who are directors of Ajaya Solutions, which is into microfinance loan apps companies. They later appointed Ankur Singh as director of the company,” added Bhagawat. After setting up the company for disbursement of loans, Jian and his China-based superiors had initially set up a call centre at Thane for recovery of loans. Later they outsourced the recovery aspect to the earlier arrested Tian Tian and her husband, Parshuram Lahu Takve, who operated a company called Jia Liang Infotech pvt ltd in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/telangana-cops-arrest-chinese-national-from-thane-in-instant-loan-app-case/articleshow/80259221.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 14, 2021||Pune||Pune and Mumbai receive highest share of Maharashtra’s Covishield batch||PUNE: Mumbai and Pune districts have been allocated the highest number of Covishield doses — 1.39 lakh and 1.13 lakh, respectively — in the state. This first batch of vaccine allocation is expected to cover 50-55% of healthcare workers in the state during phase 1 of Covid-19 inoculation, which starts on January 16. Nearly eight lakh patient-facing medical workers — including doctors, nurses and paramedical staff — have registered for phase 1. The state limited the number of beneficiaries to avoid a mix-up of vaccines as there are now two shots in play — Covishield by the Pune-based Serum Institute and Covaxin by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. All districts are set to receive their share of doses by Thursday. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and another 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Pune district received 1.11 lakh doses of Covishield early on Wednesday. This number will be adequate to vaccinate about 50% of the registered health workers in the district. “Each person will be administered two doses of the same vaccine brand,” said Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services for Pune region. He added that the first round of vaccinations for the nearly 55,000 health workers in the district will take up to three weeks to finish (after launch on January 16). State health minister Rajesh Tope said the first lot of vaccines from SII has been distributed as per central guidelines. The highest number of vaccination sites in the state — from a total of 358 — are in Mumbai (50), Pune (39) and Thane (29). Tope said some 35,000 people will receive their jabs on Day One. “This is the first lot of vaccines. We’ll need 16 lakh doses for the two-shot regimen. And the Centre has promised adequate supply,” Tope said. The batch of Covaxin doses reached the state vaccine store in Pune late on Wednesday. Maharashtra has been allocated 20,000 doses of the shot. State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil said, “We are yet to pick the districts that will be given Covaxin as we have already allocated the SII shots as per central government guidelines.” The Centre has also said that there won’t be an option to choose a coronavirus vaccine. Makers of both the shots have shown promising data. Bharat Biotech said Covaxin showed long-term antibody and T-cell memory responses in phase I.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-and-mumbai-receive-highest-share-of-states-covishield-batch/articleshow/80259218.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Crime thriller: Delhi cops bust ‘abduction’ bid||NEW DELHI: A daylong investigation into the alleged abduction of a youth reported by his parents on Tuesday morning ended in an amusing twist in the tale. Cops at Jamia Nagar police station found that the youth had committed a snatching and then staged his abduction fearing arrest. The idea reportedly came from a crime thriller seen by him on an OTT platform. The father of the youth, Nadeem, had received a ransom call seeking Rs 2 lakh for the release of his son. It was alleged that he was pulled inside a vehicle while going to the market. The “kidnappers” made Nadeem talk to his family wherein he claimed that he was tied to a tree inside a jungle and pleaded with his family to pay the money immediately. DCP RP Meena said that two teams headed by SHO Satish Kumar analysed the footage of CCTV cameras and Nadeem’s number, from which the ransom call was made. They found that the number was active the entire day and the location showed places he visited usually. He was also in touch with his girlfriend. When police contacted the girl, she told them that during their call Nadeem had said that he was having a drink with his cousin Aftab somewhere in Nizamuddin and missing her. Aftab’s family also had no clues about his whereabouts. “When the CCTV footage of the alleged place of abduction was analysed, no such incident was found recorded,” said Meena. While probing the case, police came to know of a snatching incident from Jogabai locality on Tuesday morning. The team probing that crime reported that a woman had complained that two boys had tried to snatch her phone while she was walking in the market. Locals had tried to catch them, but they freed themselves after a scuffle. Police soon found out that one of the snatchers was the youth whose family had approached them with the kidnapping complaint. The cops joined the dots and became certain that the kidnapping had been staged. Subsequently, Nadeem and Aftab were tracked down and arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/crime-thriller-cops-bust-abduction-bid/articleshow/80257807.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bareilly||Azam Khan, son Abdullah get bail in Jaya Prada derogatory remarks case||Moradabad: Senior leader of Samajwadi Party (SP) and Lok Sabha member Muhammad Azam Khan and his son Abdullah Azam were reportedly granted bail by the MP/MLA court on Wednesday in the case of making derogatory remarks against former Rampur MP Jaya Prada at an event in Moradabad in June 2019. The court allowed their bail application and ordered them to furnish two sureties of Rs 50,000 each. However, the father-son duo will remain in Sitapur jail as they are facing other charges of forgery and land grab. In 2019, an FIR was registered under IPC sections 294 [obscene acts and songs], 504 [intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of peace] and 354 [assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty] against at least seven persons, including Azam Khan, ST Hasan [Moradabad MP], Feroz Khan [Sambhal's SP district president], and Azhar Ahmed Khan, at the Rampur Civil Lines police station. Later, the case was transferred to Moradabad due to its jurisdiction. On Wednesday, Munesh Bhatnagar, the additional district government counsel (ADGC) appointed at MP/MLA court, said, "The court has granted bail to Azam and his son with sureties of Rs 50,000 each." The court had already granted bail to the other accused, Bhatnagar added. "In November 2020, Azam's close aide and former Rampur Municipality chairman Azhar Ahmed Khan's remained absent in the derogatory remarks case. So, the court had declared him an absconder. Process to attach his property will be initiated by police under section 83 of CrPC, as per the court order," the ADGC further said . Meanwhile, in Rampur, Azam's wife and local MLA Tazeen Fatma appeared before the MP/MLA court for 19 cases. Azam and Abdullah appeared via video link from their prison.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/azam-khan-son-abdullah-get-bail-in-jaya-prada-derogatory-remarks-case/articleshow/80254330.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 14, 2021||Pune||Two arrested, 7 booked for woman’s death||Pune: A 23-year-old pregnant woman died on Wednesday at a hospital in Bhigwan, around 110km from here, owing to suspected poisoning, assault and other injuries. Later, the Bhigwan police arrested the deceased woman’s husband, Nitin Machchindra Bhosale, his neighbour, Anil Kale, and booked her seven in-laws after her mother lodged an FIR accusing them of subjecting her daughter to domestic violence. “We suspect the deceased was assaulted and forced to consume poison,” assistant inspector Jeevan Mane of Bhigwan police said. “We reached a prima facie conclusion that the husband and other in-laws slapped, kicked the deceased woman and then forced her to consume poison. Their neighbour helped them in this act,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-arrested-7-booked-for-womans-death/articleshow/80259216.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Tough to check misuse of RTI, Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tells assembly||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Though the government has taken note of widespread misuse of Right To Information Act, it is not easy to formulate clear cut guidelines on the use of the act, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. Replying to the submission in this regard by MLA A N Shamseer, he said that the government would examine what could be done to control those who are misusing the provisions of act. The chief minister said that there are individuals who repeatedly seek information multiple times under the act, those seeking information which cannot be answered accurately, and then approaching the higher authority with an appeal that the answer is lacking clarity, etc. He said that the appellate authority has been issuing orders against such individuals when it is proven that they are deliberately trying to misuse the act. There are also provisions to decline the application if the application’s mala-fide intention is proven, the chief minister said. He said that governance has become more transparent with the advent of the act, and the public has been able to get access to decisions being undertaken in the government. The act has also helped to ensure that the services reach people on time, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tough-to-check-misuse-of-rti-cm-tells-assembly/articleshow/80256558.cms||---
January 14, 2021||India||Parl panel for ‘reasonable’ curbs on OTT content||NEW DELHI: The parliamentary standing committee on information technology on Wednesday discussed the challenges of protecting creative freedom and imposing reasonable restrictions on content on Over-the-Top (OTT) platforms. The panel considered how content regulation may be achieved, considering the sheer scale of sources from which it is received and curated on different OTT platforms. Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC) chief Prasoon Joshi, appearing before the panel, defended its role as a “censor” and said filmmakers were happy to alter or “cut” content when the board brought to their notice any concerns about their content running foul of Indian laws, or if it were likely to hurt sentiments. Sources said that Joshi also told the panel that the Shyam Benegal Committee report on censorship was now largely redundant given the huge advances in technology, and the arrival on scene of OTT platforms. Sources said members also added that the Mudgal Committee report of 2013, which had advocated the need for India to move from censorship to certification, would now be more relevant. BJP MP Nishikant Dubey, however, emphasised the need for some degree of regulation, given India’s diversity and wide-ranging sensitivities. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/parl-panel-for-reasonable-curbs-on-ott-content/articleshow/80260490.cms||Swati Mathur
January 14, 2021||Pune||SII dispatches total 1.1 crore vaccine units, transportation mainly via road now||PUNE: The on-road transportation of Covishield vaccine to 48 depots in the country’s interiors began on Wednesday after 80% of the total 1.1 crore doses reached major cities by morning, a milestone which was achieved almost 30 hours after the mega dispatch kicked off from the premises of Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) around 4.30am the previous day. A senior SII official said till Wednesday evening, all the 1.1 crore doses ordered for the first phase of vaccination were cleared. “The order has been completed. The vaccines have been sent to various government depots and regional hubs,” the official said. “Now, the vaccine transportation is mostly going to happen by road. The vaccine-laden trucks have entered Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh. Besides, we are also handling the ground logistics from and to all airports. There is no information of any vaccine consignment getting damaged anywhere in the country during the transportation exercise,” Kunal Agarwal, the co-founder of the Kool-Ex Cold Chain Limited, told TOI on Wednesday. He said state governments were taking care of the transportation after arrival in their respective areas. “It is up to them (state governments), but if they approach us, we will definitely provide the logistical support,” Agarwal said. “SpiceJet shipped 111 boxes of the vaccine from Mumbai, Pune and Hyderabad to 11 cities,” the airline spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/sii-dispatches-total-1-1cr-vaccine-units-transportation-mainly-via-road-now/articleshow/80259225.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||HC asks heritage panel to look after KP maintenance||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday made it clear that the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Heritage Conservation Committee would look after the maintenance of Kasturchand Park (KP) and its precincts which are declared as Grade-I structures. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed the committee to file an affidavit informing on its plans to maintain the historic place, including restoration of damaged portion of its Chatri. The bench further told the panel to inform on difficulties it wishes to convey in the maintenance work. The HC said it would find solutions. The panel members were also told to comply with HC’s earlier directives from time to time for restoring the lost glory of KP ground. The directives came while hearing a suo motu PIL (No 45/2017) where Shreerang Bhandarkar was appointed as amicus curiae assisted by Nidhi Dayani. HC had taken a suo motu cognisance of a media report on gross misuse of historic place due to negligence of district administration, who often rent it out for commercial activities. After their visit on September 5, justices Ravi Deshpande (retired) and Pushpa Ganediwala issued a series of directives to all stakeholders for improving ground’s condition, including its levelling in consultation with experts, clearing debris, guarding entire place, removal of paver blocks for jogging track around Chatri, and deployment of guards till project completion among others. In the last hearing, the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) expressed inability to undertake restoration work of Chatri (dome) in the middle of ground, which is a heritage structure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-asks-heritage-panel-to-look-after-kp-maintenance/articleshow/80259223.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Vaccination drive to kick off with trimmed list of centres, number to be gradually scaled up to 1,000||NEW DELHI: The number of vaccination centres where the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination in Delhi will be launched on Saturday has been reduced from 89 to 75. Delhi government, however, has chalked out the plan to scale up the number of these booths to 1,000 in the days to come. While Delhi government finalised vaccination booths at 89 hospitals, of which 40 are government-run and 49 private ones, the central government asked it to reduce the number to 75, sources said. “The directions came from the central government. The number of inoculation centres in other states too has been reduced,” claimed a state government official. Of the 14 vaccination points removed, two were in public hospitals and 12 in private ones. Another official explained, “The decision on the reduction is linked with the smooth and strict implementation of the vaccination programme in the preliminary days, to keep teething troubles at a minimum. The number has been fixed at 75 in view of the preparedness of these sites.” West district has seen the vaccination centres for day one coming down from 12 to nine, the same as North-West, Central and South-East districts. When the vaccination programme is launched, the South district will have eight centres and New Delhi and South-West seven centres each. North-East remains the district with the lowest number of vaccination points on the first day with two centres. While the exercise will begin from 75 vaccination centres with one booth each, the number of vaccination locations will be privates increased to 1,000 as the inoculation of 2.2 lakh health care workers is followed by the vaccination of around 6 lakh frontline workers and 42.5 lakh Delhiites aged over 50 years and are part of the priority group. “The biggest hospitals in the capital, both public and private ones, have been chosen for day one is to ensure that everything runs like clockwork,” the official said. “While initially most centres will have one vaccination booth each, the number of booths will be eventually scaled up to around 1,000. Also, the experience gathered in the initial days at major hospitals will help when booths have to be opened at the dispensary level when more sections of the population are inoculated after the priority categories.” The number of total vaccination centres planned in South-West Delhi is the highest — 123 — as is the number of beneficiaries in the district: 5.9 lakh. Of the people in the priority category in this district, 5.4 lakh are aged over 50 years, 35,268 are frontline workers and 17,634 are healthcare workers. The North district, which has the second highest number of beneficiaries at 5.3 lakh, also will have the second highest number of centres: 110. While the number of centres planned in the 11 districts is commensurate with the number of beneficiaries, including the lowest number of centres – 65 – in North-East district, which has the lowest number of beneficiaries at 3.1 lakh, the Central district has the highest number of healthcare workers and frontline workers, 34,653 and 69,306, respectively. Starting from Saturday, the inoculation of healthcare workers is scheduled to be completed by the end of January. Frontline workers will be vaccinated by March 31 and registration I under way. The vaccination of people aged over 50 years will be completed by the end of July. Registration for this will begin later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaccination-drive-to-kick-off-with-trimmed-list-of-centres-number-to-be-gradually-scaled-up-to-1000/articleshow/80257820.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 14, 2021||Pune||Pre-vaccination consent stays must for Bharat Biotech’s ‘under-test’ Covaxin||Pune: Beneficiaries will be asked for consent before being given Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin shot. But there won’t be any such rule before a Covishield jab, made by Serum Institute.State immunization officer Dileep Patil on Wednesday said consent during phase 1 vaccinations for health workers is as per central guidelines.Earlier this month, the Indian Council of Medical Research said Covaxin — developed and made by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech — would need consent and side-effects monitoring. The Drug Controller General of India said Covaxin was approved in public interest as an abundant precaution and to have more options for vaccinations. The state has been allotted 20,000 Covaxin doses and another 9.63 lakh Covishield doses. “In the case of Covishield, consent is not required. Beneficiaries’ registration for vaccination is being considered as implied consent and willingness to take the shot,” Patil said.The Centre has created the CoWIN database to monitor dosage among healthcare workers who have signed up for vaccination.This registration step is being considered as willingness for vaccination, which remains a completely voluntary process. Pre-vaccination consent forms had sparked some controversy during the 2010 swine flu outbreak. Vivid descriptions of a side-effect from one particular swine flu vaccine had caused many healthcare workers to reject the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pre-vaccination-consent-stays-must-for-bharat-biotechs-under-test-covaxin/articleshow/80259220.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 14, 2021||Goa||‘Goa Medical College cleaning staff to get jab first, doctors in Covid care next’||PANAJI: The first batch of Covid-19 vaccines arrived in Goa early on Wednesday. The 23,500 shots (2,350 vials of ten doses each) arrived at Goa International Airport, Dabolim, by flight from Mumbai. Goa Medical College is one of the seven centres chosen for vaccination. Dean Dr S M Bandekar said that at the hospital, the first shot will be given to cleaning staff and then to doctors providing care to Covid patients. After the shot, the person will be monitored for half an hour. GMC doctors will also be watching for side effects. In the first phase, 18,700 healthcare workers will get the doseIn the first phase, 18,700 healthcare workers will get the doseThe vaccine, Covishield, has been manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, and developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford. They have been stored by the government and will be distributed to vaccination centres 24 hours prior to inoculation, chief minister Pramod Sawant said. Goa begins its vaccination drive on Saturday, with seven centres giving the jab to 100 persons each. While the original plan was top have eight centres, one of them will likely be dropped after directions from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, an official said. Victor hospital in Margao, originally in the list, has been dropped. The first phase of the vaccination will see 18,700 healthcare workers get the jab. Besides public and private HCWs, the total also includes 500 from the military and those attached to the central government, according to a health official. He said that 10,500 HCWs will get the jab first, and the others will receive theirs once the second batch of the vaccines is received. “The stock received today is not adequate to cover all 18,700 HCWs registered on the portal, as each one has to be given two doses. The second dose will be given 28 days after the first shot,” he said. The authorities have also factored in a 10% wastage while making their plans. Each centre will have an independent supervisor plus 35 health personnel. Overall monitoring will be done by the directorate of health services through senior officials from its Panaji headquarters, he said. Meanwhile, the directorate has deferred its pulse polio campaign planned for Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gmc-cleaning-staff-to-get-jab-first-docs-in-covid-care-next/articleshow/80259222.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Northeast Delhi riots: No bail to accused for father’s care||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court refused interim bail to a riot accused, who sought temporary release on the ground of his father’s ailments, observing that the father wasn’t suffering from a life-threatening disease. Sallauddin, through his counsel Arun Gaur, argued that his 65-year-old father was suffering from various ailments and on November 30, 2020, he was rushed to a hospital on complaints of vomiting blood and chest pain. It was contended that his presence was direly needed at home for there was no one to look after his ailing father. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat was urged to grant him interim relief for two months. It was, however, found that the patient was discharged on December 5, 2020 and again admitted two days later and then discharged. It also came on record through police that the applicant had a brother living in the same building as the accused’s family. The court was informed that TB was not a serious disease, and curable with some specific type of drugs that were easily available at a government hospital. The prosecution, therefore, sought dismissal of the interim bail application. The court, considering the submissions, stated that the father was hospitalised more than a month ago for a few days and was on regular treatment and medicines thereafter. “It is not a life-threatening disease nor requires hospitalisation. As per report of investigating officer, one brother of the applicant is living in the same locality and can take care of the applicant’s father,” it observed. The court further noted that the allegations against the applicant were serious in nature.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ne-riots-no-bail-to-accused-for-fathers-care/articleshow/80257832.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||No CCP poll ticket for mayor, says Panaji MLA||Panaji: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate on Wednesday said that keeping up to his statement that 80% of the candidates in his panel for the forthcoming CCP polls would be new faces, mayor Uday Madkaikar will not get renomination. In the presence of Madkaikar, Monserrate said that he has told the mayor too, that he won’t be in his panel. “I clearly said that there will be 80% new faces. Let them declare the wards first and we will have to see how reservation is done and that’s the time we will have to select the candidates. When I say new faces, I told the mayor that he can choose his son or anyone else. I’m not curtailing his political career. This is the policy I have taken,” Monserrate said. When queried about the possibility of some councillors in his panel turning rebel on being denied a nomination, Monserrate said that they have every liberty to do so. “I am not curtailing anyone’s freedom.” He said he favours holding the election on party lines. “You had ZP on party lines so why not...these are much bigger than ZP elections. Let the party know its position. The party has already shown,” he said. “I have taken the challenge upon myself for BJP to win all 30 seats,” he told reporters. Monserrate’s panel won the last CCP elections against the BJP panel, but the election was not held on party lines. Post that Monserrate won the Panaji byelections and joined the BJP. He said his target is to get all the 30 candidates elected on the BJP panel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/no-ccp-poll-ticket-for-mayor-says-panaji-mla/articleshow/80259248.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Anti-IIT stir: Bail for protesters||Panaji: Several protesters from Congress and Revolutionary Goans were granted conditional bail by the principal sessions judge North Goa on Wednesday with regards to the anti-IIT stir. They have been directed not to enter Melauli for two months and to report to the investigating officer from 10am to 12 noon for five days from January 18. The members who were granted conditional bail include Manoj Parab and Rohan Kalangutkar of Revolutionary Goans, Sankalp Amonkar, Sachin Bhagat, Dasharat Mandrekar, Ranjeetsingh Rane and Roshan Dessai from Congress.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/anti-iit-stir-bail-for-protesters/articleshow/80260028.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thane||Carpenter who often drank tea with victim held for her murder in Palghar||MUMBAI: A 37-year-old carpenter who alerted a family about the murder of the director of a co-operative credit society in Palghar was arrested. The victim had accused him of robbing cash from the society and had threatened to file a police case. Vinod Trivedi assaulted Sadhana Chowdhary (57), director of Shri Ashtavinayak cooperative credit society with a hammer on Saturday. Vinod’s brother runs English-speaking classes on the society premises. He would visit Chowdhary for a cup of tea every evening. On Saturday, when Chowdhary did not return to her Satpati home till late, her family phoned Vinod. He pretended to have gone to the second floor office of Om Shanti Deva Apartment and informed the family and police about the murder. Police said for few months Vinod had stolen over Rs80,000 from Chowdhary’s cabin. Chowdhary, who handled the loan recovery department, had found cash missing. She had questioned staff, who pleaded ignorance. Police said Chowdhary would count the money and update account books while having tea with Vinod. Police said when Chowdhary would go to the washroom he would pull out some notes. Vinod told police that Chowdhary recently questioned him about the missing cash. Fearing that Chowdhary would file a case against him, he decided to kill her on Saturday. Vinod was closely monitoring the investigation. When the autopsy confirmed the death was caused by metal, they questioned Vinod. He confessed to killing her with a hammer. The murder weapon has been seized. Vinod returned to his brother’s institute after the murder. He did not rob the Rs50,000 in the drawer, nor did he tamper with her cellphone, police said. He was booked for murder and remanded to police custody for a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/carpenter-who-often-drank-tea-with-victim-held-for-her-murder/articleshow/80260013.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 14, 2021||Chennai||Harvest that’s sown seeds of hope||CHENNAI: A year ago, during Pongal, majority of the city’s population had probably only heard of the Covid-19 outbreak in China. There were widely shared WhatsApp messages which claimed that the novel coronavirus would not survive the Chennai heat and the government representatives made their share of gaffes in predicting the possibility of the virus affecting the country. A nationwide lockdown announced in mid-March took the country by a rude surprise. Thousands of people were stranded, businesses got shut and several thousands lost their lives. The grim statistics is not done yet. In 2020, the pandemic struck a blow so hard that except for Pongal, every other festival was low-key. The year 2021 too began on a subdued note as the government prohibited New Year parties and gatherings. The news of country’s biggest vaccine rollout on Tuesday, days before the harvest festival Pongal, has made citizens see a ray of hope. “Thursday (January 14), Pongal day is also the first day of the month Thai in Tamil Calendar. In Tamil, there is a saying Thai Pirandhal Vazhi Pirakkum (When Thai dawns, a path will appear). Let us hope that the news of the vaccine rollout, just ahead of the Thai month, is not a mere coincidence,” said P Supriya Asha, a software engineer residing in the city. The shipment of Serum Institute of India’s Covishield vaccine set out from Pune to other parts of India on Tuesday morning, kickstarting the biggest rollout of a vaccine in the country. Overall, 55 lakh of the total 1.1 crore doses were dispatched from the SII premises till Tuesday. The state had already started inching towards normalcy even before the news of the vaccine rollout became official. The steady decrease in the number of Covid cases reported each day has given hope, say residents. As on Wednesday, the state had 6,653 active cases with only 667 people tested positive. Chennai reported an addition of 192 positive cases. Contrast this with Diwali last year when the state was recording more than 1,600 new cases a day and the city around 500 infections. On Wednesday, theatres and multiplexes across the city opened to brisk business with fans of actor Vijay storming the theatres since the wee hours as shows began as early as 4am in select screens. The state government had received flak for earlier allowing 100 % occupancy in theatres, which it revoked after a rap from the Union government. While places of attraction like Children’s park, zoo, Mamallapuram will remain shut for public from till January 17, the state government will operate more than 16,000 special buses for people working in the city to get back to their native place. “Things are slowly getting back to normal. We cannot remain locked inside our houses until the vaccine becomes a reality. With safety precautions like masks and physical distancing, we have to move on,” said P Vimal Shankar, a banker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/harvest-thats-sown-seeds-of-hope/articleshow/80257809.cms||Srikkanth D
January 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Rape and mysterious death of two sisters in Walayar: Judicial report indicts cops, prosecutors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The P K Haneefa judicial commission that probed into the rape and mysterious death of two sisters in Walayar has found serious lapses in the police investigation. The commission report, that was tabled in the assembly on Wednesday, found serious lapses by the police and public prosecutors in dealing the case properly and judiciously. The report found that the lapses by sub-inspector P C Chacko are unpardonable. The report concluded that the police ignored the fact that the younger sister, aged nine who was found dead 52 days after the elder sister was found dead, was unsafe. The commission also found that another investigating officer Sojan made lapses in recording statements in the case. Based on the report, government had decided to take action against the police officers. While Chacko has been permanently taken off from any investigation hereafter, the state police chief has been entrusted to examine whether there were lapses by other officers. The government also agreed with the commission’s recommendation that those prosecutors who committed lapses will not be appointed prosecutors hereafter. The government will also impart two-month training for public prosecutors prior to their appointment and a panel of advocates will also be prepared before selecting them. The government also decided to consult senior lawyers before submitting the final report hereafter, to ensure that reports submitted in court are fool-proof. The one-member judicial commission led by former district judge P K Haneefa had submitted its report to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in April last year. The commission was appointed after four of the five accused in the Walayar case were acquitted by the court. The commission had held nine sittings in Thrissur, Aluva, Thiruvananthapuram and Palakkad. The two girls were found dead in January and March 2017. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/judicial-report-indicts-cops-prosecutors/articleshow/80256588.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Rights panel notice to police, govt over violations at Melauli||PANAJI: The Goa Human Rights Commission has issued a notice and called for reports from the superintendent of police North Goa, police inspector Valpoi police station and deputy collector Sattari in a complaint filed over violation of human rights of tribals by police in Melauli. The complainant, national RTI awardee Rajan Ghate has called for the appointment of an inquiry committee to investigate into the alleged act of a police inspector stomping on women and has sought appropriate action. Ghate is seeking immediate stoppage of the demarcation of the area for the setting up of an IIT and allotting Class I ownership to all farmers who are cultivating their land for years. He has appealed for shifting of the IIT project to a suitable barren land away from Melauli in consultation with villagers. “The project lacks transparency. It is being thrust upon locals without consulting them. The Melauli villagers’ protest is against the misappropriation of fertile cultivable land and their livelihood. They have been cultivating the land since Portuguese era and this has passed down generations,” he stated in his complaint, adding that the government unilaterally conveyed the property of the villagers to IIT without any public notice or hearing. He asked for the mutation of survey records be set aside immediately. “Communities of farmers belong to scheduled tribes. The Goa Commission for Scheduled Castes and Tribes and department of tribal welfare are also responsible for having neglected the said issue and to protect tribal rights and empower them. Melauli villagers had protested against the deputy collector’s office for eradicating their names from Form I & XIV pertaining to the land which was proposed for the IIT project,” he said, adding that the land records do not reveal the names of actual cultivators and occupants of the lands.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/rights-panel-notice-to-police-govt-over-violations-at-melauli/articleshow/80259270.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||I-T dept claims Rs 5 crore seized by cops, Telangana HC says pay back||HYDERABAD: The Telangana high court on Wednesday made the income tax (I-T) department pay a heavy price after its officials falsely tried to take credit for seizing Rs 5 crore when the seizure was made by the state police. To make matters worse, the cash seized from officials of a Gujarat-based firm, was accounted for. The bench of Justice M S Ramachandra Rao and Justice T Amarnath Goud ordered the I-T department to pay Rs 20,000 to the Gujarat company and also return the Rs 5 crore with 12% interest within four weeks. The bench pronounced the order after hearing two writ petitions by Ahmedabad-based firm, Mectec, and its employee Vipul Patel. According to Vedula Srinivas, counsel for the company, it all began with task force policemen stopping a car on August 23, 2019, when it entered Telangana and seized the cash. The police wrote to the principal director of the income tax department in Hyderabad on August 26 informing him that they handed over cash, the vehicle and the men to the deputy director of income tax. But income tax officials showed the seizure as their own effort. They also created a record to show that they made a panchanama at the time of seizure. But they did not mention where the search was conducted or where the panchnama was made. The petitioner’s counsel said that the income tax department’s search warrant was issued on August 28, when police officials had handed over the cash to I-T sleuths two days earlier. In fact, the deputy director of income tax had even given an acknowledgement dated August 27, Srinivas said. Mectec owners Neena and Kamalesh Shah buy agricultural land and produce. They also handle large sums of cash. According to the counsel, the seized Rs 5 crore was given to Vipul to make deals in Telangana. The I-T department insisted that Vipul was not a Mectec employee. It cited Vipul’s statement to the cops that he worked for Umeshchandra and Co. If this was to be true, the judges said, then Umeshchandra would have come forward to claim the cash. The fact that, except Mectec, no one came forward to claim the amount also weighed in with the petitioners. “You cannot retain the seized cash in anticipation of an unknown third party claimant to come and claim this money in future,” the bench said and ordered refund of the money with interest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/i-t-dept-claims-rs-5-cr-seized-by-cops-hc-says-pay-back/articleshow/80259299.cms||Sagar Kumar Mutha
January 14, 2021||Pune||Vax administration centres brought down to 39 in PMR||Pune: The number of vaccination centres in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) has been brought down to 39 after the Maharashtra government decided to vaccinate up to 60% of the health care workforce against Covid-19 matching the vaccine allocation in its disposal and the two-dose regimen.Prior to the allocation of doses, a total of 55 hospitals were identified as vaccination centres in the PMR.Of the 39 centres, eight hospital-cum-vaccination centres each are in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits. The remaining 23 hospital-cum-vaccination centres have been identified in the rural parts of Pune.The PMR has received 1.11 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine. About 1.1 lakh health care workers are involved in private and public hospitals in the PMR. Of them, 86,708 have so far registered for vaccination.Going by the two-dose regimen of the vaccination given four weeks apart, the PMR needs 1,73,416 vaccine doses to vaccinate 86,708 healthcare workers who have registered for the vaccination so far. But the PMR has received 1.11 lakh doses. The current allocation can cover only 55,500 of the 86,708 registered health care workers with the two-dose regimen.The eight hospitals-cum-vaccination centres in the PMC limits are Sassoon General Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Hospital, Sutar Hospital, Kamala Nehru Hospital, Deenanath Mangeshkar Hosptial, Nobel Hospital, Ruby Hall and Bharati Hospital.Of the eight hospitals, four were private, three were PMC-run and one was state government-run hospital, said Rubal Agarwal, additional commissioner of the PMC. A total of 800 health care workers are scheduled to get the vaccine on the first day.The PCMC received around 15,000 vaccine doses in the early hours on Wednesday. The vaccination sites in the PMC limits comprise seven civic hospitals — Yamunanagar Hospital, New Jijamata Hospital, New Bhosari Hospital, Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital, Pimple Nilakh Dispensary, Kasarwadi Dispensary and Talera hospital — and the Union government’s Employee’s State Insurance Corporation Hospital.Pimpri Chinchwad civic chief Shravan Hardikar, told TOI, “Around 17,000 health care workers have registered with us for the vaccination. The vaccination drive will start from January 16 with each venue inoculating 100 beneficiaries, meaning a total of 800 beneficiaries will be inoculated on the first day.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-administration-centres-brought-down-to-39-in-pmr/articleshow/80259262.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 14, 2021||Bareilly||Bhojpura nagar panchayat chairperson’s husband booked for ‘triple-talaq’ & ‘rape bid’ on wife||Bareilly: The husband of BJP’s Bhojpur nagar panchayat chairperson and three others were booked for allegedly assaulting his wife, attempt to rape and pronouncing triple-talaq on her complaint.Rehmat Jahan alleged that her husband Shafi Ahmed, former chairman of Bhojpur panchayat, along with his brothers and aides beat her up, and then Ahmed pronounced triple-talaq as she refused to approve his corrupt practices. Bhojpur police station SHO Manoj Kumar Singh said, following Jahan’s complaint, police booked four people, including her husband, under sections 376/511 (attempt to rape), 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty), 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and under the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Act.In her complaint, Jahan alleged that her husband — who has been living separately for around 10 months — his brother and two other people barged into her house on Monday night and misbehaved with her, assaulted her and even attempted to rape her. Later, her husband pronounced triple-talaq, she alleged.“My husband would always try to take advantage of my position for making money through corrupt practices and wanted me to act as a puppet. As I protested and criticised him, he turned against me,” alleged Jahan. Moradabad superintendent of police (rural) Vidya Sagar said, “The woman sustained injuries and was admitted to the district hospital. A probe was ordered.”Meanwhile, rejecting all the allegations levelled by Jahan as “false”, Ahmed accused her of implicating him, his brother and others. “She is trying to frame us by levelling false charges. We have been living separately for long. Moreover, she is herself facing an inquiry in a case of corruption by Moradabad district administration.”======||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/bhojpura-nagar-panchayat-chairpersons-husband-booked-for-triple-talaq-rape-bid-on-wife/articleshow/80254353.cms||Maria Khan
January 14, 2021||Pune||Pune region sees 685 cases, 592 recoveries in 24-hour span||PUNE: The daily Covid-19 cases exceeded recoveries again in the Pune Metropolitan Region on Wednesday, with the addition of 685 patients as against 592 discharges in the region in the last 24 hours. With this, the progressive count of patients in PMR has risen above 3.70 lakh, while its total recoveries increased above 3.56 lakh. Seven more patients succumbed to the infection in PMR on Wednesday, taking its toll to 8,929 so far. Of the total cases, the Pune municipal areas added 314, followed by the rural areas (156) and the PCMC limits (163). Among the new recoveries, the PMC limits recorded 246, followed by the rural areas (145) and the PCMC limits (123). The recoveries in councils stood at 69 and nine in cantonments on Wednesday. With the addition of more cases as against recoveries, the active caseload in PMR increased to 5,576. These included 1,949 patients in hospitals and 3,627 in home isolation. As per PMC data, the municipal areas had 287 patients taking treatment on oxygen beds on Wednesday evening. The daily report of PMC stated that number of critical patients admitted in hospitals across municipal areas stood at 212. Out of seven deaths in PMR, the PMC areas recorded four, while the areas added two. Along with Covid-19 infection, other health problems like high blood pressure and heart problems were responsible for the death among patients, stated the death reports issued by civic, district and private hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/region-sees-685-cases-592-recoveries-in-24-hour-span/articleshow/80259254.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: BJP MP summoned over ‘false affidavit’||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has summoned BJP MP Hans Raj Hans after taking cognisance of police chargesheet against him for alleged offence of “penalty for filing false affidavit” and directed him to appear on January 18. “Cognisance of offence under Section 125(A) Representation of People Act is taken. Notice be issued to the investigating officer to file a report regarding the progress of investigation and for the purpose of clarification,” said additional chief metropolitan magistrate Dharmender Singh. Section 125(A) of Representation of the People Act, 1951 deals with the offence of “penalty for filing false affidavit” and is punishable with a term which may extend to six months, or with fine, or both. Following a court order on September 2, 2019, police had registered a case against Hans on September 10 on a complaint by Congress candidate from northwest constituency, Rajesh Lilothia, who had accused him of filing a “false affidavit” during the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. Thereafter, in December, Kanjhawala police had filed a chargesheet alleging Hans provided “ambiguous information” about his educational qualification and tax liabilities of his and his family members.  The court on Tuesday, directed the IO to file whatever relevant material collected in the form of a supplementary chargesheet.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bjp-mp-summoned-over-false-affidavit/articleshow/80257847.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Two head constables arrested for bribery||NEW DELHI: The CBI has arrested two head constables of Delhi Police in two bribery cases. In the first case, a head constable posted at Connaught Place police station and two others have been arrested. The Central Bureau of Investigation filed an FIR after receiving a complaint from a businessman alleging that a policeman had demanded a bribe from him to let him run his shop by the roadside in CP. A trap was laid and a man was arrested while allegedly accepting Rs 25,000 on behalf of head constable Ajeet Sharma from the complainant. Sharma and another man were arrested on Tuesday night. The two men have been identified as Rakesh Gupta and Lala. Their call records are being scanned to find out the duration of their association with the cop. All three have been remanded in judicial custody, a CBI spokesperson said. The agency is probing if any other cop was involved. Sharma has been arrested under Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, Delhi Police said. Eish Singh, DCP of Connaught Place area, said, “Delhi Police has a policy of zero tolerance towards such acts. The head constable was placed under suspension immediately and strict departmental action has been initiated.” In the second case, a head constable at Bhajanpura police station in northeast Delhi has been arrested for allegedly accepting Rs 25,000 from a person. The complainant alleged Sanjiv Kumar had demanded the bribe to favour him in a theft case. Kumar has been sent to judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/two-head-constables-arrested-for-bribery/articleshow/80257857.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Officials nab five with 320kg ganja||Hyderabad: Excise officials in Sangareddy nabbed five persons with 320 kg of ganja. The ganja was being transported in a car and a mini-truck. The officials nabbed the accused at Kamkole toll gate. Officials suspect the ganja was brought to the city from Visakhapatnam. They suspect the ganja was in transit when it was seized.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/officials-nab-five-with-320kg-ganja/articleshow/80259287.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Guv Koshyari to attend temple donation drive in Nagpur on Jan 15||Nagpur: The donation drive for construction of Ram temple at Ayodhya will be flagged off in Nagpur on January 15 in the presence of state governor Bhagatsingh Koshyari. Hindu spiritual leader Acharya Swami Avdheshanand Giri will also fly down in a chartered jet to Nagpur to attend the function. The Ram Janmabhoomi Teerthkshetra Nyaas — the trust formed to build the temple, will be holding a monthlong coupon-based donation drive throughout the country to collect funds for the temple. The campaign is being supported by Hindutva organizations including the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Koshyari is a RSS veteran. A press release issued through a RSS functionary says the function to mark beginning of the donation drive will be held at Poddareshwar Ram temple in the city. The press note also says Avdheshanand Giri will reach Nagpur in his jet on the morning of January 15. The donation drive is a door-to-door campaign in which people will be contacted to buy coupons for building the temple. Coupons are available in denominations of Rs1,000, Rs100 and Rs10. The idea behind having coupons for even Rs10 is to get donations from the poorest of the poor, said volunteers engaged in this campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/guv-koshyari-to-attend-temple-donation-drive-in-nagpur-on-jan-15/articleshow/80257892.cms||Shishir Arya
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Class X and XII students can go back to school from Monday in Delhi||NEW DELHI: After being closed for 10 months, schools will finally reopen on January 18 for students of classes X and XII who are appearing for the Central Board of Secondary Education exams in May. With this batch of potential examinees not having attended a single physical class during the academic year, schools have welcomed the government’s move to restart classes since it boosts the students’ confidence. Parents, however, are divided in their view about the decision. For the schools, the first step before the resumption of classes is to get the consent of the parents. Private schools in the city will be sending them Google forms to collate their opinions. The principals of government schools believe that most parents will be amenable to sending their children to schools. Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group of Schools, said, “We have the earlier views of the parents on the issue. But since then, many things have changed. So, we will send them the new details. Re-opening of the schools is required to help boost students’ self-confidence.” Jyoti Arora, principal, Mount Abu Public School, thought 70% of students would end up attending physical classes. “I will now work on the schedule on the basis of the responses we get from parents. For now, we are thinking of dividing the students into groups and calling different groups on particular days,” said Arora. It was necessary for students to return to school before the actual exams, said Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road. “They need physical interaction for the practical exams in March,” she said. “But we will have not more than 10 students per class. And we will continue blended learning, that is online and physical, for this batch.” Government school principals though think online teaching should now be ceased for classes X and XII students. “Once they start coming to school, I don't think we will need to continue with the online classes,” said one of them. “I will have no problems in my school even if we call all the students of classes X and XII at one time. We have sufficient space and teachers.” Most schools reported completion of the exam syllabi. The period in school before the exams will mostly be to help students clear their doubts and acquaint them with the changed pattern of the question papers. Due to the disruption caused by Covid-19, the entire syllabus was reduced by a third and question papers have more objective questions, source-based questions and application-based problems. The Directorate of Education has asked schools to allow students “adequate practice in solving question papers issued by CBSE for board exams”. It also directed that internal assessment be completed in the period. The schools have been asked to ensure that all the assessments are completed before the board examinations begin so that students can sit for the exam without stress. Class attendance, however, isn't compulsory. For Class XII, schools have been advised to carry out the pre-board tests between March 20 and April 15, and between April 1 and 15 for Class X. However, the private schools have been given the freedom to follow the same schedule or prepare their own. The institutions will have to observe all Covid precautions like sanitisation of the building, checking body temperature of students on entering school and maintenance of social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/class-x-and-xii-students-can-go-back-to-school-from-monday/articleshow/80257880.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 14, 2021||Goa||IMA decides to participate in vaccine drive||Panaji: The Indian Medical Association, Goa, along with the IMA headquarters has decided to actively take part in the Covid vaccination programme. The IMA has requested its 3.5 lakh members in 1,800 local branches all over India to voluntarily come out to get vaccinated first to show that the vaccines are safe and efficacious. The association has stated that all infrastructure facilities of IMA branches across the country will be made available voluntarily for this vaccination programme and all its members will voluntarily serve with technical and supportive manpower. The association has stated that it believes that vaccination is important not only to protect the individual, but also to bring herd immunity thereby raising the hope to control the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ima-decides-to-participate-in-vaccine-drive/articleshow/80260056.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Bagbazar slum gutted in fire, hundreds homeless||KOLKATA: A major fire broke out at a slum in north Kolkata’s Bagbazar area on Wednesday evening, triggering panic and chaos in the entire belt. The fire, fuelled by wood used in the construction of two-storied shanties and fanned by a stiff breeze, also damaged a portion of the Udbodhan Bhawan of Ramakrishna Mission, close to Mayer Bari. Several LPG cylinders exploded during the slum blaze, making firefighting extremely hazardous. The firemen, aided by locals and monks of Ramakrishna Mission, who lent a helping hand to the operation, managed to bring the blaze, which broke out around 6.55pm, under control after several hours and saved Mayer Bari, house of Sarada Devi. But scores of shanties were reduced to cinders and hundreds were left homeless. At least 25 fire tenders were deployed to flight the blaze that engulfed the Haazri Bustee on Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue beside Bagbazar Women’s College near Chitpore Lock Gate Bridge. While the slum dwellers evacuated the homes even before the fire tenders reached the spot, residents from adjoining houses, including two multi-storied buildings and monks at both Udbodhan Bhawan and Mayer Bari were later evacuated by firemen. There were no reports of casualty till Wednesday night. A fireman was injured during the operation. Firhad Hakim, chairman of the board of administrators at KMC, visited the spot. He said the civic body would rebuild shelters for those rendered homeless. A high-rise located next to Mayer Bari was also damaged. Ujjal Banerjee, who lives on the third floor of the building with his elderly parents, said they had to evacuate after cracks developed on the walls. Irate over the “late” arrival of fire tenders, slum residents clashed with police. Even journalists covering the incident were not spared. The violence led to the deployment of RAF and Specialized Force. Later, senior fire official admitted that the response time was longer due to traffic snarls on the way. Traffic on CR Avenue was affected. Peak office hour traffic had to be diverted from Girish Park via Vivekananda Road-APC Road and Belgachhia, leading to traffic snarls around Belgachhia and Shyambazar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bagbazar-slum-gutted-in-fire-hundreds-homeless/articleshow/80257851.cms||Subhojyoti Kanjilal
January 14, 2021||Pune||Vax for public could take 6 mths to a year: Maha officials||Pune: The time taken to collate data of the frontline workers — largely policemen and staff of departments involved in Covid-19 management — will be key to completion of phase-2 of the vaccination drive. It will also determine when the third phase, meant for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, can be rolled out. As the country gears up for the rollout of the vaccination this Saturday, senior state health department officials said it could take 6-7 months to a year for the three phases to be completed and the vaccine be available for the general public. Officials said the supply of vaccines from the manufacturers is also critical, although they are optimistic that more vaccines will be given emergency authorisation in the coming months.State principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that the timeline should not be the focus, as the government has clearly indicated that the priority group vaccination drive of healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 and those with co-morbid conditions will take 7-8 months or even a year. “Timelines for each group would all depend on the vaccine supply and the number of beneficiaries uploaded for each state,” Vyas said. He, however, said that health workers will be covered in three months and frontline workers could be covered in the next 5-6 months.State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that while the health department had carried out the enrolment of government and private doctors for the first phase, different departments would be engaged in identifying the frontline workers. The respective department heads would have to upload the data on the CoWin app. “Once the data is uploaded and we are intimated about it, we can make the arrangements,” Patil said.The data enrolment for frontline workers can be done till January 25. The Union government would then assess the beneficiaries for each state and make the necessary allocations. During a recent daily briefing of the health and family welfare, it was stated that the vaccination drive in the country could take a year or more. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul told TOI that the drive would take at least 7-8 months. However, he reiterated that time frame should not be the focus here. “Effectively carrying out the process without hiccups across the country is important,” he said.With more vaccines expected later this year, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, who is a member of the national task force, had indicated earlier that vaccines would be available for the common public in the market only at the end of 2021 or even early 2022.“The country will have 6-7 vaccines and with enough data, a better, long-lasting vaccine could also come up. Over 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over and the most effective one would be selected suitable to the age group and comorbidities” he had said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-for-public-could-take-6-mths-to-a-year-maha-officials/articleshow/80259306.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Pune||Worker makes Rs 5L extortion call to dentist, lands in net||Pune: A construction site worker was arrested on Wednesday from Sayyednagar in Hadapsar on the charge of making a threat call on Monday afternoon to a woman dentist (33) from Bibvewadi and demanding Rs5 lakh from her. The Market Yard police on Tuesday had registered a case under Section 387 (Putting a person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit extortion) against the caller. He had told the dentist that he was a goon from Jharkhand. Senior inspector Duryodhan Pawar and sub-inspector Santosh Shinde tracked the caller to Sayyednagar in Hadapsar late on Tuesday night and arrested him during the wee hours of Wednesday using technical details of his cellphone. Shinde said, “The caller has been identified as Rakesh Patil (27). After consuming some liquor, he just dialled a random number late on Monday afternoon. The number belonged to the woman dentist based at Bibvewadi. She runs her own clinic. For him, it was just a mischief, but his phone call made the life miserable for the woman and her family members for two days.” According to the FIR, the caller posed as one Qureshi from Jharkhand. “He informed the woman that her husband had given him supari (contract money) to kill her and her sons. The caller then demanded Rs5 lakh from the woman for not killing her children. He threatened to kill her children if the money was not paid,” the FIR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/worker-makes-rs-5l-extortion-call-to-dentist-lands-in-net/articleshow/80259308.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Cops nab burglar, seize 200g gold||Hyderabad: Task Force police nabbed a burglar, Habeeb Azmath, who was involved in three burglary cases. The police seized 200 grams of gold, an auto rickshaw and Rs 3,000 from him. He was previously involved in 30 cases. The accused was found to commit offences only during early morning, when the victims went out to offer prayers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-burglar-seize-200g-gold/articleshow/80259307.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ammonia levels spike further, 2 plants at half capacity||NEW DELHI: With ammonia levels in the Yamuna rising alarmingly—ten times above the maximum treatable limit— Delhi Jal Board has approached the Supreme Court to intervene in the matter. Two of the DJB’s key water treatment plants were operating at 50% capacity on Wednesday, which affected water supply in some areas. DJB vice-chairman Raghav Chadha claimed that ammonia levels were rising in the Yamuna because of Haryana releasing untreated industrial effluents and hence, the jal board was forced to move the apex court against the Haryana government. DJB’s repeated appeals to the neighbouring state had yielded no results, he said. “The spike in ammonia levels is making the river water unfit to be supplied to residents of Delhi. The Supreme Court has now issued a notice to the Haryana government and listed the matter for hearing next week,” Chadha said. He added: “The water that comes from Haryana has huge levels of ammonia, which has a deep impact on Delhi’s water production and treatment capacity. DJB’s treatment plants at Wazirabad and Chandrawal are operating at only 50% capacity due to increased levels of ammonia.” Chadha further said that Delhi was dependent on neighbouring states for supply of water. “The water coming from Haryana has pollutants beyond permissible limits. For human consumption, permissible levels of ammonia in water should be between 0.5 and 0.75 ppm. However, because of the release of untreated effluents by the Haryana government, the levels of ammonia have increased to 10ppm in the Yamuna.” DJB has the operational capacity to treat ammonia levels up to 0.9 ppm. Chetan Sharma, general secretary of confederation of NCR RWAs, claimed that disruption in water supply had become a regular affair in the city, either due to high level of ammonia in the Yamuna or fault in pipelines and maintenance work. “DJB has to take drastic actions. Even on the auspicious day of Lohri, people are forced to manage without normal water supplies,” he added. RWAs in many areas like GK-2 and Vasant Kunj, however, reported no water-related complaints on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ammonia-levels-spike-further-2-plants-at-half-capacity/articleshow/80257913.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Flavoured tobacco seized||Nashik: The Nashik Road police have arrested two men and have recovered banned flavoured tobacco products worth Rs 11.2 lakh from them. The arrested suspects have been identified as Sharad Shinde and Ramvilas Lohiya. Based on a tip-off, the police conducted a raid at a place along the Subhash Road in the Nashik Road area on Tuesday around 7 am and found the duo carrying the banned tobacco products. The men have been arrested under various sections of the IPC as well as under sections of the Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006. The state government has banned gutkha and flavoured tobacco in Maharashtra because of health hazards.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/flavoured-tobacco-seized/articleshow/80370857.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Government offices to resume working on Saturdays||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has restored all Saturdays as working days for government offices, except those days which have otherwise been declared as holidays. The order in this regard was issued by additional chief secretary (general administration) Satyajeet Rajan on Wednesday. The order will be effective from January 16. The government had earlier declared all Saturdays as holidays for government offices, as part of several modifications in the functioning of the offices when the Covid-19 spread was at its peak. Initially, the government offices in the state were completely shut down or were functioning with minimum employees for two-and-a-half months since March 23. The government had promoted work from home for government staff. Later, when minor relaxations were offered on movement, the government officials were asked to report to the offices in their native places. On June 8 last year, except those in the containment zones, all government offices, public sector undertakings, semi-governmental organizations and cooperative institutions had begun their normal functioning. However, it was said that until further orders are issued, Saturdays would continue to remain holidays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/govt-offices-to-resume-working-on-saturdays/articleshow/80256597.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Students, parents divided over move||NEW DELHI: Delhi government announced on Wednesday its decision to reopen schools for students of classes X and XII from January 18, leaving students and parents uncertain about the step. Many parents, in fact, asserted they would not send their children to classes and argued that the government could have waited for some clarity on the vaccination process before deciding on the resumption of classes. Manoj Sharma, parent of a Delhi Public School Class XII student, asked, “What was the need for the hurry to reopen schools? When the vaccination drive is going to begin from January 16, wouldn’t it have been wise to have waited for some time?” Sharma is definite he will not send his child to school. Another parent wondered, “Will the government take responsibility if even one student or teacher tests positive for Covid-19? And what will happen if most parents are unwilling to sign a consent form?” Students too are undecided due to definite information from their schools. Darshan Ram, a student of Bluebells School International, said he would not be attending school if attendance wasn't compulsory. “We haven’t received any official news from school on whether classes will begin on Monday. But if physical attendance is optional, I won’t take the risk of going to school right now. I would rather wait and see how the school plans things and then decide if it is safe to go for classes,” confided Ram. Ram’s parents too are reluctant to see him go for physical classes. “Since I live in Noida, my parents are unwilling to take the risk of sending me to south Delhi because I will then be exposed to public transport. Unless attendance is compulsory, they are hesitant about my going to school,” the youngster added. Junaid, however, was relieved to hear of classes resuming. The Class XII student of a Delhi government school in Madanpur Khadar in southeast Delhi explained, “There are many things that I haven’t understood in the online classes. I was worried about sitting for the board exams without having attended physical classes. I am waiting for our school to send us details about the reopening,” said Junaid. Anu, who had to share mobile phones with her brothers to be able to participate in online classes, too is relieved. “I was able to attend classes only over the weekend when my brothers did not have their classes. I have lots of doubts that need clearing,” said Anu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/students-parents-divided-over-move/articleshow/80257906.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||BMC panel meet adjourned over vaccination drive||MUMBAI: All political parties came together to adjourn the standing committee meeting on Wednesday in protest against the civic administration for not taking them into confidence about Covid-19 vaccination of health workers starting Saturday. Ruling party member and Shiv Sena corporator Vishakha Raut moved the adjournment proposal which was supported by other parties. Members alleged they were unaware of the ongoing process and the information they had was from the media. “It is mandatory for the administration to inform the standing committee and corporators about decisions related to the pandemic or vaccination. They have not informed us about the vaccination process and it is difficult for us to explain when citizens ask us,” said Raut. Congress corporator and opposition leader in BMC, Ravi Raja too said they were kept in the dark about the drive. “It’s rare for the civic administration not to discuss an issue of public importance with the general body or the standing committee. We are clueless about the drive, ” he said. Sources said during the meeting, corporators demanded that additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani, who is in charge of the health department, should make a presentation to the standing committee. Kakani was on a field visit to vaccination centres since morning along with the mayor, Shiv Sena corporator, Kishori Pednekar. Additional municipal commissioner, Ashwini Bhide, was present at the meeting and tried to explain the vaccination process, but members were not convinced and demanded an adjournment. BJP corporator and standing committee member, Bhalchandra Shirsat, said, “We wanted a presentation on the vaccination drive from senior officials, but it did not happen, hence we decided to adjourn the meeting in protest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-panel-meet-adjourned-over-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80260059.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||20% rise in rice output in state: FTCCI||Hyderabad: The Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI) said rice production in Telangana has increased by more than 20% on a year-on-year basis. In a report, it said rice production was 1.3 crore tonnes for 2019-20, a big jump from 62.5 lakh tonnes in 2017-18, 51.7 lakh tonnes in 2016-17 and 29.6 lakh tonnes in 2015-16. The report titled ‘Rice exports from Telangana: Opportunities and way forward’ said the state accounted for 63% of FCI total paddy procurement across the country. “With land under irrigation increasing, rice production is going to increase further in the coming years,” the FTCCI said in the report. But, the state’s share in total rice exports from India does not present a good picture. The state exported 10,425 tonnes during 2019-20, accounting for just 0.21% of the total exports of 5.08 million tonnes at national level.  The report also said the state can follow the Taiwan model where the government buys paddy and auctions for the exporters to buy at market price. “Along with several other suggestions, we are submitting the report to the state government,” said B Vinod Kumar, vice chairman, Telangana State Planning Board. Exporters are facing problems of high transportation cost, terminal handling charges, higher pesticide residue in rice and lack of infrastructure facilities||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/20-rise-in-rice-output-in-state-ftcci/articleshow/80257908.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Over 50% preschools across India shut shop; enrolments down by 80%||Hyderabad: With parents unwilling to let their youngest children out of their sights in the Covid-19 pandemic, about 55% of preschools across India have shut shop in the past few months. Industry sources told TOI that every leading chain in the business closed between 30 and 40 play schools – both in metro cities and smaller towns. Every metro has roughly 1,000 private preschools. The numbers range between 300 and 500 in tier two and three cities. Most of them have seen admissions across drop by 80% in 2020-21. Experts fear this could mark the beginning of the end for the preschool concept in the country. “Parents, who over a decade, were gradually convinced about the importance of early learning, might want to skip it now. Also, with many losing their jobs and at least one parent at home, they might not want to spend on pre-schooling any more,” said Swati Popat Vats, president of Early Childhood Association, a national not-for-profit group advocating early learning. Driven by this apprehension, J Suresh Kumar finally decided to call it quits in September 2020. His preschool franchise in Hyderabad’s upscale Nallagandla area had been quite a hit in 2019-20. “But while we had hoped that our enrolments would jump substantially in 2020-21, everything came crashing down. I lost lakhs and it doesn’t seem viable to restart,” he said. The scene is much the same with franchises across Mumbai, Pune, Bengaluru and Chennai, say preschool chains. Suhas Bedekar, director, The Learning Curve India, said he had to close about 35 centres of the 100 across six cities. Enrolments slipping from 6,000 (pre-Covid) to 1,500 in 2020-21. “Now, with the K-12 segment slowly opening up, we are looking to the government to issue some directive in our favour as well. For now, we have hit pause on admissions for 2021-22,” Bedekar said. But parents such as Keerthi Jain aren’t sure about taking the plunge yet. This Pune-based IT professional has, instead, decided to go the home-tutoring way for her three-year-olds and directly aim for a regular school once the twins turn five. Those like Sajid Ali – despite his chain Little Millennium Education Pvt Ltd closing down 45 centres (of 800 across 150 cities) recently – are still optimistic. “The preschool concept is here to stay. We need to innovate to stay afloat, and that is happening,” the vice-president of the chain said. According to him, at least 20% parents are waiting impatiently to send their kids to play schools, the moment they resume operations. “Virtual schooling systems for preschoolers need to be highly interactive and fun-based in order for children to engage. Teachers need to be trained specifically to conduct online classes in order to make them engaging for children; parents need to be supported with resources to manage their children’s learning. All these factors will increase the relevance of virtual pre-schooling,” said Prajodh Rajan, co-founder & CEO, EuroKids.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-50-preschools-across-india-shut-shop-enrolments-down-by-80/articleshow/80259313.cms||Sudipta Sengupta
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Mayer Bari escapes flames, monks evacuated||Kolkata: Mayer Bari, the house of Sarada Devi, had a narrow escape from the fire that broke out at a slum in Bagbazar on Wednesday. But a part of the Udbodhan Bhawan — a property owned by Ramakrishna Mission — reportedly caught fire. Before the fire could spread and cause a major damage to the property, some essential items such as computers and other electronic gadgets were brought out of the building. Though the historic building, where Ma Sarada lived for years, was saved, the fire brigade personnel and the state administration did not take chances and decided to evacuate the building. Accordingly, Ramakrishna Mission monks, who stay at Mayer Bari, were requested to come out of the building. They responded promptly and cooperated with the fire brigade personnel. Ramakrishna Math and Mission sources said that they needed to ascertain the damage caused by the fire to Udbodhan building, which houses the publication’s office and a printing press. “Now it is the time to douse the flames and protect the historic buildings of Mayer Bari and Udbodhan along with other residential buildings in the locality. Later, we may need to cooperate with the RKM monks in ascertaining the damage that the fire may have caused to Udbodhan properties,” said Bapi Ghosh, a local ward coordinator who was present at the site. Udbodhan is the only Bengali publication of Ramakrishna Math and Mission started by Swami Vivekananda in January 1899. Over the years it grew into a publishing house and remained one of the leading publishers which has immensely contributed in spreading the ideologies of Ramakrishna Vivekananda and Ma Sarada. After the fire and the site’s proximity to Mayer Bari, RKM authorities were flooded with calls from devotees and well-wishers across the globe inquiring about the condition of the building. The civic body would examine any damage to Udbodhan building and take necessary steps, if needed, said a Kolkata Municipal Corporation source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mayer-bari-escapes-flames-monks-evacuated/articleshow/80257905.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||First bird deaths in Pune district after avian flu outbreak||PUNE: Thirteen poultry birds and nine crows were found dead on Tuesday and Wednesday in the district, its first instance of unexplained mortality since the government confirmed outbreak of avian flu in Maharashtra earlier this week. Eight samples from Pune district are still under investigation to conclusively prove if the deaths were due to bird flu or New Castle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, the mortality rate in a flock of birds is very high. But the mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the case of the two places in question in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three out of a flock of 50 poultry birds were found dead. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples sent for testing to conclude anything.” Data from the animal husbandry department showed that the dead bird samples from Pune district were from Daund, Mulshi, Khed and Haveli. The poultry birds, found dead in Daund and Mulshi, had earlier shown symptoms like diarrhoea, watery stool and dullness. Bhandara was another district where bird deaths were reported for the first time since reports of avian influenza came in. Seventy-nine poultry birds found dead there on Wednesday. The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22. The animal husbandry department has registered 24 bird deaths in Nashik district between Sunday and Wednesday and the samples have been sent to Pune. The Aurangabad civic body has appointed two en to drive away birds visiting the Siddharth Garden and Zoo premises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/first-bird-deaths-in-district-after-avian-flu-outbreak/articleshow/80259312.cms||Neha Madaan
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||58% dent in Telangana’s grant-in-aid for 2015-19||HYDERABAD: Telangana has received the lowest grant-in-aid from the Centre between 2015 and 2019. Non-profit body PRS Legislative Research’s report ‘State of State Finances’, which is based on Reserve Bank of India (RBI)’s data on budget documents of various states, shows that Telangana had suffered a dent of 58% in grant-in-aid transfers from the Union government. Though this was the highest shortfall among states in terms of grant-in-aid, Telangana, however, topped the list when it comes to total tax revenue as percentage of gross state domestic product (GSDP). The state’s tax was 7.4% of GSDP during the period. Shortfall is difference between budget estimates of grant-in-aid and what actually came from the Centre. In short, the state had expected higher grant-in-aid and even put it in the budget document as one of the revenue sources, but did not get that much. After Telangana, Assam suffered the maximum dent in grant-in-aid at 42%, followed by Tripura, 41%. Despite the dip in grant-in-aid, the state tax collection was high followed by Uttar Pradesh (7.2% of GSDP) and Maharashtra (6.8%) of tax revenue between 2015-2019 It might appear that these states along with Telangana might be collecting high taxes, but the report said it actually was an indication of the robust economy. “A higher ratio indicates a better ability to harvest taxes from the economic activities in the state. The average own tax-GSDP ratio of states during 2015-16 and 2020-21 has been 6.3%,” the non-profit body said. Speaking to TOI on the report, finance minister T Harish Rao said higher tax percentage of GSDP and dent in shortfall in the grant-in-aid were interlinked. “It means that our idea of pumping more funds into the market is working out well and the state is able to generate taxes, but at the same time some states are not being given grant-in-aid as expected. Southern states are giving more tax to the Centre and receive less central funds,” he said. Experts also say this was a curious case. “Taxes may not be directly levied on people to penalise them, but it might be due to robust exports like IT, where the state is getting good taxes, ” Krishna Reddy Chittedi, assistant professor, School of Economics, University of Hyderabad, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/58-dent-in-ts-grant-in-aid-for-2015-19/articleshow/80257912.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Dads in sunset years, sons seek to shine in BJP||HYDERABAD: Is the BJP in Telangana hit by ‘son-stroke’ and facing the problem of plenty? It appears so, going by the large number of young leaders gunning for positions in the party as well as its youth wing, the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha (BJYM). Sons of leaders of Congress, TDP and TRS, who have joined the BJP in the last two years and more so, during last month’s GHMC elections, are now frontrunners for various positions in the party and its youth wing. Vikram Goud, son of former minister Mukesh Goud, T Veerender Goud, son of former minister Devender Goud, Ravi Kumar Yadav, son of ex-MLA Bhikshapathi Yadav, AP Mithun Reddy, son of ex-MP AP Jithender Reddy, Vijaya Lakshmi, daughter of Himachal Pradesh governor Bandaru Dattatreya, Sankineni Varun, son of former MLA Sankineni Venkateswara Rao, T Ashish Goud, son of ex-MLA T Nandeeshwar Goud, and Vikram Reddy, son of ex-minister E Peddi Reddy, are some of them eyeing a bigger role in the party. Interestingly, most of them are aged around 40. A BJP leader, who has been working in the party from grassroots level, said: “Some of the young leaders who joined the party are trying hard for positions in the youth wing. We do not want dynasty politics in Telangana BJP. “Those with criminal cases should not be elevated in “the party.” Vikram Goud joined the BJP on November 27, 2020, ahead of GHMC polls from Congress. Veerender Goud had jumped the fence in October 2019. He had contested on a TDP ticket from Uppal in the 2018 assembly polls and lost the battle. BJP official spokesperson K Karuna Sagar said: “We are in the mode of rapid expansion in the country to end the Congress culture. “We cannot stop as to whom we should induct into the party as our aim is ‘Congress-mukt Bharat’.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dads-in-sunset-yrs-sons-seek-to-shine-in-bjp/articleshow/80257904.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 14, 2021||World||Trump's wall of GOP support breaks during impeachment vote||The unbreakable wall of Republican support that encouraged and enabled Donald Trump's norm-shattering presidency cracked on Wednesday. A group of 10 House Republicans joined Democrats to impeach Trump for inciting a deadly riot at the US Capitol last week. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky., hasn't ruled out convicting Trump during a trial later this month, giving fellow Republicans cover if they chose that option. The vast majority of House Republicans stood by Trump during the impeachment vote. But in a sign of the president's weakening grip on the party, even some of those who opposed impeachment condemned Trump's behavior and blamed him for sparking the insurrection. "The president bears responsibility for Wednesday's attack on Congress by mob rioters," said House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., who has been a staunch Trump ally. It's a dramatic turn of events for a president who has enjoyed virtually unyielding loyalty from his party and was expected to play a key role in shaping the GOP's future. But the impeachment vote demonstrated how challenging the coming months may be for Republicans. While some are clearly eager to move into a post-Trump era, there's still a large block that will stand with him even after he fueled a riot. Many House Republicans downplayed the significance of the insurrection and Trump's role, drawing false comparisons between the deadly storming of the Capitol by a largely white mob and isolated incidents of looting and violence related to civil rights protests last summer. "The left in America has incited far more violence than the right," said Rep. Matt Gaetz, a Florida Republican who was among the 197 who opposed impeachment. Still, the stunning nature of the mob violence shook many lawmakers. Rep. Liz Cheney, the No. 3 Republican in the House, gave rank-and-file conservatives the green light to abandon Trump in a scathing statement on the eve of the vote. "There has never been a greater betrayal by a president of the United States of his office and his oath to the Constitution," she said. More ominously for Trump, McConnell believes Trump committed impeachable offenses and considers Democrats' impeachment drive an opportunity to reduce the divisive, chaotic president's hold on the GOP, a Republican strategist told The Associated Press on Wednesday. In a note to his fellow Republican senators on Wednesday, McConnell confirmed that he had not ruled out voting to convict him in the upcoming Senate trial, which will spill into Biden's presidency. "While the press has been full of speculation, I have not made a final decision on how I will vote and I intend to listen to the legal arguments when they are presented to the Senate," McConnell said. McConnell also called major Republican donors this weekend to gauge their thinking about Trump and was adamantly told that Trump had clearly crossed a line. McConnell told them he was through with Trump, said the strategist, who demanded anonymity to describe McConnell's conversations. The New York Times first reported McConnell's views on impeachment on Tuesday. A growing collection of corporations, many of them reliably Republican donors, have promised to stop sending political donations to any of the 147 Republicans who perpetuated Trump's false claims of election fraud by voting to reject Biden's victory last week. The president's remaining allies warn that Republicans who cross him publicly risk a conservative backlash in their next elections. "Public and private polling shows Republican grassroots voters strongly oppose impeachment," said Jason Miller, a Trump senior adviser. "Any Republican senator or congressman voting for impeachment will be held accountable in their next primary election." It's unclear whether the chaos in Washington represents an existential threat to the party, but it almost certainly threatens to undermine the GOP's short-term political goals. History suggests that Republicans, as the minority party in Washington, should regain control of the House or Senate in 2022. Trump made no public appearances on Wednesday. But since last week's deadly attack, he has publicly and privately denied any responsibility for the insurrection. During a brief trip to the US-Mexico border on Tuesday, he offered those who support impeachment an ominous warning: "Be careful what you wish for." Shortly before the House's final vote, he issued a written statement calling on his supporters not to engage in any more violence in the rounds of new protests planned for the coming days. "I call on ALL Americans to help ease tensions and calm tempers," Trump wrote. At the same time, a collection of ambitious Republicans are trying to position themselves to run for the White House in 2024. They are also contending with Trump's legacy. One of them, Maryland Gov. Larry Hogan, reminded reporters on Tuesday that he's condemned the Trump presidency from the very beginning. "I've been in the same place I've been for the whole four years. A lot of people have just changed their position," Hogan said, while vowing not to leave the GOP. "I don't want to leave the party and let these people who did a hostile takeover four years ago take over." Despite Hogan's confidence, he is far less popular among Trump's loyal base a group likely to hold great sway in the selection of the party's next presidential nominee than the likes of Sens. Ted Cruz of Texas and Josh Hawley of Missouri, two other 2024 prospects who voted to reject Biden's victory last week, even after the uprising. "Republican leaders do not know how to move forward," Republican pollster Frank Luntz said. "Everybody's afraid that Donald Trump will tell people to come after them, but they also realize they're losing the center of America. They're trapped."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/trumps-wall-of-gop-support-breaks-during-impeachment-vote/articleshow/80260509.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||No e-pass for Kolkata Metro ride from Monday||KOLKATA: From next Monday, Metro will operate almost like it did in the pre-Covid days — without e-passes. Once again, trains will run at 6-minute frequencies during peak hours, with 12 more daily services added and taking the total to 240. On Wednesday, Metro Railway issued the formal notification in this regard. “We shall keep adding services till we reach our pre-pandemic services of 288. This will prevent crowding.” said an official. TOI reported last Thursday that the state transport department had informed Ideation Technology, developer of the e-pass, that its contract will not be extended beyond Friday (January 15). Weekends are already exempted from the purview of e-passes. So, Metro Railway will start its operation without e-passes from the following week (January 18). Metro Railway general manager Manoj Joshi told TOI, “In our assessment, we can now completely do without e-passes. The Covid situation has improved. Our ridership is only 25% of the pre-pandemic times. We are not issuing tokens. Schools and colleges haven’t reopened. So, we can continue to follow distancing norms inside trains. At the same time, commuters, especially those living in the suburbs, who have stayed away from the Metro because they would find downloading digital passes cumbersome, may now be encouraged to take the Metro.” The colour-coded e-passes, generated from a URL and booked in advance to access the north-south line, were key to controlling crowd when Metro resumed services after lockdown. But the carrier has been easing e-pass rules gradually, allowing senior citizens, women and children to board without them. Since January 4, e-pass hours were reduced to two in the morning and two in the evening on weekdays.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-e-pass-for-metro-ride-from-monday/articleshow/80257917.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Bandi Sanjay Kumar flays caning of party workers||HYDERABAD: A day after BJP workers were lathicharged in Jangaon over the removal of a flexi, state party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar on Wednesday said his party is focused on seeing the end of the ruling TRS in Telangana. Lambasting police for swinging lathis at the BJP workers, Sanjay demanded suspension of cops and municipal officials for ordering removal of banners celebrating Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. Sanjay also sought to know from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao as to what was the big deal about tying up the flexis. He said the CM does not even come out of his farmhouse. Sanjay, who took part in a protest rally in Jangaon, later visited the government hospital where some of the injured workers were undergoing treatment. Tension prevailed in the town on Tuesday when BJP activists picked up a heated argument with the authorities over the removal of flexis. This has led to a war of words between TRS and BJP leaders. Jangaon TRS MLA M Yadigiri Reddy said the BJP instead of making an issue out of flexis should focus on people’s issues. He said the officials followed the procedures and removed the banners. “There is nothing personal or political as alleged by the BJP in this,” he said. Meanwhile, a probe was ordered into Tuesday’s lathichage by cops. In a surprising development, TRS Nizamabad MLA B Ganesh Gupta held a meeting with BJP councillors in Nizamabad and said that he had discussed with them on the development of the municipal corporation. “We will work together irrespective of our political differences,” he said. Sanjay sought to know from chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao as to what was the big deal about tying up the flexis. Meanwhile, a probe was ordered into Tuesday’s lathichage by cops||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanjay-flays-caningof-party-workers/articleshow/80257926.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 14, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala assembly elections: Nyay scheme to be focus of UDF manifesto||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Nyay scheme, introduced by Rahul Gandhi in the 2019 Lok Sabha poll manifesto of Congress, will be the highlight of UDF’s manifesto for the upcoming assembly poll. It promises to provide Rs 6,000 a month to all BPL families as universal basic income. As part of the scheme Rs 72,000 will be remitted into the bank accounts of each and every BPL family. Its inclusion is an attempt by UDF to counter LDF’s initiatives, including social-welfare pension and free ration kits. While releasing the draft UDF manifesto, here, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said the ultimate aim of a UDF government will be to wipe out poverty in the state. Kerala will become the first state in the country to implement the Nyay scheme, he said. Benny Behannan MP, convener of the UDF manifesto committee, said it will be a people’s manifesto prepared by the people. “For this we have decided to collect the opinions of ordinary people. Sittings will be held in all districts to listen to suggestions from public,” he said. The manifesto also promises to improve the NREGS scheme in the state by increasing man-days and wages. NREGS was a flagship programme of the UPA government at the Centre and UDF is committed to carrying it forward, he said. “Our manifesto will be more welfare-oriented and will focus on the development of the state. We assure a transparent and corruption-free government,’’ said Behannan. The agriculture sector is facing a severe crisis. So we will ensure schemes to improve output in the sector. Minimum support price (MSP) for rubber farmers will be implemented and it will be fixed at Rs 250, said Chennithala. UDF also plans to set up ‘no-bill hospitals’ which will provide free treatment to the poor. More scholarships for students, increased income for daily-wage earners and a hike in welfare pension are among the other promises. “This is just a draft report offering pointers to what our focus will be. The final manifesto will be prepared after collecting the opinion of the people,” said Chennithala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/nyay-scheme-to-be-focus-of-udf-manifesto/articleshow/80256645.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Pune||Dismissed cop, 4 others held under MCOCA||Pune: The crime branch of the city police on Tuesday arrested five men, including a dismissed policeman, under the stringent Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA). The arrested have been identified as former police naik Parvez Jamadar (39), land developers Vishal Dhore (36) and Balaji Lakade (27) and their employees Aslam Pathan (24) and Sachin Dhiwar (31). They will be in police custody till January 20. City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta on Wednesday said,“The five suspects, all members of an organised crime syndicate, were on the run after they were booked under MCOCA. We conducted searches in various parts of Maharashtra for tracing them but in vain. We then constituted a special police team of crime branch for taking action against them. The team worked on certain clues and took them into custody from their hideout at Nandurbar in Dhule district.” Gupta said the two suspects (an RTI activist and a local journalist) would be arrested soon.  In all, 11 suspects have been arrested in an FIR relating to extortion and other charges registered with the Hadapsar police on September 5, 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dismissed-cop-4-others-held-under-mcoca/articleshow/80259317.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Around 400 birds die at Telangana's Dichpally poultry farm||HYDERABAD: Around 400 chicken birds died in a poultry farm at Yanampally in Dichpally in the last two days. Officials swung into action and collected the blood samples of the dead birds. They were sent to Hyderabad for testing. District animal husbandry joint director Dr Bharat said people should not draw conclusions about poultry being affected by avian influenza. Proprietor of the poultry farm, M Ramchander Goud, found the dead birds and immediately informed the officials. Animal husbandry minister T Srinivas Yadav and officials said there has been no outbreak of avian influenza in Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/around-400-birds-die-at-dichpally-poultry-farm/articleshow/80257914.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 14, 2021||Pune||Pune: Criminal arrested on charge of assaulting, robbing youth||PUNE: The Kondhwa police on Wednesday arrested a criminal and detained a 15-year-old boy on the charge of brutally assaulting an 18-year-old youth with an iron rod and stealing his scooter after robbing his cellphone and cash, collectively valued at Rs35,800, near Green Hills School in Undri on Monday night. Sub-inspector Prabhakar Kapure from the Kondhwa police station said that Deepak Lankhe (32) was arrested after the victim, Akhilesh Kumar, identified his photograph. “We have detained his 15-year-old nephew and booked his brother after an investigation established their involvement in the robbery. Kumar works with a laundry shop on NIBM Road. He sustained injuries to his hands and legs.” Kumar, in his FIR, stated that he was returning to the laundry shop after delivering clothes to a customer, when Lankhe and his nephew stepped in front of his vehicle and one of the suspects, armed with an iron rod, attacked Kumar while two others beat him. The complainant, on sensing trouble, abandoned the scooter and tried to run away, but the trio chased and caught him. They brutally attacked him, stole his vehicle, robbed his cellphone and cash, and fled the spot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/criminal-arrested-on-charge-of-assaulting-robbing-youth/articleshow/80259325.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||After Delhi Jal Board plea, SC orders fresh river clean-up||NEW DELHI: Undeterred by its 23-year failed efforts to clean the polluted Yamuna river which saw nearly Rs 5,000 crore literally going down the drain, the Supreme Court on Wednesday decided to launch a fresh bid to reinvigorate the lifeline of the national capital as well as other polluted rivers across the country. This decision to take suo motu cognisance of the polluted Yamuna river was triggered by a petition filed by Delhi Jal Board (DJB) which complained to the SC that unless Haryana takes urgent measures to set right its faulty Sewage Treatment Plants (STPs) and Common Effluent Treatment Plants (CETPs) along the river, the quality of water received at Haryana-Delhi meeting points would continue to remain unfit for supply to residents even after treatment. DJB warned of an impending serious drinking water crisis for Delhi residents. DJB, through senior advocate Meenakshi Arora, told a bench of Chief Justice S A Bobde and Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian that the level of ammonia in Yamuna when the river enters Delhi sometimes reaches 12 ppm whereas the treatment plants can handle only up to a level of 0.9 ppm ammonia. “If we chlorinate the water, then along with ammonia, the water could become carcinogenic,” she said. While embarking on the task, the SC forgot to note its own futile effort in monitoring the executives of Delhi, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, three of which cumulatively spent nearly Rs 5,000 crore without achieving any significant improvement in the water quality of the river that is dead in stretches in Delhi. Tired of solving the unwieldy problem, a bench of then CJI J S Khehar and Justice D Y Chandrachud on April 24, 2017 transferred the case to the National Green Tribunal. Holding that pollution-free water forms a basic right under the constitutional framework and a welfare state is bound to ensure the same, the bench issued notices to Haryana, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh and Himachal as well as ministries of environment, forest and climate change and housing and urban development besides the Central Pollution Control Board, while seeking their response by January 19. “We direct the CPCB to submit a report identifying municipalities along the river Yamuna, which have not installed STPs as per the requirement or have gaps in ensuring that the sewage is not discharged untreated into the river. CPCB may also highlight any other source of prominent contamination within the limits of Municipalities. It shall also submit a priority-wise list of municipalities, river stretches adjacent to which have been found to be most polluted,” it said. An alarmed SC decided to undertake the gigantic task of cleaning all polluted rivers, but decided to start with Yamuna. In a seven-page order it said, “The mandate of law is clear as far as setting up of Sewage Treatment Plants and stoppage of sewage effluents in surface water are concerned, but it is often found, as highlighted by this petition, that either the sewage is not treated through a plant before being discharged or the treatment plants are not functional or incapacitated.” “We find that in addition to the issue raised by present petition, it will be appropriate to take suo motu cognisance with regard to the issue of contamination of rivers by sewage effluents and ensure that the mandate is implemented by municipalities as far as discharge of sewage into rivers is concerned. We direct registration of suo motu writ petition (civil) with regard to ‘remediation of polluted rivers’. We deem it appropriate at this stage to start with the issue of contamination of river Yamuna,” the bench said and appointed Arora as amicus curiae. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/after-djb-plea-sc-orders-fresh-river-clean-up/articleshow/80257951.cms||Dhananjay Mahapatra
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Non-renewal of lease deals costs GHMC Rs 10 crore a year||HYDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is incurring losses in crores as it has not been renewing the lease agreements of government properties since years. As per the estimates by GHMC officials, around Rs 75 crore per year can be generated if the lease agreements are renewed, however, records reveal that the GHMC estate wing was unable to collect as much as Rs 10 crore per year due to non-renewal of lease agreements since a decade. In some places, original lease holders have rented out the GHMC estate properties to third parties who are running the business instead of the original tenant/beneficiary. Nexus between GHMC estate officers/staffers resulting in corruption, political interference and legal tussles are also the reasons for rental agreements not being renewed and action not being initiated against lease holders who rented out properties owned by the GHMC. For instance, a 500 sq ft area at Monda Market in Secunderabad is leased out for around Rs 70,000 to Rs 1.1 lakh per month, but several people who are running businesses in shops owned by the GHMC pay less than Rs 5,000. Further, before the markets were renovated, the price tenants used to pay in some places was less than Rs 1,000 in prime locations. Secunderabad, Goshamahal, Abids and Charminar are some of the places where GHMC owns properties. There are 101 lands, 19 commercial complexes and 23 markets owned by the GHMC. In December 2020, civic officials served notices to 2,100 property owners but action was not initiated and irregularities in the estate wing were not addressed. GHMC officials said that they have taken measures to generate revenue.“We geo-tagged the estate properties, but due Covid-19 the collections were low. We have taken measures to increase revenue, the onus now lies on officials at circle and zonal level to ensure revenue generation,” said M Krishna Reddy, GHMC assistant estate officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/non-renewal-of-lease-deals-costs-ghmc-rs-10cr-a-year/articleshow/80257932.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Teenagers’ suicide highlights need for friendly parenting’||Ludhiana: Over the years Ludhiana city has witnessed many suicides committed by minor girls and boys. In almost all cases these teenagers were reportedly found depressed over some issue or had strained relations in the family. Experts believe that there is a need for parents to adapt to the new and friendly ways of parenting. Besides, there was also a need for more effective counselling and suicide prevention helplines, particularly for teenagers. On Tuesday, the suicide of a 17-year-old Class XII student at Government Girl Senior Secondary School, Gill village, left everyone shocked. The girl had hanged herself from a ceiling fan inside the school, using her dupatta. According to police, the girl has left a suicide note in which she stated that her family wants her to get married after schooling, however, she wanted to pursue studies and make a good career. The girl could not take it and took the extreme step. On December 13, allegedly harassed and humiliated by the neighbours, a mother-daughter duo of Haibowla area had committed suicide by hanging themselves from a ceiling fans of the house in Raghubir Park, Haibowal, on Saturday night. While the mother, 30-year-old, died on the spot, her 14-year-old daughter was rushed to hospital, where she died the next day. In this case the police had booked a neighbour of the family and her friend, who is a fruit vendor. The latter had allegedly sent some objectionable messages to the 14-year-old girl on Facebook about a month before the incident. A complaint against him was made to the police, but later on they had reached a compromise. Thereafter, the man had stopped coming to the house of the woman. But on the night of December 13, the vendor and his wife had come to the neighbours’ house. When the mother objected to it the accused humiliated her and her daughter in front of everyone, following which they took the extreme step. In Haibowal suicide case, not only the teenage girl, but her mother also could not face the humiliation and chose to end their lives. In another incident reported on March 31, 2019, a 14-year-old attempted suicide by consuming phenyl in Dugri, who was allegedly harassed by her father and step mother. However, the girl was saved after the FIR was lodged against the accused duo. The stepmother had provoked the father to beat up the girl, following which the girl took the extreme step. On March 6, 2018, a 16-year-old boy of Jeevan Nagar of Moti Nagar had allegedly committed suicide by hanging self in his house following the pressure of his relatives to marry a minor girl whom he did not like. Moreover, after getting the news of his suicide, the minor girl also jumped off the second floor of her house, however, she survived with several injuries. Dr Anshu Gupta, a psychiatrist, said, “Teenagers are too sensitive to handle stress and relationship issues. In addition, when they don’t get a communication channel to share anything or feel their parents are not friendly, they build up everything in their mind and take the extreme step. It is high time that the elder members leave traditional parenting as children these days are too sensitive. Parents have to listen to their children and create a friendly environment at home.” Further, Dr Gupta said, “For the children whose parents are not open minded or not educated enough to give a friendly environment, the administration or the health department should come up with a free suicide prevention helpline number. In majority of the foreign countries, they have suicide prevention helpline numbers.” “Besides, it is time to add the stress handling subject in the school and college curriculum.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/teenagers-suicide-highlights-need-for-friendly-parenting/articleshow/80256685.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 14, 2021||Pune||Avian flu: Pune retailers, suppliers say daily business down by 75-80%||PUNE: The outbreak of avian flu in Maharashtra has hit the poultry industry hard with retailers and wholesale suppliers of chicken in the city claiming a 75%-80% drop in daily business. “My daily expense, which includes workers’ wages, power and shop rent, is about Rs2,500. Since Wednesday morning till 2pm, I sold only two kg of chicken. My usual collection on a day is about Rs15,000,” said Rajesh Shinde, who runs a shop in Bibwewadi. “I got only three customers in the past two days and sold less than five kg of chicken.The total loss of business since the past week is already in some thousands of rupee,” said Poonam Sonwane, who runs a retail shop in Pimpri. Vijay More, head of Amir Chicken suppliers, said, “This is a peak season for us and all poultry units run to their full capacity. Lifting birds on time is necessary, otherwise the farmers will keep on investing in rearing chicken. There has been no demand in the past three days. On Wednesday, we supplied nine tonnes of chicken in the city as against our daily quota of 25-30 tonnes.” Ali Sheikh, who owns a small eatery along Kondhwa Road, said. “The demand since the past few days has gone drastically down, to two-three orders a day from 335-340 orders.” The bird flu scare has also hit people living on their own in the city. Stul Karal, an IT professional sharing a one bedroom flat in Vimannagar with his friends, said, “Preparing a simple chicken curry for a meal is the easiest option being single and busy at work. However, this sudden outbreak of bird flu in the state has made life difficult for us.” Ravindra Joshi, also a bachelor living with a friend in Kondhwa, said, “It’s easy to make a quick breakfast or dinner with eggs or chicken. We have, however, read that if properly cooked, bird flu will not pose any threat.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/retailers-suppliers-say-daily-biz-down-by-75-80/articleshow/80259316.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Anxious wait for govt staff over retirement age||HYDERABAD: Several government employees are anxious over the number of years more they would get to continue in the government service following the recent announcement by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to enhance the retirement age. The chief minister is likely to take a final call on increasing the age of superannuation anytime after the Covid-19 vaccine rollout on January 16. The employees are keeping their fingers crossed as there are different ages of retirement being followed in the state government at present. KCR had enhanced the retirement age of senior doctors in teaching hospitals in the state from 58 to 65 years. However, when the CM increased the retirement age of TSRTC employees, it was restricted to 60 years. The age of superannuation for the IAS and IPS officers under whom the government employees work in the state is 60 and same is the case for all the other central government employees. The retirement age for group-IV employees of the state government too is 60 years. However, KCR had promised to enhance the retirement age of all the state government employees from 58 to 61 years in the TRS election manifesto for December 2018 assembly polls. This retirement age is a different benchmark than all the existing ages of superannuation among various categories of employees in the state. A majority of the employees said the CM should keep his election promise and fix the retirement age at not less than 61. However, the others say the government should extend the retirement age up to 65 years. “Where will the government put so many experienced hands to carry out state administration and implement schemes and projects. The twin benefit of increasing the retirement age is retaining the experienced workforce and also saving thousands of crores of rupees every year by not having to give gratuity, pension and other retirement benefits,” said a senior employee. Telangana Non-Gazetted Officers Association president M Rajender told TOI that the joint action committee (JAC) of various employees’ associations and unions is expecting the CM to announce a new retirement age by month-end. “We expect to meet chief secretary Somesh-Kumar-led high-level committee and also KCR to discuss the percentage of salary hike (fitment) and retirement age enhancement in the second last week of this month,” Rajender said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/anxious-wait-for-govt-staff-over-retirement-age/articleshow/80257915.cms||Roushan Ali
January 14, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: In matters of life & death, portal adds to woes of thousands||NEW DELHI: Thousands of cases are pending on the municipal corporations’ birth-death certificate portal, causing inconvenience to Delhiites. Several councillors have raised the issue in the committees, pointing out that the portal, launched to help residents access services from home, has instead increased their woes. Glitches in OTP generation, lack of flexibility with registered mobile numbers and difficulty in finding locations are making the process cumbersome, forcing people to make several rounds of zonal offices. The corporations have earlier come across similar problems on their other service portals. According to the available data, more than 8,795 applications were pending with South Delhi Municipal Corporation alone on Thursday. Similarly, the north and east corporations have thousands of cases due. According to the SDMC data, 2,150 cases were pending on Thursday in Central zone, 1,300 in South, 2,675 in West and 2,670 in Najafgarh zone. In SDMC’s last standing committee meeting, the leader of the House, Narendra Chawla, had said more than 25,000 cases were pending in the three corporations. Councillors of both BJP and the opposition parties have demanded that the portal should be developed on the line of a similar facility being run by New Delhi Municipal Council. If a neighbour or relative has provided his phone number at the hospital during a child birth, the new process demands that the birth certificate can be generated only through that mobile number, pointed out Chawla. The same number has to be used even for modifying any information later, he added. For generating a death certificate, too, only the number used at the time of emergency can be used for obtaining it, said a councillor. “This will lead to disputes in future, too,” Chawla said. Often there are disputes within families and siblings are not willing to share OTPs with each other, said another councillor. Councillors also reported that the problems in terms of complexity of forms and unavailability of all locations as options were also causing problems. The standing committee has directed public health department officials to rectify the process based on the inputs by next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-matters-of-life-death-portal-adds-to-woes-of-thousands/articleshow/80275837.cms||Paras Singh
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||‘Pass resolution against farm laws’||Hyderabad: CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka urged chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to request the governor to convene a special session of the assembly to pass a resolution against the new farm laws passed by the central government. “Notwithstanding SC interim verdict on farm laws, we as farmers’ well-wishers, should go ahead with Telangana state legislature resolution opposing farm laws and demanding its repeal forthwith,” he said in a letter to the CM. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pass-resolution-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80257946.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||MVA government may lift liquor ban in Chandrapur, sets up panel||MUMBAI: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government may reverse the previous Devendra Fadnavis government’s 2015 liquor ban in Chandrapur district. The state has set up a 13-member high level committee to study the social and economic impact of the liquor ban in the district and to take into consideration views of social organisations and people’s representatives on the issue. Social activists from Chandrapur district, though, called the move “partisan”, saying liquor is banned in Wardha and Gadchiroli too.  It is said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, also guardian minister of Chandrapur, is not in favour of the ban. An official said the issue was discussed at a meeting held in September 2020, under the chairmanship of excise minister Dilip Walse-Patil and attended by home minister Anil Deshmukh and Wadettiwar. It was decided a committee would be set up and submit a report to the state after a comprehensive study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mva-govt-may-lift-liquor-ban-in-chandrapur-sets-up-panel/articleshow/80259371.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Private school owners question security in govt schools||Ludhiana: A day after a Class XII student of the Government Senior Secondary School for Girls, Gill village, committed suicide by hanging herself from a ceiling fan in the biology laboratory of the school, situated on the first floor, owners of private schools and counsellors of the city have questioned on security and counselling system in government schools. SK Chawla, district president of Punjab Private School Association, said, “This is unfortunate. There are indeed a few places where the security cannot be checked 24x7. But the government which is imposing so many strictness on private schools should make the government schools follow norms. They too should look after the infrastructure and manpower in government schools. The school authorities should be responsible for hiring watchmen and sweepers and they should be accountable. There are a lot of loopholes in the government schools functioning, even if they are focussing on making these smart schools, but there is a lack of students’ security. They should give personal attention to every student and government schools should become role model for private schools.” Thakur Anand, senior vice-president, Joint Action Committee, Punjab, said, “If school authorities don't get to know about the student who hid herself in the lab, then it is the carelessness of the school authorities. In all private schools two peons visit classrooms to check whether the students have not forgotten anything in class, but here the peon didn’t check carefully. Also, these days students are getting very emotional, sensitive and feel depressed very soon. These days it is very difficult to handle students in schools and counselling is the only way. Students should be treated in a friendly manner to know the situation they are going through.” On the contrary, a principal of government school said, “The education department has already focused too much on the safety and security of school students and almost all schools are equipped with CCTV cameras for the security of the schools and students. Gill school incident is unfortunate. All government schools have guidance counselling cells and one of the teachers is the counsellor in every school.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/private-school-owners-question-security-in-govt-schools/articleshow/80256708.cms||Mehak Jain
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Exams must be conducted both online & offline: Parents||Hyderabad: Even as the state announced that physical classes for classes 9 and above will start from February 1, parents said that examinations should be conducted in both online and offline mode. They said that parents who do not wish to send their children to school amid the pandemic should be allowed to appear for exams in the online mode. “My daughter is in class 9 and I don’t want to send her to school even to appear for examinations as I don’t want to risk her life,” said Rachana, a parent, adding that schools should opt for a blended approach for this academic year. A few parents said that at this point in time, it doesn’t matter if children are sent to school or not.“Most of the schools have already completed the syllabus. They are conducting an online revision of subjects. So, I feel it doesn’t make any difference whether or not students are attending school or not. Even the practice exams or pre-boards can be conducted online,” said Kalyan A, whose child is in class 12. As per the guidelines released by the state government, schools can conduct physical classes for students of Class 9 and above from February 1. Although the schedule for the Class 10 exam has not been released yet, the state made it clear that every child who is willing to write the relevant exam should be allowed to do so without insisting on minimum attendance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/exams-must-be-conducted-both-online-offline-parents/articleshow/80257955.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Don’t demolish mosques for road widening: TSWB||HYDERABAD: Telangana State Waqf Board (TSWB) chairman Mohammed Saleem on Wednesday appealed to national highway authorities not to demolish any mosque or graveyard for widening roads. At a meeting attended by the police, revenue, and national highway officials, Saleem asked the authorities not to register any Waqf property in the name of individuals. “Once the property belongs to Waqf it will always remain the same. It cannot be changed or mortgaged. Telangana government has already issued GO 15 to halt registration of Waqf lands and TSWB has sent the list of Waqf properties to all district collectors and revenue authorities requesting them not to register these properties in the name of individuals. These properties are dedicated to God,” Saleem said, adding that the Waqf board is taking steps to protect its properties. “Waqf board is taking all necessary steps to protect its properties. We will ensure the removal of all encroachments and will do the needful to cancel registrations,” he added. The meeting was attended by D Prakash Reddy, DCP, Shamshabad, Dharma Reddy, executive engineer, R&B, officials of the national highway authority and Waqf officers Akbar Nizamuddin and Nisar Hussain Hyde Agha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/dont-demolish-mosques-for-road-widening-tswb/articleshow/80257947.cms||Omar bin Taher
January 14, 2021||Delhi||HC rap for 3 corpns over no cashless hosp care for retired staff||New Delhi: Delhi High Court on Wednesday rapped the three municipal corporations for taking cashless medical facility subscriptions from their retired employees when the civic bodies have no contract with any hospital to provide the same, saying it amounted to cheating and criminal breach of trust. A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jyoti Singh was also unhappy that the corporations were not paying the pensions on time. “After taking a subscription (premium) from retired employees, how can you say a cashless facility is not available? How can you stop the pensions? We will stop the salaries of your officers,” an irked bench said. “If you are taking subscriptions and not providing cashless facilities because you do not have any active contract with any hospital, then it amounts to criminal breach of trust. If you have no active contract, then why take the subscription? From December 2020 you are taking Rs 78,000 as subscription when you have no active contract. It amounts to cheating,” the bench pointed out, noting that as it is retired persons face a lot of difficulties in getting bills reimbursed. Seeking a reply, the court issued notice to the three corporations on a PIL by the Akhil Dilli Prathmik Shikshak Sangh, a teachers body, alleging inaction on part of the civic bodies in providing cashless medical treatment to their retired teachers and other employees. The court also demanded an affidavit indicating till which month of 2020 the civic bodies had cleared medical bills for reimbursement submitted by the pensioners and listed the matter for hearing on January 22. Of the three corporations, only South Delhi Municipal Corporation said that it was providing a cashless facility to its retired employees. The PIL claimed that due to failure of the corporations to pay bills of the approved/empanelled hospitals, retired employees have been facing extreme difficulties in getting medical treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-rap-for-3-corpns-over-no-cashless-hosp-care-for-retired-staff/articleshow/80257992.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen declared ex-parte by dept to benefit most from OTS||Ludhiana: Punjab government’s decision to bring One-Time Settlement (OTS) Scheme by the state government to dispose of the VAT assessment cases is winning hearts of businessmen. According to businessmen, the decision has given them a big relief in terms of huge amount of penalties imposed on them by the state taxation department during ex-parte assessments. Several businessmen are of the view that OTS will save huge time and money and will also reduce litigation drastically and benefit the department as well, along with giving relief to the businessmen. According to Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of the Knitwear Club, “This is a very big relief for the businessmen, especially Ludhiana industry, which was the worst sufferer because of opening of five-year-old cases for assessment. Moreover, in case of those who could not complete the formalities like providing C-forms and all other such statutory documents, they were declared ex-parte by the department and penalties slapped on them without any fault of theirs. So, in the wake of such a situation the OTS scheme was the only solution and we had requested the chief minister for the same, to which he agreed promptly, thereby giving relief to thousands of businessmen in Ludhiana.” Amarjit Singh Swan, president of Ludhiana Sewing Machine Industries Association, said, “The OTS scheme is a historic decision taken by the chief minister and we feel indebted to him for this. This will not only do away with the huge amount of penalties imposed on traders by the state taxation department, but will also do away with the requirements of a huge number of different set of papers, forms, etc. Along with benefiting the business community, the OTS will also prove to be helpful for the state taxation department as it will reduce the work of the department and the cases will be decided within no time as against the routine when it can take several months to dispose of an assessment case.” According to Sukhwinder Singh, executive member of Ludhiana Business Forums, “The major beneficiary of this scheme will be the businessmen who were declared ex-parte by the department for not submitting the required documents or were unable to receive the notices. Due to the existing rules, penalties of up to several lakhs were imposed on such businesses and hope of revision of penalties was very bleak since they did not have old records. But thanks to our CM, who took notice of our repeated requests and finally introduced the OTS scheme. We request him to take notice of our problems related to Punjab State Power Corporation Limited as well.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-declared-ex-parte-by-dept-to-benefit-most-from-ots/articleshow/80256717.cms||Mohit Behl
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||RWAs approach apex body over fixing watermeters at own cost||Hyderabad: Water users in GHMC Malkajgiri circle are in a dilemma over fixing water meters at their own cost. The municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department has made fixing of water meters by consumers mandatory to avail the benefit of free water up to 20,000 litres per month. The Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) sent SMS alerts to all the consumers of Malkajgiri circle on Tuesday on fixing the water meters at their own cost. Responding to the alerts, some residential welfare associations (RWAs) approached United Federation of RWAs (UFERWAS), an apex body of RWAs, and appealed to HMWS&SB MD M Dana Kishore to resolve the issue. UFERWAS general secretary BT Srinivasan said the water board had taken up Malkajgiri water supply scheme with World Bank assistance. The project cost was pegged at Rs 338 crore. As per the tender norms, HMWS&SB was to fix the water meters to all 35,000 consumers in Malkajgiri circle for free under the provision of ‘meter and a chamber.’ “The water board built water meters chambers on all the premises of domestic consumers at free of cost, but forgot to install the water meters,” said Srinivasan. He also said water supply had been commissioned but fixing of water meters was kept pending. “Now, the water board is insisting consumers to get the meters fixed at their own cost to avail the free water scheme,” he said, adding that thousands of connections in Malkajgiri circle do not have meters and consumers are paying a minimum bill of Rs 258 per month. For households that consume about 20 kl per month, the monthly bill comes to around Rs 320 which would be waived. Water bills will, however, be issued as per the tariff to those consuming above 20,000 litres a month. HMWS&SB assistant engineer, Defence Colony, Srivani said they are waiting for guidelines from the HMWS&SB head office on resolving the row over water meters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/rwas-approach-apex-body-over-fixing-watermeters-at-own-cost/articleshow/80257984.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Make film fest accessible for disabled: DRAG||Panaji: The Disability Rights Association of Goa (DRAG) held a meeting with the Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG) on Wednesday seeking to make the 51st Iffi accessibility friendly for disabled delegates.  DRAG pointed out that the movie theatreshave to be accessible and there must be seating for wheelchair users They also demanded for accessible parking. DRAG also requested the ESG to engage in sensitizing their staff and creating awareness of the facilities available for persons with disabilities. They also requested for a helpline for persons with disabilities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/make-film-fest-accessible-for-disabled-drag/articleshow/80260065.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: No promotion if fee not paid, parents told||HYDERABAD: Despite the state government reiterating that no detention policy up to Class 8 will be strictly followed, few schools in the city and elsewhere in the state have sent out messages to parents informing that their wards will be detained if they fail to clear fee dues. Parents said that many schools are not even ready to give a fee waiver for this year even if the physical classes are started. “We were a little relieved when the state mentioned detention policy under RTE Act in its guidelines. However, our relief was shortlived as my son’s school made it clear that we have to pay the full fee for this academic year for my son to be promoted,” said M Raghu, whose kids are studying in Class 5 and 8 in a school affiliated to Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) in the city. They said that a few school managements even suggested moving their children to some other for the next academic year if they are not in a position to afford the fee. “We regret to inform you that we cannot continue to maintain the quality of education for your children, come next academic year. It would be unfair to all the families that earnestly invested in their children’s education and trust the institution with the responsibility of nurturing their futures. We hope you recognise our efforts and that you find an institution that better suits your requirement,” read a circular from a well-known CBSE school in Cyberabad. The members of Telangana Recognized School Managements Association also made it clear that they would not be promoting fee defaulters this year. “We have been conducting online classes for students of all classes. We will conduct online exams. We won’t stop anyone, inluding fee defaulters, from appearing for these exams, but we will be collecting the fee. Only those students who appeared for the exams and cleared the fee will be promoted to next academic year,” said Y Shekar Rao, president, TRSMA. Meanwhile, few schools have also sent out messages making it clear that they will not be considering fee reduction for this academic year and requested the support of parents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/no-promotion-if-fee-not-paid-parents-told/articleshow/80257977.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 14, 2021||India||Crop insurance to cover damage by wild animals||NEW DELHI: Farmers facing damage to their crops due to attack by wild animals can now file for claim under the central flagship crop insurance scheme. The participating states will have to notify add-on coverage under the Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) for such crop loss which can be assessed at individual farm level in a village or panchayat. The National Board of Wildlife (NBWL) — apex body which takes a call on development projects in and around conservation areas including national parks and sanctuaries —had in its standing committee meeting on January 5 approved an advisory for management of human-wildlife conflict (HWC) in the country, providing for states to utilise “add-on coverage under the PMFBY for crop compensation against crop damage due to HWC”. Though the agriculture ministry has given this choice to the states to consider providing add–on coverage under PMFBY, all vulnerable states did not opt for the provision. This even as at least 10 of them invariably report crop damage due to attack by wild animals. “Under the advisory, approved by the NBWL, all 27 participating states of the PMFBY will now have to compulsorily notify the add-on provision,” said an official, referring to the approval of the HWC management advisory, on Wednesday when the central flagship crop insurance scheme completed its five year. Besides adopting area approach for wide-spread calamities like drought, flood etc., which affect large areas, the scheme also envisages coverage of localised risks such as hailstorm, landslide, inundation, natural fire and cloud burst and post-harvest losses due to cyclonic rains, unseasonal rains and hailstorm, which affects comparatively smaller areas/plots and assessment of crop losses is made on individual farm level. “The scheme is a milestone crop insurance scheme covering full crop cycle against the losses occurring due to non-preventable natural risk. A total of Rs. 90,000 crore (against Rs 19,912 crore of farmers’ share in premium) have been paid as claims to farmers till now. In fact, the scheme was fully operational during the Covid-19 lockdown, distributing claims of over Rs 8,741 crore to 69.70 lakh farmers across India, which is highly commendable,” said agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar while interacting with stakeholders across the country via video conferencing on the occasion of completion of five years of the PMFBY.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/crop-insurance-to-cover-damage-by-wild-animals/articleshow/80260524.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Nod for new projects in mining-hit areas, but cancellations a concern||JAIPUR: The State Level Empowered Committee has sanctioned Rs 75 crore of District Mineral Fund (DMF) to spend on social welfare initiatives like the recently launched ‘Indira Gandhi Maternity Nutrition’ scheme, eradication of silicosis and construction of college buildings, but project cancellations remain a grey area. In the meeting, mines minister Pramod Jain Bhaya said Rs 200 crore had already been sanctioned for silicosis affected people, while Rs 46 crore had been earmarked for constructing buildings of seven colleges. Besides, Rs 750 crore had been sanctioned for building roads. While many projects have been announced, the record of completing the projects has been a concern. Out of the 18,233 projects sanctioned under DMF Trust, 3,656 projects have been cancelled and 5,987 were yet to start, while 6,512 had been completed. In fact, the number of cancelled projects is the highest in Rajasthan compared to other states, as per data available on the mines department portal of the Centre. Out of the total Rs 4,121 crore funds collected from mining companies, only Rs 982 crore had been spent as of September 2020, as per data. Mining companies said unless the funds were spent on welfare works, people will continue to have a hostile attitude towards them. “It’s good that the government is taking up new projects. But equal priority also needs to be given to their completion, given the high number of cancelled projects in Rajasthan,” said a senior official of the mining company preferring anonymity. There has been some concerns that more funds are being allocated to infrastructure creation than on livelihood activities for people and environment affected by mining activities. But principal secretary for petroleum and mines department Ajitabh Sharma said 60% of the DMFT fund would be used for high priority activities like drinking water, health, education and environment conservation, while 40% for infrastructure projects like roads, irrigation and energy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nod-for-new-projects-in-mining-hit-areas-but-cancellations-a-concern/articleshow/80258017.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Abused minor dies, kin allege foul play||KOCHI: High drama prevailed outside the child welfare committee (CWC) office in Kakkanad on Wednesday morning after neighbours and relatives of a 14-year-old sexual abuse survivor staged a protest alleging foul play in her death. She was under the care of a childcare facility in Kochi where she collapsed and died on Monday afternoon. CWC and district child protection unit launched a probe into the incident and sought all records, including her medical records from the facility where she died. Nearly two years ago, the mentally-ill girl was moved to the facility as per CWC’s directive after she was sexually abused, allegedly, by her father and a friend. State general secretary of Youth Congress Vaisakh Darshan, who claimed to be her relative, led the protest on Wednesday. He alleged that CWC kept her relatives in the dark on her whereabouts and denied them visiting rights, only to inform them about her death later. “She was moved to a care facility for protection and now she is dead. We don’t know what transpired and we need to know how she died, especially, when the trial in the child abuse case is going on,” said Darshan, adding that he suspects that the father was falsely implicated in the case and her death is linked to it. But, CWC chairperson Bitty K Joseph said the child had to be moved away from the family since the father was accused of abusing her. “The law clearly says the child has to be given care in such a situation, which is why we moved her to another facility. From what we have learnt, her mother was living separately and the father and his friend were accused in the crime. We gave orders to all facilities to allow visitors only with the committee’s permission and that is for the right reasons. People can’t randomly visit a sexual abuse survivor without showing proper proof of relation and getting necessary permission,” said Joseph, adding that there was a chance that relatives might influencing her since the perpetrator was the father. She added that the present facility was the third facility that was arranged since she required special care. “The child collapsed suddenly and died while having biscuits. We sent our team when autopsy was done and it seems she died of natural causes. A team has been assigned to conduct an enquiry, including collection of medical records to find the exact details of her condition before death,” she said. North police sources said that a case of unnatural death was registered soon after CWC intimated them about the incident. Police said the girl wasn’t keeping well for a week and was being treated in a clinic near the facility. An autopsy suggested that she had pneumonia and chest infection, said police source. Meanwhile, protesters left the scene after a police team led by Thrikkakara ACP assured them of necessary action. The body was later cremated during the day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/abused-minor-dies-kin-allege-foul-play/articleshow/80256701.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Inspection to antyodaya scheme||Jaipur: Around 250 officials of the food and civil supplies department will be conducting an inspection on Saturday to physically check the distribution of foodgrains to single unit ration card holder beneficiaries under Antodaya Anna Yojana in the state.Every official (250) will randomly visit 5 families each in the districts. The district supplies officers (DSOs) have been asked to submit a report by January 18. “Through the inspection, we’ll inquire if foodgrains are reaching the right person or not. We’ll get a sample size to understand the situation in the field,” said food secretary Naveen Jain.Meanwhile, Jain said during the upcoming Rabi marketing season 2021-22, wheat will be procured at the minimum support price (MSP) of Rs 1,975 per quintal. He further said, He said that under the agricultural production programme , released by the agriculture department, about 108 lakh metric tonnes of wheat is expected to be produced in the state.He also gave instructions to complete the process of procurement through e-procurement system within the stipulated time period. “The committee constituted under the chairmanship of the collector will issue guidelines for the entire process of procurement,” he said.“As per the instructions of the government of India, a state-level committee meeting was held to determine transport rates and mandi labour charges. An expert sub-committee has been constituted for determination of these rates. It will submit a report to the state-level committee on February 2 and rates will be determined on the basis of that,” he added.BoxAdditional funds from state’s share approved for NREGAJaipur: Jaipur: Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot has approved release of additional funds from the state share vis-a-vis centre’s share, amounting to Rs 11.27 crore, for material and administrative items under MGNREGA. A total amount of Rs 119.53 crore will be released from the state’s fund.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inspection-to-antyodaya-scheme/articleshow/80258030.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Tractor rally in city to oppose farm laws||Jaipur: A tractor rally organised by Mazdoor Kisan Shakti Sangathan (MKSS), which started from Bhim in Rajsamand in support of the farmers’ agitation, travelled through Jaipur district’s Bagru, Muhana and Surajpole mandis on Wednesday to create awareness among farmers and general public about the “adverse effects” of Centre’s three farm laws through puppet shows, street shows and meetings.They will reach Shahjahanpur border - farmers’ agitation site – on January 15 via Kukas, Kotputli, Shahpura and Paota. Booklets and pamphlets were distributed to people to educate them about the laws as they passed through the mandis and eventually reached Albert Hall, where a meeting was held.During a meeting at Lal Kothi Mandi, Mukesh Goswami of MKSS said, “It is very important for us to understand the farm laws. Now, even the private companies will be able to store unlimited amounts of vegetables, grains, pulses and oilseeds. They will buy, hoard and sell at very expensive prices. The farmers’ produce will be sold at a cheap price and later the big traders will sell it at a high price.”Founder member of MKSS Shankar Singh said, “The country will survive only if the farmers survive. With private companies coming in the scene, inflation is rising and it will further go up.”The Supreme Court on Tuesday suspended implementation of the three farm laws and set up a committee to examine the legislations to see which aspects require a re-look. Meanwhile, Kisan Mahapanchayat leader Ram Pal Jat said, “We are studying the Supreme Court’s order. We will take a decision in the right direction after proper examination.” At Alwar’s Shahjahanpur border, Lohri was celebrated on Wednesday by burning copies of three farm laws.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/tractor-rally-in-city-to-oppose-farm-laws/articleshow/80258042.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kozhikode||Customs officers at Koz airport under lens||Kozhikode: The raids conducted by officers from CBI’s Kochi unit and a team of officers from directorate of revenue intelligence on Wednesday at Calicut International Airport and houses of customs officers for the second day resulted in total seizure of goods and cash worth Rs 1.2 crore. The seizure also included the Rs2.5 lakh seized from customs area of the airport on Tuesday. The seizure of large quantities of cigarettes (worth Rs 35 lakh) and gold (worth Rs 43 lakh) from the passenger baggage of Air Arabia flight from Sharjah, which were cleared by customs after their arrival at the airport on Tuesday morning, raises suspicion about smuggling rackets getting help from a section of the agency’s officers to sneak in contraband. CBI officers said that the final report of the raid will be ready on Thursday. It is learnt that CBI officers conducted a search at the house of a customs officer near Kondotty on Wednesday and recovered cash. CBI teams had recovered Rs 1 lakh from one of the offices and Rs 1.5 lakh from the litter box near the baggage screener in the customs area at the airport on Tuesday. CBI interrogated seven Customs officers in connection with the raid. The raids were held following suspicion that some persons hailing from north Kerala were smuggling goods, including cigarette and saffron with the assistance of customs officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/customs-officers-at-koz-airport-under-lens/articleshow/80256723.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||‘No instance of avian flue in Ludhiana’||As the avian flu has created a scare across the country, animal husbandry department in Ludhiana is on its toes to tackle the flu even as there hasn’t been any case reported from the district. The department’s assistant director Dr Neelam Grover, under whose supervision steps are being taken against the avian flu talks to TOI’s Shariq Majeed on the current scenario in the district. Q: What is the current avian flu scenario in Ludhiana district? A: Bird flu cases were reported in Punjab, including Ludhiana, district in 2005 and since then there has been no such incidence after that. It was very well managed at that time and there was not much damage and was controlled by the department in very less time. Now, avian flu cases are being reported from some parts of the country, but there has been no cases in Ludhiana district. It is completely under control as there has been not a single case in Punjab as of now. Q:What steps are you taking to counter avian flu? A: There are mainly poultry farms (about 50 in number), some backyard poultry in the district and there are no wetlands in the district. We have 13 rapid response teams in every block, which are visiting poultry farms daily and are reporting to us. If there is any suspicious death of birds, our teams will inform us and we will release an alert. We need to take precautions till there is risk from neighbouring states. We have deputed a nodal officer for bird flu, who is monitoring things. We are holding meetings daily. Apart from taking at least 50 samples on daily basis, our teams are motivating people and educating them about the safety measures. Q: What are the safety measures that you are advising to those engaged in poultry farming? A: We are telling them not to allow any person from outside to visit the poultry farm, improve the diet of poultry by including extra vitamins and minerals, apart from normal diet, so that they have strong immunity and maintenance of proper hygiene where poultry is kept. Also, we are telling them if they spot a dead wild animal or bird, they don’t have to touch it and instead inform our department, so that we can take it and get it’s post mortem done and get sampling done to ascertain whether it is infected or not. We have made a rapid response team for this purpose. Q: How many samples have been collected and what about the reports? A: We have collected about 200 samples and are daily collecting at least 50 samples from poultry farms, backyard poultry, meat markets and from surrounding areas, including water bodies, parks, etc., wherein we collect samples of dead birds or their excreta. Even if we find a single dead bird, we are taking it’s sample, though it is not necessary, but still we take precautionary measures. Q: What are you doing to ensure that chicken/meat shops follow the guidelines? A: We have told them that those who are engaged in slaughter work should wear gloves and masks properly while slaughtering. Also, we have asked them to disinfect the area, where such work is done, on daily basis. Besides, our rapid response team is checking such meat markets on daily basis to ensure that guidelines are being adhered to. Q: What is your message for the people consuming poultry birds and products? A: I must tell people that they shouldn’t stop eating chicken and eggs as it is not unsafe, but they shouldn’t consume raw eggs and meat. If we heat eggs and chicken beyond 70 degrees Celsius for 20 twenty minutes, which we normally do in Indian cooking system where the temperature goes beyond 100 degrees Celsius, the virus does get killed if it is there. The most important aspect is that the virus lives in the respiratory and digestive tract of birds, which we don’t consume, and we consume muscles of the birds, where virus doesn’t come. We want to tell people that even if virus is there, one can consume properly cooked food even as there is no virus here. We are on alert mode.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-instance-of-avian-flue-in-ludhiana/articleshow/80256732.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||50 films under World Panorama, tribute to Satyajit Ray at Iffi||PANAJI: Iffi has announced the list of films under its World Panorama section with a line-up consisting of 50 outstanding ones from across the globe. With a total of eight films, majority of the films in the list are from Germany, followed by France with six films. The line-up also includes films from America, Italy, Greece and Netherlands amongst other countries. The World Panorama section of Iffi brings some of the best works by renowned filmmakers to the audience. The 51st Iffi will also pay tribute to the celebrated filmmaker Satyajit Ray marking his birth centenary. The renowned filmmaker contributed to the world of cinema as a director, screenwriter, music composer, graphic artist, lyricist and writer. Some classic works of legendary filmmaker will be screened at the festival as a treat to the hundreds and thousands of cine enthusiasts. These are Charulata (1964), Ghare Baire (1984), Pather Panchali (1955), Shatranj Ke Khilari (1977) and Sonar Kella (1974).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/50-films-under-world-panorama-tribute-to-satyajit-ray-at-iffi/articleshow/80260067.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||‘Central govt offices want 30k sqm land in prime area’||Panaji: Chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday said that central government offices functioning in Goa want to establish a central secretariat in the state, and have asked him for 30,000 sqm of land in a prime location. Sawant said the state would identify the land in or around Mapusa or Panaji for the secretariat, which would bring all central government offices under one roof. He said the offices would pay for the central secretariat themselves. Sawant met representatives of 27 central government departments that operate in Goa. “At present, they are functioning from rented places, including government premises.” Sawant said the departments have various problems in Goa, and the state too has certain issues with them. He said this was the first time such a meeting was held. “I have listen to their problems and I have raised state issues,” he said. “Some public-sector units are interested in spending money under CSR initiative.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/central-govt-offices-want-30k-sqm-land-in-prime-area/articleshow/80375296.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen demand roll back of 25p ID fee on diesel||Ludhiana: Punjab cabinet’s decision to levy special infrastructure development (ID) fee of 25 paisa on per litre of diesel and petrol has not gone down well with the businessmen. According to businessmen the hike may seem very little on the paper, but it is nothing less than a setback for the industry, where direct and indirect consumption of diesel is huge. They are of the view that the government should consider keeping diesel out of the purview of this tax and it may be charged on petrol. Speaking on the issue, Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), said, “The current rates of both petrol and diesel are very high these days and during the past they have witnessed a huge surge. With this new surcharge of 25 paisa petrol and diesel will get more dearer for everyone in the state, but the industrialists will be hit the most due to this hike as diesel is like raw material for us. There are several processes in the industry where it is widely used like for heating purposes, power etc. On the other hand, transportation of man and material too will become costly due to this hike and industry will suffer both directly and indirectly. It is our humble request to the state government that diesel should be kept out of the purview of special infrastructure development fee. We have no problem if it is charged on petrol.” According to Nitin Sharma, executive member of Auto Parts Manufacturers Association, “The decision to levy special infrastructure development fee on petrol and diesel will prove to be big setback for the industry and it will lead to rise in the cost of production of factories in Punjab. We will not only end up with inflated expenses, but we will also face more stiff competition from manufacturers of same products in other states, where the rate of diesel is relatively less than that in Punjab.” Meanwhile, the rate of petrol in Ludhiana on Wednesday was Rs. 85.86 per litre, while diesel was at Rs 76.57 per litre. As per the office-bearers of the petroleum dealer association, as of now the hike of 25 paisa has not come into effect in the state as the government’s notification regarding the same is yet to be published.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-demand-roll-back-of-25p-id-fee-on-diesel/articleshow/80256739.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Paramotor event begins in M’Nagar||Hyderabad: A five-day air show and paramotor championship in connection with Sankranti festivities began at the stadium in Mahbubnagar on Wednesday. Tourism minister V Srinivas Goud, who inaugurated the competitions, said an eco sports and paramotor adventure training centre will be established in Mahbubnagar for the first time in the country. He recalled that a kite festival was organised last year in which participants from 15 countries took part. “All this is happening in what has been a backward district in Telangana,” he said. Paramotor pilots from 10 states are participating in the competitions being held for the first time. Winners will go on to take part in championship that will be held in Thailand. During paramotor championship organised by the tourism department in association with Vertical World Adventure Sports, there will be hot air balloon, sky diving and remote control paramotor adventure shows. Collector S Venkat Rao urged people to visit the air show.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/paramotor-event-begins-in-mnagar/articleshow/80258058.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||NMC doubles development charges effective July 2016||Nagpur: In a bizarre decision, Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has doubled the development charges in the city with retrospective effect from July 2016. Development charges for residential constructions will go up from 2% to 4% of the total cost of land and construction, while they will be 8% instead of earlier 4% for commercial constructions. The decision will hit hundreds of builders and thousands of individual house owners, who paid development charges on or after June 30, 2016. For major projects, the additional charge will run into lakhs. An NMC official said that additional demand notes of the amount already paid will be issued soon. If a person has paid Rs10,000 as development charges then he or she will have to pay another Rs10,000 soon. The decision was taken by NMC top officials keeping the office-bearers in the dark. Correspondence with state government in this regard took place in the second half of 2020. Neither the then mayor Sandip Joshi nor standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke were apprised of the plan, said sources. The state government approved NMC’s proposal on November 3, 2020, and NMC issued a public notice in newspapers on January 13, 2021. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B admitted that elected members of NMC had not been told about the decision. “We will inform them now,” he told TOI. Joshi expressed dismay over the decision and said that he would take up the issue with the commissioner. NMC’s contribution towards Nagpur Metro project is 5%. As NMC was unable to pay its share, the officials decided to double development charges. The extra 100% development charge will be known as ‘city transport fund’ and will be provided to MahaMetro. Credai Nagpur treasurer Ashok Chandak slammed NMC for the decision. “It is not only wrong to burden the real estate sector, which is already in trouble, but applying charges retrospectively is bad in law. The Supreme Court had struck down Union government’s decision in the case of Vodafone and Cairn Energy. NMC should devise another way of generating revenue,” he said. Builder TS Renu said admittedly the city needed funds for development but tapping a source which was already stressed made no sense. “Such indirect charges will finally leave a major dent in the pocket of end user,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-doubles-development-charges-effective-july-2016/articleshow/80258103.cms||Ashish Roy
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccine date: 6 lakh SMSes to start flowing from Friday||KOLKATA: The first batch of Covid vaccine beneficiaries, who will get the first dose on Saturday, are likely to receive system-generated text messages — selected randomly from data of frontline healthcare workers uploaded on the Co-WIN platform — on Friday, a day before the immunization drive. Although a section of health officials had sought to prepare the list by themselves to manage crowding, as well as simplify workload management at hospitals, senior state health department officials have clarified that neither hospitals nor the health department would play any part in selection of candidates. They would be randomly selected by the system and SMSes will be sent to the beneficiaries directly. “A list of 5,99,824 healthcare workers, including doctors, nurses, group D staff and MBBS students has been uploaded in the system. The system will randomly send text messages. There would be no hierarchy or any definite pattern to be followed during the selection process. A senior nurse, a sweeper, a junior doctor and a senior hospital official all may stand in the same queue, awaiting to be vaccinated on the same day,” said a senior state health department official. Among all the districts, Kolkata has the largest number of healthcare workers (government and private) – 89,053. For the entire state, 6,44,500 vaccines have been allotted in the first phase, exclusively for healthcare workers. The Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) system — a cloud-based IT solution for planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of Covid-19 vaccination — will form the backbone of the immunization programme in the state as well. “The registration of the healthcare workers has been done through bulk upload of data by district authorities. The hospitals and clinics have also added details of individuals employed with them. Session sites will be created with relevant details and number of beneficiaries to get the vaccine on a day, which will in turn generate the SMSes a day before the vaccination,” said the official. The text messages received from the National Health Portal will have the date, time and venue of the vaccination session. Officials in charge of conducting the session at respective hospitals and health centres can check the data of beneficiaries from their end. “The vaccinators need to physically upload that information on the same platform with details, including ID proof, vaccination status and number of doses. If a beneficiary fails to turn up, they are to be slotted for a later date,” the official added. “During the dry run, I had received a text message the evening before the vaccination day. I have been told that the dry run was an exact replica of how the original immunization programme would be. Hence, in all likelihood, we will get the text message less than 24 hours before the vaccination,” said Usha Sarkar, a senior nurse at SSKM Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-date-6-lakh-smses-to-start-flowing-from-friday/articleshow/80258068.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai hospitals gear up for vaccination, await CoWin login||MUMBAI: As the city’s peripheral hospitals applied finishing touches to their vaccination centres on Wednesday, the wait was for the one pivotal thing —access to the CoWin application. Hospitals are still awaiting login and passwords to the application which is at the heart of the vaccination drive that kicks off on Saturday. In Mumbai, 60,000 healthcare workers will be vaccinated at nine centres in the first round. The drive will start from four medical colleges, KEM in Parel, LTMG in Sion, Nair in Mumbai Central, Cooper in Juhu, and four peripheral hospitals, Babasaheb Ambedkar in Kandivli, VN Desai in Santacruz, Rajawadi in Ghatkopar and Bandra’s Bhabha. BKC jumbo centre has been added as the fifth centre. On Wednesday, a paint job was on as workers gave finishing touches to the registration area of the vaccination centre at VN Desai Hospital. The authorities have also erected a colourful gate, almost resembling a wedding venue, complete with pink and white colours. A Covid isolation ward on the ground floor has been converted into the vaccination centre that will have two vaccinators and four observation rooms. Another attached room has been kept for people who may suffer any adverse effects. A television has been installed and the hospital plans to share its WiFi password with anybody during their 30-minute wait post vaccination. “We are prepared for the drive. All we are waiting for now is access to the CoWin application. Our staffers have been trained to use it through videos,” said Dr Prashant More, medical superintendent at the hospital. It has got one ice-lined refrigerator that can hold 50,000 doses. At Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital (Shatabdi) in Kandivli, an open corridor space has been enclosed and made into the vaccination centre on the third floor. Both the observation and waiting areas divided by a cloth partition can hold 60 people each. Here, six units have been created so that six people can be administered the vaccine at the same time. The vaccination cubicles will have a data entry operator to upload information in real time. Six data entry operators have been recruited. A hospital official said they have trained 116 nurses and are confident of immunising up to 1,200 in a day. Dr P Jadhav, head of Bhabha Hospital, said they created four units to carry out the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hospitals-gear-up-for-vax-await-cowin-login/articleshow/80256055.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Garment markets buzzing after Amma Vodi dole||VIJAYAWADA: Textile and other festive markets witnessed huge crowds on Tuesday as traders appreciated the government for depositing the Amma Vodi funds into the accounts of eligible mothers of school-going children. This resulted in a boost in festive sales of garments in Vijayawada which has a huge market for ready-made clothes. Around two thousand small to large stores operate in the city but most of these had been seeing sluggish business in wake of the pandemic. However, the situation took a turn following the government’s financial support of Rs 15,000 to eligible mothers with stores in Vasthralatha, Krishnaveni wholesale cloth market, and Besant Road seeing a massive boost in sales on Tuesday. “Our family was facing a severe financial crisis following the lockdown but now, thanks to the government’s deposit of Amma Vodi funds, I can buy new clothes for my children and family,” said K Nagarani, a home maker. Likewise, traders too are happy with the rise in sales. “Sankranti sales have picked the market up and the government’s financial assistance to mothers is a big reason for this. We had a tough year and many shops had to close due to poor sales. This rise is will help us sustain,” said Goli Narayana Rao, a store owner from One Town market. Stores have also been offering special discounts to attract customers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/garment-mkts-buzzing-after-amma-vodi-dole/articleshow/80258168.cms||Venu Lanka
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Crowds swell as Covid cases reduce, doctors concerned||VIJAYAWADA: With a reduction in number of Covid-19 cases and positive developments on the vaccination front, scores of people headed to their native places to celebrate Sankranti. While the number of positive cases has come down significantly, health experts are advising people to remain cautious as the danger of Covid-19 is still present and large gatherings could result in another round of viral transmission. Following the declaration of Sankranti holidays, vehicular traffic on National Highway 65 saw a significant spike. Toll gates en route Vijayawada from Hyderabad have been very busy over the past few days. While 2020 played spoilsport across festivals, from Ugadi to Diwali, as a result of the pandemic, this festive season is seeing more people willing to take part in celebrations with their family and friends. Market places in Vijayawada witnessed high activity as more shoppers came out their homes although it has been observed that many locals have gone lax on Covid-19 protocols of wearing masks and maintaining social distance. With commercial activities, including public transport and theatres, now running as usual, doctors have expressed concern over locals not adhereing to Covid guidelines. “The risk is even higher now with all commercial activities started. It takes just one person to initiate a fresh round of virus spread if people are negligent,” said city-based doctor, Dr Suresh who added that less number of cases did not mean the virus had gone. Meanwhile another doctor, Dr Chamundeswari pointed out that even the vaccine does not give 100% protections and its efficacy is not yet known. “It is better to follow the safety guidelines even after the vaccination until the virulence is reduced. The financial situation and time factor are the major factors that make people careless but one should at least wear a mask if not for others but for the sake of their own safety,” Dr Chamundeswari said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/crowds-swell-as-cases-reduce-docs-concerned/articleshow/80258142.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||MVA govt may lift liquor ban in Chandrapur, sets up panel||Mumbai: The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government may reverse the previous Devendra Fadnavis government’s 2015 liquor ban in Chandrapur district. The state has set up a 13-member high level committee to study the social and economic impact of the liquor ban in the district and to take into consideration views of social organisations and people’s representatives on the issue. Social activists from Chandrapur district, though, called the move “partisan”, saying liquor is banned in Wardha and Gadchiroli too.  It is said relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, also guardian minister of Chandrapur, is not in favour of the ban. An official said the issue was discussed at a meeting held in September 2020, under the chairmanship of excise minister Balasaheb Thorat and attended by home minister Anil Deshmukh and Wadettiwar. It was decided a committee would be set up and submit a report to the state after a comprehensive study.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mva-govt-may-lift-liquor-ban-in-chandrapur-sets-up-panel/articleshow/80256342.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||Vadodara||BJP workers booked||Vadodara: Two workers of BJP Yuva Morcha (BJYM) were booked by Padra police on Wednesday for organizing a bike rally of 200 workers in Padra town on the occasion of Swami Vivekananda’s birth anniversary. The offence for committing a negligent act likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life and under sections of Disaster Management Act was registered 24 hours after the rally had started. Police said that the accused Hansal Pandya and Amit Patel organized the bike rally without police permission. Pandya is secretary of the district unit of BJYM while Patel is general secretary of the Padra unit. The bike rally started from garba ground near Mama Party Plot around noon and ended at Kuber farm in the evening. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/bjp-workers-booked/articleshow/80256153.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||2 buses collide, 25 passengers hurt||Elkaturthy: In a tragic incident, 25 passengers got injured as two RTC buses collided at Valbhapur in the Elkaturthy mandal on Wednesday. The passengers have been shifted to Huzurabad and MGM hospitals in Warangal. —Shiva Kumar Pinna||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-buses-collide-25-passengers-hurt/articleshow/80258098.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Surat||93K doses for South Gujarat stored at NCH||Surat: The first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine arrived at the New Civil Hospital (NCH) from the Serum Institute of India at Pune on Wednesday. A total of 93,500 doses of Surat, Navsari, Tapi, Dang and Valsad districts have been stored at the Covid Vaccination Storage Center of the NCH. State health minister, Kumar Kanani said, “Our expectations, aspirations and eagerness have come to an end today. It is a matter of pride that the indigenous vaccine made in India has reached Surat to fight against the deadly infection.” Banchhanidhi Pani, municipal commissioner said, “The vaccination drive will be started from January 15 on an initial basis for government and private healthcare workers registered in the corporation. ”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/93k-doses-for-south-gujarat-stored-at-nch/articleshow/80255875.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Vijayawada||Bhogi celebrations mark 1st day of Sankranti||Vijayawada/Visakhapatnam: Sankranti celebrations began on a grand note across the state with Bhogi observed as the first day of the festival on Wednesday. Bhogi Mantalu (bonfires) were lit to mark the beginning of the festival. Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and social distancing were observed in some places. Bhogi is observed as the day to worship Indra with people decorating their houses with fresh flowers and lighting bonfires in the wee hours. Cow dung cakes and old timber pieces from the household are used for the bonfire. Rangolis adorned porches and common areas of residential areas with many placing sugarcane plants in front of their houses. “For Telugus, Sankranti is the biggest festival. We celebrated Bhogi with fervour as our family and neighbours joined us in the early hours,” said Siva Kumar from Vizag’s Madhurawada. Elsewhere, festivities were observed at the Kanaka Durga temple where executive officer (EO) Suresh Babu and trust board chairman Paila Sominaidu lit the bonfire to commence celebrations. Temple sthana acharya, Siva Prasada Sharma, said the lighting Bhogi Mantalu will reduce stress and give mental peace and hoped the new year would bring joy and prosperity. A display of toys, Bommala Koluvu, is a special attraction at the Kanaka Durga temple. In Vijayawada, the Siddhartha Walkers Association conducted Sankranti celebrations and organised a mega walk in which scores of locals took part. Decorated bulls were a special attraction at the event where Bhogi Pallu (gooseberries) were dropped on children below five for good health. Organisers at the event served traditional dishes like ariselu, burelu, garelu and nethi gavvalu. “Sankranti is a festival of harvest and has great significance in rural areas. We designed celebrations representing the rural atmosphere. Our motive is to continue these traditions and culture for future generations,” said Vijayawada East MLA Gadde Rama Mohana Rao, one of the functionaries at Siddhartha Walkers Association. While celebrations were grand, they were spread thin in wake of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/bhogi-celebrations-mark-1st-day-of-sankranti/articleshow/80258130.cms||Venu Lanka
January 14, 2021||Goa||KA conducts theory exams online, practicals next sem||Panaji: With the pandemic showing no signs of subsiding in the face of the new mutated strain detected in the UK, educational institutions seem to have no choice but wait until the situation improves before calling students back to campus. At Kala Academy’s College of Theatre Arts, theory exams have commenced online since Monday. The practical exams that were scheduled for this semester have been pushed to the next semester instead with the hope that physical classes may resume by then. “Each semester has a practical exam. We cannot have practical exams right now due to the pandemic. We have therefore proposed that it be held along with the next term’s practical exam and distribute the marks for both the semesters. The second semester starts on January 25,” said principal of the college, Ramrao Wagh. The performance arts exam is of 200 marks. In the previous academic year – exam dates of which clashed with the lockdown – students were asked to upload individual videos of their dramatics and send them to the teachers for evaluation. This time however, the team performance arts exam requires the students to stage a play. However, as per university rules, students cannot be called to the institution for physical classes, yet. For the theory exam, the question papers are being sent to students via email and they are given a link to Google documents to answer the exam within a stipulated time frame of two hours. The institute’s teachers and staff are being asked to stay alert in the face of technical issues to ensure that the students do not face any disadvantages in completing their online exam. The exams are being conducted for all three years – first year, second year and third year students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/ka-conducts-theory-exams-online-practicals-next-sem/articleshow/80260068.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Leopard falls into well in Sircilla||Hyderabad: A leopard which fell in an agricultural well in Malkapur in Rajanna Sircilla district created a scare among the villagers. Forest officials have sought the assistance of the department in Hyderabad to assist in rescuing the big cat from the well. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/leopard-falls-into-well-in-sircilla/articleshow/80258110.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Patna||Girl gang-raped, eyes damaged in Bihar's Madhubani||MADHUBANI: A 15-year-old deaf and speech-impaired girl was allegedly gang-raped and her eyes were damaged with a sharp object to prevent her from identifying the perpetrators of the crime in Madhubani district on Tuesday. Madhubani SP Satya Prakash on Wednesday said three persons of the same village have been arrested in this connection. Police sources said the incident happened on Tuesday afternoon when the victim had taken her goats to a nearby riverside for grazing. One Ram Ekbal Mandal said the girl had taken her goats for grazing with some other children. Later, one of the children informed the girl’s family about the incident. The victim was found lying unconscious and writhing in pain in an orchard. She was rushed to Harlakhi primary health centre (PHC). Finding her condition critical, the attending doctor referred her to Madhubani Sadar hospital from where she was referred to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH). According to sources, the girl’s condition was critical till Wednesday evening. The incident created uproar in the area. While Harlakhi police arrested Lakshmi Mukhia (21) on Tuesday, Krishna Mukhia (25) and Ramautar Mukhia (22) were apprehended on Wednesday. The latter two were named by Lakshmi. However, the two alleged that they were framed. Harlakhi police station SHO Prem Lal Paswan told this correspondent on phone that the victim was undergoing treatment at DMCH. . (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/girl-gang-raped-eyes-damaged-in-madhubani/articleshow/80258054.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||South Goa DM issues ban order||Margao: In view of the avian influenza outbreak in Maharashtra and Karnataka, the South Goa district administration on Tuesday banned transportation of birds and eggs into Goa from these two states “either directly or indirectly.” Pointing out that the directorate of animal husbandry and veterinary services has confirmed the outbreak of the disease in Maharashtra and Karnataka, additional district magistrate Surendra Naik, has issued an order to that effect. “On perusal of the facts brought to light by directorate of animall husbandry and veterinary services, I am of the considered opinion that there is a serious risk to the health of the people of South Goa if the transportation and entry of birds and eggs from Maharashtra and Karnataka are not stopped forthwith,” Naik stated. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/south-goa-dm-issues-ban-order/articleshow/80241005.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||19.5k trees cut, 1.24 lakh planted, but 90% dead on Butibori-Ytl Rd||Nagpur: Even as several road widening and ROB works lag behind schedule in Nagpur region, National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) is also faltering on the compensatory plantation of trees cut for road widening on Butibori-Yavatmal (NH-361) highway. Information received under RTI Act by former honorary wildlife warden of Nagpur Jaydeep Das shows NHAI felled 19,416 trees on Butibori-Wardha-Yavatmal stretch. Of the 1,24,713 trees planted as compensation, 90% have died even before blossoming. NHAI project director PD Mendhe ducked answers to a query on the survival rate of saplings. Mendhe said, “I tried to supply all information I had. If the applicant is not satisfied he can appeal to the NHAI regional officer. Trees that were necessary for road widening only have been cut.” NHAI regional officer Rajeev Agrawal told TOI, “It is true that many planted saplings have not survived. During my inspection, I too observed this and have issued specific instructions in my inspection note to replace the dead saplings in three months at the contractor’s risk and cost.” “At the same time, green activists should also ask the forest department status about compensatory plantations which they undertake on our behalf for tree felling in forest areas, and from the NPV we pay to CAMPA fund,” Agrawal added. A visit by the TOI reporter on the said 150km stretch last week found that the survival of plantations is not even 10%. Most of the planted saplings have either died or are on the verge of dying. Even median plantations are missing. The saplings that were protected with tree guards too have died in most of the spots. At many places, the contractor has dumped debris on the roadside, which not only deteriorates the soil fertility but also chokes the roads during monsoon. Das says NHAI acquires 60 metres land (end to end) for four-laning projects. This is done so that trees can be planted in three rows. But the contractor has planted saplings in a single row. As per IRC guidelines of landscaping and tree plantations, in the first row ornamental trees are to be planted, in the second row fruit trees, and in their -row trees giving shade are to be planted. “Despite good rains in the region the planted trees have not survived, showing lack of maintenance and poor quality of work by the contractor. The MoEFCC says trees are an integral part of the road but the user agency is always in a tearing hurry to fell trees. However, when it comes to the survival of planted saplings, NHAI’s track record is dismal,” said Das. Das said according to IRC norms, NHAI has to plant 999 trees per km. Considering the total road widening project of 280.76km, at least 2,80,479 trees had to be planted but 1,24,713 saplings were planted, which is a deficit of 1,24,713 saplings. “It is a double whammy of sorts. The NHAI planted fewer trees and then 90% of them have died. This has defeated the basic purpose of reducing the impact of air pollution and dust, as trees and shrubs are known to be a natural sink for air pollutants,” said Das. “Not many trees are left on the cement road stretch where passers-by can get shade on glaring hot roads during summer. The poor plantation will also not reduce the impact of ever-increasing noise pollution caused due to increase in number of vehicles,” Das added. Das said with failed plantations on highways the main objectives of aesthetic enhancement of the project corridors, landscaping and arresting soil erosion at the embankment slopes too have failed. Prevention of glare from the headlight of incoming vehicles has also been completely defeated due to failure of median plantations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/19-5k-trees-cut-1-24-lakh-planted-but-90-dead-on-butibori-ytl-rd/articleshow/80258139.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Just 49% of Mumbai’s 1.2 lakh health workers to get jabs in Round One||MUMBAI/PUNE: Only 49% of Mumbai’s 1.23 lakh healthcare workers can be vaccinated in the first round of the drive that starts on Saturday. The BMC’s initial excitement of receiving 1,39,500 doses of the Covid vaccine went down after officials realised it will suffice for 60,000 health workers at the most. This has forced authorities to draw up manual allocation plans across private and public health establishments in 24 wards. At 5.30am on Wednesday, a van carrying 1,39,500 doses of Covishield drove in from Pune’s vaccine depot to the F South ward office in Parel. The van was escorted by two police vehicles, a first in vaccine transportation. The vials have been kept inside refrigerators inside the vaccine storage room on the ground floor under police protection. AMC Suresh Kakani said they would be mobilised late on Friday or early on Saturday. Civic officials said of the 1.39 lakh doses, over 5,000 were meant for Central agencies and 1,600 for defence. That left the BMC with 1,32,000 doses, which, after factoring in the 10% wastage rate, was adequate for around 60,000 beneficiaries. While the officials had initially thought they could exhaust the entire stock to inoculate all 1.23 lakh beneficiaries and wait for a second consignment carrying the second doses, they were informed in an online meeting by state and Central officials that doses were earmarked per beneficiary. “We were told that one beneficiary has to be administered vaccines from the same batch to avoid any mix-up,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer. The deficit in doses was not accounted for in the planning thus far. On Wednesday, officials came up with a plan to manually allocate doses to public and private hospitals, medical colleges, dispensaries, GPs and in clinics across wards. “That way there will be fair distribution of doses till more arrive,” said Dr Sheela Jagtap, in-charge of immunisation. Prior to this, the protocol was to allow the Cowin application to randomly pick beneficiaries. Dr Jagtap said they are waiting for access to the app to understand if manual planning can be executed. Civic officials said they have been assured that more stocks will arrive in the coming weeks. Other cities in MMR too received their vaccine supplies. Kalyan received its first consignment of 6,000 doses on Wednesday evening. KDMC has 5,500 health workers. Thane district received 74,000. In all, the Thane division including Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Palghar districts got 1.03 lakh doses. The first lot of 22,000 doses for Navi Mumbai arrived, and PCMC will get vaccines on Thursday. Mumbai and Pune districts have been allocated the most doses - 1.39 lakh and 1.13 lakh . The first batch will cover 50-55% of healthcare workers. Pune district received 1.11 lakh doses early on Wednesday. The highest number of vaccination sites in the state - from a total of 358 - are in Mumbai (50), Pune (39) and Thane (29).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/just-49-of-citys-1-2-lakh-health-workers-to-get-jabs-in-round-one/articleshow/80259445.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||2017 MR campaign will come handy in tackling side effects||BHOPAL: MP Health department will arm each vaccinator and doctor with anaphylaxis and adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) kits, as it undertakes, first of a kind mass adult vaccination to beat Covid-19 from January 16. MP health department was one of the first to use AEFI kits during the very successful MR vaccine drive in 2017. The end result, 2.3 crore vaccinated. 74 AEFI reported and zero deaths, said department of health and family welfare, additional director, Dr Santosh Shukla. The injecting of vaccine in children is on the thigh, for adults it would be a shot in the arm. Adult vaccination drive for Covid-19 comes with caveat. Unlike children, adults have more pre-existing medical conditions. Experts point out that as large population groups will be vaccinated over a short period with a new vaccine, monitoring the safety of these vaccines will be critical. Health department are perhaps best suited to the demand. They have the experience of giving vaccine shots in the arm to 22 lakh pregnant women each year, said Dr Shukla. The multi dose vial which arrived in three MP cities on Wednesday also comes with a detailed literature with each box of the vaccine. “It is the first time that information technology, would enable a vaccination programme,” he explained. Need for more robust IT has been attributed to health department decision to stagger vaccination days for first round from earlier announced five days as to 14. The reporting of AEFI through surveillance and action for events following vaccination (SAFEVAC) has been integrated with Co-WIN software. Every AEFI is to be reported at the district level and facilitate the referral mechanisms in case any AEFI needs to be put in place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-dept-to-use-aefi-kits-tech-to-keep-vaccine-fear-away/articleshow/80256949.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 14, 2021||Meerut||6 more test +ve for UK Covid strain in Meerut, tally now 15||Meerut: Six more persons tested positive for UK Covid-19 strain in Meerut on Wednesday.The tally has now reached 15 for the UK strain. The first case which tested positive was a two-year-old girl two weeks ago.“As many as six cases tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 on Wednesday. This makes the tally of the UK strain to 15,” Dr Prashant Kumar, Meerut district surveillance officer, said.Ever since the state and central governments issued guidelines regarding the travellers from the UK and Europe, a total of 100 travellers were sampled out of which three were found positive for the UK strain, Dr Kumar added."Following this, rigorous contract contact tracing was done and a total of 750 contacts were traced out of which 31 were found positive. On further testing, a total of 12 were found positive for the UK strain,” he said.Until now, 15 travellers and their contacts have tested positive for the UK strain out of which three have been discharged and the rest hospitalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-more-test-ve-for-uk-covid-strain-in-meerut-tally-now-15/articleshow/80256960.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||60,000 West Bengal nurses line up to get & give shots of hope||KOLKATA: The women’s brigade will be firing the shots in the war against Covid-19 in the state. Vaccine officers in all booths across the state, who will be giving the jab to the beneficiaries, will be women when the rollout starts this Saturday. The state government will be roping in the services of roughly 60,000 nurses to administer the injection. “It is going to be the women who are going to lead from the front in the vaccination rooms during the rollout. We have full confidence in our nurses and know that they will be carrying out this responsibility properly. Even though they know the nitty-gritty of administering injections, they are being trained regularly specially for the Covid-19 vaccination,” said Ajay Chakrabrty, the director of health services (DHS). The state is already utilizing services of different categories of nurses — ANMs (auxiliary nurses and midwives), GNMs (general nurses and midwives) and public health nurses (PHNs) — for routine immunization programmes. Many of them were involved in the dry runs across the state, apart from attending regular training programmes on Covid vaccination. “This vaccine has brought a ray of hope for all of us. I am proud of my profession and is looking forward to be a part of the process that the entire world has been looking forward to for close to a year now,” said a nurse at Medical College and Hospital. She will work as a vaccinator officer in one of the six vaccination sites in the hospital. Around 6 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) in the state will be inoculated in the first phase. “We are trained and have the licence to administer vaccines. We have been doing that regularly. But yes, this time, we have to vaccinate a large number of people in a short span of time. We are being trained regularly for the mission and I am sure we can carry off the responsibility well,” said Aparna Chakbarorty, a nurse attached with a state health facility in Raghunathpur Block 1 in Purulia. The state government had started courses for male nurses only a few years ago. Sources in the health department said the number of male nurses in the government sector is absolutely negligible at present. “Many have lost their battle against the virus during this pandemic. Now, this vaccination comes as a major weapon to defeat the virus. Vaccination is nothing new to us. But since this vaccine, being new, the most talked about and sought-after, we will be taking all precautionary measures so that all goes well. With the support from senior officials and doctors in our hospital, we are confident of playing a crucial role in the vaccination drive,” said Santa Roy, a public health nurse at the Infectious Diseases & Beliaghata General Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/60000-nurses-line-up-to-get-give-shots-of-hope/articleshow/80258126.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 14, 2021||Meerut||292 bird samples sent to IVRI from Bijnor||BIJNOR: So far 292 bird samples have been sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Bareilly for test of avian flu from Bijnor. The instances of avian species falling dead continue unabated in the district. On Wednesday, a kite fell from a tree in Noorpur area of the district. Authorities have appealed to people to keep a safe distance from birds. There have been 15 instances in the recent past when carcasses of crows were found here. A major portion of Bijnor is part of Hastinapur wildlife sanctuary which hosts thousands of migratory birds on its wetlands. Bijnor has over 20 poultry farms with more than five lakh hens which lay around 3lakh eggs a day. Their turnover from eggs alone is worth Rs 4.5crore a month. When contacted, chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Singh, he said, “A kite fell on the ground and died in Noorpur town. Forest authorities had carried out its post-mortem. Probe is on." Singh further stated, “We already have formed a task force which is monitoring all poultry farms. Besides, villagers and farmers are being sensitized about the matter. We have urged them to inform veterinary officers if they spot any carcass in their respective area. In addition we have collected 292 samples of hens from different poultry farms randomly. Samples have been sent to IVRI Bareilly for testing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/292-bird-samples-sent-to-ivri-from-bijnor/articleshow/80256961.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 14, 2021||Trichy||Shun rumours on Covid vaccine complications: Health minister||Trichy: Appealing to people not to spread rumours about the efficacy and safety of Covid-19 vaccines, state health minister Dr C Vijayabaskar on Wednesday said that human trials of vaccine in government hospitals in Tamil Nadu had shown no side effects.The minister also expressed his willingness to take the shot to allay safety concerns. “I can take it, but I should not as the first phase of vaccination is meant for frontline workers. If it is necessary, I will get the vaccine by taking permission,” he said.The minister was speaking to reporters after flagging off vehicles carrying Covishield vaccine from the regional vaccine centre in Trichy to neighbouring districts.“I appeal to everyone not to post any misleading posts with regard to the vaccine on social media. We tested both Covishield and Covaxin in our government hospital. No one being tested on had complications. There is no need to fear about,” he said.Quoting experts, the minister said that the available vaccine can be used against the latest variant of Covid-19. On the preparedness for January 16, the minister said that the state government was fully prepared to roll out the vaccination in 307 locations in the state on the scheduled day. The health minister also sought to clarify that no one should be under the impression that the anti-bodies will be developed in the body as soon as the vaccine is taken. “The second dose will be after 28 days after the first dose is administered. The immunity will develop 14 days after the second dose. So, people should be cautious,” he said. In Trichy, the vaccination will be administered to the frontline workers in eight places – Mahatma Gandhi memorial government hospital (MGMGH), government head quarters hospital in Manapparai, government hospitals in Srirangam, Lalgudi and Musiri, upgraded primary health centres at Inamkulathur and Puthanatham and a urban primary health centre in Ramalinga Nagar in the city.The health department said that all the frontline workers in government hospitals, primary health centres, private hospitals and anganwadi centres have been enrolled for the vaccination. Vijayabaskar, state tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, state backward and minorities welfare minister S Valarmathi, Trichy collector S Sivarasu, deputy director of health services (DDHS), Trichy Dr A Subramani and others took part in programme to dispatch 68,800 doses of vaccines that were brought from Chennai. The officials allotted 17,100 doses to Trichy, 3,800 to Pudukottai, 3,100 to Aranthangi, 5,100 to Perambalur, 3,300 to Ariyalur, 7,800 to Karur, 15,500 to Thanjavur, 6,700 to Tiruvarur and 6,400 to Nagapattinam. Coimbatore (73,200), Madurai (54,100), Salem (59,800), Cuddalore (25,500), Sivaganga (19,000), Tirunelveli (51,700), Vellore (42,100), were some of the regional vaccine storage centres which received the vaccines on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/shun-rumours-on-covid-vaccine-complications-health-minister/articleshow/80259469.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Meerut||Over 1.5cr students of UP govt schools yet to get their bags, shoes & socks||Meerut: School uniforms, bags and shoes are yet to reach over 1.5crore students of UP government schools as the authorities have fixed yet another deadline of February 2 to complete the process. With just two months of the academic session left, most districts are yet to procure the material.Sources in the education department blamed Covid-19 pandemic for the delay. However, this is not the first time that uniforms, sweaters and other materials of basic needs did not reach the students on time.In 2019, UP’s education minister Anupma Jaiswal had to resign allegedly due to the same reason. Her tenure was marked by delays in distribution of uniforms and sweaters. Even Allahabad high court slammed the government over it.The distribution of sweaters could not be completed in the 2017-18 winter, while distributed material, like socks, was found to be of extremely poor quality.This time too, after several delays, the government had fixed January 18 as the deadline for the completion of distribution. However, an inspection found that most districts have not even received the stock till now. It forced the department to shift the goal post. A new date, February 2, has now been fixed. Instructions have been given to complete the distribution or face action.“Despite the 2020–21 academic year approaching the end, an inspection of all the UP districts has found that bags, shoes and socks distribution is still pending. A deadline of January 18 was given to the districts to complete it. However, it is still pending,” read the order issued by Sarvendra Vikram Bahadur Singh, UP basic education director. “Now, a fresh deadline of February 2 has been given. All the district education authorities have been asked to complete the distribution process or face action,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/over-1-5cr-students-of-up-govt-schools-yet-to-get-their-bags-shoes-socks/articleshow/80256963.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||1.5 lakh vaccine doses reach Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur||JABALPUR: More than 1.5 lakh doses of the Covid vaccine reached Jabalpur airport around 8.30 pm on Wednesday. Vaccination of the health workers -- both government and private — will start from January 16 in the state. Of the total 1.51 lakh doses of the vaccine that arrived in Jabalpur, 93,000 are for districts under Jabalpur division and the remaining 58000 are for districts under Rewa division. Regional director, health services, Jabalpur, Dr Y S Thakur, said, “The vaccine that had arrived in a special aircraft will be stored at the office of the joint director and will then be sent to concerned districts by road. Storage arrangements have been made at the Jabalpur district hospital. Special vehicles for transporting vaccines were made ready.” Sources said that the transportation of the vaccines to other districts will start in the night itself, and those remaining would be transported on Thursday. District collector Karamveer Sharma said that the preparations for first round of vaccination have been completed in the district. “Vaccines will be distributed to the urban and rural areas of the city from the district hospital. A total 40 vaccination points have been made and a total 7 teams have constituted to ensure the implementation of Covid-19 vaccination in the district,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/1-5l-vaccine-doses-reach-jabalpur/articleshow/80256983.cms||Siddharth Pandey
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: Your vaccine is safe for six hours once opened, say experts||BHOPAL: Don’t panic if the Covid-19 vaccine vial is open for a few minutes, before it is administered. The vaccine is under ‘the open vial policy’, explained Bhopal district immunisation officer, Dr Kamlesh Ahirwar. Package insert and factsheet the comes with the vaccine stated ‘once opened, multi-dose vials should be used as soon as practically possible and within 6 hours when kept between +2 to +25 degree Celsius’. “We would utilise the vaccine immediately,” he added. Five vehicles which drove miles into the state capital were carrying conditioned icepacks. The chill of these packs can sustain the vaccine vial for a week. The liquid in rubber-stoppered multidose vial has to be stored at in a refrigerator (+2ºC to +8ºC). Covishield, ChAdOx1 nCoV- 19 Corona Virus Vaccine (Recombinant) is a colourless to slightly brown, clear to slightly opaque solution. The package insert and factsheet also comes with the vaccine includes information on indications and usage, dosage strength, clinical efficacy, contraindications, risks and benefits and use in specific populations. Blue boxes in which the doses were sent to eight districts were filled with icepacks to maintain the temperature. Each vaccine dose of 0.5 ml is withdrawn into a syringe for injection to be administered intramuscularly. Vaccination would begin from January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/your-vaccine-is-safe-for-six-hours-once-opened-experts/articleshow/80256964.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 14, 2021||Patna||Rs 4.68 lakh looted from Muzaffarpur bank||PATNA: Four bike-borne criminals looted Rs4.68 lakh from the Central Bank of India branch at Garha Chowk under the Ahiyapur police station area in Muzaffarpur district on Wednesday. This is the second incident of bank loot in Muzaffarpur in the last six days. Muzaffarpur SSP Jayant Kant told TOI over the phone that the criminals had barged inside the bank at around 10.30am and decamped with the money. Ahiyapur police station SHO Sunil Rajak said the criminals took the bank employees and customers hostage at gunpoint. “There were four bank employees and six customers inside the branch. The criminals forced the bank authorities to open the vault. But not much cash was in branch vault that time. Altogether Rs4.68 lakh was looted. Some criminals had their faces covered with muffler and caps. No firing took place during the incident,” he said. The SHO said the criminals also collected the cellphones of bank employees and customers before fleeing. On January 8, five criminals had looted Rs17.09 lakh from the Bandhan Bank branch at Donawa under Sakra police station area in Muzaffarpur. However, the STF had recovered Rs16.71 lakh of the looted amount and arrested four criminals from Kankarbagh in Patna within 12 hours of the incident. On January 7, four armed criminals had barged inside the Punjab National Bank branch at Bakhri in Begusarai, but failed to loot any amount. An FIR was lodged in connection with the loot attempt by the bank manager.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rs-4-68-lakh-looted-from-muz-bank/articleshow/80258125.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 14, 2021||Trichy||Trichy receives unprecedented rainfall||Trichy: After a deficient monsoon in 2020, Trichy district received unprecedented rain for the past three days. The district so far has received 98.6mm rainfall in the month, the highest in January in the past 10 years. In two weeks, the district has received 12 times more rain than the normal rainfall of 7.70mm. From January 1 to January 13, the district received rain for at least nine consecutive days. The highest rainfall recorded in January in the near past was in 2017 (19.1mm). “Margazhi (December to January) is characterised with morning fog but substantial rain during the period is rare. Days before Pongal, the sky was clear,” K Selvaraj, a senior citizen from Rockfort, said. Rainfall in the district was 30% deficient during the northeast monsoon season, but the unprecedented rainfall in January will help augment the groundwater table. Trichy city received maximum rainfall on Tuesday followed by the suburbs including Thuvakudi and Samayapuram. The 27.75 mm rainfall recorded as on Wednesday morning was the highest per day’s rainfall recorded in Trichy district in the past 10 years as per the IMD’s statistics. Weather observers opined that the unprecedented rainfall in January was due to upper air wind rotation factor that influenced the rain. “Substantial shower lashing the district will continue. We can expect intermittent rainfall with a combination of clear sky and cloudy condition on Pongal day (Thursday),” Independent weather observer N Selvakumar from Mannargudi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-receives-unprecedented-rainfall/articleshow/80259454.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get five more cyber police stations; one to open on Republic Day||MUMBAI: Five dedicated police stations to tackle cybercrimes are set to come up in Mumbai shortly, one of them this month itself on Republic Day, even as complaints of online frauds show no signs of abating. These police stations will come up in each of the five regions—North, South, West, East and Central—demarked by the department. More than 2,200 cybercrime cases were registered between January and November last year when while the pandemic raged on in the city, the most common scams relating to online liquor/food orders. TimesViewThe setting up of such police stations was long overdue. However, the important thing is for cops stationed there not just to be skilled but for them to keep upgrading their technological skills to keep up with the ever-shifting worlds of cyber criminals. At the same time, it is important that police officers thus trained are not sent to other departments in a hurry so that they develop an area of specialization and novices coming in as replacements don't have to start from scratch.Currently, there is a single cyber police station at Bandra-Kurla Complex (BKC), with a strength of about 60. “It is inconvenient for people from the distant suburbs to travel all the way to BKC with complaints. So, the government has decided to sanction one police station for each region,” said deputy commissioner of police S Chaitanya, spokesperson for the department. On January 26, the first of the five cyber police stations will be inaugurated at Samta Nagar in Kandivli East for North Region. The premises comprises an operations room, a complaint registration room and in-charge cabin. Space is still being scouted for the other four cyber police stations. Each cyber police station will have 30-50 personnel and they will not be given any bandobast, law-and-order or any other routine duties. For now, allocation of personnel will take place from existing police stations. “Cybercrime investigation needs special skills and know-how. We will handpick personnel who are already trained to start off with. Gradually, fresh staff will be trained and taken in,” said a police officer. “Younger policemen are keen to learn and some have done well despite being self taught.” For instance, constable Samadhan Jadhav of Dahisar police station has helped recover nearly Rs 1 crore that various cybercrime victims lost in the past year and half. Jadhav has also devised an app that can block calls of fraudsters based on a database of phone numbers stored in the system. Cyber lawyer Vicky Shah said it’s essential that personnel trained in cybercrime investigation are not transferred to any other department later. “What happens is that officers pick up skills and just as they start putting these to work, a transfer order comes in. The officer is posted in another department which is not remotely connected to cybercrime and he loses touch with whatever he has learnt,” Shah said. He added that setting up specialised cybercrime courts that can dispose of cases speedily are much needed as the conviction rate is very low—only 7% in the period from January to November 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-to-get-5-more-cyber-police-stations-one-to-open-on-r-day/articleshow/80258197.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 14, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Number of districts with bird flu deaths rises to 22||THANE/PUNE: The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22, with Pune and Bhandara the latest to report mortalities that may be linked to avian influenza. In Thane, 36 more birds were reported dead on Wednesday, keeping civic staff on their toes as they went about disposing of remains. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said teams came across carcasses of around 30 birds including pigeons, crows and a cuckoo on Wednesday. The number of dead birds in Thane has now reached 157, he said. The Thane municipal corporation said it will not send carcasses for testing as the flu has already been declared in the zone. “We have been instructed to dispose of the birds by digging deep pits. Carcasses will be buried with adequate layers of lime and soil to prevent them from being exhumed by rodents or canines. The process has been started,” said an official. The animal husbandry department, however, took tracheal swabs of live poultry in areas where the first dead birds were found. “The samples will be sent to the Disease Investigation Section in Pune for testing,” said Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, Thane district, AHD. There have been no deaths of wild birds in any sanctuary or national park in the state so far, said the forest department which has intensified surveillance following the outbreak. “Our staff has been asked to immediately coordinate with the animal husbandry department in case a dead bird is found,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF). Reports on the migratory Griffon vulture found dead at Owala near Sanjay Gandhi National Park have come negative, said Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department. Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also instructed the forest department to also pay special attention to wetland areas in the district. In Pune, where 13 poultry birds and nine crows were found dead, some samples are under investigation to prove whether the mortalities were because of bird flu or Newcastle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, mortality rate in a flock is very high. But mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the two places in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three of a flock of 50 poultry birds died. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples." Bhandara was another district where 79 poultry birds were found dead. With 481 mortalities in all in Maharashtra on Wednesday, count has now crossed 2,350 in the state. As many as 455 of the deaths on Wednesday were of poultry birds. The maximum deaths (294 poultry birds) were in Yavatmal. A senior animal husbandry department official said culling operations could not be started in the affected poultry farms in parts of the state till the samples tested positive for avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/no-of-districts-with-bird-flu-deaths-rises-to-22/articleshow/80262589.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Local police last line of security for vaccine sites||Kolkata: Six ACPs and a dedicated team of OCs and additional OCs in charge of eight police stations — under which fall nine government hospitals — will act as the final line of security as the vaccines start reaching the hospitals. These police stations will ensure that there is enough security at the venues when the vaccination process begins this weekend. “The hospital outpost in-charge will be providing periodic reports to the ACPs. If required, local police will provide additional support at Beliaghata ID Hospital and BC Roy Hospital, which have fewer cops on duty. We have sensitized the force and asked them to be always in touch with the administration to provide any help they might require. The divisional DCPs might make rounds on the days of vaccination,” said a source at Lalbazar, adding that they were seeing the exercise as a dress rehearsal for the time the vaccines reach the public. At other places, cops have realized that better coordination was required with private security agencies and the administration to implement their plans. “Six ACPs will man the six major police outposts at SSKM, NRS, CNMC, Beliaghata ID Hospital, RG Kar and Medical College. They will report to seniors like DCPs and additional CPs in two to four-hour cycles. In addition, local police will work with Special Branch and the anti-rowdy squad to trace local groups or kin of patients, if they cause any nuisance in hospitals,” said an IPS officer at Lalbazar. The doctors, too, said that cop presence will ensure discipline at the vaccination centres. A senior doctor at SSKM Hospital closely attached to the immunization programme said they had asked Bhowanipore police (under which the SSKM outpost works) to take over security of the vaccine storage unit once the boxes reach the hospital. “We have more than 9,000 beneficiaries at the hospital itself. We can’t take any chance with the security of vials, especially as the drive would be conducted over a period of more than two weeks. So we have sought cop help,” said the official. “Health workers do not need to be told about social distancing or Covid protocols. But, we have to learn how doctors are handling the vaccination as we will have a far greater role at vaccination centres when the public — especially the elderly — will begin getting their shots,” said an ACP. The Lalbazar welfare cell, the nodal security office in Kolkata for Covid vaccination, will continue to play the role of the facilitator every time there is a movement of vaccines in any part of the city. “While the cops will look into the access control at all gates at the vaccination points, no illegal parking will be allowed. In addition, just like at NRS and SSKM right now, we will have panic buttons once the common public joins the immunization programme. There are a few such buttons at NRS Hospital and we will increase its number,” added the officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/local-police-last-line-of-security-for-vaccine-sites/articleshow/80258159.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||On Lohri, copies of farm laws set afire in Punjab, Haryana||Bathinda/Jind/Jalandhar/Patiala: Upping the ante against the contentious farm laws on Lohri, farmers burnt copies of the three acts at hundreds of places across Punjab, Haryana and at protest sites on the borders of Delhi on Wednesday. Calling the laws “death warrants”, farmers threw copies of the laws into bonfires lit to observe the festival. Like Dussehra, when effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi along with heads of two corporates were burnt, photos of the PM and the same heads of corporates, were thrown into fire as they pledged to continue protests against the laws. Students and members of bar associations also set afire copies of the laws in Patiala and Jalandhar. “For us, the meaning of festivals has been lost since June 5, 2020, when the three ordinances were issued. Today, we have been forced to observe Lohri in anger,” said Gurbachan Singh, a farmer who has been protesting at Barnala railway station. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders too burnt the copies of the law at Delhi border. In Jind, farmer outfits, khaps and women protested at Khatkar toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala highway. After the protest, they burnt copies of the laws. Farmers said the entire world, gradually, was coming forward to extend support to farmers and 15 countries had supported the Indian farming community. Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwan said opposition to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s event in Karnal had shown that opposition to the laws had become a “jan aandolan” (people’s movement” and the BJP should take it seriously to avoid any consequences. “PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are assuming there are few farmers who are protesting, but reality is the opposite. Sooner or later, the government will have to repeal these laws,” he added. In Jalandhar, activists of Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) burnt the copies in front of district administration complex. Members of Jalandhar District Bar Association also burnt the laws. Acts were also brunt at Desh Bhagat Yaadgaar Hall, where members of Bahujan Samaj Front also participated. In Company Bagh Chowk, members of Sikh Talmel Committee and Punjab Youth Organisation burnt posters of BJP leaders Harjit Grewal and Surjit Kumar Jiyani along with copies of the laws. At Patiala’s Punjabi University, students organised street plays against the laws and also burnt their copies on campus. Krantikari Kisan Union vice-president Harbhajan Buttar also joined the students and addressed them about the farmers agitation. Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), All India Research Scholars Association (AIRSA) and Democratic Students Organisation (DSO) leaders organised the event. “Students will join the farmers’ agitation for January 26 in Delhi,” said PRSU leader Sandeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-lohri-copies-of-farm-laws-set-afire-in-punjab-haryana/articleshow/80258158.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||Less than 500 cases for 3rd day in a row||Bhopal: The count of Covid-19 cases crossed 2.5 lakh on Wednesday as less than 500 cases were reported in a single day in the state for the third consecutive day. On both Monday and Tuesday, less than 500 cases were reported after nearly six months in the state. A total 456 new cases were reported on Wednesday, taking the count of positive cases in the state to 2,50,009. On Wednesday, six deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by the Directorate of Health Services. With these new casualties, the Covid death toll in the state reached 3,732. Districts where these deaths were reported include two deaths each reported from Indore and Jabalpur and one death each from Bhopal and Gwalior. On Wednesday, new cases were reported from 49 of the 52 districts of the state. Districts where no new cases were reported on Wednesday include Morena, Mandla and Ashoknagar. Fresh cases were reported in double figures from 10 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal, where 95 people tested positive, followed by Indore, where 86 tested positive, Jabalpur where 28 tested positive and Gwalior where 21 people were found positive. The Covid death toll in BHopal rose to 593 with one more death. In Bhopal, 41,207 people have been infected with Covid-19 since the pandemic began. 81 people recovered from the infection on Wednesday, taking the total recoveries in the city to 38,626. On Wednesday, there were 1,988 active cases of Covid-19 in Bhopal. On the brighter side, 655 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, the total count of recoveries so far in the state reached 2,38,983. A total 24,280 samples were tested on Wednesday, of which 456 tested positive, thus the positivity rate—which is the number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Wednesday stood at 1.8 per cent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/less-than-500-cases-for-3rd-day-in-a-row/articleshow/80256988.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Bengal fishermen, Andhra farmers join agitation at Shahjahanpur||Chandigarh: Fishermen and labourers from West Bengal and farmers from Andhra Pradesh on Wednesday joined agitating farmers at Shahjahanpur and joined Lohri celebrations where farmers and leaders burnt copies of the three farm laws. Besides, a new batch of 11 farmers from various states sat on a 24-hour chain hunger strike hoing on on the Shahjahanpur-Kheri borders at Rewari. Addressing the gathering, speakers categorically ruled out the possibility of going back home, even after Supreme Court’s stay on implementation of laws. Headed by Tushar Ghosh, fishermen and laborers joined the agitation. Ghosh and another member of the Bengal group, Amra Ram, spoke at the protest. “Today, we had more people coming from West Bengal and Andhra Pradesh. Now, we are hoping more farmers and workers to come. We have decided to hold another meeting on January 15 to have meeting to review our preparations for January 26. We will also review our ongoing activities in home states,” Sanjay Madav, the spokesperson of a joint protest site, said This is the first time when our brethren have seen Lohri celebrations, added Madhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bengal-fishermen-andhra-farmers-join-agitation-at-shahjahanpur/articleshow/80258163.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra: Number of districts with bird flu deaths rises to 22||THANE/PUNE: The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22, with Pune and Bhandara the latest to report mortalities that may be linked to avian influenza. In Thane, 36 more birds were reported dead on Wednesday, keeping civic staff on their toes as they went about disposing of remains. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said teams came across carcasses of around 30 birds including pigeons, crows and a cuckoo on Wednesday. The number of dead birds in Thane has now reached 157, he said. The Thane municipal corporation said it will not send carcasses for testing as the flu has already been declared in the zone. “We have been instructed to dispose of the birds by digging deep pits. Carcasses will be buried with adequate layers of lime and soil to prevent them from being exhumed by rodents or canines. The process has been started,” said an official. The animal husbandry department, however, took tracheal swabs of live poultry in areas where the first dead birds were found. “The samples will be sent to the Disease Investigation Section in Pune for testing,” said Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, Thane district, AHD. There have been no deaths of wild birds in any sanctuary or national park in the state so far, said the forest department which has intensified surveillance following the outbreak. “Our staff has been asked to immediately coordinate with the animal husbandry department in case a dead bird is found,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF). Reports on the migratory Griffon vulture found dead at Owala near Sanjay Gandhi National Park have come negative, said Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department. Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also instructed the forest department to also pay special attention to wetland areas in the district. In Pune, where 13 poultry birds and nine crows were found dead, some samples are under investigation to prove whether the mortalities were because of bird flu or Newcastle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, mortality rate in a flock is very high. But mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the two places in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three of a flock of 50 poultry birds died. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples." Bhandara was another district where 79 poultry birds were found dead. With 481 mortalities in all in Maharashtra on Wednesday, count has now crossed 2,350 in the state. As many as 455 of the deaths on Wednesday were of poultry birds. The maximum deaths (294 poultry birds) were in Yavatmal. A senior animal husbandry department official said culling operations could not be started in the affected poultry farms in parts of the state till the samples tested positive for avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/no-of-districts-with-bird-flu-deaths-rises-to-22/articleshow/80262590.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Nylon manja being sold via social media platforms||Nagpur: In the last one week, the city has witnessed two life-threatening accidents due to the banned nylon manja. Despite this, the deadly thread is being sold clandestinely in local markets and openly via social media platforms. On Wednesday, social activist and lawyer Ankita Shah said some dealers were sharing photographs of the banned Chinese manja on their Facebook accounts. The posts were open for public and claimed to provide “original nylon manja” of mono company. “All colours are available for sale. Stock is limited and rates are fixed,” read the caption beneath the manja pictures. One roll of manja was priced at Rs450 and a set of three at Rs1,100. For interested buyers, a contact number was also provided. Shocked by such open sale of the product, Shah immediately reported it to the city police and Nagpur Municipal Corporation. “It is so unfortunate that people’s lives are being put at risk. There seems to be no fear of administration and it should be held responsible for all losses.” said Shah. According to NMC, the civic body and police are finding a way to stop the online sales. NMC has also sought citizens’ cooperation in enforcing the ban. According to her, no action was taken despite her repeated complaints. “If the authorities are serious about implementing the ban, they should have immediately tracked this person and seized the stock. His contact details were clearly mentioned,” she added. TOI could not contact police officials. NMC officials also stated that the Nuisance Detection Squad (NDS) has been carrying out regular raids and seizing nylon manja. On Tuesday, TOI reported about 20-year-old Pranay Thakre’s throat being severely slit by a nylon manja. He was heading towards his residence on bike when the string got stuck around his neck, just below the helmet. A few days before this, a loose string of nylon manja caused life-threatening injuries to 17-year-old Aditya Bharadwaj. He sustained a deep cut on the right side of his neck when it got entangled in a manja. Bharadwaj was driving a two-wheeler and was on his way to tuition classes when the accident happened. Local activists have been writing to police and civic body, demanding strict against sale and use of nylon manja. Awareness rallies are also being carried out. TOI has been reporting about how the sale of nylon manja is happening, especially through social media.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nylon-manja-being-sold-via-social-media-platforms/articleshow/80258260.cms||Manka Behl
January 14, 2021||Business||CESC consolidates its non-Kol power supply outfits||Kolkata: RP-Sanjiv Goenka (RP-SG) group flagship CESC is consolidating its non-Kolkata power distribution business under one roof as part of the restructuring of the power utility. Besides Kolkata, different subsidiaries of CESC have distribution licences in other cities. Earlier, CESC had a three-way split and only power business that includes generation, distribution were under the company while retail, real estate, IT being demerged into two companies, Spencer’s Retail and CESC Ventures. The company has informed stock exchanges that the board has decided to reorient and reorganize the power distribution business of the company under Eminent Electricity Distribution, a wholly owned subsidiary of the company, as its distribution arm. “Over a period of time and subject to applicable laws, other distribution businesses would consolidate in Eminent all investments of the company in distribution business (other than in its operations in Kolkata and adjoining areas) will be in Eminent,” the company said in an exchange filing. The distribution companies which would be consolidated are Kota Electricity Distribution, Bikaner Electricity Supply, Bharatpur Electricity Services, Malegaon Power Supply and Noida Power Company. The consolidated revenue of these five companies is over Rs 3,500 crore. “All these would become subsidiaries of CESC,” a CESC official added. Initially, RP-SG group had planned to demerge distribution and generation business as well of CESC along with other businesses but later that plan was put on hold following regulatory issues. The group has thermal power generation capacity of 2,400MW. It also generates renewable energy through its wind and solar power plants located in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu. The power utility has also declared an interim dividend of 450% on Wednesday. CESC has posted a net profit of Rs 182 crore in the third quarter of this fiscal from Rs 176 crore in the same period last fiscal. The revenue of the company has gone up marginally from Rs 1,677 crore in the quarter ended December 31 to Rs 1,687 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/cesc-consolidates-its-non-kol-power-supply-outfits/articleshow/80259502.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra: Number of districts with bird flu deaths rises to 22||THANE/PUNE: The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22, with Pune and Bhandara the latest to report mortalities that may be linked to avian influenza. In Thane, 36 more birds were reported dead on Wednesday, keeping civic staff on their toes as they went about disposing of remains. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said teams came across carcasses of around 30 birds including pigeons, crows and a cuckoo on Wednesday. The number of dead birds in Thane has now reached 157, he said. The Thane municipal corporation said it will not send carcasses for testing as the flu has already been declared in the zone. “We have been instructed to dispose of the birds by digging deep pits. Carcasses will be buried with adequate layers of lime and soil to prevent them from being exhumed by rodents or canines. The process has been started,” said an official. The animal husbandry department, however, took tracheal swabs of live poultry in areas where the first dead birds were found. “The samples will be sent to the Disease Investigation Section in Pune for testing,” said Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, Thane district, AHD. There have been no deaths of wild birds in any sanctuary or national park in the state so far, said the forest department which has intensified surveillance following the outbreak. “Our staff has been asked to immediately coordinate with the animal husbandry department in case a dead bird is found,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF). Reports on the migratory Griffon vulture found dead at Owala near Sanjay Gandhi National Park have come negative, said Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department. Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also instructed the forest department to also pay special attention to wetland areas in the district. In Pune, where 13 poultry birds and nine crows were found dead, some samples are under investigation to prove whether the mortalities were because of bird flu or Newcastle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, mortality rate in a flock is very high. But mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the two places in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three of a flock of 50 poultry birds died. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples." Bhandara was another district where 79 poultry birds were found dead. With 481 mortalities in all in Maharashtra on Wednesday, count has now crossed 2,350 in the state. As many as 455 of the deaths on Wednesday were of poultry birds. The maximum deaths (294 poultry birds) were in Yavatmal. A senior animal husbandry department official said culling operations could not be started in the affected poultry farms in parts of the state till the samples tested positive for avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/no-of-districts-with-bird-flu-deaths-rises-to-22/articleshow/80262591.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Number of districts with bird flu deaths rises to 22||THANE/PUNE: The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22, with Pune and Bhandara the latest to report mortalities that may be linked to avian influenza. In Thane, 36 more birds were reported dead on Wednesday, keeping civic staff on their toes as they went about disposing of remains. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said teams came across carcasses of around 30 birds including pigeons, crows and a cuckoo on Wednesday. The number of dead birds in Thane has now reached 157, he said. The Thane municipal corporation said it will not send carcasses for testing as the flu has already been declared in the zone. “We have been instructed to dispose of the birds by digging deep pits. Carcasses will be buried with adequate layers of lime and soil to prevent them from being exhumed by rodents or canines. The process has been started,” said an official. The animal husbandry department, however, took tracheal swabs of live poultry in areas where the first dead birds were found. “The samples will be sent to the Disease Investigation Section in Pune for testing,” said Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, Thane district, AHD. There have been no deaths of wild birds in any sanctuary or national park in the state so far, said the forest department which has intensified surveillance following the outbreak. “Our staff has been asked to immediately coordinate with the animal husbandry department in case a dead bird is found,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF). Reports on the migratory Griffon vulture found dead at Owala near Sanjay Gandhi National Park have come negative, said Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department. Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also instructed the forest department to also pay special attention to wetland areas in the district. In Pune, where 13 poultry birds and nine crows were found dead, some samples are under investigation to prove whether the mortalities were because of bird flu or Newcastle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, mortality rate in a flock is very high. But mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the two places in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three of a flock of 50 poultry birds died. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples." Bhandara was another district where 79 poultry birds were found dead. With 481 mortalities in all in Maharashtra on Wednesday, count has now crossed 2,350 in the state. As many as 455 of the deaths on Wednesday were of poultry birds. The maximum deaths (294 poultry birds) were in Yavatmal. A senior animal husbandry department official said culling operations could not be started in the affected poultry farms in parts of the state till the samples tested positive for avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-of-districts-with-bird-flu-deaths-rises-to-22/articleshow/80259504.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Number of districts with bird flu deaths rises to 22||THANE/PUNE: The number of districts recording unexplained bird deaths in Maharashtra has now gone up to 22, with Pune and Bhandara the latest to report mortalities that may be linked to avian influenza. In Thane, 36 more birds were reported dead on Wednesday, keeping civic staff on their toes as they went about disposing of remains. Sandeep Malvi, deputy municipal commissioner, said teams came across carcasses of around 30 birds including pigeons, crows and a cuckoo on Wednesday. The number of dead birds in Thane has now reached 157, he said. The Thane municipal corporation said it will not send carcasses for testing as the flu has already been declared in the zone. “We have been instructed to dispose of the birds by digging deep pits. Carcasses will be buried with adequate layers of lime and soil to prevent them from being exhumed by rodents or canines. The process has been started,” said an official. The animal husbandry department, however, took tracheal swabs of live poultry in areas where the first dead birds were found. “The samples will be sent to the Disease Investigation Section in Pune for testing,” said Dr. Vijay Dhumal, deputy commissioner, Thane district, AHD. There have been no deaths of wild birds in any sanctuary or national park in the state so far, said the forest department which has intensified surveillance following the outbreak. “Our staff has been asked to immediately coordinate with the animal husbandry department in case a dead bird is found,” said Sunil Limaye, additional principal chief conservator of forest (APCCF). Reports on the migratory Griffon vulture found dead at Owala near Sanjay Gandhi National Park have come negative, said Sachindra Pratap Singh, commissioner of animal husbandry department. Collector Rajesh Narvekar has also instructed the forest department to also pay special attention to wetland areas in the district. In Pune, where 13 poultry birds and nine crows were found dead, some samples are under investigation to prove whether the mortalities were because of bird flu or Newcastle disease. Shitalkumar Mukane, district deputy commissioner, animal husbandry, Pune, told TOI, “In avian influenza, mortality rate in a flock is very high. But mortality rate is relatively lower in Newcastle disease. In the two places in Pune district, 10 out of a flock of 50 and three of a flock of 50 poultry birds died. The cause is most likely Newcastle disease. But we are awaiting the results of the samples." Bhandara was another district where 79 poultry birds were found dead. With 481 mortalities in all in Maharashtra on Wednesday, count has now crossed 2,350 in the state. As many as 455 of the deaths on Wednesday were of poultry birds. The maximum deaths (294 poultry birds) were in Yavatmal. A senior animal husbandry department official said culling operations could not be started in the affected poultry farms in parts of the state till the samples tested positive for avian influenza.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/no-of-districts-with-bird-flu-deaths-rises-to-22/articleshow/80262588.cms||Manoj Badgeri
January 14, 2021||Trichy||Trichy: Woman struck by football, dies||TRICHY: An octogenarian standing on the road died after a football struck her earlier this week. The incident occurred in Woraiyur in Trichy and police are yet to identify the one who kicked the ball. Police said M Papayee, 85, of Woraiyur, was standing in front of an acquaintance’s house around 3pm on Sunday, when a football hit her with force suddenly. She collapsed immediately and was taken to a hospital where she died on Monday night. Police registered a case of suspicious death based on a complaint from her son, M Varadharaj, 58. Inspector Sonia Gandhi, under whose purview the case falls, said preliminary investigation indicated that there was no one in the playground near the spot at the time of the incident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-struck-by-football-dies/articleshow/80259485.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Centre rubbishes Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope’s talk on ‘allocation’||MUMBAI: Public health minister Rajesh Tope expressed concerns about the state being given only 9.83 lakh vaccine doses as against the requirement of 17.5 lakh. Reacting, the Union health ministry said there was no question of discrimination against any state in allocation of doses. “Our requirement is of 17.50 lakh doses while we have received 9.63 lakh. These are inadequate, but we are sure that the Centre will increase the supply of doses,” Tope said. The state has also been allocated 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Tope said 7.8 lakh health workers have been registered, and each person will be given two doses, which comes to 16 lakh. “If 10% wastage is added, the dosage requirement reaches 17.5 lakh. What we have received is only 55%,” he said, adding the state will again put forward its demand in the next 15-20 days. The Union health ministry, through a series of tweets, said the full initial procurement of 1.65 crore doses of Covishield and Covaxin has been allocated to all states and UTs in proportion to their healthcare workers database. “There is no question of discrimination. This is the initial lot of supply... and would be continuously replenished in the weeks to come. Therefore, any apprehension being expressed on account of deficient supply is totally baseless and unfounded,” the ministry said. — Sujit Mahamulkar & Sumitra Deb Roy||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/centre-rubbishes-topes-talk-on-allocation/articleshow/80259501.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM wants early arrest of IndiGo manager’s killers||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Wednesday spoke to DGP S K Singhal and sought the latest update in the IndiGo’s airport manager Rupesh Kumar Singh murder case. Singh (40) was shot dead near his apartment at Punaichak in Patna on Tuesday evening. The DGP told the CM that a special investigation team (SIT) was formed to crack the case at the earliest. The CM asked the DGP to ensure immediate arrest of criminals involved in Rupesh’s murder and also get them the hardest punishment by ensuring speedy trial of the case in a court. “Any incident of crime will not be tolerated in the state. Police must take stern action against the criminals,” Nitish said in a statement, released by the state’s information and public relations department (IPRD). “The CM is very serious over this murder case and he has been personally monitoring the case,” the state government’s communique said. Singh’s murder has triggered angry reactions from senior politicians cutting across the party lines. Singh, by virtue of his job profile, was close to many politicians and bureaucrats who used to frequently visit the airport for taking flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-wants-early-arrest-of-indigo-managers-killers/articleshow/80258160.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||Govt ropes in pvt hosps with more than 500 staffers to serve as vaccination sites||Kolkata: Private hospitals will soon have vaccination sites for the Covid-19 inoculation programme. The state health department at a meeting on Wednesday told private hospitals in the city to gear up for the job. The hospitals also agreed to offer the service free of charge. On Tuesday, the health department had asked 24 private healthcare units to send representatives to the meeting. “We are roping in corporate hospitals with more than 500 employees to have vaccination sites where they can inoculate other tiers of beneficiaries after administering the shots to their own healthcare workers (HCWs). The vaccine and training will come from the government,” said Ajay Chakraborty, director of health services (DHS). Close to 6 lakh HCWs, including those from private hospitals, have enrolled for phase I of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in the state. “We shall submit our expressions of interest by Thursday while we start working on a suitable vaccination site,” said Sudipta Mitra, CEO of Peerless Hospital. The meeting at Swasthya Bhawan was attended by senior officials, including Saumitra Mohan, state director, National Health Mission. Rupak Barua, group CEO AMRI Hospitals, said, “We have applied for all our units in Kolkata — Dhakuria, Mukundapur, and Salt Lake — to serve as vaccination centres. While the state will provide the vaccine and the syringes, we shall administer it for free. The cost of developing the infrastructure will be borne by us.” Many private hospitals had shown interest to serve as vaccination centres, but they were waiting for more clarity and a directive from the state health department. Rupali Basu, MD and CEO at Woodlands Hospital, said, “We have agreed to the government’s request to serve as Covid vaccination centres. We shall start with frontline healthcare workers, and everyone will be vaccinated in the days to come” Health officials, however, indicated that the vaccination drive at these private hospitals would not be kicking off on Saturday as their sites won’t be ready. “The scheme and the guidelines on Covid vaccination procedures were explained to us during the meeting. We shall get our infrastructure ready which the health department will inspect,” said Pradip Tondon, CEO, Belle Vue Clinic. These inoculation sites will also be used during the later phase of the vaccination when the frontline workers and the general population with comorbidities are vaccinated. The state health department will also be working with private health facilities in the districts for the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/govt-ropes-in-pvt-hosps-with-more-than-500-staffers-to-serve-as-vaccination-sites/articleshow/80258191.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 14, 2021||Bhopal||Ram temple, Coronavirus-themed kites in high demand||Bhopal: The market in the capital was decked up with varieties of kites including Covid-themed. The festival marks the northward movement of the Earth on the celestial sphere. The auspicious occasion is celebrated on January 14 every year. Shopkeepers said that even kites based on Ram temple theme were also in great demand. “It was obvious that Ram temple and Coronavirus-themed kites would be much in vogue this year as these topics have been most discussed,” said a shopkeeper Gyan Gupta. A day ahead of the big festival, the market in Bhopal has been stocked up with different types of kites printed with messages wearing a mask to beat Coronavirus among others. The designs also range from photos of actors, cricketers and politicians. Photographs of Anushka Sharma, Virat Kohli, along with animated characters and superheroes are also printed on the kites. Shopkeepers said that the presence of kites is higher than last year. “People are keen to celebrate the festivals. Sankranti is the best way to start a year. Demand for ‘wear masks’ printed kites is high in demand,” said Shakeel Khan, a shopkeeper. As the demand for kites was high, the shopkeepers also went to keep a stock of the kites. “Kites are not just a day affair. There are people who fly kites even after the Sankranti festival. This is the best way for the people to celebrate this festival for long days,” said Kishen Sharma, a shopkeeper. As such there is no big kite event in the state capital but people in Bhopal enjoy flying the kites on this day. Even working professionals can be seen flying kites at homes. “After watching TV and web series for over three months, flying kites attracted me. I used to fly kites in my childhood but later it discontinued after getting into professional work. Few of my office colleagues are my neighbours and we made a group to fly kites. Now, it has become a routine every evening,” said Sunil Yadav, a private firm employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/ram-temple-coronavirus-themed-kites-in-high-demand/articleshow/80257000.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Women to hold march in Jyani, Grewal’s villages||Bathinda: On a call given by the Sanyukt Kisan Morcha to observe January 18 as ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’, farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has decided to hold massive protests in the native villages of Punjab BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jyani and Harjit Singh Grewal on that day. A large number of women will march towards Jyani’s native village Katehra in Fazilka district and Grewal’s Dhanaula in Barnala district. On January 10, the Sanyukt Morcha had given a call for social boycott of both these leaders, urging farmers to oppose their entry into Punjab. Jyani has termed the call for boycott as a Talibani order given out of frustration. Jyani and Grewal were accused of speaking against the farmers, terming them as Naxalites and befooling the community. BKU Ugrahan women wing head Harinder Kaur Bindu said a large number of women will assemble in the villages of Jyani and Grewal on January 18 to hold protests against their anti-farmer stand. “Both these BJP leaders are frequently said bad things about the protesting farmers. Going by all this, we have decided to protest in their villages,” she added. Farm organisation president Joginder Singh Ugrahan said the BJP is acting against the interests of the people. These leaders, who have gained name and fame from Punjab and are eating the food grown in Punjab by farmers, are now pitted against the farmers, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/women-to-hold-march-in-jyani-grewals-villages/articleshow/80258190.cms||Neel Kamal
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||BJP, Cong hands in glove to sabotage farm movement: Sukhbir||Bathinda: The BJP got a setback in Faridkot district on Wednesday when party’s Faridkot district president Vijay Chhabra joined Shiromani Akali Dal in the presence of party president Sukhbir Singh Badal. After inducting Chhabra into party fold Sukhbir Badal claimed that Akali Dal will become stronger in the area with the district president coming to party whereas the saffron party will lose a prominent face. He said BJP is losing the small ground it held in Punjab. Sukhbir Badal on the occasion taking on Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh said that BJP led central government and the Congress led government in Punjab were hand in glove in sabotaging the Kisan Andolan and that Captain Amarinder Singh had deliberately recommended two pro- agri law experts to the centre so that the four members panel formed by the Supreme Court could be tilted in favour of the central government. Sukhbir said the central government forced the chief minister to forward the names of two members to be included in the committee for the purpose of holding talks between the central government and the farmers, to save the family from cases. He said one of these members Bhupinder Singh Mann headed a faction of the Bharatiya Kisan Union which had officially supported the Captain Amarinder Singh and the Congress party in the run up to the assembly elections in 2017. “Mann’s son was a spokesperson of the Congress party. He said similarly another member Ashok Gulati had also been nominated as a member of a state committee by the chief minister. Sukhbir Badal said the order of the apex court yesterday staying operation of the Agricultural laws was a moral defeat for the BJP led central government. SAD had advocated formation of a select committee of parliament to look into the laws and then arrive at a decision on the merits and de-merits but the centre did not agree to the suggestion. Sukhbir forewarned people to be careful about attempts to instigate violence in the name of Khalistan. He said this was being done with the sole purpose of defaming the farmer agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bjp-cong-hands-in-glove-to-sabotage-farm-movement-sukhbir/articleshow/80258200.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Trichy||ACTA wants guv to reconsider extension for VCs||Trichy: The Aided College Teachers’ Association (ACTA) has urged governor Banwarilal Purohit to reconsider the extension of the tenure of former vice-chancellors (VC) of Bharathidasan University (BDU) and Periyar University. Terming his move as unprecedented and questionable, ACTA said these universities are governed by respective acts legislated by the state legislature which do not provide for such an extension of tenure of VCs. Both the VCs - P Manisankar of BDU and P Kolandaivel of Periyar University - handed over charge to the vice-chancellors committee last week after the end of their three-year tenure. Hours after they handed over charge and left their respective universities, the governor directed them to continue in their posts until the appointment of the next vice-chancellor. Stating that that governor had taken the decision without consulting the higher education department, ACTA general secretary S Sahaya Sathish said the extension came into effect after the duo had formally left their respective offices. He said the extension was not in conformity with the letter and spirit of the concerned provisions of the Act. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/acta-wants-guv-to-reconsider-extension-for-vcs/articleshow/80259507.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Held for glorifying violence, singer released on bail||Patiala: A few days after his arrest by Patiala police allegedly for glorifying lawlessness and violence, singer and lyricist Pawandeep alias Shree Brar on Wednesday got bail in Patiala. Patiala’s court of district and session judge also asked Pawandeep to furnish a bail bond of Rs 50,000, besides instructing him to join the investigation whenever told. Pawandeep counsel H P S Verma said the singer’s passport was released by the court after furnishing the bail bond. “The court has also asked Pawandeep to avoid writing such objectionable content and if already penned, the content should not be sung or made public,” he added. Notably, some farmer leaders and politicians had alleged that he was targeted for recently singing a song ‘Kisan Anthem’ in the support of agitating farmers. The police on January 3, registered the case against the singer at Patiala Civil Lines police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/held-for-glorifying-violence-singer-released-on-bail/articleshow/80258235.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||30 months on, 5k Karnal farmers await crop loss compensation||Karnal: Around 5,000 farmers from several villages of Karnal district have been running from pillar to post for the past two and a half years to get crop loss compensation under the flagship Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY). As per information, the farmers had suffered crop losses during the 2018 kharif (summer-sown) season. As many as 74 farmers have filed cases in the consumer forum. Despite this, they are yet to receive compensation. According to the data provided by the district agriculture department, in 2018, 15,474 farmers had approached the department for claims after facing losses due to rain. A total of 3,474 applications had been rejected as the farmers had filed for claims after 48 hours of the loss while the remaining 12,000 applicants were found to be genuine. Of those around 5,000 farmers, including 4,395 whose details were allegedly not entered correctly on the PMFBY portal by their banks, are still struggling to settle their claims. Subhas of Ardana village said, “I had got my crop insured under the PMFBY and suffered losses during the 2018 kharif season. Even the officials of the company concerned and agriculture department had surveyed the crop and found 40% of loss in my four acres. Around two and a half years on, I am been running from pillar to post to get the compensation. Fed up, I decided not to opt for the PMFBY scheme this year.” He alleged that the banks stated that the company (SBI General) would pay the money for crop losses to farmers as the premium was deducted by it while the company officials said mistakes were committed by the banks, so they should pay for the same. Karnal deputy director of agriculture Aditya Dabas said, “The district and state-level executive committees have decided that the bank was liable to pay the farmers as the mistake was committed on their level. Even, the government has also written to the CEO of PMFBY scheme and Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to direct the banks concerned to pay the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/30-months-on-5k-karnal-farmers-await-crop-loss-compensation/articleshow/80258232.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||‘Planted over 9k trees as compensation for those cut for project’||Panaji: Goa Tamnar Transmission Project Ltd (GTTPL), contractors of the inter-state transmission system for Goa, on Wednesday said that it has planted 9,367 trees in the land allocated by the Goa forest department in Sakhali, Usgao, Codar and Sangod as compensation for the 2,670 trees felled for the project. The company said that for the Sangod substation, 2,670 trees were cut on private land (substation) for which the permissions were accorded by the Goa forest department. “As per the compensatory afforestation rules of the forest department, GTTPL was expected to plant three times the number of trees felled, which stood at 8,010. The project, however, has planted a total of 9,367 trees, which is more than what was mandated,” the company’s statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/planted-over-9k-trees-as-compensation-for-those-cut-for-project/articleshow/80258266.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Goa||Bandora seeks time to use panchayat funds||Ponda: Bandora village panchayat has sought extension of deadline from the government for utilisation of funds. The village governing body has said that the amount sanctioned to it under panchayat funds could not be utilised due to the pandemic. Under the 14th finance commission, Rs 93 lakh were sanctioned and the government had directed the village bodies to utilise the amount by March 31. The funds will have to be returned, if it remains unspent once the deadline gets over. Sarpanch Rajesh Naik said the panchayat needs at least a 4-month extension in deadline. “Because of Covid-19, we could not float tenders and the fund could lapse if unutilised by March 31,” he said. Surel Tilve, a functionary at the panchayat, said that calling tenders needs minimum two months. And March is nearing. Also, the contractors who win the bid for works of over Rs 5 lakh have to get 60 days to complete the work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bandora-seeks-time-to-use-panchayat-funds/articleshow/80260083.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara hosp fire inquiry report to be submitted on Sunday||Nagpur: Principal secretary (health) Pradeep Vyas on Wednesday informed the state cabinet that the inquiry report for Bhandara district general hospital fire that claimed 10 premature babies will be submitted on Sunday. The cabinet was also told that the all district authorities have been directed to expedite the fire safety audit of all government hospitals. Fire officials and public works department (PWD) electrical officials too have been asked to visit government hospitals in their areas and review the fire safety measures. The panel led by divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar continued its investigation at the hospital. “The inquiry will take some time. Members held a detailed discussion on Wednesday too and have decided the contours. Just wait for a few days. We shall be able to complete the inquiry soon,” said Kumar. About any action being recommended against any staff, Kumar said, “Let the inquiry complete.” According to hospital sources, the technical members of the committee took stock of the maintenance of equipment at the Sick Newborn Care Unit (SNCU) where the 10 babies had died on January 9. They also said the panel also quizzed senior doctors at the hospital. Health director Dr Sadhana Tayade is handling the probe at the hospital level. Tayade didn’t answer to TOI’s calls and messages. Sources said the panel is yet to start writing the report which will take more time. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also held a special meeting on the inquiry status. TOI couldn’t confirm the details of the meet. Initially, the panel was asked to submit its report within three days. However, as the panel was unable to utilize the hospital facilities optimally due to heavy movement of VIPs, the probe progressed at a slow pace. On Wednesday too, governor BS Koshyari and cabinet minister Eknath Shinde visited the hospital. The panel is functioning from the civil surgeon’s chamber on the ground floor while the SNCU is right above it. However, during a VIP visit the chamber is occupied and the panel’s work comes to a halt, said the sources. Health minister Rajesh Tope and top brass of health department have informally okayed extension of the deadline considering the vast scope of the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-hosp-fire-inquiry-report-to-be-submitted-on-sunday/articleshow/80258336.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 14, 2021||Chennai||Stray dog tortured, killed in Gerugambakkam||CHENNAI: On January 1, when everyone everywhere was praying that the New Year brings hope for humanity, three young men in Gerugambakkam beat and tortured a stray dog with iron rods. The animal succumbed to its injuries a few days later. As #JusticeForKatara trends on social media, animal welfare activists are demanding that the accused be arrested. “I have been feeding about 10 community dogs around my house every day. Since last November, I have also been feeding Katara,” says M Sathyaraj, 30, who lives in Gerugambakkam. “There is a factory near my house and a few people there also used to feed her as she was friendly.” Sathyaraj fed Katara as usual on January 1 but couldn’t find her the next day. “I went to ask the watchman at the factory and heard an animal screaming in pain. We found Katara, who was bleeding heavily, and the watchman said that some young men had beaten her,” he says. The men were angry because it had been barking at night. “One of the factory employees told us that it had also accidentally torn the lungi of one of the men, so they lured it with food, tied it and beat it with iron rods,” says Manjula Ganesan, another animal lover who, along with Sathyaraj, rushed the dog to Sanchu Animal Hospital. “They took an x-ray, and said that she had multiple fractures as well as severe head injury. We admitted her that night, and next day took her to the government veterinary hospital in Vepery where the vet told us that she would need surgery but the head injury and was serious and she needed to be kept under observation,” says Sathyaraj. A complaint was registered at the T14 Mangadu police station on January 6 and an FIR filed. “The inquiry is going on and we will take necessary action,” said S U Raja, sub inspector, T14 Mangadu police station. Sathyaraj and Ganesan, along with other animal lovers have started #justiceforkatara on social media. “We want the men to be arrested, and stricter punishment for cases of animal abuse so that it doesn’t happen again,” says Sathyaraj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/stray-dog-tortured-killed-in-gerugambakkam/articleshow/80248661.cms||Priya Menon
January 14, 2021||Meerut||With distilling hooch for panchayat polls on rise, forest dept fears jumbo attacks||Bijnor: Manufacturing of country liquor in the Ganga khadar (riverbank) region of Bijnor has picked up, with panchayat elections round the corner in UP. The forest department is alarmed with the activity, as elephants get attracted to the smell of liquor. “We’re already witnessing a rise in the number of elephants straying into the Badhapur area, and the primary reason is illicit liquor manufacturing in the area. We’ve urged the police and excise departments to increase patrolling and curb the activity, or it could have dangerous consequences.”There are 1,128 village panchayats in Bijnor district. With the bugle of panchayat elections sounded, there is a tug of war between claimants for the post of village head. Contenders are flexing muscles, with many of them setting up offices in their respective villages to woo voters by distributing liquor. In the rural areas, liquor plays a bigger role than muscle power or other inducement during polls. After sunset, villagers roaming about inebriated has become a common sight. To exploit the poll season demand, liquor mafias have set up distilleries in the khadar along the Ganges and its tributaries, and near forests, because they are less patrolled by cops. Panchayat pradhan contenders fix deals with the liquor mafias to supply cheap, illicit liquor with fake labels of popular brands. In the wake of recent deaths from consuming illicit liquor in Bulandshahr, forest and police departments are concerned. Police have already launched a special operation against the liquor mafia. According to Bijnor SP Dharamveer Singh, “Police have unearthed several illegal liquor units in the past few days. A dozen people have been arrested. Most mafias set up units close to forest or khaddar, as they are relatively inaccessible and hard for police to patrol, but we’re targeting such areas now.”Not only is binging on illicit liquor harmful to health, they also pose a threat to wildlife. According to forest officials, the smell of hooch from illegal distilleries near forests attracts elephants, monkeys and wild boars, which go on rampage after consuming the raw materials used in making the hooch, as well as the hooch.Some years ago, a herd of elephants went on a rampage in Tehar and broke the wall of a school in the night. Recently, six jumbos entered farms in Meduwala village under Barhapur range. “We’ve already put our staff on alert. If any person is found indulging in manufacture of hooch close to forests, action will be taken against them,” said M Semmaran, Bijnor divisional forest officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/with-distilling-hooch-for-panchayat-polls-on-rise-forest-dept-fears-jumbo-attacks/articleshow/80257028.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Govt school heads meet edu dept officials to discuss mission100%||Ludhiana: To get schools on ‘mission shat pratishat’, the secretary of school education, Krishan Kumar had a meeting with district officials of Ludhiana and Moga districts at GSS Smart school PAU Campus on Wednesday. Kumar exhorted the officials, nodal incharges and block mentors and district mentors of both districts to dedicate themselves to achieve mission 100% and asked them to concentrate on upgrading the level of education and learning outcomes of the weak students. He also urged them to monitor the meritorious students so that result could be improved qualitatively. Secretary of school education appreciated the officials, school heads and teachers for taking the mission 100% on priority and for gearing up for board and final exams in the right perspective. He said Punjab had taken the lead in the country as far as Punjab achievement survey and online education during pandemic are concerned. “All the heads and principals are motivating the students to attend schools and thousands of teachers are taking extra classes by adhering to Covid-19 protocols,” he said. Salinder Singh, assistant director of SCERT and district education officer Rajinder Kaur said the school-wise analysis of the December tests were done to find out how things could be improved. Principal of GSSS Shahpur Dr Davinder singh Chhina said” the small school projects of Govt schools had attracted the attention of the society and people of punjab and school development programmes had got a big –boost.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/govt-school-heads-meet-edu-dept-officials-to-discuss-mission100/articleshow/80258308.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||PET fee for EWS pupils panned||Aurangabad: The Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Marathwada University (Bamu) is charging the same registration fee for Ph.D Entrance Test (PET) from candidates belonging to both EWS and open categories, drawing angry reactions from the student community. Claiming that the EWS candidates were charged lesser fees by virtue of their reserved category status during different central and state-level examinations in the past, student unions have sought corrective measures at the earliest. Student activist Tukaram Saraf on Wednesday said even the University Grants Commission (UGC) had charged the EWS candidates at par with those belonging to the OBC category while registering for last National Eligibility Test (NET). “The EWS is a reserved category notified by the Centre and ratified by the state government. It is one of the reserved categories and, therefore, bound to get concession in registration fees for the PET,” he said. Bamu, which is holding the PET after a gap of four years, has fixed a registration fee of Rs 1,000 and Rs 600 from the students from open and reserved categories, respectively. When contacted, Bamu public relations officer Sanjay Shinde said no change is likely in fees charged from EWS category during PET registration. “The EWS is a quota created within the open category itself. The university is an autonomous body and correctly applied EWS quota in PET except for the registration charges,” he said.  Meanwhile, Bamu has extended the deadline for PET registration till January 18 in response to demand from the aspirants.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/pet-fee-for-ews-pupils-panned/articleshow/80255874.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thane||Thane: Drug peddler gets 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment, fined Rs 1 lakh||THANE: A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court in Thane on Tuesday convicted a 44-year-old man for peddling 2.8kg of charas and sentenced him to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment. The special court also fined him Rs 1 lakh. Ashok Jaiswar, a resident of Wagle Estate, Thane, was convicted by Special Judge (NDPS Act) H M Patwardhan on Tuesday. Prosecutor Varsha Chandane told court that the anti-narcotics cell of Thane police (city) received a tip-off that Jaiswar would be carrying contraband with him. A team led by assistant inspector Amol Walzade laid a trap on April 19, 2015, and arrested him near the Thane railway station with 2.8kg of charas valued at Rs. 2.8 lakh. A case under sections of the NDPS Act was registered against him by Naupada police constable Kaluram Shirose. A chargesheet was filed and several witnesses testified in court. The judge observed that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt the charges against the accused, who needed to be convicted and sentenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/drug-peddler-gets-10-years-ri-fined-rs-1l/articleshow/80258303.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Cong, Sena are playing politics: Fadnavis||Nashik: Former chief minster and leader of opposition in the state assembly Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday accused both Shiv Sena and Congress of playing politics over the issue of renaming Aurangabad to Sambhaji Nagar. “Shiv Sena is constantly pledging to rename Aurangabad to keep its vote bank intact and on the other hand the Congress is opposing the renaming of Aurangabad since it is also keen to retain its vote bank,” Fadnavis, who was on a day’s visit to Nashik, said. “As a government you have the right to rename the city, but on that front the chief minister is not saying anything. There is a complete covert understanding between the ruling coalition partners on the issue. These two parties will continue to hoodwink the voters of Aurangabad on this important issue,” Fadnavis said. The former chief minister was in Nashik city for unveiling a book (Nana Nawale) written on the life of a social worker Sukhadev aka Nana Nawale following which he attended a couple of other programmes. Responding to a question on allegations on NCP leader and social justice minister Dhananjay Munde, Fadnavis said, “There should be a transparent and honest investigations into the allegations made by the woman against Munde.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/cong-sena-are-playing-politics-fadnavis/articleshow/80255905.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 14, 2021||Meerut||6 more test +ve for UK Covidstrain in Meerut, tally now 15||Meerut: Six more persons tested positive for UK Covid-19 strain in Meerut on Wednesday.The tally has now reached 15 for the UK strain. The first case which tested positive was a two-year-old girl two weeks ago.“As many as six cases tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 on Wednesday. This makes the tally of the UK strain to 15,” Dr Prashant Kumar, Meerut district surveillance officer, said.Ever since the state and central governments issued guidelines regarding the travellers from the UK and Europe, a total of 100 travellers were sampled out of which three were found positive for the UK strain, Dr Kumar added."Following this, rigorous contract contact tracing was done and a total of 750 contacts were traced out of which 31 were found positive. On further testing, a total of 12 were found positive for the UK strain,” he said.Until now, 15 travellers and their contacts have tested positive for the UK strain out of which three have been discharged and the rest hospitalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/6-more-test-ve-for-uk-covidstrain-in-meerut-tally-now-15/articleshow/80257087.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Vaccine trial volunteers in Covid jab dilemma||HYDERABAD: Participants in clinical trials for Covid-19 are facing a unique dilemma. With states ready for the vaccine rollout, many participants are wondering whether they should continue to remain in the trial or be part of the vaccine drive now. The problem is that participants are not told if they have been given the actual drug or a placebo, like in the case of all clinical trials. This has prompted several of them to approach officials. They say, if given a mere placebo, they would like to get the vaccine. “While this was an informed decision for participants, now that the vaccine is available, a few are asking whether they are on placebo or not. This information cannot be given out as per protocol,” said a source from the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences, where clinical trials are currently on. This dilemma is going to leave the fate of some promising vaccine candidates hanging in thin air. Dr Rakesh Mishra, director CSIR-Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology, Hyderabad, pointed out how participants’ predicament is going to make the future process of trials more complicated and expensive. Mishra suggests there is a need for pharma firms to provide better compensation, insurance coverage for infection and hospitalization for participants. They must also inform participants after closure of trials if they were given placebo so it doesn’t discourage people from participating. “Now the dilemma is why should 50% trial participants take placebo when there is already vaccine available and they risk being a guinea pig. But that’s something which is always there, so we need volunteers for trials and people have to knowingly do that. If we don’t do trials then we are going to block the whole process of new and better vaccines. So this is both an ethical and technical dilemma,” Mishra said, adding, “I am concerned about vaccine candidates which are coming. How will they be tried? Not many people will be willing to put their life in danger by participating in a trial.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-vaccine-ready-participants-in-clinical-trials-face-dilemma/articleshow/80258355.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 14, 2021||India||Govt misleading SC on agri laws: Congress||NEW DELHI: Accusing the Modi government of misleading the Supreme Court on farm laws, Congress on Wednesday said that the Centre had claimed pre-legislative consultations on the contentious laws dating back two decades but had cited instances which only underscored its lack of legislative competence on the issue. AICC spokesman Abhishek Singhvi said the Centre’s affidavit filed in the SC on January 11 accused the protesters of peddling lies that the government had held no talks on framing of the farm laws. The said affidavit mentioned two decades of consultations, citing Guru committee of 2000, Model APMC Act of Vajpayee government in 2003, working groups of 2013 and a “model law” of 2017. Singhvi said the very fact that the Centre has cited “model Acts” as “consultation” proved that it had no power to draft laws on these issues relating to agriculture since model laws were optional for states to adopt or reject. In contrast, the Centre went on to create three all-India laws, he added. “This is a serious example of the Central government misleading the SC and the people of India. It is contempt of court,” he remarked. Congress leader Jairam Ramesh tweeted, “Farm ordinances are passed during lockdown. Parliamentary Committee is NOT allowed to examine Farm Bills. Rajya Sabha MPs are NOT allowed to vote after opposing. An ‘expert' group that supports the laws is appointed through Supreme Court to sanctify them. This is New India!” Replying to a question, Singhvi said, “The SC order would have had more force and strength had there not been revelations that the four names in the committee have already taken a stance in favour of the laws. Its moral and real authority will be less,” he said. Singhvi argued there was no consultation since neither lawmakers nor stakeholders had any clue about what was being put in the three farm laws which were then “rammed down the throat of the Parliament”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/govt-misleading-sc-on-agri-laws-congress/articleshow/80260556.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Thane||Covid vaccine for public could take 6 months to a year: Maharashtra health department officials||PUNE: The time taken to collate data of frontline workers — largely policemen and staff of departments involved in Covid-19 management — will be key to completion of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. It will also determine when the third phase, meant for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, can be rolled out. As the country gears up for the rollout of the vaccine this Saturday, senior state health department officials said it could take 6-7 months to a year for the three phases to be completed and the vaccine be available for the general public. Officials said supply of vaccines from the manufacturers is also critical, although they are optimistic that more vaccines will be given emergency authorisation in the coming months. State principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that the timeline should not be the focus as the government has clearly indicated that the priority group vaccination drive for healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 and those with co-morbid conditions will take 7-8 months or even a year. “Timelines for each group would all depend on the vaccine supply and the number of beneficiaries uploaded for each state,” Vyas said. He, however, said health workers will be covered in three months and frontline workers could be covered in the next 5-6 months. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that while the health department had carried out enrolment of government and private doctors for the first phase, different departments would be engaged in identifying frontline workers. The respective department heads would have to upload data on the CoWin app. “Once data is uploaded and we are intimated about it, we can make arrangements,” Patil said. The data enrolment for frontline workers can be done till January 25. The Union government would then assess the beneficiaries for each state and make necessary allocations. During a recent daily briefing of the health and family welfare department, it was stated that the vaccination drive in the country could take a year or more. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul had stated at a function organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that the drive would take at least 7-8 months. With more vaccines expected later this year, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the national task force, had indicated earlier that vaccines would be available for the common public in the market only at the end of 2021 or even early 2022. “The country will have 6-7 vaccines and with enough data, a better long-lasting vaccine could also come up. Over 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over and the most effective one would be selected suitable to the age group and comorbidities” he had said. Meanwhile, 2,70,300 police personnel in Maharashtra who will be inoculated in the second phase are being registered on the CoWIN app. State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said police would get the vaccine for free. Additional DGP Kulwant Kumar Sarangal said, “All the 2.2 lakh police personnel, 45,000 home guards, 4,400 prison police personnel and 900 disaster management personnel are being registered. We are confident of completing the registration process by the end of this week.” (Inputs by Mohammed Akhef)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/vax-for-public-could-take-6-months-to-a-yr-officials/articleshow/80260832.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Jumbo centre at Mahalaxmi first to be packed up without seeing single patient||MUMBAI: The dismantling of jumbo Covid-19 centres in Mumbai has begun. The first to be disassembled is the 900-bedded centre at the Mahalaxmi race course which did not admit a single Covid patient right from the time it was set up. While the isolation centre has already been removed, the ICU section is in the process of being dismantled. TimesViewTreatment for the last great flu (Spanish flu in 1917-18) was chiefly organised with the help of the army by setting up tents and camp cots. They were localised at Oval Maidan, Azad Maidan and Cross Maidan. In 2019, state authorities set up several jumbo Covid centres in the city with ICU beds and AC. Two such facilities were set up in close proximity (NSCI at Worli and Mahalaxmi Racecourse). The state has carried out its responsibilities well but along with citizens, authorities cannot let their guard down yet.“The Centre was on a property not owned by the BMC. While it was set up with corporate social responsibility (CSR) funds, there were regular maintenance costs, the most important being deputation of medical staff from major hospitals. Their work at the hospital suffered. We had to maintain a fire-fighting system and then there were medical equipment like ventilators that are now being distributed amongst major civic hospitals,” said Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner (health). The centre was built in the Mahalaxmi race course parking lot. The area had to be raised as it is prone to flooding during monsoon. Sources said there is every likelihood that the government will allow the races to begin from February 10. Sources said the race course has set aside approximately Rs 2 crore for sprucing up now that the centre is being pulled down. Kakani said the BMC will continue with its other jumbo Covid facilities till January-end and thereafter take a review of whether these need to continue. “The number of Covid-positive patients has decreased but passengers from the UK are arriving and many of them are being admitted to these centres. Once these are dismantled, the equipment will be stored at our central depot at Andheri and later placed in our new and upcoming hospitals,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/jumbo-centre-at-race-course-first-to-be-packed-up-without-seeing-single-patient/articleshow/80256058.cms||Clara Lewis
January 14, 2021||Trichy||Farm law: Protesters in Trichy, Thanjavur burn copies of Acts||Trichy: Members of farmers’ associations and various Tamil outfits staged a protest in Trichy and Thanjavur by burning the copies of the three farm laws, on the day of Bhogi festival on Wednesday, demanding the Union government to withdraw the Acts immediately. To persuade farmers protesting against the three farm Acts in Delhi to conduct talks with the Union government, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the three laws on Tuesday. Though farmers and various associations welcomed the order, they continued to protest across delta districts demanding to withdraw the Acts completely. Headed by the district secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam affiliated to CPI Ayilai Sivasuriyan, a section of farmers burnt the copy of the laws at Koppu village near Trichy. Members of various farmers’ associations participated. Members of Makkal Adhikaram also staged a similar protest at Gandhipuram in the city. Headed by Makkal Kalai Ilakkiya Kazhagam district secretary Jeeva, members of various Tamil outfits participated in the protest. Members of revolutionary students youth front also burnt the Act at Khajapettai in the city. In Thanjavur, protesters gathered near railway junction headed by the coordinator of the All India Kisan Sangharsh coordination committee (AIKSCC) N V Kannan and burnt the copy of the Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/farm-law-protesters-in-trichy-thanjavur-burn-copies-of-acts/articleshow/80259567.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Bareilly||Budaun horror: Crime scene recreated, accused claim woman got injured after falling in well||Bareilly: In police remand for a day, the three accused in the alleged gang-rape and murder of an anganwadi worker (40) were on Wednesday brought to the temple by the probe agency for recreation of the crime scene and to know the sequence of events on the night of January 3. Local police was also accompanied by a team of forensic experts which arrived from Lucknow. About 200m area around the crime scene was sealed. The accused were questioned for five hours by police, which was trying to verify the facts unearthed during the investigation in the last few days. A court had remanded the accused in police custody for a day. Later, the three men including the temple priest were sent to judicial custody. The accused claimed that the woman's injuries were the result of a fall in a dry well. The forensic team used a dummy body of the equivalent size and weight of the woman to recreate the crime scene in the presence of the accused. “Another person”, who is yet to come on record and had helped the priest in taking the woman out of the dried well, was also brought to the spot, police said. The series of incidents which allegedly occurred on that night, according to the statement of the accused, were recreated. The accused also claimed that they had taken the injured woman to two hospitals where she was denied treatment, police said. “Police have also taken the statement of the doctors of the hospitals in Chandausi city where the woman was taken by the accused in a car for treatment. The woman was denied treatment by the doctors there due to her critical condition. We will send notices to these doctors and take their statement. It is evident that the woman fell in the well but whether she was pushed or thrown by someone is yet to be identified,” said a policeman who didn’t wish to be named. Budaun SSP Sankalp Sharma told TOI, “We had the custody of the accused from 8am till 5pm. Apart from crime scene recreation, we questioned them for nearly five hours. The facts revealed during investigation cannot be disclosed until it is complete. The area around the crime spot was also sealed and no one was allowed to see what was happening inside. We are re-verifying all the statements of the accused and the victim’s family.” The woman was allegedly gang-raped, brutalised and killed by the three men inside the temple of her village. She was later dumped by them outside her house where she died a few minutes later due to excessive bleeding on January 3 night. For the next over 20 hours, her body was lying in her house, while local policemen were busy trying to pass it off as a case of accident. The SHO and another policeman were later suspended and booked for the delay.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/budaun-horror-crime-scene-recreated-accused-claim-woman-got-injured-after-falling-in-well/articleshow/80255932.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Compounder held with fake notes||Rajkot: A compounder with a private clinic in Bhavnagar was apprehended by the rapid response (RR) cell of Bhavnagar range police for carrying fake currency notes having face value of Rs 63,300. Police said that the accused Salman Salim Purani was waiting near Haluriya Chowk in Bhavnagar town on Tuesday as he was planning to exchange the fake notes for the original currency. “We had information about the accused so we detained and checked his bag,” said a police official. Cops found 73 notes of Rs 500 denomination and 134 notes of Rs 200 denomination from Purani. During questioning, Purani told cops that he had printed the notes at his home on a printer from a scanned image of the original notes. He also said that he was going to exchange the notes for the first time, but he could not as he was arrested. “Punari said that he was in dire need of money, so he had decided to print fake currency notes,” said a cop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/compounder-held-with-fake-notes/articleshow/80255944.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Maha police prepare to inoculate 2.7L personnel||Aurangabad: Police personnel in Maharashtra — who are next in line for Covid-19 vaccination — have started making preparations. Accordingly, 2,70,300 police personnel are now being registered on the CoWIN app. State home minister Anil Deshmukh has announced the vaccine would be given free of cost to the cops.The state government has appointed Kulwant Kumar Sarangal, the additional director-general of police (establishment), as the nodal officer for the vaccination drive in the police department. He is being assisted by superintendent of police Tushar Doshi.“All the 2.2 lakh police personnel, 45,000 home guards, 4,400 prison police personnel and 900 disaster management personnel are being registered. We are confident of completing the registration process by the end of this week,” Sarangal told TOI.The officer said though arrangements are being made to cover all the registered members of the police force across the hierarchy, “it will, however, be voluntary for the personnel to avail of the facility.”As part of the arrangements, spots will be designated within the respective jurisdictions. This is to ensure that routine policing is not affected, nor are police personnel forced to travel long distances to get the jab.Since the beginning of the Covid-19 pandemic, more than 30,000 police personnel in Maharashtra have been infected and about 300 have succumbed. “Most of the personnel we lost had comorbidities, especially blood pressure and diabetes,” said Rajender Singh, the additional director-general of police (law and order). He added just a handful of police personnel are currently active Covid-19 patients. “The number of cases — infected as well as casualties — has considerably dropped. Constant efforts are being made to ensure that there is no further surge,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/maha-police-prepare-to-inoculate-2-7l-personnel/articleshow/80255946.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 14, 2021||Meerut||BJP workers, villagers clash over loud music in Meerut during Jan Jagran rally for Ram temple||Meerut: BJP workers and local residents at a village in Meerut got into a scuffle on Tuesday evening during a Jan Jagran rally organised to create awareness about the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The incident occurred in village Kazmabad Gun on Tuesday evening where the rally involved several bike-borne BJP workers and a small truck, loaded with heavy loudspeakers playing loud religious music. This irked some local residents, who were attending cremation of a woman. The family members of the deceased asked the BJP workers to stop playing the music. It was alleged that the rally organisers refused to do so and argument escalated into stone pelting. Several vehicles also got damaged.According to station officer Partapur police station, as soon as we heard about the development we reached the spot and tried to pacify the two groups but soon enough supporters of both of them reached police station.Both sides have lodged their complaints but police sources reveal that the rally was taken out without taking permission from the authorities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/bjp-workers-villagers-clash-over-loud-music-in-meerut-during-jan-jagran-rally-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80257124.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Covid vaccine for public could take 6 months to a year: Maharashtra health department officials||PUNE: The time taken to collate data of frontline workers — largely policemen and staff of departments involved in Covid-19 management — will be key to completion of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. It will also determine when the third phase, meant for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, can be rolled out. As the country gears up for the rollout of the vaccine this Saturday, senior state health department officials said it could take 6-7 months to a year for the three phases to be completed and the vaccine be available for the general public. Officials said supply of vaccines from the manufacturers is also critical, although they are optimistic that more vaccines will be given emergency authorisation in the coming months. State principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that the timeline should not be the focus as the government has clearly indicated that the priority group vaccination drive for healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 and those with co-morbid conditions will take 7-8 months or even a year. “Timelines for each group would all depend on the vaccine supply and the number of beneficiaries uploaded for each state,” Vyas said. He, however, said health workers will be covered in three months and frontline workers could be covered in the next 5-6 months. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that while the health department had carried out enrolment of government and private doctors for the first phase, different departments would be engaged in identifying frontline workers. The respective department heads would have to upload data on the CoWin app. “Once data is uploaded and we are intimated about it, we can make arrangements,” Patil said. The data enrolment for frontline workers can be done till January 25. The Union government would then assess the beneficiaries for each state and make necessary allocations. During a recent daily briefing of the health and family welfare department, it was stated that the vaccination drive in the country could take a year or more. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul had stated at a function organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that the drive would take at least 7-8 months. With more vaccines expected later this year, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the national task force, had indicated earlier that vaccines would be available for the common public in the market only at the end of 2021 or even early 2022. “The country will have 6-7 vaccines and with enough data, a better long-lasting vaccine could also come up. Over 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over and the most effective one would be selected suitable to the age group and comorbidities” he had said. Meanwhile, 2,70,300 police personnel in Maharashtra who will be inoculated in the second phase are being registered on the CoWIN app. State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said police would get the vaccine for free. Additional DGP Kulwant Kumar Sarangal said, “All the 2.2 lakh police personnel, 45,000 home guards, 4,400 prison police personnel and 900 disaster management personnel are being registered. We are confident of completing the registration process by the end of this week.” (Inputs by Mohammed Akhef)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/vax-for-public-could-take-6-months-to-a-yr-officials/articleshow/80260833.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||44% fewer patients turned to GMCH in 2020||Nagpur: The pandemic took a toll on public health in the year gone by, but non-Covid walk-ins in the city’s Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) recorded a significant decline. The comparative data of patients who visited various GMCH departments in the years 2019 and 2020 shows a 44% reduction in cases. The pandemic has resulted in more than 50% decrease in accident victims, diabetes and cardiovascular patients, and walk-ins at ophthalmology, orthopaedics, neurosurgery, physiotherapy and many other departments. As compared to the 9.52 lakh admissions in GMCH Nagpur in the year 2019, only 5.29 lakh patients visited in 2020. These figures include Covid-19 and post-Covid-19 patients too. The data suggests a 44% decline in the number of patients. “People who used to visit GMCH for general ailments like joint pain and back pain did not turn out this year due to fear of infection. Elective consultation was less due to the pandemic, so the department witnessed walk-ins reduced to almost 50%,” said Dr Mohammad Faizal, professor and head of orthopaedic department of GMCH. With 31,000-odd walk-ins in 2020, this department has seen over 50% decline in elective consultation. However, the number of surgeries conducted was similar to last year. “The pandemic changed the entire way of functioning in GMCs in 2020. Covid protocols totally changed the OPD functions. We had to introduce two new sections — medicine casualty and surgery casualty — in March to avoid infection,” said Dr Prashant Patil, head of medicine department. Month-wise bifurcation of the data in 2020 shows that the number of patients increased in November and December, which indicates people may have started visiting GMCH again with the sense of security back. Post-Covid pulmonary OPD that was started in September saw 216 patients in October (the month next to Covid-19 peak in Vidarbha), but post-Covid patients reduced in November (186) and further in December (112), which means more people are recovering from Covid-19 in a sustainable way without post-disease complications. The pandemic affected many people emotionally and psychologically. But the number of patients visiting psychiatry department of GMCH reduced from 22,000 to 15,000. In the obstetrics and gynaecology department, the number of antenatal care (ANC) patients (expecting mothers) reduced from 55,600 to 31,600 in 2020. In the months of October, November and December — the ANC cases were more than 4,000 in 2019 and less than 2,500 per month in 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/44-fewer-patients-turned-to-gmch-in-2020/articleshow/80257126.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 14, 2021||Pune||Covid vaccine for public could take 6 months to a year: Maharashtra health department officials||PUNE: The time taken to collate data of frontline workers — largely policemen and staff of departments involved in Covid-19 management — will be key to completion of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. It will also determine when the third phase, meant for senior citizens and those with co-morbidities, can be rolled out. As the country gears up for the rollout of the vaccine this Saturday, senior state health department officials said it could take 6-7 months to a year for the three phases to be completed and the vaccine be available for the general public. Officials said supply of vaccines from the manufacturers is also critical, although they are optimistic that more vaccines will be given emergency authorisation in the coming months. State principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas told TOI that the timeline should not be the focus as the government has clearly indicated that the priority group vaccination drive for healthcare workers, frontline workers, people above 50 and those with co-morbid conditions will take 7-8 months or even a year. “Timelines for each group would all depend on the vaccine supply and the number of beneficiaries uploaded for each state,” Vyas said. He, however, said health workers will be covered in three months and frontline workers could be covered in the next 5-6 months. State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that while the health department had carried out enrolment of government and private doctors for the first phase, different departments would be engaged in identifying frontline workers. The respective department heads would have to upload data on the CoWin app. “Once data is uploaded and we are intimated about it, we can make arrangements,” Patil said. The data enrolment for frontline workers can be done till January 25. The Union government would then assess the beneficiaries for each state and make necessary allocations. During a recent daily briefing of the health and family welfare department, it was stated that the vaccination drive in the country could take a year or more. NITI Aayog member Dr V K Paul had stated at a function organised by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) that the drive would take at least 7-8 months. With more vaccines expected later this year, AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria, a member of the national task force, had indicated earlier that vaccines would be available for the common public in the market only at the end of 2021 or even early 2022. “The country will have 6-7 vaccines and with enough data, a better long-lasting vaccine could also come up. Over 50 vaccines are in clinical trials the world over and the most effective one would be selected suitable to the age group and comorbidities” he had said. Meanwhile, 2,70,300 police personnel in Maharashtra who will be inoculated in the second phase are being registered on the CoWIN app. State home minister Anil Deshmukh has said police would get the vaccine for free. Additional DGP Kulwant Kumar Sarangal said, “All the 2.2 lakh police personnel, 45,000 home guards, 4,400 prison police personnel and 900 disaster management personnel are being registered. We are confident of completing the registration process by the end of this week.” (Inputs by Mohammed Akhef)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/vax-for-public-could-take-6-months-to-a-yr-officials/articleshow/80259563.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Consent letter needed for Covaxin||HYDERABAD: Those receiving Covaxin will have to sign a consent letter while the beneficiaries of Covishield need not do so. “Beneficiaries who take Covaxin will have to fill the consent form. It could be because phase-III trials are in progress for this vaccine. However, consent is not required for Covishield as it has completed phase-III trials. As of now the details of the consent form are not known,” said a health official. Meanwhile, a total of 20,000 doses of Covaxin reached the state vaccine centre on Wednesday. A total of 55,270 doses has been released to various districts. They were allocated on the basis of the number of beneficiaries and session sites in each district. “As part of the launch, 139 centres will roll out the programme. Subsequently, vaccination sites will be increased in a phased manner for smooth operations and the requisite quantity of vaccines will be distributed to cover the remaining beneficiaries,” says an internal document of the state health department. Of the 55,270 doses, Hyderabad will be getting the highest (18,070 doses) while Nagarkurnool will get the least (230).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/consent-letter-needed-for-covaxin/articleshow/80258381.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Cops spread Lohri warmth by donating festival hampers to poor||LUDHIANA: As a goodwill gesture and under the “Winter Warmth” scheme started by director general of police of Punjab Dinkar Gupta, more than 11,000 blankets and Lohri hampers containing eatables and other goodies were distributed among the downtrodden sections of the society by the Ludhiana police in the city. Starting the drive, the commissioner of police Rakesh Agrawal distributed blankets and Lohri hampers to the residents of EWS Colony on Chandigarh Road. CP Agarwal said with an aim to spread warmth and happiness among the weaker sections of society, DGP Punjab Dinkar Gupta has launched ‘Winter Warmth’ scheme, under which more than 11,000 blankets, woollen caps and Lohri Hampers containing bun packets, biscuits, cup cakes, gachak, rewari, moongfali, sweets etc were distributed. He added such functions were organised at 25 different locations in the city, where additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP)- and assistant commisioner of police (ACP)- level officers distributed these items to the needy ones. ADCP 4 Rupinder Kaur Sra said as a humanitarian gesture, more than 600 blankets, woollen caps and Lohri hampers were distributed to the residents of EWS Colony, Chandigarh Road, here. ADCP 2 Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said, “The team of city zone-II distributed blankets and goodies among the slum dwellers of different localities of Sadar area. This is a great initiative for developing relations between the police and residents.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/cops-spread-lohri-warmth-by-donating-festival-hampers-to-poor/articleshow/80258441.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||Sense relief as Covid shots reach Aurangabad||Aurangabad: A total of 64,500 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine arrived in Aurangabad from Pune on Wednesday morning, ahead of the first phase of vaccination drive planned across the country on January 16. Of the doses received, the municipal limits of Aurangabad have a share of 20,000 doses, which will be administered to the frontline healthcare workers. Dr Swapnil Lale, the deputy director of health for the Aurangabad division, said the number of doses received is 10% more than the number of target beneficiaries — a certain amount of wastage is expected. “The vaccine is being further distributed to different Marathwada districts, where adequate cold-storage and supply chain is in place. The government machinery has experience in mass vaccination since 1960 and, therefore, the upcoming Covid vaccination drive is expected to be executed smoothly,” he said. Aurangabad division has received the Covidshield vaccine, which is manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India, the officials said. Dr Neeta Padalkar, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) health officer, said the doses received for Aurangabad would be kept in a cold-storage facility at Bansilal Nagar. “Apart from different mass vaccination drives conducted in the past, the health machinery is also equipped with the recent dry-run experience. The Covid vaccine shots will be administered to 19,000 beneficiaries at five centres in the first phase,” she said. The Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Aurangabad, which had treated 4,086 Covid patients till Wednesday morning, has 3,700 frontline health workers who will get the shots. “The vaccination drive for our staff members is scheduled from January 18. There is definitely a sense of excitement and relief among the health workers who have untiringly waged an almost 10-month-long battle against the pandemic,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/sense-relief-as-covid-shots-reach-aurangabad/articleshow/80255970.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Mental health issues on the rise: Psychiatry Society||Nagpur: Apart from making patients physically ill, Covid-19 has taken a toll on the mental and emotional state of people. Recent information by the Indian Psychiatric Society (IPS) has revealed that there’s a sharp 5% increase in the number of patients with mental illness since the outbreak of the pandemic. “Before the pandemic, prevalence of the mental health issue was 1:7 (one in seven people) and after the pandemic, it’s 1:5,” said IPS president, professor P K Dalal, on the organisation’s foundation day on January 7. To shed more light on the issue, the Nagpur Psychiatric Society (NPS) along with the department of psychiatry of NKP Salve Institute of Medical Sciences and Lata Mangeshkar Hospital had organized an online event on January 7. “‘Mental health matters’ was the theme of our foundation day celebrations and it was apt given today’s needs,” said Dr Abhishek Somani, president of the Nagpur chapter. “Most of the disorders have a psychological component which is sadly being ignored and often results in suboptimal treatment responses. This feature recently came to the fore during the Covid-19 outbreak,” he said, adding, people suffered more due to isolation and fear rather than the disease per se. “IPS aims to spread awareness about mental illnesses and the need for a positive mental health attitude,” said Dr Suleman Virani, secretary of NPS. “People should come out openly with mental health problems, approach doctors, counsellors or psychologist to get help and try to lead a healthy and a more complete life,” he said. In the Nagpur event, veterans of psychiatry in Central India spoke on different subjects. Dr Vivek Kirpekar highlighted the structure and pyramid of IPS, Dr Sudhir Bhave spoke on the evolution of Art and Science — a unique story of Psychiatr, and Dr Saleem Mujawar took the audience down memory lane with the History of Nagpur and Psychiatry. Dr Sushil Gawande moderated the discussion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/mental-health-issues-on-the-rise-psychiatry-society/articleshow/80257170.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Avian flu hits rescue of injured birds||Jaipur: The ongoing bird flu has impacted the rescue of injured birds this year. During Sankranti, till last year, hundreds of birds were brought to bird hospitals run by various NGOs but this year, bird flu is preventing people from rescuing the birds.At Jain Bird Hospital in Johri Market, the administration said that there is a decline in the birds being brought there. Ramesh Chandra Verma, a doctor at the hospital says that due to bird flu, after government’s guidelines, people are not touching the birds although injuries are happening all over the city.“Last year, from January 10 to 14, I had received around 1,500 birds but this year not more than 200 have been brought to our hospital. This is mostly due to the bird flu. Moreover, last year many NGOs organised camps for treatment of birds, but this year no camps were organised due to the pandemic and strict government guidelines. Hence, injured bird cases were not reported,” said Verma.However, even then, 30 cases per day are being received by the various organisations. Raksha NGO, working for the birds of the city said that there is a need to wear PPE kits to rescue the birds this year. “We go for bird rescue wherever we receive information from about an injured bird. But we couldn’t call many volunteers this year because wearing a new PPE kit every day and then following all the protocols is not possible. We organised one camp in Malviya Nagar but still, we are not able to follow up on every bird rescue call due to lack of equipment,” said Rohit Gangwal, member of Raksha.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/avian-flu-hits-rescue-of-injured-birds/articleshow/80258435.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||IRDAI tells insurers to work out Covid treatment rates with healthcare players||Hyderabad: The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority of India (lRDAI), has asked health insurers to work with healthcare players to come up with agreements on Covid-19 treatment rates on the lines of other diseases. “… the insurers shall make efforts to have agreement with health providers on rates for treatment of Covid-19 similar to other diseases for which rate agreements are in place,” IRDAI said. It said that while entering into such agreements, insurance players can take into account the reference rate of GI council for guidance alongwith rates fixed by state governments and Union territory administrations. The regulator also said that all the insurers need to ensure that the reimbursement claims under a health insurance policy are settled as per the terms and conditions of the respective policy contract. Besides this, in another order, IRDAI has constituted a ‘Health Insurance Advisory Committee’ to examine various aspects of health insurance in India. The 10-member committee including Dr Nachiket Mor, visiting scientist, The Banyan Academy of Leadership in Mental Health, Dr AK Chand, professor and neurosurgeon, Dr BK Mohanti, former professor and oncologist, AIIMS, and Dr K Hari Prasad, a city anaesthetist, among others, will examine the availability of the health insurance products in the country. The panel will suggest an approach on coverage of specific diseases. The committee, headed by IRDAI chairman, will develop a strategy on treatment protocol or rate structure to improve affordability of health insurance in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/irdai-tells-insurers-to-work-out-covid-treatment-rates-with-healthcare-players/articleshow/80258432.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Rajdhani will run on all days from Jan 19||Nashik: Exactly two years after the first Rajdhani Superfast Express ran from Mumbai to New Delhi, the Indian Railways has now decided to run the same train as Rajdhani Special on all days of the week from January 19, 2021. “The Central Railway’s Mumbai-Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express will now be running on all seven days of the week,” railway minister Piyush Goyal announced on the social media. “The Railways has decided to increase the frequency of Train No. 01221/01222 Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus Mumbai-Hazrat Nizamuddin (4 days a week) Rajdhani Superfast Express to daily,” a press release issued by the Central Railway public relations office said. The train that started with a frequency of two days which was later increased to three days and then to four days before the train was stopped during the lockdown owing to the Covid-19 pandemic. The train resumed its journey as special train from December 20 with the same frequency. The decision to change the frequency of the train has been welcomed by the commuters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/rajdhani-will-run-on-all-days-from-jan-19/articleshow/80255935.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||CoWin glitch: Vaccination sites at private hospitals on hold in Telangana||HYDERABAD: While the stage is set for Covid-19 vaccine rollout in the state, owing to glitches in the CoWin software, the vaccination drive at private hospital centres has been put on hold for the first day. The state government had identified 40 such centres across the state and 99 government centres for the rollout on day one. Since Covid-19 vaccine drive is a first-of-its-kind programme, where registration is required, several glitches were noticed. Sources say it has been tough to connect the pin codes of cold chain points with private hospital centres. “Government centres, including the primary health centres, are linked with the pin codes of cold chain points due to an already existing network, but there is problem with new centres being entered in the software,” said a health department official. The software requires that registration details of centres around a particular CCP have the same pin code. Since these details have not already been entered, the rollout has been put on hold. “We have everything set for the vaccine. Private hospital vaccine centres will begin the rollout at a later date,” Dr Narayan Reddy, Nizamabad collector, said. The most number of private hospitals for vaccine rollout were in Hyderabad and Ranga Reddy districts. In Ranga Reddy district, the drive at five private hospitals has been kept on hold, and in Hyderabad, six private hospitals were part of the initial rollout. Officials said private vaccine centres were included, they are being replaced with an equal number of the government centres. The state may use as many as 139 government facilities now. Sources also said that the government wants to keep a tab on these sites and respond quickly in case of any problem during the inoculation. Meanwhile, among the other glitches noticed in the CoWin software was that too many details, including Aadhaar, pan number and address, were being sought for registration. Officials said that the rollout in private hospitals will continue from January 18 subject to technical correction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cowin-glitch-vaccination-sites-at-pvt-hosps-on-hold/articleshow/80258416.cms||Sribala Vadlapatla
January 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Greens blame ‘mangrove red-tapism', scream against continuous destruction in Uran||Navi Mumbai: The city greens have questioned state government why the mangroves of Uran have not been declared as ‘protected forests’, although over 1,575 hectares of green mangroves in Raigad, Sindhudurg and Thane regions were recently given the reserved forests status through a government gazette order.As per the latest gazette order (GO), the protected forest areas under Section 20 of the Indian Forests Act include those in Sawantwadi, Vengurla, Kudal, Malvan and Devgad talukas of District Sindhudurg and Shrivardhan of Raigad, Kandivali, Dahisar, Eksar, Gorai, Varsova, Bandra and Juhu of Mumbai suburban, apart from 32 villages in Bhiwandi.In a separate GO, the government proposed to declare, under section-4 of the Forests Act, 1,387.3 hectares of mangrove zones as protected forests across 49 villages in Thane district. “Over 85% of the green coastal and creek areas have already been destroyed in Uran; hence, it was disappointing to see the latest government GO where several mangroves in Raigad, Sindhudurg areas were transferred to forest department, but the Uran mangroves were not included,” said the director of NatConnect Foundation, B N Kumar.The government as well as the Bombay high court appointed mangrove protection and conservation committee have long ago directed the district collectors and Cidco to handover the unreserved mangrove forests under their jurisdiction to the Forest Department.“We are told that the files regarding mangrove zone measurements are lying with the planning department even as the burial of mangroves is in progress at a rapid pace with the expansion of NH348 and construction by JNPT,” said Kumar.Truckloads of debris and earth are being dumped on mangroves at Dhutum, said Nandakumar Pawar of Shri Ekvira Aai Pratishtan NGO.Kharghar-based activist Naresh Chandra Singh complained he lodged scores of complaints against the destruction of mangrove in the node and all official agencies have turned a blind eye.Recently, mangrove committee member Stalin D said that it is important that they are soon transferred to forest department and that Panje wetland be declared as a Flamingo Sanctuary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/greens-blame-mangrove-red-tapism-scream-against-continuous-destruction-in-uran/articleshow/80274884.cms||Vijay Singh
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Night curfew, lockdown hit sale of kites in Jaipur||JAIPUR: Pandemic and night curfew have affected the sale of kites in Handipura market this Makar Sankranti. According to shopkeepers in the market, the sale of kites has taken a dip because in the peak time i.e., evening, they have to shut their shops. Shafik Khan, a kite seller in the market, said that people usually get out for shopping in the evening, but due to night curfew their market has to be shut. “When people return from office after 7pm, this market used to get filled with customers. But night curfew has impacted our business,” said Khan. Although the market is still crowded where people from all over the city come to purchase kites. However, shopkeeper said that this crowd is not the one for purchasing. “With one purchaser, three more friends come to the market. Many people visit the market for scenic view. Day time is not for serious customers,” said Mohd Kayum, another shopkeeper. Another problem that the shopkeepers are facing is about the scarcity of kites. Due to complete lockdown in 2020, bamboos in Assam were not cut which ultimately didn’t reach the market making a shortage of bamboo sticks for kite making. The material received was also of lower quality hence, the price of kites has also increased. Mohammad Yusuf, president of Handipura market, said that the bundle of kites sold for Rs 200 is now being sold for Rs 230 to Rs 250. “The material received wasn’t of good quality and damaged while making kites. Good material kites are of higher rates. Lockdown has broken the spine of this trade and with night curfew our business completely down,” said Yusuf with sad eyes. Majority of the traders from Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh haven’t arrived this year and those who did came just a week back. Due to pandemic and low business, UP traders decided to bring small quantity of material with them to avoid any more loses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-lockdown-hit-sale-of-kites-in-city/articleshow/80258473.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Aurangabad||SCR starts 2 spl trains via M’wada||Aurangabad: The South Central Railway (SCR) has started two special trains to Kachiguda via Marathwada with one being weekly special whereas another train that will run six days a week. Accordingly, Kachiguda-Akola special train (07639) will leave Kachiguda every Monday at 7.10 am. The train will reach the destination while covering Nizamabad, Basar, Dharmabad, Mudkhed, among others by 6.30 pm. In the return journey, the train ((07640) will leave Akola every Tuesday at 9.30 am and expected to reach Kachiguda by 8.15 pm.  The Kachiguda-Narkher is another special train that will run everyday except Monday. The train (07641) will leave Kachiguda at 7.10 am and scheduled to reach the destination via Nizamabad, Basar, Dharmabad, Mudkhed, Nanded, Purna and Hingoli, among others by 11.10 pm. In return journey, the train (07642) is scheduled leave Narkher at 4.30 am and reach the destination by 8.15 pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/scr-starts-2-spl-trains-via-mwada/articleshow/80255975.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||1.84 lakh Covid vaccine doses for health care workers start arriving in Vidarbha||Nagpur: Vidarbha is all set to receive 1.84 lakh Covid-19 vaccines on Thursday. The number of vaccines arriving is more than number of heathcare workers registered for the vaccination programme. After 10 months of pandemic, vaccination of health care workers will begin from 9am on January 16 in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh told TOI, “Vaccines for five districts of Amravati division arrived late Wednesday evening in Akola. The district will get 8,980 followed by Amravati 16,750, Buldhana 19,270, Washim 6,520 and Yavatmal 18,360, for a total of 69,880 vaccines for the division,” he said. Vaccines will be distributed to the five districts from Akola from Thursday morning, said sources. Six districts of Nagpur division — Nagpur, Chandrapur, Wardha, Gondia, Gadchiroli and Bhandara — will receive 1,14,120 vaccines. Deputy director of health services of Nagpur division Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said, “Vaccines will arrive early morning on Thursday at Mata Kacheri. All districts will send their vehicles to Mata Kacheri by 9am. Vaccines will be handed over directly from truck-container to vehicles of all districts,” he said. Dr Jaiswal said, “Government is likely to send 10% more vaccines taking into account any wastage or damage.” In Nagpur city, around 24,000 heathcare workers are registered for vaccination. Around 12,000 health care workers have been identified for vaccination in Nagpur Rural, for a total of 36,000 in the district. But, the district is receiving 42,000 vaccines. Vaccination programme will begin at around 9am on January 16. Additional municipal commissioner Ram said, “Vaccines will be stored at NMC’s centralized store room at Mahalle School near Gangabai Ghat. On Friday, vaccines will be distributed to five centres where vaccination will be done on January 16 and 17.” Two days ago, the state government had announced vaccination will begin at 100 centres in 11 districts of Vidarbha. Accordingly, preparations were made. On Wednesday, the government reduced number of centres. Exact reason behind decline in centres is not known to the authorities. Two days ago, government had finalized vaccination at 22 centres in Nagpur district of which 14 were in Nagpur Rural and remaining 8 in city. Accordingly, preparations have been completed. As per revised programme, there will be 15 vaccination centres in the district, 10 in Nagpur Rural and remaining 5 in city. In 11 districts of Vidarbha, there will be 71 vaccination centres for initial two days. Target is to vaccinate 100 health care workers at each centre. From January 18 onwards, 11 districts will start vaccination at all centres. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said, “Sixty centres have been finalized to vaccinate 24,000 health care workers in city.” Dr Jaiswal added, “Vaccine is coming from Serum Institute of India (SII), Pune.” It means all 11 districts of Vidarbha will get Covishield. However, authorities have no idea how many doses there will be in each vial, which has to be consumed within four hours of opening. Each vaccination centre will comprise of five staffers; four vaccinators and one policeman. There will be three rooms, one for waiting and verification of beneficiary, second for vaccination, and third for observation of beneficiary for 30 minutes. The name of beneficiaries will be registered on Co-WIN application from where automatic messages will go to all. Beneficiaries will receive schedule 24 hours before vaccine administration. In phase-II, front-line workers will be administered vaccine followed by people above 50 years, and those below 50 years with comorbidities in phase-III.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/1-84-lakh-covid-vaccine-doses-for-health-care-workers-start-arriving-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80258571.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Over 4.3k birds die due to flu in past 19 days||Jaipur: In past 19 days, the death toll of birds due to suspected avian influenza virus has touched 4,390. The bird flu has been found in 16 of 33 districts of the state.On Wednesday, 443 bird deaths were reported in the state and 62 samples out of 251 sent were found positive.According to the report released by the animal husbandry department, 296 crows, 34 pigeons, 16 peacocks and 97 other birds died.An official said, “Udaipur district is still safe as not a single bird death has been reported. Also report sent to National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NIHSAD), Bhopal from five districts including Jodhpur, Bhilwara, Bharatour, Churu, Jalore were tested negative. The bird deaths in these districts have also stopped. But we are keeping a strict vigil.”In the state, H5N8 subtype of influenza-A virus has been reported in samples of dead birds collected from the districts.A senior official of the animal husbandry department said the test report from Jhalawar poultry was negative. “Poultry farms in the state are safe from bird flu infection till now. In the past days, the department had taken samples from the poultry farm in Kota, Bundi and Jhalawar whose reports are negative.”Similarly, forest department official said, no bird deaths were reported at Jaipur Zoo on Tuesday. On Monday, four birds — three common ducks and a black stork — died allegedly due to avian influenza. The zoo administration had sent the swab samples of the birds to the NIHSAD and waiting for the confirmation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-4-3k-birds-die-due-to-flu-in-past-19-days/articleshow/80258467.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||T records 330 new cases, 3 deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Wednesday recorded 331 new cases of Covid-19 and three deaths, while the caseload in the state touched 2,90,640 and the toll went up to 1,571. The state currently has 4,458 active cases. On Wednesday, a total of 38,192 samples were tested for Covid-19. So far, 70 perc ent of patients have been asymptomatic. The GHMC recorded 61 new cases while Medchal-Malkajgiri recorded 28 and Ranga Reddy district recorded 21. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/t-records-330-new-cases-3-deaths/articleshow/80258472.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||SDM, dy magistrate receive threat calls||Rajkot: A sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and a deputy executive magistrate in Jamnagar district received threats on call, from a man named Jigar Maadam on Tuesday.After the government officials complained to cops, Maadam was traced down to Palanpur from where he was arrested on Wednesday. The SDM, N P Savaliya, told cops that Maadam initially called the deputy executive magistrate, G R Dabhi, and hurled abuses at him in connection with a case of a land at Amrapar village at Jamjodhpur taluka. Dabhi handed over the phone to Savaliya as he is handling the case. On the call, Maadam threatened Savaliya to pass an order against the company that has installed a windmill on the disputed land. Police said that the owner of the land had complained to the district administration alleging that the windmill company has encroached upon his land. Savaliya also said that despite Maadam not being party to the case, he made threats and hurled abuses at him and Dabhi. Even when Savaliya hung up, Maadam kept calling. Later, Savaliya gave a complaint at the Lalpur police station. An offence of criminal intimidation and threatening public servant was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/sdm-dy-magistrate-receive-threat-calls/articleshow/80255981.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ajmer||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports lowest active cases in 185 days||JAIPUR: The state reported the lowest Covid active cases in 185 days as occupancy of beds reserved for Covid patients have gone down significantly. In Jaipur, less than 250 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals currently. The state had 5,779 active cases on July 12 which rose to 5,788 the next day. It is for the first time since July 13 that the state has reported less than 5,788 active cases. With 790 Covid patients declared recovered, active cases dipped to 5,780 on Wednesday. Jaipur has the highest 1,180 active cases, followed by Kota (508), Jodhpur (420), Udaipur (394), Bhilwara (326) and Nagaur (331). A senior health department official said with active cases going down rapidly, the occupancy of beds in hospitals reserved for Covid patients have also reduced significantly. Officials appealed to people to continue taking precautions such as maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and practice hand hygiene. In the lat 24 hours, three persons died while 373 others tested positive taking tha casualty count to 2,742 and cumulative infection count to 3,14,091. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (72), Kota (36), Bhilwara (29), Ajmer (29), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (26), Dungarpur (22), Udaipur (21), Alwar (17), Pali (17), Rajsamand (13), Chittorgarh (12), Sirohi (8), Baran (6), Bharatpur (5), Sikar (5), Sriganganagar (5), Banswara (4), Bikaner (4), Bundi (4), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Jhunjhunu (2), Churu (1), Dausa (1), Jhalawar (1) and Karauli (1). Jodhpur reported its 298th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar its 100th and Bharatpur reported its 52nd Covid-19 casualty. Daily Covid cases Active cases Nov 24 3,314 (all time high) 25,197 Nov 29 2,581 28,758 (peak, highest ever) January 09 430 6,730 January 10 475 6,726 January 11 429 6,585 January 12 293 6,200 January 13 373 5,780 BOX: Today’s positive: 373 Cumulative positive: 3,14,091 Today’s death: 3 Cumulative deaths: 2742 Today’s recovered: 790 Cumulative recovered: 3,05,569 Active cases: 5780||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/state-reports-lowest-active-cases-in-185-days/articleshow/80261764.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||As Mumbai adds 675 Covid cases, it crosses 3 lakh mark||MUMBAI: With an addition of 675 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, Mumbai crossed the 3 lakh mark for number of people infected since the outbreak in March, taking the case tally to 3,00,474. It took the city 108 days to add the last one lakh Covid-19 cases to its tally. The city had taken 130 days to reach the first one lakh cases on July 18 last year from the time the first case was reported on March 11. The second one lakh cases had cpme in a mere 73 days over the months of July, August and September, a period when the city was reporting up to 1,200-2,000 cases in a single day. The daily detections began to see a dip in October. In fact, daily new cases have remained under 1,000 since November 29. Both the state and the city saw an increase in daily count on Wednesday. The state registered 3,556 new cases and 70 deaths, taking the total caseload to 19,78,044 and toll to 50,221. With the steady daily additions, the state is heading close to the 20 lakh mark. Active cases rose in 24 hours to 52,365 in the state despite over 3,000 discharges. Actove cases numbered 7,527 in Mumbai. Mumbai recorded deaths in double digits after five days. A dozen deaths took the city’s death toll to 11,212. State officials said that of the total 70 deaths reported, 48 had occurred in 48 hours while 10 were from the previous week. They said that the remaining 12 deaths were older than a week. On Wednesday, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and the cabinet took a review of Covid-19 situation and the preparation of the vaccination programme scheduled to take off from Saturday, January 16, at the national level. Thane city saw as many as 121 new positive cases reported on Wednesday, taking the tally of infected people in the city to 56,991. Two Covid-19 deaths took the virus toll to 1,280. The recovery rate in Thane was 96%. There were 80 positive cases from within Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation areas on Wednesday, taking the total Covid-19 count to 51,921. Of these, 96% of the patients have recovered from the coronavirus infection. One death was also reported, taking the toll to 1,071. Panvel reported 33 new cases on Wednesday, taking the total case tally to 28,101. With one death reported on Wednesday, the death toll reached 618. (Inputs by Manoj Badgeri, BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/as-city-adds-675-cases-it-crosses-3-lakh-mark/articleshow/80259593.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||City dwellers rush to native places for extended weekend||Hyderabad: Sankranti festival kicked off a massive rush to various destinations in neighbouring states with many people stepping out of the city for a long weekend beginning Thursday. Following a holiday on Thursday, several people took a day off on Friday and travelled to celebrate Sankranti with family and friends in their native places. Railway stations witnessed massive rush by Wednesday evening. Many pilgrims also made their way to Tirupati and Shirdi. “It’s been 10 months since I have been home. Since, I had to avail leave of only one day, I decided to travel back and meet my family for Sankranti,” said Jeevan Iyer, who travelled to Salem, Tamil Nadu, from Hyderabad on Wednesday afternoon. The South Central Railways (SCR) had announced 158 festival special trains to ferry passengers from Hyderabad towards multiple places in Andhra Pradesh. “We are running 12 festival specials on average per day. There are 17 regular special trains being run per day. Each train can accommodate up to 1,200 to 1,300 passengers,” said a railway official, indicating that at least 12,000 to 13,000 passengers are being ferried to various locations every day. The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation operated close to 1,800 special buses from Hyderabad to districts in Telangana and AP apart from 1,200 special buses to Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Karnataka. Private bus operators also did brisk business with many jacking up the prices at the last minute. For many, travelling by personal vehicle or by cabs emerged as a safer option in view of Covid-19. The Panthangi toll plaza near Choutuppal witnessed heavy traffic flow from Wednesday evening with large number of people travelling towards Vijayawada, Bhimavaram and West Godavari. “During the pandemic, travelling by your own car or a rented car or cab is a much safer option as you are not sharing the space with anyone else. We decided to travel to Hampi for a family trip during the Sankranti holiday,” said Vishal Jain, a graphic engineer at a multi-national company in Kondapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/city-dwellers-rush-to-native-places-for-extended-weekend/articleshow/80258495.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolhapur||37,580 vax doses reach Kolhapur||Kolhapur: The Kolhapur district health administration has received 37,580 doses of the Serum Institute’s Covishield vaccine on Wednesday. The vaccine boxes were brought in a special van from Pune, where the vials were stored in the divisional cold-chain house. The first batch of Covishield vials has been stored at the cold-chain centre at the vaccine storage unit of the Kolhapur zilla parishad. The temperature is being maintained at 2 degrees celsius and police personnel have been deployed to secure the centre. District collector Daulat Desai said, “We have identified 14 locations — six in Kolhapur city and the rest at primary health centres in the rural areas. At every centre, on Saturday, 100 beneficiaries will get the jabs. The offline and online training of the employees at the vaccination locations have been completed.” The authorities said the current batch of the doses is enough to run the vaccination drive for 20-25 days. Yogesh Sale, the district health officer said the monitoring teams will ensure no one tampers with the box of vials and the temperature of the units remain constant. The electricity department has been asked to ensure uniform power supply to the building. Automatic generators are kept as a backup. Sale said, “The registration of potential beneficiaries has almost been completed through the CoWIN app. They will be called as per the schedule prepared by us. On the first day, 1,400 beneficiaries will get the jabs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/37580-vax-doses-reach-kolhapur/articleshow/80255995.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||In NCP-Sena spar ministers reach meeting point||Mumbai: Nationalist Congress Party minister Jitendra Awhad took exception to Shiv Sena minister Uday Samant calling a meeting on housing without following protocol. Awhad is housing minister and Samant is minister for higher & technical education. A Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) circular announced a meeting on Friday, to be chaired by Samant, to discuss Sindhdurga and Ratnagiri. Samant is a former chairman of the housing board and is an MLA from Ratnagiri. Awhad did not raise the issue at the weekly cabinet meeting and did not meet Samant, but expressed displeasure to mediapersons. “As per rules of business, the minister of a department has the right to call meetings of his department. I learnt that Uday Samant has called for a meeting of my department without my knowledge. At least he should have informed me that he had called for a meeting of my department. Such behaviour leads to misunderstanding. If the other person is informed, we can work together better and act decisively,” he said. Samant denied calling a meeting of Mhada and said there was a misunderstanding. “I planned to visit the Mhada office regarding pending work in my constituency Ratnagiri and other work in Konkan region, which had been sanctioned earlier. Mhada vice-president assured me he would do the needful. To avoid misunderstanding I will not visit that office on Friday. I could not contact Awhad as I was on a visit to Kolhapur,” he said. In the last BJP-Sena government, then revenue minister Eknath Khadse had called a meeting of the industry department without informing the minister concerned. At the meeting on a land deal in Pune, Khadse directed MIDC officials to pay compensation to the original owner who had sold the land to Khadse’s family. MIDC maintained it had already acquired the property. The controversy led to Khadse’s resignation. Then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis later issued a circular to strictly follow rules of business and no minister should call a meeting of another department without the minister of that department being present for the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-ncp-sena-spar-ministers-reach-meeting-point/articleshow/80257634.cms||Clara Lewis
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Ganeshpeth senior PI shunted over intel failure||Nagpur: Senior inspector Shivram Kumbhare, attached to Ganeshpeth police station, was transferred over incomplete reporting of a Ghantanaad rally taken out by Congress corporator Bunty Shelke, who had also threatened to blow up Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) headquarters along with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat in an earlier rally. On Tuesday evening, Shelke had taken out the rally from Shivaji Chowk under Ganeshpeth police station to RSS HQ (which comes under Kotwali police station jurisdiction) to protest against the controversial farm laws and to demand its repeal. He was accompanied by hundreds of Youth Congress activists and supporters. Beating utensils, Shelke and Youth Congress supporters reached Hedgewar Bhavan and staged a protest for at least an hour. There was no police presence when the protesters had reached there, exposing intelligence failure of Ganeshpeth police. Shelke is learnt to have made a provocative speech against RSS outside the Hedgewar Bhavan and also criticized PM Narendra Modi for implementing the farm laws, which he termed “anti-farmer”. As the rally was taken out without permission, on being informed, Kotwali police detained 19 Congress activists including Shelke, Amar Parate, Naved Ahmed, Akshay Ghatole and others under sections 142, 341, 188, 269, 270 of IPC read with 135 of Bombay Police Act 51(B), National Disaster Act 2005, read with Section 3 of Epidemic Act, 1897. A couple of days ago, Shelke had taken out a similar protest march during which he had reportedly threatened to blow up the RSS HQ and the video of the speech had gone viral. Senior PI had not reported Shelke’s provocative speech in the intelligence inputs while submitting the report. Taking serious cognisance of lackadaisical reporting by Ganeshpeth senior PI, commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar on Tuesday night transferred him from the police station and shifted to Nagpur police headquarters, said sources. DCP Lohit Matani said it was an administrative action taken due to poor reporting, but refused to comment further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ganeshpeth-senior-pi-shunted-over-intel-failure/articleshow/80257180.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports lowest active cases in 185 days||JAIPUR: The state reported the lowest Covid active cases in 185 days as occupancy of beds reserved for Covid patients have gone down significantly. In Jaipur, less than 250 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals currently. The state had 5,779 active cases on July 12 which rose to 5,788 the next day. It is for the first time since July 13 that the state has reported less than 5,788 active cases. With 790 Covid patients declared recovered, active cases dipped to 5,780 on Wednesday. Jaipur has the highest 1,180 active cases, followed by Kota (508), Jodhpur (420), Udaipur (394), Bhilwara (326) and Nagaur (331). A senior health department official said with active cases going down rapidly, the occupancy of beds in hospitals reserved for Covid patients have also reduced significantly. Officials appealed to people to continue taking precautions such as maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and practice hand hygiene. In the lat 24 hours, three persons died while 373 others tested positive taking tha casualty count to 2,742 and cumulative infection count to 3,14,091. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (72), Kota (36), Bhilwara (29), Ajmer (29), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (26), Dungarpur (22), Udaipur (21), Alwar (17), Pali (17), Rajsamand (13), Chittorgarh (12), Sirohi (8), Baran (6), Bharatpur (5), Sikar (5), Sriganganagar (5), Banswara (4), Bikaner (4), Bundi (4), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Jhunjhunu (2), Churu (1), Dausa (1), Jhalawar (1) and Karauli (1). Jodhpur reported its 298th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar its 100th and Bharatpur reported its 52nd Covid-19 casualty. Daily Covid cases Active cases Nov 24 3,314 (all time high) 25,197 Nov 29 2,581 28,758 (peak, highest ever) January 09 430 6,730 January 10 475 6,726 January 11 429 6,585 January 12 293 6,200 January 13 373 5,780 BOX: Today’s positive: 373 Cumulative positive: 3,14,091 Today’s death: 3 Cumulative deaths: 2742 Today’s recovered: 790 Cumulative recovered: 3,05,569 Active cases: 5780||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/state-reports-lowest-active-cases-in-185-days/articleshow/80258501.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jodhpur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports lowest active cases in 185 days||JAIPUR: The state reported the lowest Covid active cases in 185 days as occupancy of beds reserved for Covid patients have gone down significantly. In Jaipur, less than 250 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals currently. The state had 5,779 active cases on July 12 which rose to 5,788 the next day. It is for the first time since July 13 that the state has reported less than 5,788 active cases. With 790 Covid patients declared recovered, active cases dipped to 5,780 on Wednesday. Jaipur has the highest 1,180 active cases, followed by Kota (508), Jodhpur (420), Udaipur (394), Bhilwara (326) and Nagaur (331). A senior health department official said with active cases going down rapidly, the occupancy of beds in hospitals reserved for Covid patients have also reduced significantly. Officials appealed to people to continue taking precautions such as maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and practice hand hygiene. In the lat 24 hours, three persons died while 373 others tested positive taking tha casualty count to 2,742 and cumulative infection count to 3,14,091. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (72), Kota (36), Bhilwara (29), Ajmer (29), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (26), Dungarpur (22), Udaipur (21), Alwar (17), Pali (17), Rajsamand (13), Chittorgarh (12), Sirohi (8), Baran (6), Bharatpur (5), Sikar (5), Sriganganagar (5), Banswara (4), Bikaner (4), Bundi (4), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Jhunjhunu (2), Churu (1), Dausa (1), Jhalawar (1) and Karauli (1). Jodhpur reported its 298th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar its 100th and Bharatpur reported its 52nd Covid-19 casualty. Daily Covid cases Active cases Nov 24 3,314 (all time high) 25,197 Nov 29 2,581 28,758 (peak, highest ever) January 09 430 6,730 January 10 475 6,726 January 11 429 6,585 January 12 293 6,200 January 13 373 5,780 BOX: Today’s positive: 373 Cumulative positive: 3,14,091 Today’s death: 3 Cumulative deaths: 2742 Today’s recovered: 790 Cumulative recovered: 3,05,569 Active cases: 5780||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/state-reports-lowest-active-cases-in-185-days/articleshow/80261762.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Trichy||Rain affects normal life in delta, damages crops||Trichy: Rain for the last few days has damaged thousands of acres of samba paddy crop in the delta districts besides severely affecting the normal life of the general public during Pongal. Vehicular traffic was affected due to the incessant rain, and people choose to remain indoors. Kollidam in Mayiladuthurai district recorded a maximum of 118mm of rainfall in the past 24 hours ending 6am on Wednesday when compared to other areas in the delta districts. Mayiladuthurai registered 93mm rainfall till 6am on Wednesday. Thiruvidaimaruthur block in Thanjavur district reported 107 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours. Nagapattinam witnessed 93mm rain, while Manjalaru in Thanjavur district received 93mm rain. In Trichy district, Kallakudi recorded 44.4mm rainfall and Nandiyar Head 60.6mm rainfall. According to the central team, which assessed the crop damage across the delta, samba paddy raised on about 2.06 lakh acres was damaged due to the rain triggered by the cyclones Nivar and Burevi. But now, the untimely rain has caused huge damage to the matured paddy as it has destroyed thousands of acres of paddy in the delta, farmers said. Heavy rainfall has affected Pongal business for many traders, including platform vendors. However, after the announcement of reopening of schools for Classes X and XII by the state government, parents along with their wards are seen zigzagging bazaar streets to purchase uniforms and school stationery. Apart from that, Pongal purchase was very low due to the heavy rain on Wednesday in Trichy. Meanwhile, Pattali Makkal Katchi founder Dr S Ramadoss has urged the state government to take steps to provide compensation to the farmers in the delta districts who lost their crops in the rain. Crops including paddy and groundnut have been affected by the rain in the last few days in the delta districts besides Cuddalore, Ariyalur and Perambalur. Ramadoss said that the rain had caused damage to the crops raised in around three lakh acres. Farmers who have cultivated paddy have lost up to Rs 30,000 per acre, while the groundnut farmers suffered losses of Rs 60,000 per acre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-affects-normal-life-in-delta-damages-crops/articleshow/80259583.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||City’s first desert park to be thrown open for public soon||Jaipur: Residents and tourists can soon relax in desert tranquillity on the periphery of Pink City without travelling distances. Kishanbagh, the city’s first desert park project initiated in August 2016, is expected to be thrown open to the public soon as work by Jaipur Development Authority (JDA) and forest department has reached the final stages. Jaipur development commissioner Gaurav Goyal said, “The expression of interest (EOI) to appoint a firm for operations and maintenance will be invited soon. The park will be opened once the Covid restrictions are lifted.” The park falls in the Vidhyadhar Nagar region, which is nearly 15 km away from the main city. The area is all set to get a new landmark, officials believe that this will be an added feature in the city’s eco-tourism. An official said, “Thousands of tourists visit Rajasthan every year. Due to paucity of time, many fail to visit desert areas. They could experience the desert in the close vicinity of state capital. Moreover, there are many natural treks in the vicinity of the park and residents can cherish nature in safe environment with their families,” said an official. The development of the area has been carried out without disturbing the topography. The park will represent a unique desert ecosystem in close periphery of the state capital “We have developed natural vegetation in the park like that of Thar Desert. Seeds and sand have been brought from Jaisalmer to develop flora in the park. Total 18 native species of trees have been planted,” the official added.The desert park is spread over 320 acres. In phase-1, the JDA has developed approximately 64 hectares. Other than Jaisalmer, trees from Barmer, Sirohi, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Chittorgarh, Banswara are being planted at the park.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-first-desert-park-to-be-thrown-open-for-public-soon/articleshow/80258498.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||History-sheeter arrested for gauchar land grabbing in Dhari||Rajkot: In a first case under the newly enacted The Gujarat Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act 2020 in Amreli, police booked one person from Dalkhaniya village in Dhari taluka of Amreli district for allegedly grabbing gauchar land and constructing a pucca house on the land. According to police, Accused Sabbir alias Sabu Aman Naya, a resident of Dalkhaniya village, which borders Gir Sanctuary, was arrested following the complaint lodged against him by Dhari Taluka Development Officer (TDO) B R Sojitra. Amreli superintendent of police Nirlipt Rai received information about the land grabbing by Sabbir in Dalkhaniya village and made a proposal to Amreli collector Ayush Oak in this regard. Following the preliminary inquiry by the district collectorate, a former complaint was lodged against the accused. Police sources said that Sabbir is a listed historysheeter and is involved in various crimes including attempted murder and prohibition act in last five years. A special investigation team is formed to probe this gauchar land grabbing case. The probe team will be headed by deputy superintendent of police (Head quarters, Amreli) M S Rana. The other probe team members include N A Vaghela (PSI, Dhari) and B V Pandya (PSI, Chalala). “Primary probe revealed that the accused had constructed a pucca house on the gauchar land and he used this land to carry out illegal activities including liquor supply,” police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/history-sheeter-arrested-for-gauchar-land-grabbing-in-dhari/articleshow/80256004.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||36kg synthetic manja seized in Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: Forest officials seized 36kg of banned synthetic manja in and around Hyderabad on Wednesday. To curb the usage of synthetic manja for kite flying, 187 shops were searched by 13 team of forest staff and they seized synthetic manja which was 182.5km in length. One person was arrested in Jagtial district and Chinese manja worth Rs 10,000 seized from him. Jagtial CCS police sub inspector Srikanth raided the house of one Abdul Javed in Krishnanagar. The arrested person has been handed over to Jagtial town police for further action. Officials were on alert for the use of Chinese manja across the state in view of Sankranti. Forest officials in Bhadradri Kothagudem district also took up an awareness programme. “There are a variety of birds in the forest area and Chinese manja poses a danger to them. If birds get trapped, it will be impossible for them to wriggle out,” district forest officer (DFO) Laxman Ranjit told TOI. Teams that are going around in the district are warning people that anyone found using or selling Chinese manja is liable to pay a fine Rs 1 lakh. Chinese manja has been banned by the National Green Tribunal because of the danger it poses to birds. Under the Environment Protection Act, the punishment for violating the law is Rs 1 lakh penalty and five years imprisonment. Under the Wildlife Protection Act, the fine is Rs 25,000 and imprisonment up to seven years.  While police and forest officials are on the job of preventing the use of Chinese manja in the entire state, special focus is also on Hyderabad as every year there are many instances of birds getting entangled.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/36kg-synthetic-manja-seized-in-city/articleshow/80258505.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan receives first consignment of over 5.6 lakh Covid vaccine doses||JAIPUR: To the accompaniment of drum beats, the state received the first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine in three different flights carrying 5,63,500 doses on Wednesday. The day started with an AirAsia flight with 20,000 doses of vaccines from Hyderabad landing at the Jaipur airport at 11am. Another flight landed in Jaipur carrying 4.43 lakh doses from Pune. Before that, a flight landed at Udaipur airport from Pune carrying 1,00,500 doses. Out of the 5,63,500 doses, 20,000 doses of Covaxin were sent by Bharat Biotech from Hyderabad, while the rest Covishield vaccines were sent by the Serum Institute of India (SII) from Pune in two different flights, one landing at Jaipur and the other at Udaipur. The vaccines were transported from Jaipur airport to the state-level vaccine storage facility at Sethi Colony. At the airport, the state government deployed police teams to ensure safe transport to the storage facility. Health minister Raghu Sharma said that a total of 5,63,500 doses have been received by the state. All these vaccines have been stored safely in full security following standards. He said that the state has a capacity to safely store over three crore vaccine doses. All preparations and arrangements for the vaccination drive have been made and is being reviewed by the chief minister, he said. Those who have registered online on Co-Win will be vaccinated as per the prescribed guideline of the Union health ministry. “We have kept the vaccines in our storage facility maintaining the required temperature between 2 degrees and 8 degrees Celsius,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur-I. Prayers were also organised to receive the vaccine at the storage facility and a coconut broken. A green corridor was also created at 11am to safely transport the vaccine. The health department official said the flight from Hyderabad reached Jaipur at 11am after a delay of 30 minutes due to the fog. Officials said that one vial of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin contains 20 doses while one from SII contains 10 doses. The Covaxin vial is bigger than the Covishield of SII. A health department official said that they were likely to receive the remaining 40,000 Covaxin doses soon for the launch of inoculation drive that begins on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-receives-1st-consignment-of-over-5-6l-covid-vaccine-doses/articleshow/80259585.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Udaipur||Covid-19: Rajasthan reports lowest active cases in 185 days||JAIPUR: The state reported the lowest Covid active cases in 185 days as occupancy of beds reserved for Covid patients have gone down significantly. In Jaipur, less than 250 Covid patients are undergoing treatment in hospitals currently. The state had 5,779 active cases on July 12 which rose to 5,788 the next day. It is for the first time since July 13 that the state has reported less than 5,788 active cases. With 790 Covid patients declared recovered, active cases dipped to 5,780 on Wednesday. Jaipur has the highest 1,180 active cases, followed by Kota (508), Jodhpur (420), Udaipur (394), Bhilwara (326) and Nagaur (331). A senior health department official said with active cases going down rapidly, the occupancy of beds in hospitals reserved for Covid patients have also reduced significantly. Officials appealed to people to continue taking precautions such as maintaining social distancing, wearing face masks and practice hand hygiene. In the lat 24 hours, three persons died while 373 others tested positive taking tha casualty count to 2,742 and cumulative infection count to 3,14,091. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (72), Kota (36), Bhilwara (29), Ajmer (29), Nagaur (26), Jodhpur (26), Dungarpur (22), Udaipur (21), Alwar (17), Pali (17), Rajsamand (13), Chittorgarh (12), Sirohi (8), Baran (6), Bharatpur (5), Sikar (5), Sriganganagar (5), Banswara (4), Bikaner (4), Bundi (4), Hanumangarh (3), Tonk (3), Jhunjhunu (2), Churu (1), Dausa (1), Jhalawar (1) and Karauli (1). Jodhpur reported its 298th Covid-19 fatality, Sikar its 100th and Bharatpur reported its 52nd Covid-19 casualty. Daily Covid cases Active cases Nov 24 3,314 (all time high) 25,197 Nov 29 2,581 28,758 (peak, highest ever) January 09 430 6,730 January 10 475 6,726 January 11 429 6,585 January 12 293 6,200 January 13 373 5,780 BOX: Today’s positive: 373 Cumulative positive: 3,14,091 Today’s death: 3 Cumulative deaths: 2742 Today’s recovered: 790 Cumulative recovered: 3,05,569 Active cases: 5780||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/state-reports-lowest-active-cases-in-185-days/articleshow/80261763.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Delhi||On Lohri, copies of farm laws set on fire in Punjab, Haryana||BATHINDA: Upping the ante against the contentious farm laws on Lohri, farmers burnt copies of the three Central acts at hundreds of places across Punjab and Haryana, and at protest sites on the borders of Delhi on Wednesday. Calling the laws “death warrants”, farmers threw copies of the laws into bonfires lit to observe the festival. Like Dussehra, when effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and of two corporates were burnt, photos of the PM and of the heads of the same companies, were thrown into the fire by the farmers as they pledged to continue their protests against the laws. Students and members of bar associations also set on fire copies of the laws in Patiala and Jalandhar. “For us, the meaning of festivals has been lost since June 5, 2020, when the three ordinances were issued. Today, we have been forced to observe Lohri in anger,” said Gurbachan Singh, a farmer who has been protesting at Barnala railway station. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, too, burnt copies of the law at the Delhi border. In Jind, farmer outfits, khaps and women protested at Khatkar toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala highway. After the protest, they burnt copies of the laws. Farmers said the entire world, gradually, was coming forward to extend support to the farmers and 15 countries had supported the Indian farming community. Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwan said opposition to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s event in Karnal had shown that opposition to the laws had become a “jan aandolan (people’s movement)” and that the BJP should take it seriously. “ PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are assuming there are few farmers who are protesting, but the reality is the opposite. Sooner or later, the government will have to repeal these laws,” he added. In Jalandhar, activists of Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) burnt copies of the laws in front of the district administration complex. Members of Jalandhar District Bar Association also burnt the laws. Copies were also burnt at Desh Bhagat Yaadgaar Hall, where members of Bahujan Samaj Front also participated. At Company Bagh Chowk, members of Sikh Talmel Committee and Punjab Youth Organisation burnt posters of BJP leaders Harjit Grewal and Surjit Kumar Jiyani along with copies of the laws. At Patiala’s Punjabi University, students organised street plays against the laws and also burnt their copies on campus. Krantikari Kisan Union vicepresident Harbhajan Buttar also joined the students and addressed them about the farmers’ agitation. Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), All India Research Scholars Association (AIRSA) and Democratic Students Organisation (DSO) leaders organised the event. “Students will join the farmers’ agitation for January 26 in Delhi,” said PRSU leader Sandeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/on-lohri-tillers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80261453.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||On Lohri, copies of farm laws set on fire in Punjab, Haryana||BATHINDA: Upping the ante against the contentious farm laws on Lohri, farmers burnt copies of the three Central acts at hundreds of places across Punjab and Haryana, and at protest sites on the borders of Delhi on Wednesday. Calling the laws “death warrants”, farmers threw copies of the laws into bonfires lit to observe the festival. Like Dussehra, when effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and of two corporates were burnt, photos of the PM and of the heads of the same companies, were thrown into the fire by the farmers as they pledged to continue their protests against the laws. Students and members of bar associations also set on fire copies of the laws in Patiala and Jalandhar. “For us, the meaning of festivals has been lost since June 5, 2020, when the three ordinances were issued. Today, we have been forced to observe Lohri in anger,” said Gurbachan Singh, a farmer who has been protesting at Barnala railway station. Samyukt Kisan Morcha leaders, too, burnt copies of the law at the Delhi border. In Jind, farmer outfits, khaps and women protested at Khatkar toll plaza on the Jind-Patiala highway. After the protest, they burnt copies of the laws. Farmers said the entire world, gradually, was coming forward to extend support to the farmers and 15 countries had supported the Indian farming community. Khera khap president Satbir Pahalwan said opposition to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar’s event in Karnal had shown that opposition to the laws had become a “jan aandolan (people’s movement)” and that the BJP should take it seriously. “ PM Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah are assuming there are few farmers who are protesting, but the reality is the opposite. Sooner or later, the government will have to repeal these laws,” he added. In Jalandhar, activists of Bharti Kisan Union (Rajewal) burnt copies of the laws in front of the district administration complex. Members of Jalandhar District Bar Association also burnt the laws. Copies were also burnt at Desh Bhagat Yaadgaar Hall, where members of Bahujan Samaj Front also participated. At Company Bagh Chowk, members of Sikh Talmel Committee and Punjab Youth Organisation burnt posters of BJP leaders Harjit Grewal and Surjit Kumar Jiyani along with copies of the laws. At Patiala’s Punjabi University, students organised street plays against the laws and also burnt their copies on campus. Krantikari Kisan Union vicepresident Harbhajan Buttar also joined the students and addressed them about the farmers’ agitation. Punjab Radical Student Union (PRSU), All India Research Scholars Association (AIRSA) and Democratic Students Organisation (DSO) leaders organised the event. “Students will join the farmers’ agitation for January 26 in Delhi,” said PRSU leader Sandeep Kaur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/on-lohri-tillers-burn-copies-of-farm-laws/articleshow/80260567.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Schools demand sanitization expenses before board exams||Nagpur: The state government must fund Covid-19 sanitization expenses to be incurred for conducting board exams, say associations representing school trustees and principals. Though no dates for the start of SSC (Secondary School Certificate) and HSC (Higher Secondary School Certificate) exams have been announced, it’s believed the exams may begin in April or May. Speculation about the date apart, school trustees and principals say they are clear about the demand for funds. Ashnarayan Tiwari, principal of Adarsh Vidya Mandir, Gandhibagh, said the government must not neglect this issue. “Students from across the city will be coming to exam centres and no one knows what health case history they come with. Extra care has to be taken while sanitizing the premises before and after the exams. Apart from this, even during the exam, we will have to keep using sanitizers, masks, gloves etc to minimize the spread of infection,” said Tiwari. Schools that are under grant-in-aid category, popularly known as ‘granted schools’, say their coffers are empty as rules do not permit them to charge fee. Trustee of a Marathi medium granted school said, “Unless the government pays us in advance, there is no way we will be able to bear the expenses. And, we will stress on advance payment as we are still to get payment for a promise they had made around five years ago.” The trustee, who did not wish to be identified, said the state education board asked schools to install generators so that power supply is not interrupted during board exams. “We were told that after installation, the bill has to be sent to the board office, and a reimbursement cheque will follow. It has been more than five years and nobody has received even a single penny. So, there is no question of trusting the board officials blindly on this one,” said the trustee. A similar problem had cropped up in October when the winter exam for SSC and HSC was held. A confrontation was averted after the board supplied all sanitization materials to schools. But that was possible because in winter exams, hardly 10% of the infrastructure is put to use. But to provide the same materials to centres across the district, where over cumulatively almost 4 lakh students will appear, is going to be an uphill task.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-demand-sanitization-expenses-before-board-exams/articleshow/80257194.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhogi Mantalu in city spread warmth, light||Hyderabad: Bhogi marked the beginning of Sankranti festival with several people lighting bonfires during the morning. The aroma of sweet pongal, colours of rangoli and kites and the warmth of the Bhogi Mantalu made for a perfect start to Makar Sankranti — the winter harvest festival. Bhogi Mantalu is synonymous with discarding the old and bringing in the new, observed by piling up and burning of some old wood and furniture in the house. “Children of our society got together and collected old furniture, wood sticks from various households in order to light the Bhogi Mantalu,” said Chavva Vinod, a resident of Malkajgiri. Telugu households wore a festive look with ‘muggu’ or rangolis along with portions of rice and turmeric adorning houses. Sankranti Sandadi was held at many places where a traditional Gangireddu, a decorated Ox, performed at his masters instructions. While ‘Haridasu’ went on to narrate ancient stories of kings, their kingdoms and Hindu gods, the Tuppaki Laccanna went on to bluff around just to make people laugh in several areas. Several people restricted their Bhogi celebrations at home, dancing around the bonfire. Resident welfare associations arranged a variety of programmes to engage locals in traditional and cultural festivities. The old and young alike took to their rooftops for kite-flying.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhogi-mantalu-in-city-spread-warmth-light/articleshow/80258532.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Agra||12 criminals arrested after encounters in Agra & Aligarh||Agra: As many as 12 alleged criminals were arrested in a spate of encounters with the police in Agra and Aligarh districts. While four criminals were arrested after being injured in an encounter with Aligarh police on Tuesday night, two members of a notorious gang arrested by Agra police on Wednesday also sustained injuries.Agra police recovered 3.5kg silver and gold ornaments, Rs 1.2lakh in cash and four illegal country-made pistols from the possession of the two Kalua gang members. Three members of this gang were wanted under Gangster Act.Agra SSP Agra Babloo Kumar said, “The group used to target jewellery shops in cities in Agra region and districts of Rajasthan. The criminals opened fire on the police team when they were challenged. In the retaliatory firing, two criminals, Hari Om and Narayan Das were injured. A sub-inspector Hemant Mavi was also injured. They all were admitted to the hospital.”During interrogation, they told police that their gang has three modules. While one was involved in criminal activities which was arrested. The other groups arranged for vehicles and disposal of stolen jewellery, the SSP said.Inspector Haribhan Singh Rathore in Aligarh said that the criminals, who were arrested, were identified as Ashok Yadav, Jaiveer Yadav, Pradeep, Babloo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/12-criminals-arrested-after-encounters-in-agra-aligarh/articleshow/80256031.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Nandurbar, Ahmednagar, Dhule & Jalgaon get vials||Nashik: Four districts — Nandurbar, Dhule, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar — have collectively received 88,450 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine supplied by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India. The vaccine vials have now been kept in the vaccine storage rooms in the respective districts. “Ahmednagar district has received 39,290 doses and they have been stored at 2-8 degrees celsius,” district health officer Sandeep Sangle said. The district had identified 11 vaccination centres, but they are now being revised. Once the centres are finalised, the vaccines would be sent to the same, he added. Jalgaon too received its first batch of vaccines by Wednesday afternoon. “The district received the first batch of 24,320 doses. The vaccines were brought on insulated vans that are used to transport vaccines during routine immunization programmes,” said Jalgaon collector Abhijeet Raut. The first phase of the vaccination drive will be carried out on January 16 at three sub-district hospitals (Jamner, Muktainagar, Chopada) and three rural hospitals (Bhusawal, Chalisgaon, Parola), besides at one each in the Jalgaon city civil hospital, the Nanibai Agrawal Hospital (behind Panchmukhi Hanuman temple) and Bhikamchand Jain hospital (Shivajinagar), said civil surgeon Dr N S Chavan. Dhule district, meanwhile, received 12,530 doses and Nandurbar got 12,410 doses from Nashik. Dr Nitin Bodke, the district health officer, said the storage facilities available in the district were adequate given the number of doses received in the first phase. 16 vaccine centres in Nashik, says Collector Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare has listed the 16 identified vaccination centres — District civil hospital-Nashik; general hospital in Malegaon; sub-district hospitals in Kalvan, Niphad, Chandwad and Yeola; rural hospital in Dindori; primary health centre at Sayyad Pimpri in Nashik taluka; Indira Gandhi hospital-Nashik; and urban health centres in Satpur, New Bytco, JDC Bytco, Camp Ward Malegaon, NIMA 1 Malegaon, Ramjanpura Malegaon and Soygaon, Malegaon. In phase-I of the vaccination, 18,135 health workers from government and 12,480 from private institutions have been given priority in the district. So far, 1,029 vaccinators have been trained. Also, 210 ice-lined refrigerators are available in the district for storage of vaccines, Mandhare said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nandurbar-ahmednagar-dhule-jalgaon-get-vials/articleshow/80256003.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Vax sessions at 161 sites on 10 days this month||JAIPUR: The number of vaccination sites for the launch of Covid inoculation drive have been reduced to 161. Earlier, it was proposed to launch the drive at 282 vaccination sites. The sites have been identified on the basis of healthcare facilities available for dealing with any adverse event following immunization (AEFI). Health secretary Siddhartha Mahajan said the preparation for vaccination has been completed as directed by chief minister Ashok Gehlot. The drive will be launched in the state after Prime Minister will it at the national level. The doses in Covaxin vial is 20, while Covishield has 10 doses.Mahajan said the second session of vaccination will be started only after all the beneficiaries of the first session get vaccinated. Initially, the vaccination will be done at hospitals attached to medical colleges, district hospital, sub-district hospital, community health centre. Only after that, it will be started at primary health centres. Priority has been given to those centres which have proper management of adverse events following immunization (AEFI). Preference will be given to the beneficiaries who have registered themselves first on Co-Win software on ‘first in, first out’ basis. Mahajan directed the officials in all the districts to prepare action plan till January 31. Vaccination will be done four days a week. In January, the vaccination sessions will be held on January 16, January 18, January 19, January 22, January 23, January 25, January 27, January 29, January 30 and January 31. If any district completes the vaccination of all healthcare workers before January 31, the district officials will inform the directorate immediately. The vaccine store will work on the basis of ‘first expiry, first out’. Directions have been issued to all the districts to use half of the vaccines and the rest should be saved to get vaccinated those who have already been vaccinated as second dose after a gap of 28 days. The ItineraryVaccination days: January 16, 18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 27, 29, 30, 31Half of the vaccines supplied by the Centre will be used in January, while half of the vaccine will be administered to the same beneficiaries after 28 days of getting the first dose161 vaccination sites have been identified for first phase beginging on January 16The sites have been identified on basis of availability of healthcare facilities for dealing with any incident of adverse event following immunizationThose registered first in Co-win software will get the vaccine first||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vax-sessions-at-161-sites-on-10-days-this-month/articleshow/80258517.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Hyderabad||Burglar nabbed at Golconda||Hyderabad: East Zone Task Force police nabbed a house burglar, Sheik Abdul Jaffar, who was allegedly involved in two burglary cases, at Golconda on Wednesday. Police seized 23 tolas gold and a diamond worth Rs 12 lakh from the possession of the accused. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/burglar-nabbed-at-golconda/articleshow/80258577.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||One held for goon’s murder||Nagpur: The Sadar police have arrested one Raju Verma (52), a resident of Chintaman Nagar, Kalamna, in connection with the murder of notorious goon Akshay Nirmale at Mangalwari Bazaar in full public view on Tuesday night. However, four accomplices of Verma are still at large. Meanwhile, police have found out that the assailants had also injured the deceased goon’s wife — Pallavi. The police on Wednesday produced Verma before the court, which has granted him into police custody till January 19. The other absconding in the case include Verma’s son Sahil, Vicky Verma, Nikhil Verma and Nikhil’s brother-in-law. Police said Verma runs a vegetable shop in Mangalwari Bazaar in Sadar, where the deceased also runs a teashop. On Tuesday, during the market day, the duo entered into an argument over some trivial issue. Before Nirmale could understand anything, Verma along with his relatives stabbed him with a knife. The assailants also stabbed Pallavi when she tried to intervene.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/one-held-for-goons-murder/articleshow/80257195.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Bengaluru||Vaccine distribution begins, BBMP gets biggest share||BENGALURU: Vials of Covaxin, India’s first indigenous vaccine against SARS-CoV-2, reached Bengaluru around 12 noon on Wednesday with a total 20,000 doses, dispatched from Bharat Biotech, Hyderabad, arriving at Kempegowda International Airport. Pankaj Kumar Pandey, commissioner, health and family welfare department, confirmed receiving the vials. The consignment consisted of three boxes: Two containing 384 vials each and the third, 232 vials – 1,000 vials in all. Health minister K Sudhakar claimed the only difference between the two vaccines which the state has received is that Covaxin comes in 10ml vials and Covishield, produced by Serum Institute of India, in 5ml. However, the dosage — 5ml per shot — is the same. “Beneficiaries can't choose which vaccine to receive,” Sudhakar said. Officials, however, said no decision has been taken yet on whether Covaxin will be used on Saturday, the first day of the vaccination drive. A decision on districtwise distribution is also yet to be taken. However, distribution of Covishield to all districts from Bengaluru and Belagavi began. The state has a total 7.9 lakh doses of Covishield and about 3.8 lakh healthcare workers will be inoculated. Bengaluru city (BBMP) has got the lion’s share. The city has been allocated a total of 2.1 lakh doses. Dakshina Kannada has received the second highest quantity at 48,000 doses, while Mysuru, which has the second highest number of cases after Bengaluru Urban, has been allocated 41,460 doses. Bengaluru Urban (excluding BBMP) has been allocated 37,610 doses and Belagavi 35,960. Distribution is based on the number of healthcare workers who registered on the Co-Win portal. Yadgir district got the least number of doses at 6,000. The drive on Saturday will begin at 237 vaccination sites – two more than the initial tally of 235. A medical college each in Dharwad and Tumakuru were added to the final list of sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bluru-gets-lions-share-of-vax-allocated-to-karnataka/articleshow/80257710.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||In first lot, only 83k healthcare staff of Vid to get Covishield shots||Nagpur: Vidarbha has received Covid-19 vaccine doses for only 82,800 (51.94%) health care workers as against 1,59,427 who have registered for phase-I of the vaccination programme to be launched on Saturday at 56 centres in 11 districts of the region.Vaccine vials for six districts of Nagpur division reached Mata Kacheri — office of the deputy director of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal — at 2.45am on Thursday. A team led by assistant director Dr RK Dhakate and chief pharmacy officer DS Lokhande distributed the allotted packages to Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), Nagpur zilla parishad and four districts — Chandrapur, Gadchiroli, Bhandara and Gondia — by 4.15am. The vehicle from Wardha arrived late so the vaccine was handed over to them at 10am.Five districts of Amravati division — Akola, Amravati, Buldhana, Yavatmal and Washim — received the vaccine from Pune by road on Wednesday night.All vaccines received in Vidarbha are Covishield which is manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII). As per the label on boxes, they have been manufactured on November 4, 2020 and are valid up to May 2, 2021.A total 1,84,000 doses (18,400 vials) were received for the region. Dr Jaiswal told TOI that the state government has asked that 10% doses (1,840) be kept against wastage. “Each beneficiary has to get a dose after 28 days of the first shot. The doses available now will be used for the first and second shots,” he said.This means about 1,65,600 doses are available which will cover the registered 82,800 healthcare workers. The remaining 76,627 (48.06%) will be administered vaccine when state sends the second consignment of vaccine.“Vials will continue to be sent so the others too will be vaccinated,” said Dr Jaiswal.According to Amravati divisional commissioner Piyush Singh about 30,000 health care workers will be administered the 70,000 doses received.According to NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi, Covid healthcare workers at government hospitals will be “covered first”. It is apparent that healthcare workers of private hospitals will have to wait till further consignments are received. Even frontline workers like government employees, police of state and centre will have to wait for their doses.The situation has thrown a challenge for the authorities to store the vaccine for 28 days and also to ensure that it is not mixed with the subsequent consignments. Sources said that the government on Thursday decided that beneficiaries should get the first and second shots from the same batch.In Nagpur city, 25,164 healthcare workers are registered. The NMC received 23,900 doses. In a press release, the civic body said only 10,000 will be covered in the first lot.Infectious diseases specialist Dr Nitin Shinde feels that health care workers — be it government or private — who are yet to test positive should be administered the vaccine first. “Vaccine to those with antibodies can be delayed till more doses arrive,” he said.For the second time, the government has reduced the number of vaccination centres. From 71 on Wednesday, it is now 56. In Nagpur city, it is 5 from 60. Each centre will cover only 100 beneficiaries in a day. Earlier, the government had asked that vaccination be given at all centres from January 18. In Nagpur city, GMCH is one of the five centres. The government on Thursday evening asked the GMCH to use only Covaxin manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech. However, it is yet to receive the doses.Joshi said that GMCH will be replaced by another centre for January 16 in case of delay in receiving doses.Dr Jaiswal appealed to healthcare workers to continue wearing mask, maintaining social distancing and follow other guidelines. “All these are required as antibodies do not develop on next day of vaccination,” he said.Dr Shinde said that anti-bodies develop “2-3 three weeks after the first shot”. “The process speeds up after the second shot. Therefore, precaution still has to be taken,” he added.On Thursday, the NMC conducted another dry run at 10 centres. Syringes in sufficient quantity have also been distributed to all districts along with vaccines.Meanwhile, in pictures that went viral some doctors of Gadchiroli were seen opening the boxes of vaccines, displayed and posing with them. Vaccines are to be mandatorily stored in a temperature of 2-8 degree Celsius all the time as per instructions printed on the vials and boxes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/in-first-lot-only-83k-healthcare-staff-of-vid-to-get-covishield-shots/articleshow/80284947.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 14, 2021||Nashik||North Maha gets first consignment of Covid-19 vaccine for dispatch||Nashik: The refrigerated vans carrying the first doses of the Covid-19 vaccine arrived at the divisional vaccine store room in the early hours of Wednesday. From here, the health department of the districts that are part of north Maharashtra will collec their share. Ahmednagar district, though in the Nashik division, sent its vehicle directly to Pune to collect the doses due to the proximity. Later in the day, the vehicles of other districts collected the vaccines from the divisional vaccine storeroom. P B Gandal, deputy director of health, Nashik division, said, “The vehicle sent by us brought the doses meant for Nashik, Dhule, Jalgaon and Nandurbar districts. The Ahmednagar health department sent its own vehicle to collect the vaccines. A total of 1.32 lakh doses have been allotted to north Maharashtra.”The Covishield vaccine does not need any special preparations for storage or transportation since the vaccine needs to be stored in temperatures between 2 and 8 degrees celsius. “We already had the facilities in place for transportation and storage,” added Gandal.He said that the current vaccine supply will be used for the first dose on the vaccination programme of January 16. The state health department would be informing the districts about the second dose. “The beneficiaries would be given the next dose of the vaccine after 28 days of the first dose. As per the directions, the divisional health department would send vehicles to Pune to collect the vaccines,” he said. Gandal said transportation, storage of these vaccines is simple and the same as most other vaccines. The vaccination would be done at 15 centres in Ahmednagar, five in Dhule, nine in Jalgaon, five in Nandurbar and 16 in Nashik. According to the health department, Dhule has received about 12,500 vaccine doses, 24,320 doses have reached Jalgaon, Nandurbar, (12,410)43,500 in Nashik district and 39,000 in Ahmednagar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/north-maha-gets-first-consignment-of-covid-19-vaccine-for-dispatch/articleshow/80256066.cms||Santosh Sonawane
January 14, 2021||Nashik||City witnesses drop in fresh Covid cases||Nashik: The number of freshCovid cases reported daily has dropped in Nashik city as 128 cases were recorded on an average in the last five days. In the first week of January, 158 cases were reported per day. The number of active patients has also reduced due to the rise in the number of patients recovering. “Early detection of Covid-19 patients and timely treatment have increased the number of patients recovering and have reduced the death rate in the city. This has also helped to reduce the number of active cases in the last one month,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC).  There was a spike in the number of Covid cases in September as 867 cases were reported per day. But the trend started to change as the number of cases reduced in October. As many as 338 cases were reported on an average in October. After which, there was a further drop in the number of new cases in November as 157 cases were registered per day but the cases marginally increased to 181 cases per day in December.  But the city has again reported a drop in the number of new cases during the last five days between January 8 and 12.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/city-witnesses-drop-in-fresh-covid-cases/articleshow/80256039.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 14, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Two ‘homesick’ boys run away from boarding school in Mahabaleshwar, found on highway||NAVI MUMBAI: Two minors, aged nine and eight, who were homesick and ran away from a boarding school in Mahabaleshwar in Satara district to meet their parents in Mumbai, were taken into custody by patrolling cops after being spotted waving out to vehicles along the Mumbai-Goa highway near Poladpur in Raigad on Monday. The two were taken to a police station, where personnel contacted their parents, and they were handed over to them at the boarding school. Raigad police PRO PSI Subhash Pansare said on Monday, when beat marshal, constable Ganesh Kirve and Home Guard Vicky Kapdekar, were near Poladpur bus depot, a biker told them about two boys waving out to vehicles, and he suspected they were lost. Kirve and his colleague found the boys but they claimed they were walking to Mumbai as they did not have money. They were taken to Poladpur police station and given food and water. Police then summoned Sattar Nigudkar, a prominent member of a local community and they confided to him that they had run away from Anjuman Urdu Yatimkhana, an orphanage-cum-boarding school in Mahabaleshwar, and that they were going to meet their parents as they were homesick. One resided in Kalwa and the other was from Mumbai Central. Both gave mobile numbers of their fathers and police contacted them. On Wednesday, custody of the two boys was handed over to boarding school principal Shabana Shaikh and her husband Iqbal, who runs the orphanage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/2-homesick-boys-run-away-from-boarding-school-found-on-highway/articleshow/80257635.cms||George Mendonca
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||Academics divided over SSC, HSC ‘home centres’||Nagpur: Academics are divided over whether or not the state education board should go for ‘home centres’ while conducting SSC and HSC exams this summer. Some school principals say due to Covid-19 pandemic and various restrictions in place, it’s best to allot the schools in which students are studying as their respective exam centres. Though in common parlance the word ‘home centre’ is used, officially it is known as ‘isolation centre’. The word isolation is used because the school is ‘isolated’ in a rural/hilly region from other eligible centres. Madhuri Sawarkar, divisional board secretary (additional charge), said this option is exercised by the board only in some specific cases. Sawarkar said, “Isolation centres are allotted when there is no nearby centre available. This happens in rural areas where the next school is quite some distance away. So to ensure that kids in villages do not suffer because of lack of transport or other factors, the existing school is given the status of an isolation centre.” Madhusudhan Mude, president of Headmasters Association (Nagpur), felt that this year home centres could be allotted. “Nobody is saying that this should be done every year. But this time, students and parents will feel safer if everyone gets a home centre. Students are already stressed, so being in their own school will reassure them mentally,” said Mude. Ashnarayan Tiwari, executive committee member of School Headmasters Charitable Association (SHCA), said, “At any centre, students from different schools come and we do not know their medical history. So the chances of infection also increase as students from different places gather at a common centre. With our children, we at least have a basic understanding of their medical history.” He added that another advantage of home centre is that no impersonation can happen. “We know our students, so there is no chance of an impersonator appearing for the test,” said Tiwari. Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association (VJUCTA) said the entire concept of home centres must be scrapped as it was being misused. Ashok Gavhankar, the association’s general secretary, said, “I can understand such a centre in rural Gadchiroli district or somewhere in Melghat. But it should not be given to schools or colleges just outside of Nagpur city limits.” On January 8, VJUCTA wrote to the Nagpur divisional board secretary requesting that no home centres be allotted in their jurisdiction. “If a coaching institute has a tie-up with that college and home centre is allotted, then malpractices will abound,” said Gavhankar. Sources in the state board told TOI that there were no plans to allot home centres to every school, though suggestions came from academics. One such official said, “Exams will begin in April, though actual dates have not been released. If home centres were to be allotted, then that process would have begun already because that requires a massive mobilization of resources.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/academics-divided-over-ssc-hsc-home-centres/articleshow/80257227.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 14, 2021||Trichy||3 electrocuted in separate incidents||Thanjavur: Three people including two brothers were electrocuted in two separate incidents in Thanjavur on Tuesday and Wednesday. According to police, the deceased have been identified as M Dinesh, 12, and M Gowtham, 10, sons of Mariyappan, a native of Maravakadu in Thanjavur district. Due to the incessant rain on Wednesday, Mariyappan could not take his goats out for grazing. So, his sons Dinesh and Gowtham had gone to fields nearby their house to collect grass for their goats. While trying to cross an irrigation channel, both of them came in contact with a snapped live electric cable lying in the water. Police said the duo died on the spot. On information, the Mathukur police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry and sent the bodies to the Pattukottai government hospital for postmortem. Some villagers said that they had noticed the live wire earlier lying near the channel and informed an EB staff, Chithravel, 43. They alleged that the EB staff failed to act swiftly or the boys’ life could have been saved. Based on a complaint lodged by Maravakkadu panchayat president, police booked Chithravel under section 304(a) (causing death by negligence) and arrested him. In another incident, a 68-year-old woman, K Pakkiriammal of Kalathur in Thanjavur, was electrocuted while she took out goats for grazing on Tuesday. The victim had come in contact with a snapped live electric cable on the field. Based on a complaint, police registered a case and further investigation is on. Meanwhile, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami announced a solatium of Rs 3 lakh each to the families of four people who were electrocuted while travelling in a private bus in Thanjavur on Tuesday. The chief minister also expressed shock and grief over the death. The chief minister has announced a financial assistance of Rs 50,000 each to those injured grievously and Rs 25,000 each to people who sustained minor injuries in the accident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/3-electrocuted-in-separate-incidents/articleshow/80259594.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Lover cyberbullied, Tamil Nadu man steals 500 medicos’ laptops||RAJKOT: Cyberbullying of his girlfriend by some medical students in Chennai five years ago left this Tamil Nadu man so bitter that he decided to extract revenge from all those studying medicine across India. He did not resort to similar crime, but started targeting their most indispensible gadgets — laptops. On Wednesday, Jamnagar police were also amused when they arrested the 24-year-old laptop thief Tamilselvan Kannan as he confessed to having stolen at least 500 laptops from several medical college hostels across the country, mostly south India, since 2015. Jamnagar police was on his trail after six laptops were stolen from a room in the girls hostel of MP Shah Medical College on December 26 last year. “In 2015, some medical students in Chennai had clandestinely recorded an objectionable video of his girlfriend and made it viral. This filled him with bitter grudge against the medical students,” said KL Gadhe, inspector, B-division police station, Jamnagar. Tamilselvan used to search for names and addresses of medical colleges on the internet to target. “He stole laptops as, unlike mobile phones, they can’t be traced. Moreover, it was easy to sell them off,” Gadhe told TOI. He started targeting colleges in south India and thereafter shifted to Bhankri village near Faridabad where he began sneaking into medical college hostels in north India. Jamnagar’s was his first theft in Gujarat. He reached the city in December and stayed in a hotel near Anupam Cinema and conducted a recce of the girls hostel. Somehow, he managed to find the key of one room and stole the laptops on December 26.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/thefts-a-revenge-for-harassed-lover/articleshow/80256079.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Nagpur||School attendance in city up by 61% in a week||Nagpur: Attendance in city schools and junior colleges has jumped by a staggering 61% within a week of reopening. Analysis of data between January 4-12 shows that the state-level trend of rising attendance level is intact even in the New Year. District education officer Chintaman Vanjari said, “We were always confident about the attendance figures rising because of the safe environment being provided to students on campus. Every school is taking ample precautions and since these students are in Std IX-XII, there is enough maturity among them to follow guidelines.” He added that the safety factor has been enhanced because of extra space available in school. “Now that Std VIII and below are not coming to school, many classrooms are vacant. This makes Covid distancing possible. Also, there is greater level of supervision because so few children are on campus,” said Vanjari. Schools are also maintaining gap in between classes to avoid rush. Schools in Nagpur city reopened from January 4, the last ones to do so in entire Vidarbha. While regular classes are going on, the ‘new normal’ has posed some challenges as well. Dilip Bose, principal of Sangam Madhyamik Vidyalaya, said, “Teachers have to learn the art of teaching with their masks on. They are also getting used to it. Some teachers have medical issues that may cause a feeling of breathlessness, in which case it’s a different thing, but other than that it’s not a big problem.” Practicals for Std XII students are also being conducted under the new normal. Kshama Yadav, teacher at Centre Point School (Katol Road), said, “Every student now has to be debriefed about the experiment individually. Earlier I would perform the practicals in the Chemistry lab while students would gather around and watch it, before doing it on their own.” Despite the new challenges, students seem to adapting fast. Ashok Gavhankar, general secretary of Vidarbha Junior College Teachers Association, said, “Teenagers are more resilient and can adapt to new situations with greater speed. So they will continue to enjoy the classroom atmosphere even with multiple restrictions in place.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/school-attendance-in-city-up-by-61-in-a-week/articleshow/80257247.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Drug peddler gets 10 years’ RI, fined Rs1L||Thane: A special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) court here on Tuesday convicted a 44-year-old man for peddling 2.8kg of charas and sentenced him to 10 years’ rigorous imprisonment and fined him Rs 1 lakh. Ashok Jaiswar, a resident of Wagle Estate, was convicted by Special Judge (NDPS Act) H M Patwardhan on Tuesday. Prosecutor Varsha Chandane told court the anti-narcotics cell of Thane police (city) got a tip-off that he would be carrying contraband with him. A team led by assistant inspector Amol Walzade laid a trap on April 19, 2015, and arrested him near Thane railway station with 2.8kg of charas valued at Rs. 2.8 lakh. A case under sections of NDPS Act was registered against him by Naupada police constable Kaluram Shirose. A chargesheet was filed and several witnesses testified in court. The judge observed that the prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt charges against the accused who needed to be convicted and sentenced.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drug-peddler-gets-10-years-ri-fined-rs1l/articleshow/80257636.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: After NCP-Shiv Sena row, ministers reach meeting point||MUMBAI: NCP minister Jitendra Awhad took exception to Shiv Sena minister Uday Samant calling a meeting on housing without following protocol. Awhad is housing minister and Samant minister for higher & technical education. A Maharashtra Housing Area Development Authority (Mhada) circular announced a meeting on Friday, to be chaired by Samant, to discuss Sindhudurg and Ratnagiri. Samant is a former chairman of the housing board and is an MLA from Ratnagiri. Awhad did not raise the issue at the weekly cabinet meeting and did not meet Samant, but expressed displeasure to mediapersons. “As per rules of business, the minister of a department has the right to call meetings of his department. I learnt that Uday Samant has called for a meeting of my department without my knowledge. At least he should have informed me that he had called for a meeting of my department. Such behaviour leads to misunderstanding. If the other person is informed, we can work together better and act decisively,” he said. Samant denied calling a meeting of Mhada and said there was a misunderstanding. “I planned to visit the Mhada office regarding pending work in my constituency Ratnagiri and other work in Konkan region, which had been sanctioned earlier. Mhada vice-president assured me he would do the needful. To avoid any further misunderstanding I will not visit the Mhada office on Friday. I could not contact Awhad as I was on a visit to Kolhapur,” he said. In the last BJP-Sena government, revenue minister Eknath Khadse had called a meeting of industry department without informing the minister concerned. At the meeting on a land deal in Pune, Khadse directed MIDC officials to pay compensation to the original owner who had sold the land to Khadse’s family. MIDC maintained it had already acquired the property. The controversy led to Khadse’s resignation. Then chief minister Devendra Fadnavis later issued a circular to strictly follow rules of business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/after-ncp-sena-row-mins-reach-meeting-point/articleshow/80259607.cms||Clara Lewis
January 14, 2021||Nashik||Sarpanch post auctioned, poll cancelled in two Maharashtra villages||NASHIK: Maharashtra state election commissioner U P S Madan has ordered the cancellation of the elections in Umrane village in Nashik district and Khondamali village in Nandurbar district following the allegations of the sarpanch and gram panchayat members posts being auctioned here. The decision to cancel the polls in both the villages was announced by Madan in a press release issued by the state election commission office in Mumbai. Quoting Madan, the press release read: “There were media reports about the auction of seats of sarpanch (head man) and members of the gram panchayat of Umrane and Khondamali. The reports from the tehsildar, sub-divisional officer, election observer and the collectors were sought. And after verification of the complaints, reports and audio-visual media reports, the decision to cancel the process was taken.” He has also ordered the collectors of both the districts to register cases against the persons involved and file the report before the commission. Madan observed that only because of pressure from a section of villagers, those willing to contest the elections were deprived of the opportunity and at the same time, the voters were deprived of casting their vote in the favour of the person of their choice. This violated the fundamentals of democracy and the model code of conduct. It may be noted that a video, purportedly showing people bidding for the post of sarpanch in Umrane, a well-known onion market place, had gone viral on the social media. The incident reportedly took place on December 27. The bidding for the post began at Rs 1.1 crore and the final bidder offered a little over Rs 2 crore. After the video went viral, Nashik collector Suraj Mandhare called for a report, which was presented to the SEC. There was a similar video of the Khondamali incident too. In this case too, the sarpanch post was being auctioned. The winning bid was of Rs 42 lakh — to be given for the construction of a temple. Nandurbar collector Rajendra Bharud called for an enquiry and presented the report to the SEC. Nashik deputy collector Nitin Gawande, who is the coordinator of ZP, panchayat samiti and gram panchayat elections in the Nashik district, has confirmed the orders saying: “The complete election process has been cancelled. A separate programme will be announced by the commission later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sarpanch-post-auctions-lead-to-poll-cancellation-in-2-villages/articleshow/80256093.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 14, 2021||India||PM Modi’s trusted ex-official all set to join BJP in UP||LUCKNOW: PM Narendra Modi’s trusted bureaucrat AK Sharma, who took voluntary retirement as MSME secretary, is all set to join BJP in Lucknow on Thursday. It is being speculated ever since the resignation of the 1988 batch IAS officer was approved on Monday that he might be one of the BJP candidates in the vidhan parishad polls in the state, reports Subhash Mishra. A low-profile officer, Sharma is known for delivering time-bound results. He earned Modi’s trust as the secretary in his CMO and by successfully handing Vibrant Gujarat campaign to get investment to the state. He also served in the PMO for six years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modis-trusted-ex-official-all-set-to-join-bjp-in-up/articleshow/80260568.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana: NIA files chargesheet against 3 in Hindu leader murder case||CHANDIGARH: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) filed a supplementary chargesheet on Wednesday before the Patiala House special NIA court in New Delhi against three arms suppliers in a murder case dating back to 2017 in Ludhiana of Shri Hindu Takht president Amit Sharma. It has come out during the investigation that the murder was a organised conspiracy hatched by the terrorist outfit Khalistan Liberation Front (KLF). The supplementary chargesheet has now been filed against accused Ashish Kumar, Javed and Arshad Ali alias Munshi, all residents of Meerut district in Uttar Pradesh, for criminal conspiracy, under various sections of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and under the Arms Act, 1959. The NIA had registered the case in New Delhi on December 10, 2017, on the basis of FIR registered at police station division number 8, Ludhiana, on January 15, 2017, relating to Sharma’s murder. The NIA, in its chargesheet, has submitted that its probe has established beyond doubt that accused Ashish, Javed and Arshad had facilitated other accused persons in the commission of the terrorist act to kill Sharma by supplying illegal weapons used in the crime. The trio had supplied illegal arms, including .32 bore pistols, which were used in targeted killings in Punjab. Two unknown motorcycle-borne assailants had killed Sharma on January 14, 2017, in Ludhiana as a part of KLF’s organised conspiracy. Sharma was one of the eight prominent leaders who were killed as a part of the targeted serial killings in Punjab in 2016 and 2017 with a view to create communal disturbance and terror. The NIA had earlier filed the chargesheet on May 14, 2018, against 15 accused in this case. Those were Hardeep Singh alias Shera, Ramandeep Singh alias Canadian, Dharminder Singh alias Guguni, Anil Kumar alias Kala, Jagtar Singh Johal alias Jaggi, Amaninder Singh alias Mindu, Manpreet Singh alias Mani, Ravipal Singh alias Bhunda, Pahad Singh, Parvez alias Farru, Malook Tomar, Harmeet Singh alias Happy alias PhD, Gurjinder Singh alias Shastri, Gursharanbir Singh alias Gursharan Singh Wahiwala alias Pehalwan and Gurjant Singh Dhillon. The NIA is still continuing its investigation in the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/nia-files-chargesheet-against-3-in-hindu-leader-murder-case/articleshow/80258592.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Kidney damaged, charitable hospital to pay patient Rs 50L||Chandigarh: The Punjab State Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission has directed a charitable hospital in Nawanshahr district and its doctor to pay nearly Rs 50 lakh compensation to a complainant in a medical negligence case. Granting relief to Ambala city resident Ritesh Kumar (21), whose kidney was damaged, the commission quorum headed by Justice Paramjeet Singh Dhaliwal ordered compliance of the order within 45 days of the receipt of its certified copy. The commission has ordered payment of Rs 40 lakh as compensation along with interest at the rate of 7% per annum from the date of the filing of the complaint till realisation, on account of damage to the complainant’s kidney due to medical negligence and deficiency in service on the part of Dr D P Soni and Shree Guru Gobind Singh Ji Charitable Hospital in Banga. The commission also ordered Rs 44,000 as litigation costs and other expenses while clarifying that the liability of the insurance company – United India Insurance Company Limited - will be only to the extent of the sum insured under policy which has been issued by it in favour of Dr Soni. The doctor was insured with the insurance company under the “professional indemnity doctors policy” under which the indemnity limit was of Rs 20 lakh for Any One Year (AOY) and Rs 20 lakh of Any One Accident (AOA). The complainant’s counsel Arjun Shukla had argued before the commission that Dr Soni as well as his hospital was grossly negligent while conducting surgery and spoiling the life of a 21-year-old boy. The commission observed, “Due to sheer negligence and deficiency in service on their part, the kidney of the complainant was damaged, when there was no problem in his kidney other than gallbladder problems for which surgery was conducted on June 28, 2018.” “He is deprived of wholesome physical activity on account of having only one healthy kidney. He is required to get himself checked up by doctors... at particular intervals, in order to avoid complications due to burden on other sound kidney by incurring extra expenses for this purpose,” said the commission. The commission also mentioned in its order that the complaint could not be decided within the stipulated time frame due to “heavy pendency of court cases.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/kidney-damaged-charitable-hospital-to-pay-patient-rs-50l/articleshow/80258583.cms||Sanjeev Verma
January 14, 2021||Bareilly||Video of stray dog relaxing on Moradabad govt hospital bed goes viral||BAREILLY: The pathetic state of health infrastructure in the state has once again come to the fore, this time in Moradabad district, where a stray dog was found relaxing on a bed of a government hospital located in Civil Lines. District health department has ordered a probe into the matter. In the video clip that was widely shared on social media on Wednesday, a stray dog can be seen relaxing on bed number 28 of the women’s surgical ward, on the second floor of the Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital. According to locals, street dogs loitering in the hospital premises are a common sight. Video: Stray dog relaxing on a bed in Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay Hospital in UP's #Moradabad district. According to… https://t.co/YeiWArJFNV— TOIWestUP (@TOIWestUP) 1610613862000“It is not at all surprising that a stray was spotted on a bed in the hospital. Strays are often spotted wandering near the hospital building and even inside its premises. There is a lack of cleanliness and mismanagement of authorities is evident,” said M Hasan, a local. The video of the dog which went viral was allegedly uploaded by patients, though hospital authorities claimed there was no one admitted and that the ward was vacant at the time of the incident. District health department has ordered a probe. Speaking to TOI, Moradabad chief medical officer (CMO) Dr M C Garg said, “The video is under investigation. It was shot in the women’s surgical ward on the second floor of the hospital. Based on the outcome of the investigation, suitable action will be taken against hospital staff on duty and people responsible for the negligence.” Several similar incidents have been reported from other UP districts, highlighting the pathetic state of health infrastructure and uncaring attitude of the health department. At a government hospital in Sambhal, a stray dog was seen feeding on the body of a girl who had died in a road accident, last November. Earlier, the corpse of a four-year-old boy was found partially eaten by animals, lying on the floor of a government-run mortuary in Sambhal. Watch Viral video: Stray dog relaxing on govt hospital bed in UP's Moradabad||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/video-of-stray-dog-relaxing-on-moradabad-govt-hospital-bed-goes-viral/articleshow/80255255.cms||Maria Khan
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Kumbh administration not prepared to tackle ‘demographic explosion’ during festival, says HC||Nainital: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Wednesday came down heavily on the state government saying that the medical infrastructure in Haridwar is “woefully lacking” and that the administration was not prepared to tackle the “demographic explosion” which will be caused during the Kumbh. The HC directed the state government to get in touch with the other states as well as the Centre and the public to limit the number of pilgrims coming to Uttarakhand for the mela. The directions came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari after the chief secretary, secretary health as well as mela officer and the district magistrate (DM), Haridwar, appeared before the court through videoconferencing and gave details of the arrangements made for the Kumbh. The state government told the court that it expected at least 10 lakh people to turn up at the fair each day and around 50 lakh people on each of the shahi snans (special bathing days). At least six such shahi snans are scheduled during the Kumbh. After the government officials explained the arrangements made to handle the large gathering expected, the court expressed concerns over the government’s decision to not construct any tents for the fair. “The court wondered how almost 50 lakh people, who would turn up during shahi snans, would be accommodated when the state has abandoned the plan to erect temporary tents in the dead of winter. It further said that all the dharamshalas, hotels and motels in the city will not be able to accommodate so many people,” said Shiv Bhatt, counsel appearing for one of the petitioners. The court has now directed the state government to consider erecting temporary tents as well as tented colonies to manage the turnout. Further, the state has also been directed to consider improving the healthcare system - both in terms of human resources and the availability of the medical equipment. Meanwhile, the assistant solicitor general (ASG) appearing for the Centre informed the court that it could not come up with with standard operating procedures for Kumbh since the state is yet to provide details like the number of people expected to visit the mega festival as well as the housing arrangements, the infrastructure and the medical facilities available. “The court therefore has now directed the government to provide all these details to the Centre immediately,” Bhatt said. The bench has directed the advocate general (AG) to update the court on all these directions by February 15 and has listed the case for further hearing on the first day after the HC’s winter vacation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/kumbh-administration-not-prepared-to-tackle-demographic-explosion-during-festival-says-hc/articleshow/80256074.cms||Prashant Jha
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Doctor’s plea for custody of her daughter rejected||Mumbai: Rejecting a city doctor’s plea for temporary custody of her five-year-old daughter, a magistrate court questioned how the child would be looked after while she was away at work. “The applicant submitted that she is residing as a paying guest and she has obtained a house in the near locality. She submitted copy of the agreement on record. If applicant will go to work, who will take care of the child?” the court said. The court reasoned that even as her estranged husband was working, the fact that he lived in a joint family would ensure the child is well looked after. It said since the father had made allegations against the woman’s character, the girl had to be kept in “proper and safe custody”. tnn“By considering allegations by respondent No 1 (husband) on affidavit, at this stage it will not be just and proper to handover in temporary custody of applicant,” the court said. The woman’s plea for custody is pending before the family court. The woman has filed a domestic violence complaint against the husband and in-laws. She said she married in February 2010. The woman said for five to six months after marriage, the man treated her well. Thereafter, he and his family tortured her physically and mentally. She accused the family of sexual harassment. The man and his family denied the allegations. He submitted that she had cheated on him with four men after marriage. The man said he he was forced to file a divorce case. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/doctors-plea-for-custody-of-her-daughter-rejected/articleshow/80257641.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||‘SC order exposes misdeeds during Cong regime’||Shimla: Hailing the decision of the Supreme Court for upholding the orders of National Green Tribunal (NGT) issued in 2016 for the demolition of hotel-cum-restaurant constructed on forest land at McLeodganj in Dharamshala, Himachal cabinet ministers have said the decision has yet again exposed the misdeeds and illegal practices committed during the tenure of previous Congress government. They said the hotel was constructed by a private investor in connivance with then senior Congress leaders and all the norms were flouted and illegal construction was made under political patronage. Urban development minister Suresh Bhardwaj, industries and transport minister Bikram Singh and forest minister Rakesh Pathania in a statement issued on Wednesday said the Supreme Court, on the basis of civil appeal, had appointed district and sessions judge Kangra as an inquiry officer on September 9, 2016, to look into the irregularities of the construction of bus stand as well as the hotel and restaurant. They said the inquiry officer submitted the report to the Supreme Court in 2018 and it was found that neither the map was approved from the town and country planning department, nor clearance was sought under the Forest Conservation Act. They said changes of land use were made without seeking permission from the competent authority. They said the hotel was constructed in a place where the bus stand was to be built. Ministers said the NGT in its order in 2016 had asked the defaulter to raze the illegal structure and for this committee was constituted which found several irregularities in construction of hotel. They said the defaulter company had full patronage of then Congress government and flouted all norms. They said despite orders of the NGT, then Congress government neither demolished the illegal structure, nor took any action against the guilty. Instead of taking action against the defaulters, then Congress Government went against the decision of the NGT before the Supreme Court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sc-order-exposes-misdeeds-during-cong-regime/articleshow/80258616.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||‘Drunk’ doctor knocks down labourer in Rajkot||Rajkot: In an alleged drunk-driving accident at the 80-feet road, a doctor driving a luxurious sedan allegedly killed a labourer working with the Rajkot Municipal Corporation in Rajkot on Tuesday night. Jayanti Rathod (48) was returning home at Vankarvas in Raiya village on his bike when the doctor, Luckyraj Akwalia, rammed his BMW sedan into Amul Circle before hitting Rathod. Police said that Akwalia and his couple of friends were returning from a farmhouse at Manda Dungar from an alleged liquor party. Eye-witnesses, most of whom are Rathod’s colleagues at conservancy depot at Bhavnagar road, told police that Akwalia drove past them at a high speed and some seconds later they heard a loud bang near the circle. Rathod had left the depot before them. When they reached the circle, Rathod was found lying unconscious on the road and his bike was damaged. The circle at the junction and the divider were also damaged. The circle’s iron railings had entangled in the car. A 108 ambulance was called to take Rathod to hospital, but the paramedical staff declared him dead on examining. Meanwhile, Akwalia was nabbed and handed over to cops before he could escape. Rathod’s colleagues said that he seemed to be in inebriated condition. Police said that Akwalia’s blood samples were collected on Wednesday morning. “Only after the blood test confirms that he had consumed liquor, he will be booked under prohibition law,” said a police official. Based on Rathod’s cousin Hardik’s complaint, an offence of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered at Thorala police station. Police sources said that Akwalia and his father Bhagwanji practice at their clinic on Mahudi Road. Rathod, who was working with RMC for past two decades, has been survived by his wife and five children aged between 10 and 20 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/drunk-doctor-knocks-down-labourer-in-rajkot/articleshow/80256118.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||2 abduct BCom student, nabbed within 15 mins||Hisar: Two auto drivers tried to abduct a Scheduled Caste BCom student in Hisar on Wednesday afternoon. They were, however, nabbed by a team led by DSP Bharti Dabas within 15 minutes when they are in search for a lonely place to commit rape. The police team has recovered the student and is interrogating both accused, who are cousins. They will be produced in a local court on Thursday. Hisar police said a case has been registered. In her complaint to the police, the complainant said at around 11am on Wednesday she left hired an autorickshaw to go to colege. A young man was driving the auto and another was sitting with him in the front, she said, adding that when the auto reached near Airport Chowk, one of them came to back seat and tried to strangle her. The girl said one of them said they would take her to a secluded place, rape and then kill her. She tried to shout for help when the woman DSP with her police team patrolling there heard her voice. The cops stopped the auto and arrested the accused. No curtains in autos: SP Superintendent of Police Balwan Singh Rana said that prevent such incidents, orders had been issued to remove curtains in all autos in the city. Curtains from may autos were taken off on Wednesday and the remaining will be done on Thursday, the SP added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-abduct-bcom-student-nabbed-within-15-mins/articleshow/80258612.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Fatalities on Mumbai roads plunge 36%, accidents 39% in 11 months of 2020||MUMBAI: Fatalities on Mumbai roads reduced sharply by 36% between January and November 2020 compared with the same period in 2019, latest statistics released by the transport department on Wednesday have revealed. Across Maharashtra, fatalities reduced by 15% and mishaps by 26% in 2020. Sources said a fresh target of reducing death on roads by another 10% has been set for 2021 as part of Road Safety Month, which kicks off on Monday. State transport commissioner Avinash Dhakne said, “We are glad about the dip in accidents and deaths but we cannot be complacent and will re-examine all black spots and try to take correctional steps. The road safety campaign will be for an entire month this year, from January 18 to February 17, and will have a series of events by all stakeholders, including several NGOs involved in road safety.”  “In 2020, the highest number of accidental deaths were reported in Nashik rural (692 fatalities) followed by Pune rural (593) Ahmednagar (520),” the report stated. The silver lining, though, was that in 2020 Nashik rural saw a dip of 4% in fatalities compared with the previous year and 9% in mishaps. Similarly, Pune rural saw a 23% drop. “The cause for the majority of the accidents was dangerous or careless driving, overtaking, speeding and the major concern is driving drunk. Maximum mishaps involved two-wheelers followed by trucks and then private cars,” the report indicated. Officials said intervention steps included minor road alignments, signage and crash barriers. Road safety knowledge and awareness were created in the population through education, training and publicity campaigns. Use of speed guns, CCTVs and special drives to book offenders were some of the other measures, an official added. Transport experts said during the lockdown, there were a lot of two-wheelers and trucks on the road, which were involved in mishaps. Post-June, private cars and other vehicles hit the roads too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fatalities-on-city-roads-plunge-36-accidents-39-in-11-months-of-2020/articleshow/80257334.cms||Somit Sen
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt GR on cop recruitment revised||Mumbai: The state home department issued a revised government resolution (GR) allowing Maratha candidates to avail benefits of 10% economically weaker section (EWS) quota in police recruitment. The GR stated that Maratha (socially and educationally backward classes-SEBC) candidates can avail benefits of EWS, but candidates will have to choose between EWS benefit or appear from the open category for the test. On January 4, the order had said that since Supreme Court stayed SEBC quota, recruitment will be done without SEBC reservation and the candidates will have to apply under open category. Last Thursday, the state home minister announced that the January 4 GR had been cancelled. An official said Maratha candidates will now get relief in age limit and application fees as EWS candidates. Under EWS, the upper age limit is 33, instead of 28 for open category. While fees will be Rs350, instead of Rs450, which is for open category candidates. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-gr-on-cop-recruitment-revised/articleshow/80257647.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Keep in mind PV Varavara Rao’s age and health: Bombay HC||MUMBAI: The Bombay HC on Wednesday asked the NIA and state to consider the age and health of Elgar Parishad case accused Telugu poet P V Varavara Rao, while making submissions on his bail plea. The remark by the bench headed by Justice S S Shinde came on the plea filed by Rao’s wife Pendyala Hemalatha, to grant him bail on medical grounds. In November 2020, Rao was shifted to Nanavati Hospital following HC intervention on her interim plea for his deteriorating health. Additional solicitor general Anil Singh submitted a fresh medical report from Nanavati Hospital. Rao’s advocate said he would argue after going through them. “Keep in mind his age and health conditions. We are all human beings,” said Justice Shinde adjourning the hearing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/keep-in-mind-varavaras-age-health-hc/articleshow/80259673.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||UT proposes not to hike power tariff as dept in profit||CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to city residents, the UT electricity department has proposed not to hike power tariff for the financial year of 2021-22. The department in its power tariff petition submitted before Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) stated as the department has been making profit, it has decided not to propose any hike. The department made the suggestion in an annual revenue requirement (ARR) and tariff petition for 2021-22 submitted to the power regulatory body. This will be the third consecutive financial year, when there will be no power tariff hike in Chandigarh. The last increase in the domestic and commercial electricity tariff was in 2018-2019. In the domestic category, the approved rate is Rs 2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units, Rs 4.80 in the slab of 151-400 unit. In the slab of above 400 units, the rate is Rs 5.20 per unit in the current fiscal. In the commercial consumer category, the power rate is Rs 5 in the slab between 0-150 units, in slab of 151-400, the rate is Rs 5.30 per unit. In above 400 slab, it is Rs 5.60 per unit. Last time, there was a hike in power tariff for 2018-19 financial year. At that time, the JERC had marginally increased rates in domestic and commercial categories and reduced them for the industrial category. In the domestic category, rates had been increased from Rs 2.55 to Rs 2.75 in the slab of 0-150 units, while there had been no change in the rate of Rs 4.80 in the slab of 151-400 units. In the slab of above 400 units, the rate had gone up from Rs 5 to Rs 5.20 per unit. Along similar lines, a small increase in the commercial consumer category had been made in 2018-19. In the commercial category, there was no change in the rate of Rs 5 in the 0-150 slab, while in the slab of 151-400, the rate was increased from Rs 5.20 to Rs 5.30 per unit. In above 400 slab, the rate was increased from Rs 5.45 to Rs 5.60 per unit. Existing power tariffDomestic0-150 units: Rs 2.75 151-400 units: Rs 4.80 Above 400 units: Rs 5.20 Commercial0-150 units: Rs 5 151-400 units: Rs 5.30 Above 400 units: Rs 5.60 Large supply: Rs 5 Medium supply: Rs 4.70 Small scale industry: Rs 4.80 2.47 lakh power consumers in cityThe electricity department caters to 2.47 lakh consumers divided into nine different categories. According to the official figures, of the total consumers, 2.14 lakh are domestic, which accounts to more than 87% of total consumers. The remaining 23% belong to other categories, commercial, small power, medium supply, large supply, bulk supply, public lighting, agriculture power and temporary supply. MONTHLY BILLING The JERC, in its last year order, directed the UT electricity department to implement monthly billing system for all the categories except agriculture pumping system in the UT. The JERC had also directed the department to expedite the work on execution of the energy audit. The commission had also asked the department to submit a detailed report of voltage-wise transmission and distribution (T&D) losses along with the next tariff petition||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ut-proposes-not-to-hike-power-tariff-as-dept-in-profit/articleshow/80258640.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 14, 2021||Goa||Dabolim airport sees exponential jump in passenger movement||Panaji: Goa International Airport continues to remain busy with as many as 140 flights landing over the weekend and with 19,862 passengers flying in and out of the state’s lone airport. In the month of December, the Airports Authority of India handled 3,492 flights and catered to around 4.7 lakh passengers at Dabolim airport. Passenger footfalls and flight movements at Goa International Airport picked up sharply from October, with the number of flights jumping from 752 in August to 1,578 in October. Resumption of Goa’s tourism sector, which coincided with the gradual decline in fresh Covid-19 cases, has shored up passenger footfalls. With casinos being permitted to open up from November 1 and as domestic airlines added more flights, passenger movement continues to improve, said AAI officials. On January 10, Goa International Airport handled 70 arrivals and 70 departures, but the number of passengers leaving the state was higher. According to official data, 8,224 passengers arrived and 11,638 passengers left the state on Sunday. During the peak tourist season, particularly around New Year’s Eve, the number of arrivals outnumbered the number of passengers leaving the state, said AAI officials. While international flights to UK remain grounded, relief flights and repatriation flights continue to operate, especially to the Gulf region. From the 48 flights handled in May where just 2,149 passengers passed through the airport terminal, AAI has seen an exponential increase in flight movements. AAI officials say that passenger movement is close to pre-covid levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dabolim-airport-sees-exponential-jump-in-passenger-movement/articleshow/80259674.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||MC invites pvt players to run garbage processing plant||Chandigarh: The municipal corporation (MC) has started the process to hand over Dadumajra garbage processing plant taken back from the Jaypee group around six months back to private players, inviting expression of interest (EoI) for upgradation and its maintenance, with an agenda passed in the MC house meeting on December 31, 2020. Interested parties can submit their bids by January 25. The plant is currently working at around 10% of its capacity, adding to the challenges of processing solid waste in a city that produces nearly 470 metric tonnes of waste daily. The MC, when taken over the plant, had claimed that the Jaypee group is not processing waste properly. However, the MC too failed to run it properly and 80 to 90 per cent of city’s garbage is going directly to dumping ground. A senior MC official said the plant was built in 2008 according to Municipal Solid Waste 2000 (MSW) guidelines. The plant machinery is around 12 years old and are at the end of their life, which is resulting in ineffective garbage processing at the plant, he added. Notably, the National Institute of Technical Teachers Training and Research here, in a report earlier this year had said that “complete replacement of the machinery to process municipal solid waste with new technology” was required. “Overall, it is observed that the plant was constructed in 2008 as per MSW 2000 guidelines. Now it is mandatory to follow SWM 2016 Rules, which require segregated waste collection and processing. The best way is to set up a new modern 500 TPD plant for dry and wet waste treatment in the given plot. For dry waste or mixed wastes, even after repair/maintenance of existing machinery, shredder and trommels, the existing plant will at best handle 60 to 65 TPD. Hence, if the corporation expects the plant to treat 200 TPD (40 per cent of 500 TPD), additional new equipment will be required and in case fully functional 500 TPD plant is required as per SWM Rule – 2016 then budgetary allocation towards Cap and Opex of MSW treatment is required as per SWM Rule-2016,” stated the report. Box: 2008: The Garbage Processing Plant in Sector 25 (W) was set up in 2008, and was being operated by M/s JayPee Associates. 2017: National Green Tribunal (NGT), Delhi, directed the Jaypee Group to run its waste processing plant in Dadu Majra at optimum capacity June 2020: The civic body took possession of the plant in June 2020 after a long legal battle with Jaypee group December 2020: MC General House passed agenda to invite EoI to handover garbage processing plant to private players (eom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-invites-pvt-players-to-run-garbage-processing-plant/articleshow/80258643.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Three lions camping near Rajkot relocated to Gir||RAJKOT: Three male sub-adult lions that have been camping near Rajkot city were caged on Wednesday and taken back to Gir forest following protest by locals living in the vicinity. The lions have been stationed near the Aji Dam area and campaigned for over 40 days before they were captured by a team of foresters from Sasan. The lions had made a revenue area near Aji dam and Bhayasar vidi (grassland) about 20 km from the city. The pride had come from Babra in Amreli district. The lions were mostly seen in Bhayasar vidi, besides being occasionally sighted at Halenda, Tramba, Kalipat, Kotda Sangani and other nearby areas. Initially, the forest department said that the pride consisted of one female and two male sub-adults moving around Aji dam, but on Wednesday they confirmed that all the three lions were male sub-adults. The forest officials were initially of the view that they won’t disturb the lion’s movements and only keep watch on their movements. However, the officials had to give in against pressure from locals and politicians who had demanded that the lions be relocated to Gir forest area. According to sources, the forest officials in Rajkot and Junagdh were surprised when they received orders of shifting the lions to Gir from Gandhinagar. Chief conservator of forest (wildlife circle) Junagadh D T Vasavda said, “Following public protest, it was decided to take these lions back to the place from where they came from. They were very close to urban areas and congested human habitation. There were chances of animal-human conflict and because of that it was decided to rescue them.” According to the forest officials, the lions were venturing into Shapar industrial area and Aji dam area where a number of highways are connected. The area also sees the heavy movement of vehicles which increase the risk to lions’ life. The lions preyed on over 40 animals during their stay near Aji dam area. The villagers had made representation to forest minister Ganpata Vasava demanding relocation of the lions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-lions-camping-near-rajkot-relocated-to-gir/articleshow/80256159.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Administration asks Punjab to send panel for Chandigarh civic body top post||CHANDIGARH: The nearing of the end of the three-year deputation of municipal commissioner Kamal Kishor Yadav has prompted the UT administration to ask the Punjab government to send a panel of IAS officers for the post. Sources said the administration has sent a letter well in time to avoid delay, or any other procedural hitches, in having a new officer helming the municipal corporation. The letter of the department of personnel reads, “The three years’ term of inter cadre deputation of Kamal Kishor Yadav is going to end on May 22, 2021. A panel of officers is required to be sent to the ministry of home affairs (MHA) for selection of an officer for the post. It is requested that a panel of three IAS officers who are in selection grade may be sent to the administration at the earlier along with their latest complete annual confidential report (ACR), willingness of the officer, no objection certificate of the state government and a certificate to the effect that no departmental, criminal, vigilance court case inquiry is pending, contemplated against the officer included in the panel.” Yadav, who is also holding the charge of chief executive officer of Chandigarh Smart City Limited (CSCL), has been recently promoted to the rank of joint secretary. Around a year back, he was promoted as secretary in his parent cadre Punjab. Before coming to Chandigarh, Yadav, a 2003 batch IAS officer, had served on the posts of deputy commissioner and municipal commissioner of various districts of Punjab. During his tenure, many new projects in both civic body and Chandigarh Smart City had begun. Many others are at advanced stage and a few would kick off in the next few months. Home secretary term ends May 31The three-year term of home secretary Arun Kumar Gupta, a Haryana cadre IAS officer, will complete on May 31. The UT administration will soon ask for a panel for the post from the Haryana government. On the other hand, the ministry of home affairs has approved the name of Vijay Namdeorao Zade, a 2002 batch IAS officer of Punjab cadre, for the post of finance secretary in the UT Administration in September last year and asked the department of personnel and training to issue formal orders. However, the orders are yet to be released and home secretary Gupta is holding the additional charge of finance secretary||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/admn-asks-punjab-to-send-panel-for-mctop-post/articleshow/80258658.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 14, 2021||Patna||Mend ways or face action, minister tells land reforms dept staff||PATNA: State revenue and land reforms department minister Ram Surat Kumar has warned the employees and low-level officers of the department to mend their ways or face disciplinary action. “Abhi bhi waqt hai sudhar jaeeye, nahi to kadi karwaee ke liye taiyar rahiye (It’s still time to mend yourself. Else, be ready to face tough action),” the minister said while holding a meeting with officials of Tirhut division in Muzaffarpur on Monday. Kumar, the BJP MLA from Aurai assembly constituency in Muzaffarpur district, also expressed concern over procedural delay in the mutation of land and issuance of last payment certificates (LPC) by ‘karmacharis’ and junior officials at the panchayat and block levels in the districts. “I have been receiving frequent complaints about delay in mutation of land and issuing LPCs to the people. Though there is shortage of staff, there have been instances when the process was delayed to harass the people on one pretext or the other,” the minister said. “The lapses or negligence on the part of the junior officers and employees earn a bad reputation not only for the department, but also the state government. Such people should be identified and stern disciplinary action taken against them,” Kumar said. What came as a rude shock for the minister was that even complaints about transfer of ownership of government lands were received by the department due to the well-knit nexus of the employees with several land mafias. “I will not tolerate such lapses anymore,” Kumar said. The had received complaints that land meant for cremation of dead bodies, schools and public roads were being captured by mafias with the help of the public servants. Even ownership ‘purchas’ have been issued to the land grabbers, throwing all rules to the wind. During a review meeting at Bagaha in West Champaran district, Kumar came to know that about 50% of the applications for mutation of land were rejected by the officers concerned without mentioning the valid reasons. Similar complaints were received from other districts as well, he added. The minister asked the employees to perform their duty well. “Be careful about the work assigned to you. There will be a salary cut if the performance is not rated up to the mark by the senior officers of the department,” he said in an oblique reference to complaints about low-level employees not attending their offices in districts. He employees performing their duty well will be rewarded while those who do not do so, will be punished. “Their salary will be deducted as a punishment,” the minister said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/mend-ways-or-face-action-minister-tells-land-reforms-dept-staff/articleshow/80238821.cms||Ramashankar
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Carpenter who often drank tea with victim held for murder||Mumbai: A 37-year-old carpenter who alerted a family about the murder of the director of a co-operative credit society in Palghar was arrested. The victim had accused him of robbing cash from the society and had threatened to file a police case. Vinod Trivedi assaulted Sadhana Chowdhary (57), director of Shri Ashtavinayak cooperative credit society with a hammer on Saturday. Vinod’s brother runs English-speaking classes on the society premises. He would visit Chowdhary for a cup of tea every evening. On Saturday, when Chowdhary did not return to her Satpati home till late, her family phoned Vinod. He pretended to have gone to the second floor office of Om Shanti Deva Apartment and informed the family and police about the murder. Police said for few months Vinod had stolen over Rs80,000 from Chowdhary’s cabin. Chowdhary, who handled the loan recovery department, had found cash missing. She had questioned staff, who pleaded ignorance. Police said Chowdhary would count the money and update account books while having tea with Vinod. Police said when Chowdhary would go to the washroom he would pull out some notes. Vinod told police that Chowdhary recently questioned him about the missing cash. Fearing that Chowdhary would file a case against him, he decided to kill her on Saturday. Vinod was closely monitoring the investigation. When the autopsy confirmed the death was caused by metal, they questioned Vinod. He confessed to killing her with a hammer. The murder weapon has been seized. Vinod returned to his brother’s institute after the murder. He did not rob the Rs50,000 in the drawer, nor did he tamper with her cellphone, police said. He was booked for murder and remanded to police custody for a week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/carpenter-who-often-drank-tea-with-victim-held-for-murder/articleshow/80257655.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||3 lakh vaccine doses fly out of Mumbai across nation||MUMBAI: The Mumbai airport has begun facilitating distribution of nearly 3 lakh doses of vaccine, said Mumbai International Airport Ltd spokesperson on Wednesday. The first shipment left for Goa on Wednesday morning. In all, 227 boxes with about 2,72,400 doses will be delivered to cities across India from Mumbai, the spokesperson said. The distribution began with a GoAir flight to Goa which took off at 5.30 am with two boxes of the vaccine, followed by a 6 am SpiceJet taking off with seven boxes to Rajkot. The 2.7 lakh doses of vaccine will be flown from Mumbai to Bagdogra, Rajkot, Ranchi, Imphal, Agartala, Cochin, Bhopal, Kanpur, Jammu, Srinagar, Lucknow, Chandigarh, Gorakhpur, Raipur, Dehradun, Varanasi, Indore, Trivandrum and Jabalpur on SpiceJet, IndiGo, GoAir and Vistara flights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3l-vax-doses-fly-out-of-city-across-nation/articleshow/80259677.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: PGI to get around 11,000 vaccines soon||CHANDIGARH: A consignment of the Covishield vaccines for 11,000 registered health workers at the PGI is expected to arrive soon. The first consignment of the vaccine for health care workers reached the city on Wednesday with 12,000 vaccines. Sources said the institute will receive less than 11,000 vaccines as these vaccines have to be given to other priority categories as well and the city will have Covishield vaccine only at the moment. PGI director Dr Jagat Ram said, “The first lot will be in the states, followed by districts and blocks. The national institutes of importance like AIIMS and PGIMER will receive the vaccines at the end.” Moreover, the PGI has decided to vaccinate its employees on priority of their postings in sensitive areas of Covid-19 hospital, emergency and ICUs. “As it is not a mandatory vaccine, it is not necessary that all the health workers will opt for this immunisation. There is also a lot of apprehension about these vaccines which have been hastily approved for the emergency use authorisation,” said a public health expert. However, in other hospitals in the city, all the health workers will be given the shots irrespective of their Covid-19 duties. Denying this, the director PGI said, “These vaccines are safe and have been approved after rigorous scientific committees have verified the claims. We have also conducted trials for Covishield vaccines here and understand its significance.” “We are not sure about the efficacy of any of these Covid-19 vaccines. Also, the safety of the vaccines can only be known once it is inoculated outside the laboratory in real life settings. It will take at least six months of monitoring to understand the efficacy of these vaccines,” said a virologist at the PGI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pgi-to-get-around-11k-vaccines-soon/articleshow/80258659.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 14, 2021||Agra||10 new Covid +ve cases in Agra, district tally 10,402||Agra: At least 10 new Covid-19 positive cases surfaced in Agra till Wednesday evening, taking the district tally to 10,402. The patients included two staffers of the SN Medical College. A total of five persons were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, nine Covid-19 patients were discharged on Wednesday. Out of the 10,402 cases reported in the district, 97.2% have been declared cured of the infection and discharged. The number of active Covid-19 cases reduced to 120 on Wednesday. Out of these only 10 are under treatment at the SN Medical College. Remaining patients are in home isolation. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.2%. So far, 10,111 people have been cured of the infection and discharged from hospital."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/10-new-covid-ve-cases-in-agra-district-tally-10402/articleshow/80255291.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Tribal orphan abducted, gangraped||Mumbai: A 15-year-old tribal orphan from a village in Bhayander was allegedly abducted and raped by three men on Tuesday night. The accused fishing boat workers, aged 20, 24 and 26, were arrested on Wednesday. The girl lost her parents few years back and was under care of a family from the fishing community. On Tuesday, around 11.30pm, she was chatting with three friends, including a girl, when the men passed lewd remarks. They dragged the girl and her friends, who fled. The men took the girl to a remote place and raped her. They then abandoned her and fled. Her friends alerted their parents and villagers, who found her at an isolated spot. The girl was admitted to hospital and a complaint was registered with police. Villagers protested and said labourers were increasingly engaging in eve-teasing and harassment. The accused, from UP, were hiding in a secluded place in a neighbouring village. They have been booked for gangrape and abduction.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tribal-orphan-abducted-gangraped/articleshow/80257665.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 14, 2021||Goa||Congress: Withdraw FIRs against agitators||Panaji: After health minister Vishwajit Rane changed his stand on IIT, Congress demanded withdrawal of FIRs registered against protesters and release of all those arrested. GPCC president Girish Chodankar said Rane was left with no other option as the villagers of Sattari stood united. “We want the health minister to prove his mettle and show that the FIR’s are withdrawn in next 24 hours,” said Chodankar . “Shel-Melauli has set a new example before the people of Goa. Unity of people can compel any government to take back decisions, repeal laws. Hope BJP government acts wisely now, failing which entire Goa will stand united with Sattari villagers,” Chodankar said. Congress governments in Goa never used police force to attack agitators and suppress their voices, he said. “We respected public sentiment,” Chodankar said. Referring to the demand of Rane to take action against police officers who were involved in the atrocities against protesting women and others, Chodankar said that this is a lesson to officers who act on behest of ministers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/congress-withdraw-firs-against-agitators/articleshow/80241226.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Country chicken a costly affair this Sankranti||Visakhapatnam: Despite reports of bird flu in various states, demand for country chicken increased in north coastal Andhra Pradesh due to Sankranti. However, prices of broiler chicken have witnessed a steep fall. Broiler chicken price has come down from Rs 200 per kilo to Rs 150 per kilo in many areas following bird flu scare. The sale of broiler chicken is down by 50 per cent in Vizag, Vijayawada and other parts of the state. Even though country chicken (Natu Kodi) costs almost four times the price of broiler chicken , the demand has increased during Sankranti this year. In Vizag city , the price of dressed country chicken has increased from Rs 600 to Rs 900 per kilo on Wednesday. The availability of country chicken birds has come down due to Sankranti, said Sheik Hussain, a meat trader in Vizag city. Though there has been so far no instances of bird flu in poultry in Andhra Pradesh, people are reluctant to buy broiler chicken in the state. Traders say broiler chicken may become cheaper in the coming days. They also said seafood has become expensive. The price of silver pomfret, seer fish and tiger prawn touched Rs 800 per kilo on Wednesday. It may go up in the coming days as peak demand starts from Friday, said the traders. Cockfights in rural areas during Sankranti has also affected the supply of birds to the cities as there has been a lot of demand for roosters. It has played a key role in making country chicken expensive, said Ravi Kumar, a trader.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/country-chicken-a-costly-affair-this-sankranti/articleshow/80256163.cms||Nalla.Babu
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Covid-19: Chandigarh ranks third in case growth, still testing low||CHANDIGARH: With the recovery rate of Covid-19 reaching 97% and active cases too declining significantly, testing has also come down. From January 1 until January 12, there has been 21% reduction in the testing of samples and the number of cases has declined by 43% as compared to the previous month in the corresponding days. The city has also reached the third slot in the weekly daily growth of cases. The national average of the weekly cases is 0.17%, while the city stands at 0.29% after Kerala and Chhattisgarh. Also the total positivity rate for a week is 4.8%, while the national average is 2.1%. The city stands third in this slot too after Kerala and Maharashtra with 9.2% and 6.3%, respectively. However, in tests per million, Chandigarh is at the 17th slot. The adjoining states of Punjab and Haryana have higher tests per million than Chandigarh, which has 617 tests per million, which is higher than the national average of 486.9. “These figures indicate that the tests have come down across the country and there are low active cases due to this as well. The infection transmission has reduced. In fact, the testing must be enhanced so that there is better regulation,” said a public health expert in PGI. While there is a hope with the Covid-19 vaccines, most of the experts have been cautioning about strict adherence to wearing masks and observing social distancing. “The flu clinics are almost empty these days as few people come for tests. Most of the samples are taken from patients who need admission in the hospitals,” said a doctor at GMSH-16. He said, “Initially, there was a fear and now there is a sense of fatigue.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/city-ranks-third-in-case-growth-still-testing-low/articleshow/80258661.cms||Shimona Kanwar
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Covid-19 hits hard lives of 10,000 priests in Char Dham||DEHRADUN: For the first time in the many years that the Char Dham Yatra has been going on in the Uttarakhand hills, priests of the four Himalayan shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Gangotri and Yamunotri have not undertaken their annual ritual – unbroken for centuries -- of travelling across the country when the shrines are closed for winter. The annual travel is undertaken by the priests during the winter months to meet with their jajmans (clients) and invite them for the forthcoming yatra. “We have no savings left to undertake any travel this year,” says Rabikant Sharma, a teerth purohit (priest) from Kedarnath. He is not alone. Almost all of the Char Dham priests – as per estimates, there are around 10,000 of them spread across the four shrine towns, the maximum 5,000 in Kedarnath alone – are in similar dire straits. For most of the priests, the primary means of earnings are the donations that they get from pilgrims visiting their respective shrines. A few of the priests have farming lands but say that they hardly derive any income from that. Another source of earnings are the donations they get while they are on the annual winter travel, during which they meet with ‘jajmans’ spread across the country in order to propagate the yatra. This year, though, they have neither had decent earnings during the yatra nor been able to undertake their annual travel. Most of the priests’ savings have also run dry. Ramesh Dhayni (name changed), a teerth purohit in Gangotri for instance says that all his savings were exhausted by September last year. “I have been struggling to pay the tuition fees of my children since the past five months and forced to take groceries on credit from the local shopkeeper since June.” Dhyani’s worst nightmare came true when he was told that his wife had to undergo a surgery as part of her ongoing cancer treatment. Eventually, the Gangotri temple managing committee chipped in to provide funds for the chemotherapy. Suresh Semwal, convener of the Devbhoomi Char Dham Teerth Purohit Mahapanchayat told TOI that the past year has been the worst in living memory for the priests– since the Char Dham Yatra ran for only a few months and that, too, in a truncated form, depriving them of their primary source of earning. “With the next yatra season still sometime away and the savings of most of the priests exhausted, most of us are worried on how we will be able to sustain for the next few months. We have asked all the four temple committees to help those in need,” Semwal says. What is hurting the priests even more is that they can’t ask for any relief from the government either since they are up in arms against authorities over the Char Dham Devesthanam Board Act which the government has brought in to take over the management of the Char Dham shrines. “What can we expect from a government that had announced a meagre one thousand rupees assistance for each teerth purohit last year. The government hasn’t given us a penny to run the Char Dham temples. Now, by bringing in a board to manage affairs of the shrines, it is taking away our rights as well,” says Brijesh Sati, spokesperson of the Devbhoomi Char Dham Teerth Purohit Mahapanchayat that has been agitating against the Devasthanam Board Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-hits-hard-lives-of-char-dhams-10k-priests/articleshow/80256125.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Fuel costs up again, petrol crosses Rs 91||MUMBAI: The price of fuel went up further on Wednesday, with petrol in Mumbai hiked by 24 paise to retail at Rs 91.07 per litre. The price of diesel shot up by 27 paise, and was sold at Rs 81.34 at the city pumps. Prices were hiked in the Thane and Navi Mumbai as well. The revised prices there were Rs 91.20 for petrol and Rs 81.46 for diesel. The recent petrol and diesel price hikes are likely to affect costs of essentials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fuel-costs-up-again-petrol-crosses-rs-91/articleshow/80259681.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||115 crows buried in Dehradun, 151 birds found dead across Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The incidence of bird deaths continues to soar in Uttarakhand despite a high alert across the state. On Wednesday, 151 birds — mostly crows — were found dead while one more spotted dove was found dead at the Rajaji Tiger Reserve. The highest number of fatalities (122) was recorded from Dehradun — 70 crows were found dead in the Bhandari Bagh area alone, 45 crow deaths were reported from various locations, 6 pigeons and a duck were also found dead. Dehradun division was followed by Terai central where five carcasses of four species of birds — kingfisher, pigeon, owls (2), parrot — were found dead. So far, the state has registered 696 deaths out of which 8 were sent for testing and the results of two samples came positive for avian influenza (H5N8). At the time of filing this report, neither the animal husbandry department nor the forest department reported any other positive cases. The samples of the state poultry have been sent by the husbandry department to Bareilly’s Indian Veterinary Research Institute and the report is awaited.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/115-crows-buried-in-doon-151-birds-found-dead-across-state/articleshow/80256140.cms||Shivani Azad
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||ACB arrests two RAS officers for bribery in Dausa district||JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths on Wednesday arrested two Rajasthan Administrative Service (RAS) officers posted as sub-divisional magistrates in bribery case. The accused, Pushkar Mittal and Pinki Meena, are posted in Dausa and Bandikui, respectively. Mittal was arrested while accepting Rs 5 lakh from the representatives of a construction company, while Meena was nabbed for demanding Rs 10 lakh bribe from the firm’s officials in order to provide necessary permission for starting construction of a highway. The operation was carried out by ACB Jaipur team acting on a tip off by the complainant to ADG (ACB) B L Soni. The complaint stated that both the RAS officers have been harassing them and demanding a hefty bribe for starting the project. Interestingly, the road construction has been approved and the land was acquired by the government leaving no scope for the SDMs to delay handing over the land to the company. The ACB, initially, finds the complaint exaggeration since demanding bribe for handing over the land is just a formality. The ACB verified the complaint through ADG (ACB) Dinesh MN and found that the allegations have substance. “The team confirmed that both the officers have been demanding money in lieu of assurance of not creating any obstacles during the construction of the project. The construction company was threatened of harassment if the bribe is not given,” said Soni. The Jaipur ACB team executed the operation by arresting Mittal red-handed accepting the money, while apprehended Meena demanding the sum. The ACB sleuths have been frisking the office and residence of the officials till the last report came. Meena is an officer of RAS 2018 batch and native of Jaipur. While Mittal is an officer of RAS 2015 batch and from Alwar. Both were posted as SDMs at the respective places in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/acb-arrests-two-ras-officers-for-bribery-in-dausa-district/articleshow/80258662.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||NCP minister Nawab Mailk’s son-in-law held in Mumbai drug trafficking case||MUMBAI: In ongoing probes into a drug bust involving a British national, the NCB on Wednesday arrested Sameer Khan, son-in-law of NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik. NCB officials said Khan was a drug abuser and had also invested amounts running into lakhs in arrested British national Karan Sajani’s drug trafficking business. NCB said it has found digital evidence linking the duo. Khan has been booked under NDPS Act for financing, illicit traffic and harbouring offenders, which attracts a punishment of 10-20 years rigorous imprisonment and up to Rs 2 lakh fine. The arrest came after an eight-hour interrogation. Khan, a resident of Bandra west, runs a salon in the same suburb and dabbles in sales of gym equipment and real estate. NCB grilling NCP min’s son-in-law, probing Sajnani’s ‘drug’ networkBJP leader Kirit Somiaya on Wednesday tweeted demanding that NCP spokesperson and Maharashtra’s minority affairs and skill development minister Nawab Malik be dropped from the state cabinet as his son-in-law, Sameer Khan, has been arrested in a drugs bust case involving a British national. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) arrested British national Karan Sajani on January 9 after they found him involved in smuggling ganja from the US through courier. Later, an NCB team seized ready-to-use joints from his flat. Subsequently, two sisters, including the former manager of a Bollywood actress, were also arrested in the case. NCB has also carried out raids in Rampur in Uttar Pradesh where Sajnani had set up a trafficking network, sources said. “Khan’s interrogation is on to ascertain more details,” an official said. Sources said Sajnani had been trafficking drugs for the past 15 months. “The ganja he supplied was of a high quality. He supplied in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Meghalaya among other states,” an official said. Sources said Sajnani was running an investment business in Hong Kong which ran into huge losses. “He then shifted to Mumbai where he entered into trafficking of contraband. Till now, we have information that he was dealing only in ganja. He has connections in the city which he utilised to pursue his business. All of them are under our scanner,’’ an NCB source said. Sajnani holds an Overseas Citizen of India card, the source said. NCB will also conduct investigations abroad as he has associates in the US who have helped him in trafficking. On Sajnani’s connection with Khan, sources said that they have common friends.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-arrests-maha-mins-son-in-law-in-drugs-case/articleshow/80260570.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh municipal corporation manages to earn over Rs 211cr in 3rd quarter of current fiscal||CHANDIGARH: After facing trouble in earning revenue due to the ongoing Covid-19 crises, especially during the curfew and subsequent lockdown period, the Chandigarh municipal corporation has finally managed to earn a revenue of Rs 211.85 crore till the third quarter i.e. from April to December of the current financial year. Though the fourth or the last quarter of the current year from January till March is pending, the civic body authority is hoping to get a significant amount of revenue by the end of this financial year i.e. on March 31. Though, the received amount is Rs 11 crore less than the targeted amount, the had fixed to earn revenue till December, but since the civic body authority had to give financial relaxations to different segments due to Covid-19 pandemic, their income shrunk during the initial phase of the financial year. Therefore, the received revenue of Rs 211.85 crore is being seen as a major financial boost for the MC due to which they can manage to fulfil their committed liabilities as they have not been getting the required grant-in-aid (GIA) from the UT administration. The civic body authority has been receiving revenue through multiple departments of the MC, but the public health department played the most vital role in earning the revenue as the department incurred Rs 73.57 crore in these nine months of the current financial year. The property tax department followed the public health department as the authority received Rs 48.85 crore through property tax. Of this, Rs 35.51 crore has come from the commercial property tax and Rs 13.34 crore from residential property tax. Moreover, the MC received Rs 20.29 crore from Covid-19 cess and Rs 11.39 crore from MC’s cess on electricity charges. Moreover, the authority received income from other departments too. Earlier, with the start of the current financial year in March 2020, the MC had to face major losses. It had to waive-off parking fee, vending fee, fee from night food street vendors and gave additional time to people to pay water bills etc. Due to this, the MC had to lose finances and its major resources of income had come to a halt. But, as the lockdown started phasing out gradually, it started earning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mc-manages-to-earn-over-rs-211-cr-in-3rd-quarter-of-current-fiscal/articleshow/80258668.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Child rights panel to look into NIOS exam complaints||MUMBAI: After complaints from city parents regarding the National Institute of Open Schooling’s upcoming board exams, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights has taken cognizance of the grievance. Parents are demanding the board not hold exams this month. “We live in Andheri and the centre is in Mumbai Central,” said Melody Pereira, a parent. Parents have complained about unavailability of writers, delay in study material and no reduction in syllabus like other boards. Anubha Sahai of India Wide Parents Association said, “Books were delivered late in the pandemic and some students in remote parts are still waiting for them. The board must at least give an online exam option.” Board officials said exams were being held in line with the education ministry. “Safety norms will be followed. We have discussed with our regional head for Mumbai and found exams are permitted. In case parents can’t find writers, they can be the writer.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/child-rights-panel-to-look-into-nios-exam-complaints/articleshow/80257387.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 14, 2021||Agra||Dense fog engulfs Agra region, mercury drops to 4.8 degrees C||Agra: Residents and tourists woke up to "very dense" fog resulting in zero visibility in the Agra region on Wednesday morning. Cold winds intensified with heavy snowfall in the Himalayan region. Sky remained overcast for most part of the day. On the minimum scale, mercury level dropped to 4.8 degrees Celsius which was 6.4 degrees Celsius less as compared to Sunday. The maximum temperature in Agra was recorded at 19.8 degrees Celsius which was two degrees less than normal. At 4.8 degrees Celsius, minimum temperature remained 3 degrees Celsius less than normal. Cold winds blew at a speed of 12 km per hour. People remained indoors at night. Following dense fog, traffic movement on highways and major roads remained affected till afternoon. Around a dozen trains got delayed. Tourists in Agra were upset as they were unable to see the Taj Mahal clearly due to dense fog. Meanwhile, Agra Municipal Corporation operated gas heaters at various places in the evening to help people staying outdoors in cold conditions. People also set up bonfires. Besides Agra, cold waves swept across Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. Aligarh remained colder as compared to Agra. Here maximum temperature was recorded 12.8 degrees Celsius. According to the Met department, the Agra region will continue to witness dense fog in the morning and evening for the next four days. Mild sunshine will occur in the afternoon. Maximum temperature is expected to decrease by 4 degrees Celsius and 1 degree Celsius on minimum scale. On Wednesday, the Air Quality Index (AQI) in Agra was recorded at 289 or "poor" category by the Central Pollution Control Board. Particulate matter 2.5 [with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres] remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/dense-fog-engulfs-agra-region-mercury-drops-to-4-8-degrees-c/articleshow/80255299.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Minor girl ends life as parents oppose alliance with lover||Ajmer: A 17-year-old girl on Wednesday committed suicide by hanging from the ceiling as her parents opposed her marrying the boy of her choice.According to police, the deceased, a resident of Jatiya colony of Paharganj, was found hanging in the room by her parents. SI Babulal said, It came out that she was in affair with a boy and her family denied permission to marry that boy. The deceased was pressurizing her parents to allow her to marry.Woman, kids beaten up by moneylender: A woman, Sunita Mamariya and her children were beaten up by a moneylender in Chandwardai Colony of Ramganj. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girl-ends-life-as-parents-oppose-alliance-with-lover/articleshow/80258665.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Farmer stabbed to death in Bhachau village||Rajkot: A 49-year-old farmer was stabbed to death in broad daylight in Kabrav village of Bhachau taluka of Kutch district on Wednesday. The deceased identified as Dhanji Ravaliya was stabbed nearly two dozen times allegedly by accused Shyamji Patel, also a resident of the same village over some financial dispute.According to Bhachau police, Ravaliya and left his house in the morning on his motorcycle for work and when he reached near Sitaram Store in the village, Patel was waiting for him.Patel drew a knife and stabbed Ravaliya over 20 times on the road itself. Ravaliya died at the spot, said police, adding that Patel was on the run.Primarily it appears that accused and the deceased had some financial dispute, but the exact reason for the murder will be known only after Patel’s arrest said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/farmer-stabbed-to-death-in-bhachau-village/articleshow/80256205.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Spurious liquor claims three lives in Bharatpur||Awar: Three persons died and three were critically injured after consuming spurious liquor under Rupawas police station area in Bharatpur on Wednesday.The deceased include a sarpanch’s brother while the injured were getting treatment at the civil hospital. A pall of gloom descended in the entire village after the incident. The villagers accused that they have been complaining of the availability of spurious countrymade liquor to police and the administration, but it never invited any action.Police said last night few some villagers drank liquor at a commonplace and while they were on the way home, a few complained of illness. While two died, three are undergoing treatment with one losing his vision. Bharatpur chief medical officer Navdeep Saini said, “It appears that they consumed spurious liquor.” “The matter is being investigated based on eyewitnesses accounts. We have raided some places to arrest the accused and will soon bust the illegal liquor racket,” said Devendra Bishnoi, SP Bharatpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/spurious-liquor-claims-three-lives-in-bharatpur/articleshow/80258679.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chandigarh||Sectors 31, 32 & 39 concrete roads example of sustainability||Chandigarh: The engineering departments of the Chandigarh administration as well as the municipal corporation are now staying away from making concrete roads in the city due to technical and financial reasons. However, two such concrete roads, constructed around 13 years back in sectors 31/32 dividing road and Sector 39, are the classic example of sustainability of these roads. These two roads were constructed as per the orders of then governor of Punjab-cum-UT administrator S F Rodrigues. Experts reveal that though the concept of concrete roads needs a lot of mental exercise, checking the level of water minutely and other technical aspects, but a detailed study can be done with new available technologies. The cost of concrete roads is almost three times higher, but if we look at the maintenance of bitumen roads and other related maintenance, there is hardly any difference left. The sectors 31/32 concrete road was constructed in 2007 by the UT’s engineering department, while the Sector 39 concrete roads came almost a year later. Since 13 years have completed, the maintenance cost of both these roads is nil since 2007. Moreover, both these roads bear heavy traffic daily. Thus, there is a dire need for the authorities to study the concept of the concrete roads as these are much more feasible. Sources in both the UT and MC admit that the strength and life of the concrete roads is almost six to seven times better. The bitumen road needs repair after every five years and the life span of concrete roads is minimum 30 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/sectors-31-32-39-concrete-roads-example-of-sustainability/articleshow/80258686.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 14, 2021||Goa||UTAA forms panel to study IIT oppn issue||Poinguinim: The United Tribal Association Alliance (UTAA) chairman and former minister Prakash Velip said the locals of Melauli fighting to get the IIT project scrapped from their village are tribals and that his organisation has formed a team to study the issue. “Many people in Shel-Melauli are from the Scheduled Tribes community. We demand justice for the locals who have been opposing the IIT project. The association is closely studying the issue,” Velip said. He said justice needs to be done to the Melauli locals, who were wronged during their January 6 clash with police. “We know and we are aware that the state government has taken a firm view and it has taken a stand against the locals. We must get justice in whatever wrong has been done to us and we have suffered,” Velip said. He said UTAA has been in talks with local MLA and minister Vishwajit Rane and with chief minister Pramod Sawant over the issue. Velip said he has already visited Shel-Melauli last week and interacted with the protesting locals. “The locals said they want to continue their agitation to save the future of their children and their sole livelihood,” Velip said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/utaa-forms-panel-to-study-iit-oppn-issue/articleshow/80259717.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||In two Maharashtra villages, top bidder given post of sarpanch||MUMBAI: The state election commission (SEC) has cancelled the gram panchayat elections in Umrane village of Nashik and Khondamali village of Nandurbar on learning that the post of sarpanch and gram panchayat members had been auctioned there. Officials said Rs 2 crore was on offer in Umrane and Rs 42 lakh in Khondamali. The elections were scheduled to be held on January 15. “After reports on this appeared in the media and we also received complaints, we asked state collectors to look into it and give us their reports. We found that in these two cases, there had been some dealing to ensure that the sarpanch was elected unopposed,” state election commissioner U P S Madan said. “It is a serious matter in terms of conducting gram panchayat elections in a free, fearless and transparent environment,” he said. Criminal cases will be filed against those found guilty. The BJP-Shiv-Sena government had made amendments allowing the entire village to participate in the sarpanch poll. This was reversed by the MVA government. The sarpanch is now elected by the gram panchayat members.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/in-2-villages-top-bidder-given-post-of-sarpanch/articleshow/80259715.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Man rapes woman under pretext of ritual to help conceive son||Rajkot: A 24-year-old woman, a mother of two daughters, accused her neighbour of raping her twice under the pretext of performing rituals that would help her conceive a son in Savarkundla town of Amreli district. Police arrested Keshavdas Parmar (30) on Tuesday night for allegedly raping the woman first time in October last year and for the second time about a week ago. According to police, the woman had two daughters and wanted another son. She was told that Parmar could help her conceive a son. Parmar promised her that by doing certain rituals she could give birth to a son. In October last year, Parmar called the woman to his house under the pretext of performing the ritual and allegedly raped her. A couple of weeks ago Parmar called the woman to his house and allegedly raped her. But this time Parmar threatened to kill her daughter if she spoke about his deed to anybody. The woman told her husband about what had transpired following which a complaint of rape was lodged with Savarkundla town police station, said sub- inspector R R Vasava.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/man-rapes-woman-under-pretext-of-ritual-to-help-conceive-son/articleshow/80256222.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Ostracized in line of duty, they now lead vaccine teams||KOLKATA: Humiliated, discriminated against and harassed in the early phase of the pandemic, healthcare workers — many of whom were infected with Covid-19 — are leading the first phase of the vaccination programme due to begin this Saturday. Anindita Saha Roy Chowdhury, a nurse at Panihati State General hospital, was harassed by her neighbours in Kalyani to such an extent that she had to report it to the state authorities. She was not only humiliated, but neighbours had even stopped her from entering the locality. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee herself had to intervene after the incident was made public. Nine months later, she is now undergoing training at the hospital to lead the vaccination drive. “I slipped into depression after the insults. I was just doing my duty and was stunned to see how they were treating me and was forced to lodge a complaint. I even contracted Covid-19 some months later. Till now, my neighbours have not apologized for what they had done. But I will continue my work,” she said. Critical care specialist at Peerless Hospital, Rimita Dey, who has been in charge of Covid patients since Day 1 and had herself got infected around July said she used to get hostile vibes from the neighbours of her south Kolkata home. So she started living at her parents’ house, only to return on certain days to check on her kids. “But over the months, people’ attitude has changed for good. The vaccine now gives us hope for a better future,” she said. Similar has been the experience for Uma Adhikari, a nurse at RG Kar Medical College and Hospital. When the pandemic set in, she had barely joined duty after maternity leave and had to shuttle to and from her Lake Town home as she needed to feed her newborn son. “My neighbours had objected to me entering the neighbourhood and even forced us to keep our doors and windows shut. But things have changed now and, at last, we have a vaccine. I am not sure if that can change the people’s mentality, but I urge everyone to take it even if it reduces 50% chance of the infection,” said Adhikari, a Covid survivor herself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ostracized-in-line-of-duty-they-now-lead-vax-teams/articleshow/80258725.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 14, 2021||Pune||House survey to trace kids out of school||Pune: The mass migration during lockdown that led to children dropping out of schools has prompted the state government to conduct a door-to-door survey. Teachers will tally the enrolment for the academic year 2019-2020 with 2020-21, and then track the missing students. Director of primary education, Dattatray Jagtap, said they have planned well to conduct this survey. “Some officials and teachers are already looking at the enrolment figures of the last year, and missing students are being contacted by the respective schools,” he said. Jagtap said many families that migrated to their native places have not brought back their children when they returned to work in urban areas. “So, teachers and principals are tracing such families and undertaking the work to figure out the number of children missing in schools,” he added. Pune zilla parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad said, “Our officers have been going to the addresses of the children who are not in school, but many parents have changed their rented houses. Their owners are unaware about their status. There is a challenge in tracing such students in their native places or to find out if these families have changed houses within the city.” Kamaladevi Awate, in-charge of out-of-school education at the State Council of Education Research and Training, said after the primary education department conducts the survey they will train such students who have missed out on academics. “We have also trained teachers and prepared about 13,784 books in language and maths-science to fill up the learning gaps,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/house-survey-to-trace-kids-out-of-school/articleshow/80258697.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Dogs kill 4 chinkaras in Jaisalmer||Jaisalmer: Four chinkaras were attacked and killed by stray dogs near Khetolai village in Lathi area in Jaisalmer district.The forest department officers and staff on getting information, reached the spot on Wednesday and collected the carcasses of the chinkaras and got the postmortem done. The carcasses were found near the fencing. It is to be mentioned that Lathi, Bhadaria, Khetolai, Odhaniyan, Chandhan, Sodhakor etc are dominated by wildlife. In these areas, carcasses of various animals including chinkara, deer, fox, etc and birds such as Great Indian Bustard, falcon, vultures and other species are often found. It is suspected that stray dogs attack these animals and birds, killing them in these areas. Resentment prevails among wildlife enthusiasts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dogs-kill-4-chinkaras-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80258733.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Water from Anasagar Lake destroys crops in Khanpura||Ajmer: To complete the construction of wall at Anasagar Lake under Smart City project, the district administration opened the channel gates of Anasagar without any warning resulting in alleged destruction of crops in Khanpura village.Dozens of villagers on Wednesday assembled at the district headquarters and staged a protest. Farmer Suresh Cheeta said his crops were ready but water from the lake flooded his field. The irrigation department later closed the channel gates.The channel gates of Anasagar Lake were opened during winter to bring the level of lake water below 12 feet from its current 13 feet. The motive was to prepare a wall all around the lake to construct a pathway under the smart city project. The renovation of escape channel of the lake was also under project and therefore it was decided to open the channels of the waterbody.But farmers alleged that without warning the escape channels were opened to reduce the water level of the lake and the water gushed to the fields of Khanpura village destroying crops. Ajmer south MLA Anita Bhadel alleged that without planning and without any information, the district administration destroyed the crops.The matter came into light when farmers came to the district collectorate on Wednesday and staged a protest. Pushkar MLA Suresh Rawat also met district collector Parkash Rajpurohit following which the irrigation department closed the escape channel gates.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/water-from-anasagar-lake-destroys-crops-in-khanpura/articleshow/80258717.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Corruption, indiscipline will not be tolerated: Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said that sensitive, transparent and accountable governance is the basic mantra of the state government and every officer and employee should work to fulfil this promise for the welfare of the people. He directed to set up a separate cell in the personnel department, where cases of such officers and employees who are negligent in work and against whom complaints of corruption or habitual indiscipline are reported. The state government would ensure strict action against the guilty personnel. Gehlot was reviewing the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund, Silicosis Scheme, revenue matters and other issues related to the public including grievances received on the Chief Minister’s Office and Sampark Portal with the district collectors through a video conference. The chief minister said it is generally seen that people have to travel long distances to settle small revenue disputes. He said that the district collector, SDM, tehsildar, patwari and other concerned officers and personnel should settle revenue cases in a time-bound manner with full sensitivity. He said that the state government will soon undertake a campaign, ‘Prashasan gaon ke sang’ to carry out essential works of the common man on the spot. For this, the concerned departments should start preparations in advance. Gehlot directed the officials to complete computerization of land records and online work of tehsils on priority. He said that based on the pilot project of Barmer, the process of land conversion should also be done online. He said computerization of land records should be flawless so that disputes related to revenue records do not arise in future. Chief minister said delay in extending help from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund in cases of accidents defeats the purpose of immediate assistance to the victim. He instructed that the district collector should aid the affected family with immediate effect. He also directed to take prompt action in pending cases of certification under Silicosis Scheme. The chief minister directed to accelerate the construction of housing under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana Gramin and make the state number one in the country. He expressed happiness that Rajasthan is fourth in the country due to successful implementation of the scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/corruption-indiscipline-will-not-be-tolerated-cm/articleshow/80258728.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Opposition cries foul over BMC plan to buy masks at thrice the cost||MUMBAI: A tender floated by the BMC for purchase of 80 lakh reusable face masks for civic school students stirred up a controversy after opposition party leaders alleged “favouritism and corruption”. They stated that the government had fixed the rate of such masks at Rs 4 a piece last year, but the BMC was now purchasing it for Rs 12. The BMC is still to decide about reopening of its schools. Leader of the opposition party leader in BMC, Ravi Raja who is a Congress corporator, wrote to the civic chief to complain about the “corrupt” practice. Civic officials were unavailable for comment. “BMC is adopting a corrupt practice to favour a company associated with an influential young politician,” Raja alleged. “If BMC purchased the face mask earlier, the government fixed the rate of three-layer mask as Rs 4. Why then is it paying Rs 12 now? They added a condition to increase the rate and help the politician’s company win the tender. Who will guarantee that the mask is usable after multiple wash? It’s loot of public money.” BMC invited a tender for the three-layered mask where innermost layer should be of hydrophilic material, middle layer hydrophobic with filtration and outer layer should be made of hydrophobic material. The BMC added a condition in the tender that the bidder must have self-certification or a certificate from an external laboratory over efficacy of the mask after 30 washes. Samajwadi Party MLA and corporator Rais Shaikh said, “There’s corruption whether it’s purchase of body bags, PPE suits, sanitiser or mask. BMC’s central purchase department is adopting corruption practices with involvement of senior officials.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/oppn-cries-foul-over-bmc-plan-to-buy-masks-at-thrice-the-cost/articleshow/80259719.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Rs 26L jewellery stolen from bank locker||Ahmedabad: For most of us, a gift of Rs 101 means good luck. Not for Priti Upadhay, a Sola resident who opened her bank locker only to find a photograph of Goddess Vaibhavlakshmi and Rs 101 left behind by a thief, who had stolen her ornaments worth Rs 16 lakh. The Sola resident has filed a complaint with Navrangpura police, alleging that gold and silver ornaments had been stolen from her locker at IDBI Bank on C G Road. Upadhyay, 40, a resident of Florence residency on Science City Road , told cops that the theft had been carried out by some bank employee on February 13, 2020. “I had opened a locker with IDBI bank in 2008. I was given locker number 50,” states Upadhyay, who works as a PR manager with a private firm in Bopal. “I got a call from someone who told me that a serious incident had taken place at the bank. I called up a bank officer who told to come to the bank. There, the locker in-charge took me to my locker which had been broken into. The ornaments that were inside had been stolen. In its place, the thief had placed the photograph of Goddess Vaibhavlakshmi and Rs 101,” she states in the FIR. She told the bank manager and locker in-charge to seal her locker. She submitted an application in this regard to the Navrangpura police on February 15, 2020. “I could not pursue it due to the outbreak of coronavirus. I also had to take care of my elderly mother-in-law and an 11-year-old daughter,” states Upadhyay, whose husband died on June 3, 2020. The Navrangpura police have registered a complaint of burglary and abetment against the unknown bank employee. Police said it is rare for ornaments to be stolen from bank lockers. In 2005, gold weighing around 600 gm had been stolen from Naranpura branch of the Kalupur Co-operative bank Ltd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/rs-26l-jewellery-stolen-from-bank-locker/articleshow/80257479.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||1 killed, another injured in truck-tanker collision||Jaisalmer: A tanker and a truck collided on Wednesday afternoon and both vehicles caught fire on Barmer-Jodhpur highway. The tanker was carrying edible oil due to which the fire spread fast. The truck driver was burnt alive while tanker driver was admitted to the hospital in a serious condition. According to information from police, a tanker and a truck on Barmer-Jodhpur route collided near Dhava village. The collision was so severe that both vehicles caught fire after the incident. The tanker carrying edible oil was coming from Gujarat while the truck was going towards Barmer from Jodhpur. Due to speeding, the truck driver lost control and hit the tanker coming from the opposite direction. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-killed-another-injured-in-truck-tanker-collision/articleshow/80258747.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: NDPS court grants bail to Muchhad paan shop owner on Rs 15,000 bond||MUMBAI: The Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court on Wednesday granted bail to Ramkumar Tiwari, owner of Muchhad Paanwala, on a bond of Rs 15,000. Tiwari was arrested late Monday after 500 gm of cannabis and material required to make ganja joints were recovered from his warehouse at Kemps Corner. Karan Sajnani, a British national who was arrested on Saturday after officials found ready-to-use ganja joints from his home, used to supply it to Tiwari, which he sold through the shop, NCB claimed. He was remanded to judicial custody on Tuesday, which NCB did not object to. Tiwari moved court for bail on Wednesday. NCB had objected to his release saying he would hamper investigations. Officials are likely to question Tiwari’s brother as the two used to run the shop for six months on rotation. The shop is popular among affluent sections of society and has a loyal customer base.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ndps-court-grants-bail-to-muchhad-paan-shop-owner-on-rs-15k-bond/articleshow/80259724.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Bike lifters’ gang busted, 2 held; 12 two-wheelers recovered||Dehradun: Dehradun police on Wednesday busted a bike lifters’ gang and arrested two of its members and recovered 12 stolen motorbikes from their possession. The bike lifters were arrested by a team of Patel Nagar police which was formed by Dehradun’s senior superintendent of police (SSP) following the rise in the bike theft cases. The accused have been identified as Muzammil, 19, and Amzad, 20, both residents of Haridwar district. They were rounded up during a regular checking near Bhandari Bagh in Patel Nagar area on Tuesday night, said Shweta Choubey, SP city. “When the accused were asked to show the vehicle documents, both got nervous and spilled out it was a stolen motorcycle. Later, they confessed to lifting several bikes from different parts of the city. Police have recovered 12 bikes from their possession," Choubey added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bike-lifters-gang-busted-2-held-12-two-wheelers-recovered/articleshow/80256221.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 14, 2021||Goa||AIIMS team examines Naik, says no need to take him to Delhi||Panaji: A team of three doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) arrived in Goa late Tuesday night to assess the condition of Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik. Expressing satisfaction over his treatment at Goa Medical College (GMC), they said he need not be shifted to Delhi. On Wednesday morning, the team examined Naik once again and advised his doctors. The minister, who suffered multiple fractures in a road accident on Monday, has undergone four surgeries, and is currently at the hospital’s intensive care unit. Dean Dr S M Bandekar stated that the AIIMS team was happy with the line of treatment given to Naik, and that their suggestions have also been implemented. Chief minister Pramod Sawant too visited Naik on Wednesday, and said his condition was “much better than on Tuesday”. “He spoke to me as well as to his son, Siddhesh,” Sawant told reporters. “The AIIMS doctors said there’s no need to shift him since he has been given the best of care at GMC.” While Naik has been taken off the ventilator, he has been given non-invasive ventilation (NIV), Sawant said. He added that the Ayush minister will be closely monitored for the next 24 hours. He is being looked after by GMC’s specialists. Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, after visiting Naik at GMC on Tuesday, had announced that a team of doctors from AIIMS would see him, consult GMC doctors, and decide if he needs to be shifted outside Goa for treatment. The defence minister had said that the GMC doctors have done a good job in providing prompt treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/aiims-team-examines-naik-says-no-need-to-take-him-to-delhi/articleshow/80259731.cms||---
January 14, 2021||India||SC says decide on re-opening of anganwadi centres by Jan 31||NEW DELHI: Observing that it is a statutory obligation of governments to provide nutritional support to children and pregnant women belonging to the poor sections of society, the Supreme Court on Wednesday directed all states and UTs to take a decision to open by end of this month all anganwadi centres outside covid containment zone. A three-judge bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, Subhash Reddy and M R Shah directed all states to ensure that nutritional standards as provided in National Food Security Act is fulfilled by providing nutritional support to pregnant women, lactating mothers and to children who suffer from malnutrition. The centres were shut down in view of the outbreak of the pandemic. Times ViewThe coronavirus had forced the government to close anganwadi centres, the fundamental building block of healthcare in India. Millions, especially the deprived, depend on them. With Covid-19 relatively under control and the vaccinations set to begin in a few days, it is high time that they reopen.“Government has a constitutional obligation to preserve human life. Good health of its citizens is its primary duty. International covenants also aim at highest attainable standards of physical and mental health. This is in interest of social justice. Inadequate supply of nutritious food to the citizens, more particularly to the children and the women shall affect their health,” the bench said. The court said that children must be provided with nutritious food and anganwadi schemes must be made operative as soon as possible. “Children are the next generation and therefore unless and until the children and the women have the nutritious food, it will affect the next generation and ultimately the country as a whole. No one can doubt that children are the future of our country and if there is some stinginess in providing them with adequate nutrition, the country as a whole is deprived in future of taking the benefit of their potential,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-says-decide-on-re-opening-of-anganwadi-centres-by-jan-31/articleshow/80260575.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Chennai||When percussionists miss the beat||Like professionals in every field, Carnatic musicians have been hit hard by the Covid pandemic. Many have managed to stay afloat with recordings, digital concerts, online teaching and workshops. But these methods have not worked for everyone, particularly for the not-in-the-frontline players of upa pakkavadyam instruments like the kanjira, ghatam and morsing. "What can I say? Whom can I accuse? Why condemn the world? How to blame nature for following its rules?" Kanjira artist Papanasam Sethuraman rains questions, reflecting on how the pandemic has dismantled the life he knew before March 2020. "For 35 years playing the kanjira has been my full-time profession as the single wage earner in my family," he explains. Until last year, Sethuraman had made "a decent living" with 10-15 concerts per month, 45-50 concerts during the December arts festival, and a US tour in summer. After the Covid onslaught, his household has been teetering despite friends coming to the rescue, and grants from a few music associations. An anonymous donor delivered provisions for two months. Still, "I have been steadily selling the little jewellery my wife Devabhagyarani had, and her management skills have kept us going. " For ghatam artist Madipakkam Murali, the cancellation of concerts and tours last year brought clinical depression as well as financial loss. "As it is additional percussionists are not indispensable, though we are assets to the ensemble. Because I had a busy round-the-year schedule, I took in only a few disciples." Therefore, during the pandemic, earnings from tuitions were not an option. "I picked myself up and started practising for hours, improved my skills and spirit. Friends, family and music organisations offered help. The gesture was a tonic." With the doors of temples being closed for months and family celebrations being muted in view of the pandemic, the familiar sounds of tavil and nadaswaram have fallen silent. When the lockdown meant cancellation of weddings and temple festivals across Tamil Nadu, tavil artist Gummidipoondi Jeevanandham found his income had gone. "It seemed like the years of struggle had returned. My tavil artist father and grandfather died before they could train me in the family art. I had to give up school after Class V to study tavil with a guru. I taught myself more by listening to the veterans and getting their advice when I started giving recitals. I don’t know English, nor am I familiar with technology to teach online here or abroad. Besides, internet connectivity is a problem in Gummidipoondi where I live. How do we manage?" The situation is similar for mridangam artists as well, though they are considered the mandatory accompanist in Carnatic music concerts. But not so, except perhaps for the top stars. Mridangam artist T K Ramachandran says, "Long gone are the days when Chennai sabhas thought it an honour to feature Thanjavur musicians. I cannot leave my ancestral house in Melaveedhi, Thanjavur. I have been content though earnings have never been spectacular. I had 45 students until last March. Now I have seven. What to do, the students’ families too are facing economic stress." Despite their own troubles, most musicians tried to look beyond. Sethuraman says, "Parents have greater worries than someone like me who has no children. Students cannot pay now, but I teach them regardless, to ensure continuity of lessons. Let the future take care of itself." When a friend gave sizeable support, Murali decided to share it with other artists by organising online concerts. "Later, I took the initiative to organise live concerts for small audiences with social distancing. All artists need mental boosters." Jeevanandam is moved by the support given by the community associations of tavil and nadaswaram artists, local and elsewhere. With gratitude most mention sabhas like the Music Academy and Mumbai’s Shanmukhananda, organisations like the Global Carnatic Musicians’ Association, individual donors, often anonymous, and senior artists like Thanjavur Murugabhoopathy, Vyasarpadi Kothandaraman and T M Krishna, who took the trouble to collect funds and channel them to those in need. The musicians hope the worst is over with the resumption of concerts by sabhas -- mostly online, a few live. Are they sure that things will improve? With a big smile Ramachandran says,"Nambikkaidaan… you must have faith!" (The writer is a musician and playwright)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/when-percussionists-miss-the-beat/articleshow/80257483.cms||Gowri Ramnarayan
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||Lohri celebrated with much fervour in Terai region||Rudrapur: People in the Terai region of Uttarakhand celebrated the festival of Lohri with much fervour on Wednesday. Men, women, and kids took part in several programmes held across the region. On the occasion, people danced to folk tunes and enjoyed local delights. BJP legislator Rajkumar Thukral also organised a Lohri event at his residence. Several people with their families and friends participated in the celebration. Notably, Covid-19 regulations like wearing of masks and maintaining distancing were strictly followed during the celebration of the harvest festival.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lohri-celebrated-with-much-fervour-in-terai-region/articleshow/80256234.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Sarpanchs oppose opening of accounts run by treasury||Jaipur: Rajasthan Sarpanch Sangh on Wednesday submitted a representation to Jaipur collector Antar Singh Nehra, addressing chief minister Ashok Gehlot and chief secretary, and demanded that the order issued by the state government to open PD (personal deposit) accounts for the release funds for development work in the villages (gram panchayats) must be withdrawn. They demanded that the funds should be directly sent to the bank accounts of the gram panchayats, the practice that was followed earlier. They also demanded that the funds under state finance commission (SFC), pending for the past two years, must be released.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/sarpanchs-oppose-opening-of-accounts-run-by-treasury/articleshow/80258750.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||Man climbs tree to cut manja, loses life||Ahmedabad: A 50-year-old man from Bapunagar, who was trying to save birds from dying, ended up losing his life on Tuesday. Chanduji Thakor, a resident of Roshanbiwi chawl on Anil Starch Road, had climbed a neem tree near his house to remove kite strings from the branches, when he slipped and fell to his death. Shaherkotda Inspector Sumit Rajpur said Thakor was a daily wage labourer. “This was his first attempt to try to keep birds safe. He spotted kite strings on the branches of a neem tree near his house in which birds could get entangled and die. So, he climbed up and was removing it when he slipped and fell, sustaining severe injuries,” said Rajput. Locals called an ambulance and took him to Civil hospital where he died around 5.30 pm. Shaherkotda police have registered a case of accidental death.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-climbs-tree-to-cut-manja-loses-life/articleshow/80257486.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Rajkot||Gujarat: PSI suspended for lathi charge on women||RAJKOT: A polic sub-inspector (PSI) posted at Babra police station of Amreli district was suspended with immediate effect by superintendent of Police Nirlipt Rai after a video of her beating women with the cane went viral on Wednesday. According to sources, PSI Deepika Chaudhary was seen beating them indiscriminately with her lathi at the weekly Wednesday market in Babra town, reportedly after a large number of women gathered there and did not follow Covid-19 guidelines of social distancing. The angry cop was even seen chasing women inside the streets till they entered their homes. As soon as the video came to the light, Rai took the action and suspended her. Talking to TOI, Rai said, “First of all, the PSI was not wearing her uniform in the public which is mandatory as per police manual. Also, the crowd was not unruly, so lathi charge was completely unwarranted.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/psi-suspended-for-lathi-charge-on-women/articleshow/80256322.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Raj’s six-month revenue deficit more than doubles full yr target||Jaipur: In the first six months of the current financial year, Rajasthan’s revenue deficit has surged to Rs 27,958.60 crore against the budget estimate (BE) of Rs 12,345.61 crore for the full year. During the April-September period of 2019-20, the state had deficit of Rs 10,026 crore.Similarly, the fiscal deficit in the first six months has nearly doubled to Rs 33,109.10 crore against Rs 17,460.67 crore in the same period last year, according to half-yearly receipts and expenditure report of the state government.“Due to economic slowdown induced by Covid-19 situation, economic activities have been severely impacted in the state. State’s tax and non-tax revenues have suffered. The economic downturn is reflected in very poor performance of petroleum and transport sector, low collection in SGST and excise tax as well,” the report said.Government’s own tax revenue decreased by 13.56% during the first half year (y-o-y). Decrease in taxes on vehicle revenue was 38.91%, while State Goods and Service Tax revenue dropped by 25.48%. Excise mop-up had a smaller 1.08 slip off, and stamps duty collections fell 3.20%.Total tax revenue during April-September 2020 was Rs 39,497.89 crore comprising of own tax revenue of Rs 23,956.03 crore and state’s share in central taxes of Rs 15,541.86 crore compared to Rs 44,815.26 crore (Rs 27,713.79 crore of own tax and Rs 17,101.47 crore share in central taxes) during April-September, 2019 registering 11.87% decrease.Non-tax revenue during the period was Rs 15,598.53 crore (31.52% of BE) compared to Rs 23,100.21 crore, which was 50.44% of 2019-2020 BE. Own non-tax revenue during the first half was Rs 4,466.58 crore (22.79% of BE) compared to Rs 6,833.95 crore (35.73% of BE) in 2019-20.Expenditure during the period stood at Rs 88,405.47 crore (excluding public debt repayment) which is 42.48% of the BE of Rs 2,08,108.76 crore. As compared to expenditure in April-September 2019, the increase in total expenditure is 2.85%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/rajs-six-month-revenue-deficit-more-than-doubles-full-yr-target/articleshow/80258759.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 14, 2021||Dehradun||No respite for travellers in Uttarakhand as bus strike enters fifth day||Dehradun: The commuters continue to face problems for the fifth consecutive day as the employees of Uttarakhand Transport Corporation (UTC) intensified their strike seeking disbursement of their pending salaries. After Dehradun division, employees of other divisions in the state also joined the protest, leaving bus services across the state crippled. According to Ashok Chaudhary, general secretary of Uttaranchal Roadways Workers Union, "Around 3,500 employees with majority being drivers and conductors have joined the strike. Only 20% of the bus services are currently operational." Chaudhary added that the agitation will continue till their demands are not met. "The salaries of the employees, pending for the last five months, should be given at the earliest," Chaudhary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/no-respite-for-travellers-in-uttarakhand-as-bus-strike-enters-fifth-day/articleshow/80256298.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||State to recruit for grant-in-aid colleges||Ahmedabad: After a gap of over two decades, the Gujarat government led by chief minister Vijay Rupani, has decided to call for a recruitment drive to enlist 927 assistant lecturers for grant-in aid colleges. In the case of grant-in aid schools, the wait was slightly shorter as the government has also announced it will recruit 5,700 assistant teachers. Recruitments have been on hold at grant-in-aid schools for 15 years now. The recruitment drive will add 6,600 workers to the field of education in Gujarat. Gujarat education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said 927 teachers will be recruited across 44 different programmes.The recruitment of faculty assistants will be through online application, the last date for which is January 20. For grant-in aid higher secondary schools, 3,382 fresh recruitments will be made whereas for secondary schools, 2,307 new recruitments will be carried out. For higher secondary schools, 624 teachers will be recruited for English, 446 for accounts and commerce, 334 for sociology, 276 for economics, 254 for Gujarati and 254 for other subjects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/state-to-recruit-for-grant-in-aid-colleges/articleshow/80258838.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ahmedabad||GU clerk harasses 2 students||Ahmedabad: Two nursing students from Jammu & Kashmir have accused a Gujarat University clerk of sending them unwanted and objectionable messages. The authorities have instituted an inquiry against Bhushan Katara, who was posted in the exam department. Some days ago, two nursing students from a government college filed applications seeking completion certificates for their nursing course. Their applications listed their mobile numbers, too. The clerk allegedly began sending text messages to the students. The girls submitted a petition against him to principal H N Chaudhary, who forwarded it to GU. V-C Himanshu Pandya said he has sent the complaint to the Women’s Development Cell. “Action will be taken against the clerk if he is found guilty. Meanwhile, we will transfer Katara to another department,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gu-clerk-harasses-2-students/articleshow/80257492.cms||Bharat Yagnik
January 14, 2021||Thane||Tribal orphan from Bhayander abducted, gangraped||MUMBAI: A 15-year-old tribal orphan from a village in Bhayander was allegedly abducted and raped by three men on Tuesday night. The accused fishing boat workers, aged 20, 24 and 26, were arrested on Wednesday. The girl lost her parents few years back and was under care of a family from the fishing community. On Tuesday, around 11.30pm, she was chatting with three friends, including a girl, when the men passed lewd remarks. They dragged the girl and her friends, who fled. The men took the girl to a remote place and raped her. They then abandoned her and fled. Her friends alerted their parents and villagers, who found her at an isolated spot. The girl was admitted to hospital and a complaint was registered with police. Villagers protested and said labourers were increasingly engaging in eve-teasing and harassment. The accused, from UP, were hiding in a secluded place in a neighbouring village. They have been booked for gangrape and abduction. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/tribal-orphan-abducted-gangraped/articleshow/80259754.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 14, 2021||Jaipur||Workers ransack office complex, vehicles in Nagaur||JAIPUR: Over 200 workers of a private cement company on Wednesday vandalised their office complex and vehicles under the Mundwa (Nagaur) police station demanding compensation for a worker who died while working last night. The workers were demanding a compensation of Rs 15 lakh and job for the family member of the deceased. The angry workers burnt one ambulance and a dozen vehicles of senior managers. The deceased has been identified as Vijendra Kumar who hailed from Bihar. Mundwa police station ASI Aidan Ram said Kumar complained of chest pain around midnight. “He was rushed to the hospital in the company campus where he died during treatment,” said Ram. It is unclear to the police whether Kumar was a contractual worker or daily wager. The workers of the night shift informed about the death of Kumar to the morning shift employees. Soon the workers collectively demanded compensation for the deceased and called not to work till the demand was met at 8am. “Some miscreants among the workers started damaging the property and threatened the mangers of not working till they announce the compensation,” said Ram. Soon the numbers grew and they damaged whatever comes on their way, including an ambulance. “The workers resumed duty after the management conceded to their demands and the body after post-mortem was sent to Bihar,” said Ram. Ironically, the management of the cement factory didn’t file any complaint against their workers till the last report came. TOI called up the HR team of the company, but got no response.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-ransack-office-complex-vehicles-in-nagaur/articleshow/80258768.cms||---
January 14, 2021||Ranchi||Cong discipline sacred, not be taken for granted: Oraon||Ranchi: State Congress president and finance minister Rameshwar Oraon on Wednesday said no leader of any stature will be allowed to take the party’s discipline for granted and if anyone has any issues with the state party leadership, they are free to approach the high command to get their grievances addressed. Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of a luncheon organised on the occasion of Makar Sankranti, Oraon’s statement comes in the wake of veteran Congress leader and former MP Furkan Ansari alleging that Jharkhand ministers are making huge payment’s to Congress’s state in-charge RPN Singh. “Furkan-Ji is a tall leader and has served the party for ages. I do not have any qualms against him but if he has any issues with the state leadership or the state in-charge, he should take them up with the party high command. No leader should raise his/her grievances in an open platform as there is a decorum which needs to be maintained,” Oraon said. Asked if the state leadership is contemplating any disciplinary action against Furkan, Oraon said, “There are no differences between me and Furkan-Ji but as a state president, if anyone guilty of violating the party’s discipline, I will be forced to take disciplinary action against the person concerned.” He added, “I had a word with Furkan-Ji and I was told that his comments were reported in the media by altering the facts so there is nothing to worry about.” Meanwhile on Wednesday, Furkan gave an interview to a local channel where he raised questions on the working style of Singh and said that he has failed completely in fulfilling his duty towards strengthening the party. “The party’s state co-ordination committee in Jharkhand hasn’t been constituted for the last four years. Nobody has an idea about what is going on at the block and district levels of the party’s organization. Whose responsibility is this to take care of such things,” he said. He added that he has spoken to a few party MLAs and they said that they aren’t getting any support from the government in getting developmental work implemented in their respective constituencies. “If this continues, anyone who is a public representative will be disheartened,” he said, adding, “I have told such MLAs clearly that no one is above the party and we all have worked hard to win this election and we should work towards fulfilling the aspirations of people.” He further said that he had a meeting with Congress general secretary K C Venugopal in this regard. “Venugopal-Ji said that Singh is a very capable man and party can retain him in New Delhi and can send in a better leader as an in-charge,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cong-discipline-sacred-not-be-taken-for-granted-oraon/articleshow/80257023.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
