January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Man gets 10-year jail for raping minor||BENGALURU: A local court in Bidadi, Ramanagara district, has convicted a 25-year-old man, who raped a 15-year-old Odisha girl in 2019, to 10-year rigorous imprisonment. Amrit Munda, an agent who brings migrant labourers to Karnataka, also has to pay a fine of Rs 20,000. In 2019, the girl, an orphan and relative of Amrit, was in search of work in Odisha. Promising to get her a job in Karnataka, Amrit brought her to Ramanagara. He provided her a shelter where she was supposed to work. Three days after she joined work, an inebriated Amrit went to her place and raped her. Though the girl was bleeding heavily, he left her there and went back. According to the girl’s statement, Amrit used to come to her place regularly and molest her, multiple times in a day on some occasions. Unaware of what to do, the girl approached her neighbours who refused to help her saying it was ‘common’ and asked her not to stage any ‘drama’. When Amrit came to know about her complaints, he assaulted her and raped her again. The girl managed to escape from the place and with help from some people, reached the police station. Ramanagara women police registered a case in March 2019 under sections of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act and Indian Penal Code and arrested Amrit. The girl was sent to a rehabilitation centre. The girl was three months’ pregnant and she underwent abortion. Police filed a chargesheet in April where DNA test reports were produced. Special public prosecutor Shilpa V, who appeared for the girl, said besides her statement, DNA reports played a crucial role in convicting Amrit. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/man-gets-10-yr-jail-for-raping-minor/articleshow/80274621.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Rejuvenated five years ago, Dore Kere now raises a stink||BENGALURU: Walkers frequenting Dore Kere, one among the oldest lake near Uttarahalli in south Bengaluru, have been bothered by a foul smell emanating from the water body for over a year now. Rampant dumping of garbage in certain parts of the lake spread over nearly 28 acres is to blame, they say. The lake was in the limelight not too long ago when efforts were made to rejuvenate it. However, soon things turned bad. Lake expert V Ramprasad said, “It has a place to walk and a social area, but that is not what rejuvenation is all about. The Detailed Project Report should start focusing on improving the quality of water.” Suma Rao, who has been walking near the lake for over a year, said, “The water stinks and has become a breeding spot for mosquitoes. The authorities have not shown much interest in maintaining the STP installed near the water body.” “Plastic bottles and bags are seen floating in the lake. Considering that people are increasingly becoming health conscious, they might not want to come to a lake which is infested with mosquitoes and other insects. When people stop going to a lake, it ends up being ignored,” Suma added. She pointed out that sewage inflow is higher during monsoon, which is the case with most lakes. The reason why inflow increases every monsoon is that sewage and other solid waste stuck in storm water drains is pushed into lakes. The lake was rejuvenated nearly five years ago and an STP was installed by BWSSB. Residents noticed that it has not been very effective in reducing sewage inflow. BBMP officials say they are in charge of the plant’s maintenance. “No such issue has been brought to my notice. Considering there is maintenance work going on near the STP, sewage must have entered temporarily. However, we assure residents that it will be cleared within a week,” a BBMP official said. The official denied garbage is being dumped into the lake. “The plastic you see is what was cleared and put on the bank. It must have again ended up in the water,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/rejuvenated-five-years-ago-dore-kere-now-raises-a-stink/articleshow/80274623.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Businessman looking for loan loses Rs 10 lakh to trio in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Kothanur police are searching for three men who allegedly cheated a Coimbatore-based businessman of Rs 10 lakh on the pretext of helping him get a loan of Rs 5 crore. Complainant Daniel Wesley, resident of Siddahpudur in Coimbatore, said he handed over Rs 10 lakh to the trio at Koustaba Villa near Chikkagubbi village on January 12. Police found that the suspects had taken the villa on rent for a day by applying online. Wesley, who runs a private firm in Coimbatore, had posted his loan requirements on social media. “A person identifying himself as Ramesh contacted me first. Ramesh and his friend Guruprasad met me at my office and scanned my property documents. They claimed I could get Rs 5 crore loan. In December, they asked me to pay Rs 10 lakh in cash towards service and stamp-duty charges. On January 12, I met the duo and another man at the villa. After collecting documents and cash, they asked me to follow their vehicle and went to a private bank near Hennur Circle. They asked me to wait in my vehicle and went to he bank. After two hours, I tried to contact them but their phones were switched off,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bizman-looking-for-loan-loses-10l-to-trio/articleshow/80274624.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka HC rejects ad firm’s claim on tax dues||BENGALURU: In a relief to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, the high court has upheld the verdict of a city court rejecting the claim of M/s Serve and Volley Outdoor Advertising Private Limited with regard to tax revenue. The company, after successful bidding, had entered into three agreements with BBMP in 2004 for developing and maintaining road medians between Windsor Manor and Mehkri Circle, Domlur Girls’ High School and airport exit gate, and Hebbal flyover and Mehkri Circle. The company was allowed to install translite boxes on medians for displaying commercial advertisements of its clients. The company also undertook to pay advertisement tax, cess and other statutory dues. However, as the firm did not adhere to the payment schedule and its arrears over licence fee and other tax dues mounted, BBMP issued a demand notice in December 2009. The company also approached the high court against BBMP, seeking Rs 1.9 crore as compensation. Considering rival claims, the court ordered for appointment of an arbitrator. On June 10, 2011, the arbitrator held that the company is liable to pay Rs 74.2 lakh tax arrears and Rs 2.2 lakh as costs. The contention of limitation was also dismissed. This was challenged before a city court. On June 10, 2020, the 6th Additional City and Sessions judge, Bengaluru city, confirmed the December 26, 2013 award passed by the arbitrator, retired district judge VN Ravindra, in the dispute between BBMP and the company. The firm challenged this before the high court, claiming BBMP’s suit was barred by limitation as the civic body failed to initiate remedial action within the specified period. However, the court rejected the claim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/hc-rejects-ad-firms-claim-on-tax-dues/articleshow/80274646.cms||P Vasantha Kumar
January 15, 2021||India||PM to flag off 6 express trains providing direct connectivity to Kevadia near Statue of Unity||NEW DELHI: In a first, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off six express trains from Varanasi, Dadar, Delhi, Ahmedabad, Rewa and Chennai stations to Kevadia in Gujarat on Sunday where the Statue of Unity is located. The Ahmedabad-Kevadia Janshatabdi train will also have a vistadome coach, which is specially designed to make train journeys scenic and memorable giving a boost to tourism. This express train service will provide direct connectivity to tourists visiting the tallest statue of the world, which has become a major attraction. Officials said the direct regular rail service will bring more tourists to the site. The railway ministry has built Kevadia railway station near the Statue of Unity, which will also be inaugurated by the PM on Sunday. Sources said PM Modi will inaugurate the Dabhoi-Chandod-Kevadia broad gauge rail line and the Pratapnagar-Kevadia newly electrified section on Sunday. Pratapnagar falls in Vadodara district and a regular MEMU service will start in this section. "The main focus of all this connectivity is to attract both local and outside tourists. The government has set the target to make it one of the most attractive tourist hubs," said an official. Recently, the government had launched a seaplane service from the Statue of Unity in Narmada district to Sabarmati riverfront in Ahmedabad to mark the 145th birth anniversary of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. In November, the government had held a two-day all India speakers’ conference in Kevadia. In 2019, the Centre’s first-ever common foundation course Aarambh (Beginning) for 2019 batch probationer civil servants was also held at the Statue of Unity, which was attended by 500 bureaucrats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-to-flag-off-6-express-trains-providing-direct-connectivity-to-kevadia-near-statue-of-unity/articleshow/80274880.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Slowly and cautiously, Gurugrammers return to Tibetan woollen market||The Tibetan Refugee Woollen Market in Gurgaon is up again this winter. For years, the market-situated in Sector 52 has been an annual fixture during the winters in Gurgaon. Although this year, there were doubts whether the market would be set up due to the COVID-19 pandemic, it has been up and running since December. Slowly and cautiously, shoppers have been returning to the market and there has been a gradual increase in footfall as well. The Tibetan Refugee Woollen Market is gradually seeing an increase in footfallA reflection of how the market has changed post COVID is that masks are among the more popular buys here now, vendors say. In accordance with the guidelines set by district authorities, the market has set up thermal screening and sanitiser station at the entrance and is also encouraging people to follow social distancing inside. Shopkeepers say they try and sanitise all clothes regularly to avoid any spread of infection. "We have thermal screening and sanitiser at the entrance and all shopkeepers keep sanitisers as well. In fact, we regularly sanitise clothes. We cannot stop contact altogether since clothes need to be tried, but we are doing the best we can," says a shopkeeper. There is thermal screening and sanitiser station at the entrance of the marketShoppers say they were a bit cautious initially but once news of safety measures in the market spread through word of mouth, people began trickling in. Ratna Arora, who has made it a point to visit this market every year, says, "This is our go to place for affordable but fashionable winter clothing. Since it's a street market, we were apprehensive this year due to the pandemic. But a number of our friends told us that safety arrangements here are good and people wear masks all the time, so we went too." With inputs from Ajay Kumar GautamWatch Gurgaon's Tibetan woollen market up and running post-pandemic||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/slowly-and-cautiously-gurugrammers-return-to-tibetan-woollen-market/articleshow/80269370.cms||Abhimanyu Mathur
January 15, 2021||Goa||ISL: Ortiz inspires Goa to easy win over Jamshedpur||FC Goa have found another weapon in their armoury in the form of Jorge Ortiz. Coach Juan Ferrando surprisingly left star striker Igor Angulo to the bench, but it all made sense when they came out 3-0 winners against Jamshedpur FC at the Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Thursday. Ortiz scored a goal in each half while centre-back Ivan Gonzalez rounded off the tally with a delightful finish in the closing stages of the match. Alberto Noguera played an influential role with two assists, but it was Naveen Kumar’s performance in his first start under the bar this season that stood out. The perfect start to the second leg helped Goa climb to the third spot. They are now unbeaten in four games and have 18 points from 11 games, just two less than ATK Mohun Bagan who they face next on Sunday. Despite the surprising changes, Goa were fluid right from the start with impressive ball possession. They have been vulnerable while defending set pieces and survived an anxious moment early when Peter Hartley leaped highest. The Jamshedpur captain, however, couldn’t guide his header. Moments later, Naveen came up with a full stretched save to deny Isaac Vanmalsawma’s powerful right footer. Noguera was moving swiftly with the ball and carved open the Jamshedpur defence in the 19th minute. The Spaniard hoodwinked Ricky Lallawmawma and found an unmarked Ortiz, who controlled with his right and finished with the same foot for his third goal of the season. Jamshedpur coach Owen Coyle tried to encourage his side from the sidelines. They did have more attempts on target but none that troubled Naveen. The custodian made a crucial save to deny the dangerous Nerijus Valskis from close before the cooling break. Goa controlled the pace in the second half and Ortiz was in a perfect position to tap in a cross from Brandon Fernandes in the 52nd minute as keeper TP Rehenesh looked on helplessly. Jamshedpur made desperate attempts to crawl their way back, but Naveen left them frustrated on several occasions, including a rasping volley from former teammate Jackichand Singh and then parried away Stephen Eze’s powerful header. Another effort from Jackichand was cleared on the goalline by James Donachie but even as Jamshedpur put pressure, they were reduced to 10 men after a second booking for Alexandre Lima. Goa scored their third in the final minute after Noguera set up Gonzalez for a fine finish. Jamshedpur are seventh with 13 points from 11 matches.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/isl-ortiz-inspires-goa-to-easy-win-over-jamshedpur/articleshow/80275518.cms||FLAVIO LOPES
January 15, 2021||Goa||Youth Club of Manora replace Corps of Signals in Pro League||Panaji: Youth Club of Manora have replaced Corps of Signals in the Goa Professional League which will commence from January 27 at the Duler Football Stadium in Mapusa. The Goa Football Association’s executive committee decided to postpone the league after the sudden withdrawal of Signals. “After Signals pulled out, we had written to SCC Cavelossim, but they were not prepared at such short notice and Manora showed their willingness to take part in the Pro League,” GFA’s competitions committee chairman Dominic Pereira told TOI on Thursday. The GFA could not conduct the First Division League last season due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Sesa FA had qualified from the First Division the previous season while Cavelossim had finished second and Manora third. Indian Super League side FC Goa’s developmental team will play the opener against Salgaocar FC on January 27 at 3.45pm. Guardian Angel SC will face Panjim Footballers the next day. Manora will play their first game in the second round against Panjim Footballers on February 7. They will play their first-round fixture against Sporting Clube de Goa on February 14. After allegation of match-fixing last season, GFA now has a tie-up with Genius Sports that will look into the integrity services. All 66 matches will be played behind closed doors. It will be conducted on a single leg basis and no additional players can be registered for the last two rounds of the tournament. Teams have to field two under-20 players in the starting 11 and there will be only three substitutions. The games will be streamed live on GFA’s social media platforms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/manora-replace-corps-of-signals-in-pro-league/articleshow/80275578.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Webinars, awareness campaigns, events to mark National Road Safety Month||Various events including cycle rally, female two-wheeler rider rally, webinar on road safety issues, will be the main highlight of this year's National Road Safety Month. In Chandigarh, the local traffic police will kick off celebrations for the 32nd NRSM from January 18 which will go on till mid February. The theme of the event is 'Sadak Suraksha-Jeevan Raksha'. While there will be a gamut of events, we hear the cops are looking to rope in or invite local celebrities to add attraction to the event. While the names are yet to be confirmed, sources say the process is on. During some events recorded messages by the celebs will also be shown. The traffic police will also collaborate with educational institutions, social organizations and corporate organizations for various events. According to the information road safety skits/nukkad natak, workshops for CTU, Haryana, Punjab roadways bus drivers, etc will also take place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/webinars-awareness-campaigns-events-to-mark-national-road-safety-month/articleshow/80275540.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Lohri celebrations a grand affair in PU||The festival of Lohri was celebrated at PU's boys hostel no 4, Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Hall with great enthusiasm. The residents of the hostel enjoyed the rich cultural folklore of Punjab as they sang various songs while maintaining the standard operating procedure (SOP). Th authorities had told them to strictly adhere to social distancing and other norms. Dean Student Welfare (women) Prof Sukhbir Kaur said during the event that the origin of the festival can be traced back from the tale of 'Dulla Bhatti' who was a led a rebellion against Mughal emperor, Akbar. Due to his acts of bravery, he became a hero for the people of Punjab and almost every Lohri song has words to express gratitude to him. The residents and staff of the hostel celebrated Lohri with much enthusiasm. They enjoyed the traditional bonfire besides relishing festival-specific delicacies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lohri-celebrations-a-grand-affair-in-pu/articleshow/80275768.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Farmers protest: Panel member recuses self on eve of government-union talks||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: A day before the ninth round of talks between the government and farm unions opposed to the new agri laws, B S Mann, one of the four members of the Supreme Court-appointed committee set up to examine the legislations, opted out of the panel saying he was doing so in view of “prevailing sentiments” and apprehensions of farmers. The decision of the national president of Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) and chairman of the pro-reform umbrella body AIKCC was welcomed by the agitating unions who urged the other three members to also recuse from the committee formed to discuss various aspects of the laws with stakeholders and submit its report to the apex court within two months. Interestingly, talks between the 40-odd unions, mainly from Punjab and a few from Haryana and western UP, with the Centre are on course with the discussions on Friday expected to centre around the demand for a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP). Yogendra urges Gulati to also quit Indicating the agenda, farmer representative Darshan Pal told TOI, “We will attend the meeting with central ministers and discuss various aspects related to MSP of various crops and state procurement of crops. We want the government to give a legal guarantee on MSP and see how it reacts to it.” This could mean that unlike the last round, where talks couldn’t make headway as the unions brought up the repeal demand upfront, there might be a discussion on MSP. Meanwhile, Mann tweeted his recusal from the SC panel a day after agitating farm groups rejected the committee and said its members were pro-farm laws. The unions also said they would reject the panel even if it was expanded to include more members. “As a farmer myself and a union leader, in view of the prevailing sentiments and apprehensions among the farm unions and the public in general, I am ready to sacrifice any position offered or given to me so as to not compromise the interests of Punjab and farmers of the country,” Mann said. His move comes in the wake of the anti-farm laws unions deciding not to appear before the panel. The committee’s mandate suggests it is to offer improvements and deletions but not recommend scrapping the laws. Immediately after Mann’s announcement, Jai Kisan Andolan’s leader Yogendra Yadav urged agriculture expert Ashok Gulati, a member of the panel, to follow suit while other leaders from the anti-farm laws umbrella body, AIKSCC, appealed to Shetkari Sanghatana chief Anil Ghanwat to opt out. Urging Gulati to leave the panel, Yadav tweeted: “He (Gulati) is the intellectual father of these three Acts. We can agree to disagree. But I hope he will agree that he cannot be an umpire in a match where he has taken part as a player.” The other members are, however, not going to leave the committee. Anil Ghanwat confirmed it to TOI that he would not leave the panel. Though Mann-led AIKCC supports the central farm laws, the umbrella body in its memorandum to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar had last month suggested the ministry to make these legislations optional for the states to accept or reject the three newly enacted central Acts. Despite its support, the group had, however, demanded complete abolition of the Essential Commodities Act (ECA), saying continuing this law in even a diluted form will nullify whatever positive effects that freedom from APMC markets may render the farmers. They referred to the amendment which the government made in the ECA by making provisions of doing away with imposition of stockholding limits on farm commodities except under “extraordinary circumstances”. Meanwhile, more than 800 women farmers and University students, under Jai Kisan Andolan and Youth for Swaraj, wrote an Open Letter to the Chief Justice of India drawing attention to the comments made in the Supreme Court undermining the participation of women farmers in the ongoing protests at Delhi borders. Referring to certain comments, they said such comments were completely unacceptable. “It will be deeply appreciated if the august institution of the Supreme Court is not a witness to such remarks,” they said. Kavitha Krunganthi, working group member of the AIKSCC and member of Mahila Kisan Aadhikar Manch, who is leading the delegation of the farmers’ unions on the complex issue of MSP, said that the Supreme Court's hearings, as well as orders in these cases, have turned out to be controversial and unacceptable. “One of the important points of concern is the paternalism and patriarchy reflected in observations/orders with regard to women farmers. We urge the respected institution of the Supreme Court to recognise and appreciate the agency of women in this matter,” she said. The statement of the Jai Kisan Andolan said, “During the hearing of the petitions seeking removal of the farmers from the protest site on January 11 and 12, some remarks were made about the participation of women in the farmers’ protest. It was reportedly said that the women and the old people should be sent back and that they should not participate in the present protests. This commentary in the Supreme Court is disrespectful of the fact that women are the major stakeholders in agriculture. It not only denies women their agency but also mocks the long-standing struggle of women engaged in farm work to be recognized as farmers.” Watch Farmers protest: BS Mann recuses self from SC appointed committee on farm laws||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/farmers-protest-panel-member-recuses-self-on-eve-of-government-union-talks/articleshow/80276077.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 15, 2021||India||Access to Co-WIN will be restricted initially||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi will flag off India’s Covid-19 vaccination drive at 10.30am on January 16 with 3,006 sites where the rollout will get under way virtually connected during the launch. The Co-WIN IT platform that will track the drive from back-end to beneficiaries is also likely to be activated with its use initially limited to central and state governments. A dedicated 24x7 call centre – 1075 – has also been established for addressing queries related to the Covid-19 pandemic, vaccine rollout and the Co-WIN software, said an official release. “Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each session site on the inaugural day,” the government said on Thursday. ‘Co-WIN will be available to public within a month’The Co-WIN platform, central to planning, implementation and monitoring of the vaccination drive, will offer limited access to healthcare workers, enabling them to feed some data and receive information about their vaccination. The names of about one crore health workers have been pre-populated on the platform. “Co-WIN will be available to the general public in the form of an online website as well as a mobile application within a month,” an official told TOI. Healthcare workers from government and private sectors, including ICDS workers, will receive vaccine shots during the initial phase, moving on to frontline workers. TOI reported on Thursday that around 3,000 sites will be used for the first round of vaccination on Saturday and an average of 100 beneficiaries will be inoculated at each site. “The vaccination programme will use Co-WIN, an online digital platform developed by ministry of health and family welfare, which will facilitate real-time information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of beneficiaries for Covid-19 vaccine,” the government said. India will begin its inoculation drive with two vaccines — Oxford University and AstraZeneca’s Covishield and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin — both of which have been granted emergency-use authorisation by the drug regulator earlier this month. The Centre has allocated the full initial procurement of 1.65 crore vaccine doses to all states and UTs in the proportion of healthcare workers’ database, the health ministry said underlining that no discrimination has been done against any state in allocation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/access-to-co-win-will-be-restricted-initially/articleshow/80276238.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 15, 2021||Business||Google drops over 100 personal loan apps||NEW DELHI: Google said on Thursday that it has reviewed hundreds of personal loan apps from its online PlayStore in India, and then removed an unspecified number of apps, based on flags submitted by users and government agencies. Although Google did not give any details of the number of apps which were taken off PlayStore, fintech expert Srikanth L said the search giant had removed at least 118 such apps in the last 10 days. “The apps that were found to violate our user safety policies were immediately removed from the Store, and we have asked the developers of the remaining identified apps to demonstrate that they comply with applicable local laws and regulations,” the company said in a blog published by Suzanne Frey, vice-president, Product, Android Security and Privacy. Recently, the Telangana police busted several rackets which involved fraudulent loan apps offering credit to users at exceptionally high rates and then blackmailing them for repayment by using several tactics, including threats. The police had also asked Google to remove 158 apps from PlayStore. Srikanth, a coordinator at Cashless Consumers, a citizen-led forum that generates awareness around digital transactions, has been studying the rise of these rogue apps for the last four months. He also shared a screenshot of the mail Google sent out to developers of a predatory app, which asked them to confirm “within 5 days... whether you hold valid existing approvals or licences from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to act as a Non Financial Banking Company...” "@GooglePlay is finally rolling up its sleeves and getting into action mode after remaining silent for little over a month on #KillerLoanApps. Apps given 5 days to produce documentation if they are licensed (approved agents of) banks / NBFCs,” Srikanth tweeted around 8.30am. The blog also clarified that “to protect user privacy, developers must only request permissions that are necessary to implement current features or services”. “They should not use permissions that give access to user or device data for undisclosed, unimplemented, or disallowed features or purposes,” it added. Watch Google drops over 100 personal loan apps after review||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/google-drops-over-100-personal-loan-apps/articleshow/80276536.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 15, 2021||India||Allahabad HC asks UP cops not to harass interfaith couple||LUCKNOW: The Lucknow bench of the Allahabad high court has barred Amethi police from taking any coercive action against an interfaith couple in a three-year-old case now being investigated under the newly promulgated UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance 2020. The bench of Justices R R Awasthi and Saroj Yadav issued the order while hearing a petition filed by one Chandani and her husband, seeking relief in the face of alleged police harassment on the basis of a 2017 FIR filed by her father. The FIR, lodged at Kamrauli police station of Amethi district under Sections 363 and 366 of the IPC, accuses the woman's husband of kidnapping her for forced matrimony. The petitioners' lawyer, A K Pandey, said that the couple married three years ago of their own will and were now parents to a one-and-a-half-year-old child. Directing the state government's counsel to file a response to the petition within a week from Wednesday, the bench said that the case should be listed for hearing thereafter. "Considering the entire aspect of the matter, it is hereby provided that till the next date of listing, the petitioners shall not be harassed by the police on the basis of the impugned FIR."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/allahabad-hc-asks-up-cops-not-to-harass-interfaith-couple/articleshow/80276736.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 15, 2021||Patna||Fog delays 18 flights in Patna, no operations at Darbhanga airport||PATNA: The city woke up to a foggy morning on Thursday with the minimum visibility dropping to 100metre, which led to 18 flights getting delayed at the city airport owing to poor visibility. The first flight of the budget-carrier SpiceJet from Delhi reached Patna airport at 11.42 am, which was scheduled to land at 8 am. The same flight departed at 12.30 pm, which was the first that left the city airport on Thursday. According to weathermen at the Patna Meteorological Centre, 1,000m visibility was witnessed at 6.30 am during the sunrise, however, it eventually dropped to 500m at 7 am and 100m around 7.30 am. “The required RVR visibility of 1,000m was achieved after 11.30 am and the flight operations started after 11.40 am,” weatherman Rajesh Kumar told this newspaper. Altogether five flights suffered a delay of more than 2 hours, including two each of GoAir (both on Delhi routes) and SpiceJet (one each to Mumbai and Delhi) and one of IndiGo (Mumbai). Seven flights got delayed by one hour —four of SpiceJet (Ahmedabad, Guwahati, Amritsar and Pune), two of GoAir (Mumbai and Chennai) and one of IndiGo (Lucknow). The delay of arriving flights led to bunching of aircraft affecting their departures and the other scheduled flights as well. “Due to dense fog at Patna airport, flight operations are likely to be affected. Passengers are requested to get the updated status of flights from the airlines concerned before starting their journey for the airport to avoid inconvenience,” the city airport cautioned the passengers on social networking sites before the flight operations commenced on Thursday. Despite the warning, chaotic scenes were witnessed at the city airport as people were made to stand in long-queues for baggage X-ray, check-in counters and frisking booths. Due to the over-crowding, several people were seen standing in the security hold area. “All four flights were cancelled at the Darbhanga airport on Thursday due to bad weather,” said the airport director Biplab Kumar Mondal. As per sources, two flights of SpiceJet returned to Bengaluru and Ahmedabad from midway and later got cancelled while the Mumbai flight landed at Kolkata and the flight from Delhi landed at Varanasi. An irked passenger Mohammad Manauar wrote on Twitter, “Forced to book today’s late-night flight from Patna to Delhi. Flight cancellations are the new normal at Darbhanga airport. First, prepare the airport to fly. Then start the flights (sic).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/fog-delays-18-flights-in-patna-no-operations-at-darbhanga-airport/articleshow/80273187.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||42-yr-old dies on returning home after falling sick at Delhi border||Jalandhar: A 42-year-old, man, whose family owned three acres of land, died after he had returned from the farmers’ protest on the Delhi border to his home in Ucha Pind village. He fell sick on the night of January 11. According to the family, deceased Jaspreet Singh Kooner had issues of breathlessness for which he was on medication and after the protest started at Delhi border he remained there for most part of the time.. “He had gone there in the beginning and returned home only once. After a gap, he returned along with other farmers from our village for material for langar. Now, he returned around a week ago after he fell sick and on the night of January 11, he died when he was about to have water from our mother,” said Jaspreet’s elder brother Paramjit Singh. “As our family had just three acres land, he went to US and after remaining there for eight to nine years, he came back five years ago and started doing small jobs. He could not do any heavy work due to health reasons. He suffered from breathlessness and was on regular medication,” he said. The family said the deceased had gone to Delhi stating that he would return home only after the morcha would be successful. “However, he fell sick and his friends asked him to return. Here he was advised rest by the doctors. On the fateful night he asked for water and when my mother gave him he just collapsed on his bed,” Paramjit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/42-yr-old-dies-on-returning-home-after-falling-sick-at-delhi-border/articleshow/80275368.cms||IP Singh
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Focus shifts to Mayer Bari fire-safety upgrade||Kolkata: Following the fire at Bagbazar that gutted a slum and damaged a portion of Udbodhan building, the Ramakrishna Math & Mission authorities have shifted their focus to Mayer Bari to give it a fool-proof, fire-fighting security. Though the two-storey century-old building was spared the flames, the RKM monks felt that given its location on a narrow lane, crammed with other century-old buildings, it should be brought under fire safety measures without delay. Ramakrishna Paramhansa’s wife Sarada Devi had stepped into this building in 1909 and lived there till her demise in 1920. According to Swami Nityamuktananda, the head of Mayer Bari, they were looking forward to a KMC beautification project around Mayer Bari, the completion of which could usher in a change for the grade-I heritage building. A heritage zone was supposed to come up around the building. “We agreed to pull down shanties belonging to 302 families to the north and south of Mayer Bari to clear space for a green patch,” said a KMC official. KMC had also planned to create space for car parking for the hundreds who visit every day. The civic body had planned to construct housing units for the displaced families on Rabindra Sarani. Flat distribution had begun after construction of 80 one-BHK flats. There are also plans for broadening of Udbodhan Lane, allowing RKM authorities to upgrade the fire-fighting system in the building.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/focus-shifts-to-mayer-bari-fire-safety-upgrade/articleshow/80274804.cms||Saikat Ray
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||TV actor injured||Television actor, Adrija Mukhopadhyay, was injured in a car accident near Balagarh in Hooghly on Thursday afternoon. One of the rear tyres burst and the car swerved into a ditch. The actor sustained injuries on her head and arms. Mukhopadhyay, her mother, who was driving, the actor’s elder sister and father were taken to Kalna Hospital. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tv-actor-injured/articleshow/80274808.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Business||Credit card spends top pre-Covid levels in Nov||Mumbai: Festival demand in November drove the value of in-store credit card purchases to 109% of pre-Covid (January 2020) levels. The growth was driven by big-ticket purchases as the number of transactions continued to be at 71% of January 2020 levels. According to data collated by Pine Labs, which deploys card swipe machines in stores, purchase of apparels and spending in restaurants, which suffered the most in the first quarter bounced back in November. Value of transactions in November was 109% higher than the average monthly value in the first quarter. However, restaurant spends are still only 66% of pre-Covid levels. Similarly, apparels & footwear grew 112% in November from the pre-Covid average but were still at 81% of pre-Covid levels. The segments, where the transaction value has crossed pre-Covid levels, include mobile phones, consumer durables, computers, hospitals, petrol pumps, gems & jewellery and automobiles. The retail categories, where purchases are yet to reach pre-Covid levels, are apparel & footwear, restaurants, large-format retail, beauty & wellness, hotels, travel & tourism, airports and standalone clinics. Meanwhile, a survey conducted by National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) in partnership with People Research on India’s Consumer Economy (PRICE) showed that while one of two of India’s richest 20% households use digital payments, as many as one out of four households in the poorest 40% also use it. Additionally, there is a suppressed demand from people who say they desire to use it but need guidance. Also, a smaller group has used e-payments before discontinuing. “If this ‘ready’ demand is enabled through effective training and education, then over half of all Indian households (54% or 15.1 crore households) will become digital payments users — 5.5 crore of these households will come from the poorest 40% of Indian households, 6.1 crore will come from the middle 40% income band and just 3.6 crore will come from the richest 20%,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-card-spends-top-pre-covid-levels-in-nov/articleshow/80276503.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Sensex may hit 50k today as US stocks rally on Biden plan||Mumbai: In a volatile session, the sensex closed 92 points up at 49,584 points as European markets traded higher in early trades while the futures on Dow Jones and S&P 500 indices showed strong opening. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 1,077-crore net buying by foreign funds. As the US markets opened higher with both Dow and S&P 500 hitting new life-highs — backed by talks of another stimulus announcement by US President-elect Joe Biden late on Thursday, market players here expect a strong opening on Dalal Street too on Friday. The leading indices in the US rose despite a more-than-expected unemployment claims, a sign of rising number of Covid infections, media reports said. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 15 closed higher. TCS, Reliance and L&T contributed the most to the index’s gains, while selling in Infosys, Axis Bank and HCL Tech limited the rally to some extent. The S&P 500 rose for the seventh time in nine sessions this year as investors count on Biden to unveil during a prime-time address on Thursday evening a stimulus plan that could exceed $1.5 trillion. “We’re really focused on the stimulus measures so we largely ignored the fact that we also had a really big spike in jobless claims,” said Max Gokhman, head of asset allocation at Pacific Life Fund Advisors in Newport Beach, California. “Perhaps it’s back to bad-news-is-good-news situation, where market expects that deteriorating economic data will motivate lawmakers to issue even more stimulus.” (With input from agencies)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-may-hit-50k-today-as-us-stocks-rally-on-biden-plan/articleshow/80275974.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Rebuild gutted homes: West Bengal CM to KMC||KOLKATA: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday asked KMC Board of Administrators (BoA) chairman Firhad Hakim to take care of the housing needs of over 1,500 slum dwellers at Hazar Basti in Bagbazar whose shanties were gutted in a devastating fire on Wednesday. After surveying the charred homes on Thursday morning, Banerjee assured the residents that KMC would do everything in its capacity to ensure they could return home at the earliest. At present, the homeless are temporarily housed in the adjoining Bagbazar Women’s College, a community hall and two under-construction buildings in the locality. “All the shanties will be rebuilt by KMC within 48 hours of the debris being cleared,” the CM said. Banerjee’s visit soothed tempers in the area. An hour before her visit, irate locals had blocked Kshirode Vidyavinode Avenue to protest against the barricading of the gutted site by police. “We have lost everything in the fire. Now, we are being stopped from retrieving whatever little is left,” a youth said. Police, however, denied the allegation and said they were only trying to ensure that the residents entered the hazardous site in an orderly manner. A section of the slum inhabitants later demanded the government build permanent dwelling units for them. Bapi Ghosh, the local KMC ward coordinator, said that since construction of brick-and-mortar homes was time consuming, the 135 affected families — 1,500-odd people — of Hazar Basti would be provided makeshift dwelling units for now. However, it wasn’t just KMC that lent a helping hand to the homeless. Since early morning, civic volunteers and members of several NGOs provided meals to those affected. The civic body, too, distributed rice, pulses, vegetables, eggs and milk. Clothes and blankets were also distributed among the slum residents. “Everything has been reduced to ashes. I am lucky to have escaped with my children unhurt,” said Arati Das while surveying her charred shanty. She has taken shelter at the college. Most slum-dwellers are struggling with not just the loss of belongings but also their identities since all documents — Aadhaar cards, ration cards and voter ID cards — have gone up in smoke. Suraj Thakur, whose wife, two children and mother survived the fire, displayed his driving licence, saying, “This is the only document my family now has. I was carrying it while driving. Everything else is gone.” “My husband is a labourer and I work as a domestic help. With everything gone, I do not know how I will get ration now,” said Sagarika Bhuniya. It wasn’t just slum dwellers who were affected though. Residents of a four-storey building that was singed and subsequently developed cracks are also facing uncertainty. On Thursday evening, a two-member forensic team accompanied Shyampukur police to the site. The sleuths spent nearly two hours collecting samples and inspecting craters left behind by LPG cylinders that had exploded during the fire. The team also spent considerable time near the local meter box. Sources in the forensic department said they will not speculate on the case. “We will wait for laboratory reports and specific footage that police will provide on the fire,” said an expert.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/lodged-in-temporary-shelters-blaze-victims-grapple-with-identity-loss/articleshow/80274774.cms||Saikat Ray
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Warmer weather likely from tomorrow, says Met||PATNA: Residents of the city woke up to a nip in the air as the mercury plummeted to 8.7 degrees Celsius on Thursday morning. The maximum temperature was recorded at 17.6°C. However, with a minimum temperature of 4.2°C, Gaya was the coldest place in the state. An official of the Patna Meteorological Centre, Dinesh Kumar Bharti, predicted that the day temperature was likely to dip by 2°C over the next two days. He attributed the expected plunge to partly cloudy skies in north Bihar. “An anti-cyclonic circulation prevailing over the northern parts of Bihar may lead to partly cloudy skies at some places. However, the night temperature is unlikely to change much over the next few days due to warm easterly winds blowing in the region,” Bharti told TOI, adding that shivery conditions were expected to prevail in the southern parts of the state because of the cooler northwesterly winds. Temperature has dropped by 2 to 3 degrees C on an average in the state. According to the local Met centre, the temperature may surge slightly after Saturday. The minimum temperature is likely to be in the range of 9-11°C at most places in north Bihar on Friday and 11-14°C till Monday. The maximum temperature, on the other hand, is likely to hover around 19-22°C on Friday and 20-24°C on Saturday and Sunday. Districts in south-west Bihar are expected to be colder compared to the northern parts of the state. The Met office has predicted that the minimum temperature in districts like Buxar, Bhojpur, Rohtas, Jehanabad, Aurangabad and Arwal is likely to be in the range of 6-8°C on Friday. The day temperature, on the contrary, may be in the range of 19-23°C at most places in south Bihar. Both the minimum and maximum temperatures in south Bihar are also expected to surge after Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-warmer-weather-likely-from-tomorrow/articleshow/80273200.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Wrong-side drivers a big threat to motorists, police vow crackdown||PUNE: Two-wheelers, autorickshaws and small tempos are regularly spotted on the wrong side of the Katraj Dehu Road bypass, posing a grave accident risk to the road users. The problem is more pronounced along the accident-prone stretch between Katraj Chowk and Navale bridge, and near Bhumkar Chowk, Wakad and Hinjewadi. Senior inspector Sunil Dahiphale of the Hinjewadi traffic division told TOI, “We regularly take action against the wrong side drivers on the bypass. People should use the underpasses, instead of taking the wrong side. For the pedestrians’ safety, we have been writing to the National Highways Authorities of India (NHAI) to construct a foot overbridge in Wakad.” Vehicles are also seen on the wrong side along the service lanes, especially near the Navale and Vadgaon bridges. Vidya Bramhe, a private school clerk, said, “I stay at Sahakarnagar and work at Vadgaon. I need to travel all the way to the Dattanagar subway and then come down to Vadgaon. This increases my journey by 2km. We hence tend to go for a short cut” Narhe resident Sagar Shinde said, “My tea stall is located on the bypass. I need to travel all the way to the Navale bridge in order to take a U-turn. The wrong-side route saves time.” Inspector Nandkishor Shelke from the Sinhagad road traffic division said, “There were two punctures along the road divider at Narhe and Jambhulwadi (near Dari Pul) on the stretch joining New Katraj tunnel and Navale bridge. Local residents use these gaps to drive on the wrong side of the road.” A senior NHAI officer said, “We have repaired both punctures at Narhe and Jambhulwadi. The bypass stretch joining Navale bridge and Katraj Chowk has been handed over to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC). We don’t look after it now.” Inspector Shelke said, “Two-wheeler riders are often found on the wrong side of the bypass near Bhumkar Chowk. “These are the local people from Narhe and Ambegaon. The police are taking action against them too.” Local resident Jagdish Sanap said, “The section from Katraj Chowk to Navale bridge needs appropriate diversions. It also needs an underpass near the newly constructed road leading to Sahakarnagar from the bypass.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wrong-side-drivers-a-big-threat-to-motorists-police-vow-crackdown/articleshow/80274303.cms||Gitesh Shelke
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Ex-Muzaffarpur chief of Bhim Army among 3 killed||PATNA: Former district president of Bhim Army, Ranjeet Kumar alias Don, was stabbed to death by some people at Pakri village under the Karja police station area in Muzaffarpur district on Wednesday night. A dispute with a neighbour is stated to be the reason behind the incident. According to a cop posted at the police station, two people, including Ranjeet’s neighbour Rinku Kumar who had an altercation with his brother Amar Kumar, have been detained for interrogation. Body found: Police recovered the body of a mason from the premises of a rice mill at Vishwakarma Nagar under the Barbigha police station area in Sheikhpura district on Thursday. The deceased, Saroj Ram, was a resident of Chakadhi village under the Sare police station area in Nalanda district. The deceased allegedly had an illicit relationship with a married woman, who lives at Katarisarai in Nalanda district. His brother Munna Ram told police that the woman was pressuring Saroj for money for her daughter’s marriage. Youth shot: A youth, identified as Ashish Kumar, was allegedly shot dead by three armed assailants at Piplapur village under the Jagdishpur police station area in Bhojpur district on Thursday when he was returning home from his agricultural land. Old dispute is stated to be the reason behind the murder. Ashish’s father Bhageru Singh lodged a complaint against Bhola, Manish and their accomplice whose identity is yet to be ascertained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ex-muz-chief-of-bhim-army-among-3-killed/articleshow/80273747.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Six detained in Muzaffarpur minor girl rape case||PATNA: Police on Thursday picked up six people, including close relatives of the accused for interrogation in connection with the alleged gang rape of a 16-year-old girl before setting her ablaze at a village under Sahebganj police station in Muzaffarpur district recently. Police swung into action following a complaint lodged by the victim’s father with the Sahebganj police station after he returned from Punjab where he worked as a migrant worker. On Wednesday, SSP Jayant Kant accompanied by Saraiya SDPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma visited the Sahebganj police station and reviewed the progress in the investigation. The SSP directed the SHO Anup Kumar to deploy four police personnel for security of the victim’s relatives. The SDPO said that six people, including two women, have been detained for interrogation. However, the named accused, Gulsan Kumar, Chanchal Kumar, Abhinay Kumar and Raja Kumar are absconding. “Raids are on to nab the accused,” he said. The victim’s sister told police that the accused had earlier tried to outrage her modesty after threatening her to make obscene photographs viral on social media. She, however, resisted their attempt and managed to escape. “Police have already started an investigation. A forensic team visited the spot and collected samples,” the SSP said. Earlier, the deceased’s father told police that the prime accused was a distant relative. Initially, residents of the village pressurised the family not to lodge a police complaint and tried to settle the matter. The victim’s father, however, turned down their request and lodged a formal complaint. We want justice for my minor daughter. The accused should be brought to book at the earliest and punished for the offence,” the hapless father told this newspaper over phone. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/six-detained-in-muz-minor-girl-rape-case/articleshow/80273732.cms||Ramashankar
January 15, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh: Videos of leopard playing with people in Tirthan valley go viral||MANALI: A large number of videos of an adult leopard playing with people of Tirthan valley of Banjar in Himachal’s Kullu district went viral on Thursday. The residents of the villages of Tirthan valley jammed the road and most of them came out of the vehicles without any fear of attack by big cat notorious for its speed and killing instinct. On seeing how friendly it was, some started petting the animal like it was domesticated. The sub-adult leopard started climbing on some people and even started chewing clothes. Some people were also seen running away in fear. All this continued for over an hour. A person called Ashu Sharma, first posted three videos on his social media. In the videos, the leopard came close to his car and then went away. It again came close to the car. Then another car stopped at a distance and leopard went close to it. It continued walking around both the cars for a long time. Many other vehicles came there, but the leopard instead of running into the forest, went close to the vehicles. Later, people started taking its photos and videos. As nobody felt threatened by the young leopard, they started climbing out of the cars. And soon, dozens of people started to go near the leopard. Some youth started following it, making video with his mobile phone. According to experts, the leopard may have come from Great Himalayan National Park (GHNP), as animals have descended down to lower areas due to snowfall on higher regions. GHNP is home to leopards, snow leopards and bears hundreds of species of flora and fauna. A prominent forester Bhupinder Singh Rana said, “It was a sub-adult common leopard cub of about eight to nine months old. This is a crucial time for the cub, as it will be separated from the mother after a few months. Its behaviour is totally different — like a semi-wild or domesticated animal. Given the behaviour of the animal, as seen in videos, separating from mother at this stage can be dangerous as either it will be killed or can prove dangerous for others. It is not capable of hunting other animals. As this animal is born to attack, it can attack anybody, especially children, out of the habit. The animal is in need of help.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/videos-of-leopard-playing-with-people-in-tirthan-valley-go-viral/articleshow/80275360.cms||Suresh Sharma
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Door-to-door drive, incentives to enhance GER in higher education||PATNA: In a bid to enhance the gross enrolment ratio (GER) in higher education, universities in Bihar will soon launch a door-to-door campaign in their respective areas to attract youths in the age group of 18 to 23 years. The state has a dismal GER of 13.6% against the national average of 26.3%. According to the vice-chairman of the Bihar State Higher Education Council (BSHEC), Kameshwar Jha, the main aim of the campaign is to increase the state’s GER to 29.5% by 2025. “Lalit Narayan Mithila University and Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga Sanskrit University have already decided to launch the drive as part of which teachers and other staff will move to rural areas and mofussils and explain the importance of pursing higher education to the local youth. The universities will also set up counselling centres to help them join institutions of higher education,” Jha told this newspaper and added that some incentives were likely to be given to the students hailing from the backward areas of the state. The government has already decided to open eight new model degree colleges in different parts of the state. “While four of these have been set up in Gaya, Araria, Katihar and Purnea, sites for the remaining four are being identified,” Jha said. Steps have also been initiated to strengthen the distance learning centres and open more universities in Bihar. Besides, efforts are being made to make science education more purposeful by laying stress on laboratory work. At present, science students seldom attend practical classes due to the lack of labs. It has, therefore, been decided to tag the students of the “less developed” institutes with the “developed” ones for practical training. “Institutions with well-equipped labs will be earmarked in each district where students in groups of 16 will attend practical classes at least for 10 days in each session. Mobile laboratories with all essential equipment and chemicals will also move from one college to another in rural areas,” Jha said, adding that the student credit card scheme would be implemented more effectively for helping the poor students pursue their higher education without facing any financial constraint.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/door-to-door-drive-incentives-to-enhance-ger-in-higher-edu/articleshow/80273784.cms||B K Mishra
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Worry over rare documents in singed Udbodhan building||KOLKATA: Monks of Ramakrishna Math & Mission experienced mixed feelings on Thursday morning after surveying Mayer Bari and the nearby Udbodhan office. They were relieved that the former, where Sarada Devi lived, had escaped the fire on Wednesday, but were concerned about the rare possessions preserved at the Udbodhan office that was partially damaged. With cracks developing in the first-floor walls of Udbhodhan building, RKM authorities feared the structural stability may have been compromised and will require extensive repair and renovation. According to Swami Nityamuktananda, a senior monk who looks after Mayer Bari, the order is waiting to access the building after the forensic team’s visit to assess the damage and loss. The first thing they will look for is the maiden issue of Udbodhan Patrika, which was kept on the second floor along with other rare documents. “The first issue is a prized possession since it was Swami Vivekananda who started it over a century ago,” the monk said, adding that they will scan the archives and library at RKM headquarters in Belur Math to check if there is a copy. Udbodhan is the only Bengali publication of Ramakrishna Math & Mission, whose publication began in January 1899. Over the years, Udbodhan evolved into a publishing house. ‘Udbodhan Patrika’ was published from Mayer Bari till 1966, when construction of the present Udbodhan Bhawan was completed and the magazine office was shifted there. Swami Nityamuktananda also expressed concern about the fate of rare manuscripts and reference books. “We are praying that all the invaluable historic documents have been spared,” he said. The RKM authorities will engage architects and engineers to conduct a structural stability test of Udbodhan building. Thereafter, fire consultants may be engaged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/worry-over-rare-docus-in-singed-udbodhan-bldg/articleshow/80274794.cms||Saikat Ray
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Opposition slams govt over ‘crime rise’||PATNA: Opposition parties continued their attack on the state government over increasing crime in the state, including murder of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Singh. Congress leader Akhilesh Singh said the government should hand over the probe into Rupesh’s murder to a sitting judge. Party’s state spokesperson Rajsh Rathorre also lashed out at CM Nitish Kumar over increasing crime graph in Bihar. “Murder, rape, lynching and robbery have become a common affair in the state. CM Nitish Kumar should vacate the home ministry and look for a good substitute,” he said. RJD leaders Tejashwi Prasad and Tej Pratap also slammed the government over “deteriorating” law and order in the state. A day after demanding CM’s resignation, Tejashwi once again took to twitter and criticised the CM for being “insensitive”. Tej said a common people are living in fear because of rise in crime in the state. JD(U) state spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan said the criminals would be arrested soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/oppn-slams-govt-over-crime-rise/articleshow/80273813.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 15, 2021||Business||PSU lenders back Piramal’s DHFL bid||MUMBAI: Public sector banks, led by SBI, are understood to be in favour of the resolution plan submitted by Piramal Group for troubled housing finance company DHFL. PSU lenders hold a significant portion of the debt and are likely to determine the direction of voting by financial creditors, which concludes on January 15. Although there are five eligible bids that creditors are voting on, the bid for DHFL has turned out to be a two-horse race between the Piramal Group and Oaktree Capital. The two have raised a lot of heat and dust with claims and counterclaims. According to sources, lenders are taking a decision based on the amount of upfront cash offered, the net present value of future payments, and the business plan. One of the factors going in favour of Piramal is the higher upfront cash offered compared to other plans. In terms of the bids submitted in the last round, which concluded on December 14, Piramal had offered upfront cash of Rs 12,700 crore as against Rs 11,700 crore by Oaktree. Within days of closing the bidding process, Oaktree improved its cash offer by another Rs 1,700 crore. However, lenders did not factor the revised offer by Oaktree while evaluating the five resolution plans that were put for vote on December 26. Oaktree had written to lenders that it would take legal recourse if its bid were not considered. Should the vote go in favour of Piramal, it is likely that there could be further litigation. The Piramal Group has been extremely keen on expanding its retail lending business. Both the bidders had said that they wanted to revive the home loan business and run it as a going concern with Piramal announcing that it plans to merge its existing lending business with DHFL. Speaking to TOI, banking sources said that lenders did not want to delay the resolution further and were keen on completing the transaction soon so that the income can be booked for the current quarter. Creditors have a debt of Rs 87,000 crore, which includes loans of Rs 38,000 crore, and the rest in debentures and deposits. The entire loan has been fully written off by banks in keeping with RBI guidelines for accounts classified as fraud. Sources said that lenders can expect to recover a third of their loan through the transaction. Besides lenders fixed deposit holders have voting rights of around 6% in the resolution process. One of the institutional FD holders 63 Moons (formerly Financial Technologies, promoted by Jignesh Shah) has made a separate legal application for recovery of funds from fraudulent transaction and has invited other FD holders to join the company.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/psu-lenders-back-piramals-dhfl-bid/articleshow/80275931.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 15, 2021||Shimla||SC orders demolition of hotel in McLeodganj||SHIMLA: Upholding the decision of National Green Tribunal regarding the demolition of a hotel-cum-restaurant structure at the McLeodganj bus stand complex in Kangra district, the Supreme Court has directed the state authorities to start the process within two weeks. The apex court direction has also raised a question mark on the functioning of officials of various departments under whose nose illegal construction continued. The Kangra district and sessions judge and the central empowered committee too had pointed fingers on various departments for lapses. In a judgment delivered on January 12, an Supreme Court bench comprising Justice D Y Chandrachud, Justice Indu Malhotra and Justice Indira Banerjee upheld the NGT directions, saying the structure was illegal as permission granted by the Union ministry of environment of forests on November 12, 1997, was only for construction of a parking place. Similarly, the permission granted on March 1, 2001, was for constructing a bus stand in the same area. At no point was any permission given for the construction of a hotel or commercial structure. It said that NGT’s finding on this count commends acceptance. The appellant (Himachal Pradesh Bus Stand Management and Development Authority (HPBSM&DA), on being granted permission to engage in construction for a specified purpose, unlawfully utilised that permission as the basis to construct a different structure which was not authorized. It has done so in disregard of the provisions of the Forest Act, it added. The court has directed that the demolition process be started within two weeks from the date of the judgment and the structure shall be razed by the second respondent (company executing the construction work) within one month thereafter. The apex court added that in the event of default, the chief conservator of forest along with the district administration shall demolish the structure and recover the cost and expenses as arrears of land revenue from the second respondent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/sc-orders-demolition-of-hotel-in-mcleodganj/articleshow/80275347.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Taj nature walk may be extended till Chambal||Lucknow: It would be a treat for nature enthusiasts and ecotourists if the forest department moves ahead with its plan to extend Taj nature walk till Chambal. The plan has been discussed given the fact that more than a 100km stretch from Agra till Chambal has spots that can draw nature lovers. State government’s emphasis on developing ecotourism is giving a needed push to the plan, said sources. “It is yet to be finalised but has all the ingredients of a complete nature tour.” Taj nature walk is spread over a huge area and allows visitors to see Taj against the backdrop of moon, and parks in the vicinity like Mumtaz ecopark add to the feel. Sur Sarovar Bird Sanctuary in Agra is now a Ramsar wetland, which marks it as one of the important bird areas not only nationally but also internationally. The tour would take visitors to the place. Chambal, has ravines, Chambal river and the National Chambal Sanctuary along it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/taj-nature-walk-may-be-extended-till-chambal/articleshow/80276219.cms||Neha Shukla
January 15, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to open road linking R-Block to Digha today||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the R-Block-Digha four and six lanes road, christened ‘Atal Path’, on Friday. The 6.3km-long-road will act as north-south expressway corridor of the state capital. “The road, which has been constructed in record timeframe of 21 months despite Covid-19 pandemic, will be inaugurated on Friday. The project has been executed by Bihar State Road Development Corporation with an expenditure of Rs 514 crore, including Rs 221 crore paid to railways for land,” said Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary of road construction department. The road has been developed by removing an old railway line passing across the heart of the city as only a pair of trains used to operate with very few passengers. The project was approved by the state cabinet at its meeting held on December 18, 2018. The road passes through Hartali Mor, Punaichak, Shivpuri, Mahesh Nagar, New Patliputra Colony, Rajiv Nagar and Patliputra industrial area. The ambitious project with service lanes on both sides comprises three flyovers at Hartali Mor, Shivpuri and Rajiv Nagar. It provides unobstructed vehicular connectivity for motorists going either to Digha or Rajiv Nagar from the southern parts of the city through R Block and vice-versa. Few unique features of the project include noise barriers, solar integrated street light system and surveillance cameras. While the current component of the project will culminate at Digha, works are already underway for construction of 1.3km-long-road in the second phase to provide connectivity to J P Setu rail-cum-road bridge over the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-to-open-road-linking-r-block-to-digha-today/articleshow/80273220.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 15, 2021||Patna||Private hospitals in Bihar buckle up to administer Covid vaccine shots||PATNA: Not only the government health institutes and outreach centres, but the private hospitals in the state are also gearing up for the Covid-19 vaccination drive which will begin on Saturday. According to Patna civil surgeon Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, all the staff of the private hospitals have been trained like their counterparts in the government health institutes. “The medical staff will be informed about the number of beneficiaries they have to inoculate and their activities monitored,” Dr Singh told TOI on Thursday. Three private hospitals — Paras HMRI, Ruban and Big Apollo — in Patna have been selected for the Covid-19 vaccination drive. The public relations officer of Ruban, Amit Kumar, said, “We have trained the staff who will administer the vaccines and demarcated the place where the immunization will be done.” Meanwhile, the five private medical college and hospitals in the state are also ready for the vaccination drive. Madhubani Medical College and Hospital principal Dr Rajiv Ranjan Prasad claimed that 100 health workers were imparted online training and demo classes. “We will conduct a dry run on Friday,” he added. The Covid-19 vaccination drive will be carried out at 300 centres across the state on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/private-hospitals-buckle-up-to-administer-covid-vax-shots/articleshow/80273158.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 15, 2021||Patna||Patna records 138 new cases||PATNA: Altogether 314 new Covid-19 cases were registered in Bihar on Thursday, taking the tally to 2,57,943. One death was also reported after which the state’s toll reached 1,146. As many as 238 people recovered from corona in the last 24 hours. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna reported three deaths, including those of a 52-year-old woman from Rohtas, a 45-year-old man from Belwar and an 80-year-old from Mokama in Patna district. The hospital’s nodal officer for Covid, Dr Sanjeev Kuamar, told TOI that 11 patients were admitted and 10 discharged on Thursday. Of the 314 new cases, 138 were from Patna, 16 from Begusarai and 12 from Saran.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/patna-records-138-new-cases/articleshow/80273165.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Pinocchio to come back in a new avatar||Thiruvananthapuram: Pinocchio, a legendary fictional character and protagonist of the children’s novel The Adventures of Pinocchio, which was written by Italian writer Carlo Collodi in 1883, will come to life again on small screen this year. This time, the children’s favourite wooden puppet will be brought to life by animators of global animation major Toonz Media Group based in Technopark in the capital city. According to Toonz Media Group, the new adaptation of Pinocchio will hit small screens this year itself. It was in 1911, the character first appeared in a cinematic adaptation. Toonz Media Group has joined hands with Italy’s animation pioneer, Iginio Straffi’s Rainbow Group for this project. They will be producing a contemporary children’s series based on ‘The Adventures of Pinocchio’. The CGI show is expected to hit the small screen by the end of 2021 and will be targeted at children in the age group of four to seven. “The new Pinocchio speaks to children in a light-hearted, educational way and empowers their dreams. Families will love this compelling series,” said Rainbow Group CEO Iginio Straffi. Straffi has reimagined the story of Pinocchio with fresh eyes and a modern twist. He has transported the classic character into today’s world of bustle and smartphones, filling his world with adventure, comedy, fun and educational elements while bringing out the essence of what makes the original character of Pinocchio so inspirational and timeless. While the pre-production, post-production and supervision operations will be carried out t Rainbow Studios in Italy, the animation – from 3D asset creation to final LRC (Lighting, Rendering and Composting) – will be done at Toonz’s studios here. Toonz will also handle distribution rights of the show in the Indian sub-continent, South East Asia, Spain and Portugal. Toonz will also hold the licensing and merchandising (L&M) rights of the show in the Indian sub-continent. Toonz CEO P Jayakumar said that giving life to a world classic was always a challenge, but at the same time exciting as well. “I am sure the kids across the world will love and enjoy the show,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/pinocchio-to-come-back-in-a-new-avatar/articleshow/80270592.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Digit Insurance 1st unicorn of this year||Mumbai: Bengaluru-headquartered non-life company Digit Insurance is the latest Indian unicorn. The company was valued at $1.9 billion after its latest fund-raise of Rs 135 crore from existing investors. The insurer raised funds as growth capital to meet solvency margin requirements following a 32% growth in the first nine months as against a 0.1% growth for the industry. Although in a conventional industry, Digit has positioned itself as a new-age insurer by using technology to simplify the process for customers like smartphone-enabled self-inspection and audio claims. The company’s systems have been entirely cloud-based, enabling it to continue working seamlessly during the lockdown. The private insurance company was launched in 2017 promoted by insurance professional Kamesh Goyal in partnership with Canadian billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Holdings. “Our strategy was to simplify products and process and back it up with good service. This is working for us in achieving growth,” said Goyal. The private insurer had raised its first external round of funding from three growth equity investors A91 Partners, Faering Capital and TVS Capital in January 2020. This investment gave them a 10% stake in the non-life firm and had valued the company at around $900 million. The latest round of funding increases their stake by 1%. A holding company, where Goyal and Fairfax are key investors, holds the balance 88%. Digit expanded business during the pandemic launching new products including a fixed-benefit cover for Covid-19 under the insurance regulator’s sandbox initiative. The company has also been able to reach out to more than 20 lakh Indian lives through their Digit Group Illness Insurance product. The promoters had invested $47 million in June 2017, which was followed by a $95-million round in July 2018. This is the fifth round of fund-raising by the insurer. The most valuable company in the non-life business is ICICI Lombard General Insurance, which has a market capitalisation of Rs 70,638 crore. The largest non-life company in the country, the 100-year-old New India Assurance has market capitalisation of less than Rs 22,000 crore ($3 billion).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digit-insurance-1st-unicorn-of-this-year/articleshow/80276076.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||SP MP: VHP can hire stone-pelters to trigger violence||Ayodhya: Sparks flew on the eve of Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s crowdfunding campaign for Ram Mandir in Ayodhya with Samajwadi Party parliamentarian, S T Hasan, creating a flutter by saying the saffron brigade could hire stone-pelters to incite violence during the funds-raising drive in villages and an Ayodhya seer announcing a Rs 5crore bounty on a Trinamool Congress leader for allegedly insulting Lord Ram and Sita at a rally in Bengal. Hasan appealed to members of both communities to maintain calm in the event of communal polarisation by VHP, which will kick off one of the biggest funds-raising campaigns from Friday, touching 55 crore citizens. Citing violence in Madhya Pradesh during a similar campaign in Indore, the Moradabad MP told TOI he has asked people to maintain harmony and thwart efforts to polarise the atmosphere by right-wing cadre. “We must spurn the politics of hatred. We must remain alert to deployment of hired stone-pelters by BJP,” he said. Rabble-rousing continued with chief priest of Ayodhya’s Tapaswi Chawni temple Mahant Paramhans Das announcing a bounty of Rs 5 crore on Trinamool Congress leader Kalyan Banerjee, who allegedly insulted Lord Ram and Sita in one of his speeches. The seer said, “I announce reward for beheading the Trinamool leader and if nobody takes up cudgels, I will.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-mp-vhp-can-hire-stone-pelters-to-trigger-violence/articleshow/80276218.cms||Arshad Afzaal Khan
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Lohri in Lahore after 70 years||Amritsar: Partition confined Lohri to north India, yet a handful of cultural enthusiasts in Islamic Pakistan have kept the Hindu festival alive in Lahore with bonfire, sesame sweets, and ballads of Punjabi Robinhood Dulla Bhatti. Babar Jalandhari, general secretary of Punjabi Parchar, Lahore’s organisation of Punjabi intellectuals, told TOI from Pakistan on Thursday: “Our Lohri celebrations on Wednesday night had a large attendance of poets, intellectuals, and youth. Many see it as a Sikh or Hindu festival but it is Punjabi. We want to revive its pre-Partition spirit for the knowledge of the present generation.” Social activist Diep Saeeda said: “We sung the folk tales of the bravery of medieval Punjab’s legendary Muslim hero Dulla Bhatti, of how he rescued Hindu girls Sundri and Mundri and married them off on Lohri. We served traditional Lohri sweets of gachak, reori, and popcorn.” She said Punjabi Parchar promoted Punjabi language, art, and culture. Organisation’s convener, Ahmad Raza, said: “Lohri and Vaisakhi were celebrated in Pakistan for some time after Partition in 1947 but then it stopped. Later, intellectuals decided to revive this tradition, rising above religious considerations. Dulla Bhatti is humanity’s hero. Our multi-religious society needed this small effort for harmony. Partition was a British plot to divide the sons of the soil. We should understand their designs at least now. Lohri is a good way of promoting secularism and love for all.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/lohri-in-lahore-after-70-years/articleshow/80275349.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 15, 2021||Allahabad||Covid shadow on campus, AU defers BA LLB, MBA exams||Prayagraj: The proposed semester examinations of BALLB and MBA, which where slated to be held offline at Allahabad University campus and its constituent colleges from January 22, have now been postponed. The fresh timetable for these exams will be announced later by the examination section of AU. “The decision of the AU administration comes in view of the two Covid cases recently reported from AN Jha hostel and another two cases from the FCI building of the university,” said AU PRO Jaya Kapoor. On January 8, AU vice chancellor Prof Sangita Srivastava had held a meeting of the examination committee and it was decided that the back papers of BA, BSc Home Science and BCom of the session 2019-20 would be conducted offline from January 21. Apart from this, the MBA (3rd semester) exams were scheduled to be held from January 22 and the BALLB (9th semester) exams from January 23.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/covid-shadow-on-campus-au-defers-ba-llb-mba-exams/articleshow/80274300.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||Man ends life after posting his video on social media||Jhansi: A 35-year-old man from Ranipur area of Mauranipur tehsil in Jhansi committed suicide on Wednesday night by consuming poison after posting a video on a social networking site claiming he was taking the extreme step after being continuously harassed by his in-laws. As per reports, the deceased, Rajesh, who originally belonged to Chattarpur, was living in Ranipur for quite some time with his family. He had some altercation with his in-laws which caused bitterness between them. On Wednesday evening, he allegedly consumed poison. Before this, he posted a video on social media where he claimed that his father, mother and sister in-law have been continuously harassing him for long which has caused him deep distress and depression and therefore he was going to take the extreme step. His relatives rushed him to Jhansi Medical College from where he was referred to Gwalior where he succumbed past midnight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-ends-life-after-posting-his-video-on-social-media/articleshow/80274385.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 15, 2021||Patna||5-day Mahila Udyog Mela begins in city||PATNA: Altogether 160 stalls have been put up at the five-day Mahila Udyog Mela, which was inaugurated by state social welfare minister Ashok Choudhury at Gyan Bhavan here on Thursday. The 27th edition of the fair has been organised by Women Development Corporation (WDC) in collaboration with Bihar Mahila Udyog Sangh and Jeevika. WDC managing director Harjot Kaur Bamhrah said the fair is a great opportunity for women entrepreneurs of the state to showcase their products and find buyers. “Since there had been hardly any business venture last year due to the Covid pandemic, the fair will provide a platform for women entrepreneurs to restart their businesses,” she said. The fair is a shopper’s delight with availability of products like handicrafts, handlooms, home decor, exotic plants, organic food ingredients, Madhubani artwork, designer clothes, bags and purses. In view of the pandemic, only women entrepreneurs from Bihar were invited to put up stalls at the fair this time. Women of self-help groups and domestic violence survivors have also put up their stalls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/5-day-mahila-udyog-mela-begins-in-city/articleshow/80273884.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||1 dead, 4 injured in 3 accidents||Kolkata: In the sixth fatal accident this year, Thakurpukur resident Samrat Haldar, 27, who was riding pillion on his friend’s bike, died after the vehicle was hit by a truck at Silpara near Thakurpukur around 12.15am on Thursday. The biker, Pathikrit Dutta, has been admitted to the ICU of CMRI Hospital. On Maa flyover around 8.20am, a private car hit a parked one from behind, leaving two of the private car passengers — Ashok Mondal, 25, and Somnath Samanta, 27 — injured. They were admitted to a private hospital in Salt Lake.In another accident, two bikes collided on BT Road in Cossipore and Achintya Sengupta, 58, was injured around 9.50pm on Wednesday. He was admitted to RG Kar Hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/1-dead-4-injured-in-3-accidents/articleshow/80274806.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Dubai-based executive has to pay ESOP-tax in India||MUMBAI: The Income Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT) has held the perquisite value of employee stock options (ESOPs) to be taxable in India, in the hands of a bank employee who was deputed to Dubai. The reason: ESOPs were granted while the executive was in the country and related to employment here. In a recent order, the ITAT bench, comprising Pramod Kumar, vice-president, and Saktijit Dey, judicial member, rejected the contention of the HDFC Bank employee that the ESOPs related to employment in Dubai and the income (perquisite value) did not accrue or arise in India and hence was not taxable in India. The bank employee also made an alternative submission, saying under the provisions of the India-UAE tax treaty, these sums could not be taxed in India. Under the provisions of the I-T Act, the difference between the market value of the shares as on the date of exercise and the grant price is treated as a taxable perquisite. This worked out to Rs 72.8 lakh in fiscal year 2012-13 and Rs 83.6 lakh for the next financial year. The bank had accordingly deducted tax at source. Contesting that the perquisite value was not taxable in India, the employee had sought tax refunds. The ITAT upheld the action taken by the I-T authorities in treating the perquisite amount as taxable in India. The ITAT bench held that Article 15 of the India-UAE tax treaty envisages taxation of the ESOP benefit, in the country where the related employment is carried out. Thus, even under the tax treaty the ESOP benefits would be taxable in India as it related to services carried out in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/dubai-based-exec-has-to-pay-esop-tax-in-india/articleshow/80276518.cms||Lubna Kably
January 15, 2021||Patna||Nitish to open road linking R-Block to Digha today||Patna: Chief minister Nitish Kumar will inaugurate the R-Block-Digha four and six lanes road, christened ‘Atal Path’, on Friday. The 6.3km-long-road will act as north-south expressway corridor of the state capital. “The road, which has been constructed in record timeframe of 21 months despite Covid-19 pandemic, will be inaugurated on Friday. The project has been executed by Bihar State Road Development Corporation with an expenditure of Rs 514 crore, including Rs 221 crore paid to railways for land,” said Amrit Lal Meena, additional chief secretary of road construction department. The road has been developed by removing an old railway line passing across the heart of the city as only a pair of trains used to operate with very few passengers. The project was approved by the state cabinet at its meeting held on December 18, 2018. The road passes through Hartali Mor, Punaichak, Shivpuri, Mahesh Nagar, New Patliputra Colony, Rajiv Nagar and Patliputra industrial area. The ambitious project with service lanes on both sides comprises three flyovers at Hartali Mor, Shivpuri and Rajiv Nagar. It provides unobstructed vehicular connectivity for motorists going either to Digha or Rajiv Nagar from the southern parts of the city through R Block and vice-versa. Few unique features of the project include noise barriers, solar integrated street light system and surveillance cameras. While the current component of the project will culminate at Digha, works are already underway for construction of 1.3km-long-road in the second phase to provide connectivity to J P Setu rail-cum-road bridge over the Ganga.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-to-open-road-linking-r-block-to-digha-today/articleshow/80273215.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 15, 2021||Pune||Speeding vehicle mows down 70-year-old man, wife critical||Pune: A 70-year-old man died and his wife was grievously injured after being hit by a speeding vehicle while crossing the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass at Sutarwadi near Bavdhan on Tuesday evening. The Hinjewadi police have identified the deceased as Hussain Kasam Shaikh of Balewadi. His wife, Saira (65), is undergoing treatment in an intensive care unit of a nearby hospital, police said. Sub-inspector Pandit Ahire of the Hinjewadi police told TOI, “The accident occurred around 6pm when the couple were crossing the bypass near Bavdhan bridge. No one knows how the accident occurred. The woman is still unconscious and critical.” Ahire said the victim’s son said his parents were on their way to Katraj to meet some close relative. “The identity of the vehicle was being ascertained,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/speeding-vehicle-mows-down-70-year-old-man-wife-critical/articleshow/80274304.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||No more extensions to file I-T returns||MUMBAI: The Gujarat high court declined to interfere and issue a ‘writ of mandamus’ to the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) for further extending the time limits to file the tax audit report and the income tax returns up to March 31. The All Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants had filed a petition with the high court seeking extension of the filing due dates for FY20. Ordering extension of the due dates may upset the entire functioning of the government and may lead to undesirable results, the high court stated. However, it added that the CBDT may consider issuing an appropriate circular taking a lenient view as regards the consequences of late filing of tax audit report — relating to penalties prescribed under section 271B of the I-T Act. TNN Consequent to filing of the writ petition, the high court asked the CBDT to look into the matter. Following this, CBDT issued a detailed order on January 11 and stated that in the backdrop of the pandemic, the government had been considerate and had extended the due dates from time to time. For instance, the due date for filing the I-T returns for non-audit cases was extended thrice from the original due date of July 31, 2020 to January 10, 2021. For taxpayers, who are required to get their accounts audited, the due date was extended from October 31, 2020 to now stand at February 15, 2021. Tax audit reports could now be filed by January 15, 2021 as opposed to the original due date of August 30, 2020. Backed by statistics, the CBDT also submitted that the number of returns filed for the FY 2019-20 (5.95 crore as of January 10) already exceeded those filed in the previous year by around 6%. The counsel for the Federation argued that “…The CBDT had very conveniently and consciously not addressed itself to the hard reality that the utilities for e-filing the tax audit reports and I-T returns were released at a belated stage.” For instance, substantive amendments were made in the form of the tax audit reports on October 1 and the utilities were released only on October 22. This had creatied a complete state of disarray. Even if the two subsequent extensions are taken into consideration, then the total time available is only 85 days instead of 183 days, the counsel pointed out. However, the high court held that CBDT must have taken its decision not to extend the dates further, after due deliberations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/no-more-extensions-to-file-i-t-returns/articleshow/80276544.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Patna||PG admissions in Patna University to begin soon||PATNA: With the last date for online submission of applications for admission to postgraduate (PG) courses of Patna University (PU) ending on Thursday, the process of department-wise admissions is likely to begin soon. The subject-wise merit list will be prepared by the university and sent to all the departments which will admit students after physical verification of their documents. “PU will, however, conduct a centralized counselling of admission seekers in subjects that are taught at more than one centre,” students’ welfare dean N K Jha told this newspaper on Thursday and added that the counselling would be done at the Wheeler Senate House. Meanwhile, centralized admissions to the undergraduate (UG) courses in different colleges of PU have also ended. “A few seats under reserved categories could not be filled during the counselling. Hence, PU has instructed the colleges to admit students from the general category,” said Jha. However, the university has not yet decided the date of commencement of classes of the newly admitted students in UG and PG courses and is waiting for fresh instructions from the state government. Offline classes of Degree Part III and PG semester III students started on January 4. Jha said, “Depending on the decision of the education department, classes of the newly admitted students will begin after January 18.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/pg-admissions-in-pu-to-begin-soon/articleshow/80273171.cms||B K Mishra
January 15, 2021||Business||IDFC First Bank may disrupt cards business with 9% interest||MUMBAI: IDFC First Bank is set to shake up the credit card market by charging interest as low as 9% on revolving credit for those with a good track record. The private lender will also not charge interest on cash withdrawals during the 45-day free credit period. This comes at a time when the market leaders in the credit card business are charging interest on revolving balances at the rate of 1.99% to 3.5% per month, which is about 40% annually. IDFC First’s credit card will not have an annual charge and reward points too would not have any expiry. While not all cardholders will be eligible for the best rate of 9%, young customers without the required track record will be charged annual interest at 36%, which is still lower than leading players. The bank is looking at segmenting the market into wealthy global customers, those who are big spenders and have excellent credit records. For millennials and big spenders, the attraction would be relatively higher rewards, which will be available on all transactions except fuel and insurance premium. The initiative is being driven by the bank’s chief operating officer B Madhivanan, who joined in the previous year from ICICI Bank, where he was chief technology officer and head of digital initiatives. Incidentally, IDFC First Bank’s MD & CEO V Vaidynathan too was head of ICICI Bank’s retail business before he moved to do a management buyout of Future Group’s financial service business, which was later merged with IDFC First Bank. According to Madhivanan, the pandemic has redefined payments in the country with a huge shift to digital. “While the credit card market is crowded, we see scope for growth as many potential customers are facing barriers. Our strategy is to come out with a product, which does away with all the barriers, makes life simple and gives cardholders a rewarding experience,” Madhivanan said . The credit card range comprising four variants — Millennia, Classic, Select and Wealth — will initially be offered to existing customers by invitation. The card will be launched for new-to-bank customers in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idfc-first-bk-may-disrupt-cards-biz-with-9-interest/articleshow/80276100.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 15, 2021||Patna||ECR bags second rank in overall performance||PATNA: Of the 16 zonal railways in the country, Railway Board has awarded second rank to the East Central Railway (ECR) in terms of overall performance for its outstanding contribution to the growth of the Indian Railways, especially during Covid-induced lockdown. South Eastern Railway (SER) has bagged the first place by scoring 64.92%. The ECR, on the other hand, has scored 63.85%. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Railway Board ranks each zonal railway every year after assessing their performances. “This appraisal is based on 42 major points to evaluate work performances in the fields of laying of new lines, gauge conversion, rail track electrification, passenger transportation, coach and track maintenance work, passengers’ safety and amenities,” he said. In the passenger segment, the ECR scored 9.6 points out of 10. It scored five out of five in safety category, 4.2 out of five in earning segment and 3.1 out of five in punctuality. New intercity train: Railways has decided to run an intercity train (03249/03250) between Patna and Bhabua Road on Ara-Bikramganj route from January 15. “The train will leave Patna Junction daily at 5.25am and reach Bhabua Road at 10am. On its return journey, the train will leave Bhabua Road at 11.30am and reach Patna Junction at 4.18pm the same day,” the CPRO said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/ecr-bags-second-rank-in-overall-performance/articleshow/80273179.cms||Kumod Verma
January 15, 2021||Patna||IndiGo manager’s murder in Patna: No headway in probe yet||PATNA: Former deputy CM and Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi virtually became speechless when Aradhya, eight-year-old daughter of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Kumar Singh, who was killed on Tuesday, asked him to hand over the assailants to her mother who will shoot them to avenge the gruesome killing. Modi, who called on the bereaved family in Saran district on Thursday, turned emotional after listening to the unusual ‘demand’ of Aradhya, a Class IV student of a Patna-based school. He hugged the elder sibling of Rupesh. Locals who were present at the house urged the senior BJP leader to intervene in the matter. Rupesh’s wife Nitu Singh and her son Akshat were also present. Meanwhile, police are still groping in the dark in the case. The members of SIT remained busy in collecting CCTV footages from different locations right from the Patna airport to Puanaichak where Rupesh was shot. Another team led by a DSP-rank officer obtained the call detail records (CDR) of the Rupesh’s cellphone to ascertain the identity of the shooters, who pumped at least six bullets into Rupesh’s body from close range. “We have got some clues in the case and are proceeding in the right direction,” an investigating officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indigo-managers-murder-no-headway-in-probe-yet/articleshow/80273793.cms||Ramashankar
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Discounts on domestic flights make a comeback as airfare cap ends in March||Mumbai: With the government cap on domestic airfares ending on March 31, airlines ticket sales are back with discounts on summer flights. On Thursday, return airfares on routes like Mumbai-Cochin for travel in April-May were available for Rs 4,500, while a Mumbai-Delhi return was priced at Rs 5,000. Return tickets on low supply-high demand flights like non-stops from Mumbai to Dehradun began at Rs 9,000. Among the cheapest return fares were those on Mumbai-Goa flights priced at Rs 3,750 on IndiGo. “With major airlines like IndiGo, SpiceJet and Vistara running heavy sales, this is a good time for travellers to avail the best prices for their upcoming trips,” said Aloke Bajpai, CEO of ixigo. “Vaccine rollout and cheap fares will lead to a substantial rise in demand to travel by summer this year, making this the ideal time to plan trips in advance.” Last week, Vistara had lau-nched a sale, with the cheapest fare on offer priced at Rs 1,300. On Wednesday, IndiGo began a five-day special domestic sale which will end on January 17. “It will offer all-inclusive fares on domestic flights starting at Rs 877. The sale is valid on trav-el from April 1 to September 30. Change or cancellation fee of Rs 500 will be applicable on bookings made during the sale,” said an IndiGo spokesperson. The government had enforced a price cap on domestic airfares in May 2020, when it allowed airlines to restart domestic flights after a forced hiatus of two months brought on by the coronavirus-induced lockdown. Thereafter, the government extended the fare cap with the latest extension coming last week, when it announced fare caps will remain till March 31, that is the end of the winter schedule.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/discounts-on-domestic-flights-make-a-comeback-as-airfare-cap-ends-in-march/articleshow/80276242.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Public has lost trust in ruling coalition: Hooda||Rohtak: Former Haryana chief minister and leader of opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said rising dissent in the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) alliance is an indicator that the government has lost people’s trust. He was replying to a question about the chief minister and deputy chief minister’s meeting with the prime minister and the home minister to discuss the political turmoil in the state. alking to journalists in Rohtak on Thursday, Hooda said the coalition government formed against the public sentiments of the state, is constantly taking anti-people decisions. “Today, every section of the state’s farmers, labourers, workers, shopkeepers and small businessmen are agitating against the policies of the government, but the focus of their leaders is on saving their government and their chair. Governments that run against public sentiments automatically fall,” he remarked. Hooda said he is deeply pained to see the plight of the farmers today as the farmer has been forced to leave their home and sit on dharna in Delhi border and different toll plazas during the harsh winter. “Already 70 farmers have been ‘martyred’ in 50 days. Despite this, the government is feeling no empathy towards the farmers who feed us. Instead of understanding the pain of farmers, the government is trying to humiliate and provoke them,” he pointed out. “On the one hand, the central government has got them entangled in a series of never-ending dates, one the other the chief minister is trying to create confrontation by conducting kisan panchayats. All this when farmers are running their movement with complete restraint and discipline and it is clear to everyone that they do not want any kind of confrontation with the government. Their demand is completely just and clear and we fully support their demands,” Hooda said. The former chief minister expressed concern over the situation which, he said, had become very serious. “People have lost faith in the coalition government and its leaders, it is visible in how people are protesting against them all across the state. In view of the situation, we have repeatedly demanded the governor to call a special session of the assembly. We we will bring a no-confidence motion against the government on the issue of farmers. It will tell the farmers and the people of the state which MLAs stand with the people and which ones stand with this unpopular government,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/public-has-lost-trust-in-ruling-coalition-hooda/articleshow/80275407.cms||Sat Singh
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Munde’s accuser harassed us, BJP and MNS neta tell cops||Mumbai: Former MLA Krishna Hegde of the BJP and MNS worker Manish Dhuri on Thursday evening filed separate written complaints with the Amboli police alleging that the woman who had accused NCP minister Dhananjay Munde of rape had been blackmailing and stalking them for a long period. The filed the written applications, they said, after learning of the charges the woman had made against Munde. Hedge said that the woman had been sending him text messages since 2010 asking him to have a relationship with her. He told TOI, “She had been calling me and messaging me. This harassment reached the point of stalking, and the woman used four phone numbers to call me. Through my sources, I found out she was a dubious person who was setting a honey trap. So I avoided meeting her.” Hegde said he was informed that the woman had “honey-trapped” a few persons and “extorted” money from them. “The harassment, messages and phone calls continued till 2015. I told her clearly that I was not interested in meeting her, forget about having any kind of relationship with her. Then, on January 6 and 7 this year, she sent a WhatsApp message. I did not respond to it except sending her a thumbs-up emoji,” he said. Two days later, he said, he read in the media about the woman’s allegations against Munde. “One Manish Dhuri called and informed me that he had been facing the same harassment from the same woman. There is also an old case in which one person, an ex-employee of an airline, has been a victim of the woman’s harassment,” he said. Dhuri said that the woman had harassed him from 2008 to 2011. “I realised there was something wrong when she called me to her house asking me to meet her sister. I communicated with her in the beginning on behalf of the party, but later I realised what was going on and kept my distance,” he said. TOI learnt that in 2019, the woman filed a complaint against the ex-employee of an airline stating that on the pretext of taking her to a hotel, he had molested her in the car and had been stalking her. Amboli police’s senior inspector Someshwar Kamte said they have received Hegde’s written complaint and will probe the matter before deciding on their further course of action. “The matter of the third private individual is dated 2019, and in that, a chargesheet too may have been filed,” Kamte said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mundes-accuser-harassed-us-bjp-and-mns-neta-tell-cops/articleshow/80276240.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Woman takes Rs 2.5 lakh to ‘manage’ court verdict, in net||PUNE: The anti-corruption bureau arrested a 29-year-old woman who posed as an employee of the Vadgaon Maval court and accepted Rs2.5 lakh from an agriculturist on the promise of arranging a court decision in his favour in a criminal case. The ACB, in a statement late on Thursday, described the woman as a “private person” and said it was verifying her claims. The ACB had been on the woman’s trail for a few days after the agriculturist lodged a complaint, and caught her at 12.45am on Wednesday as she was accepting the money in a four-wheeler under the Kiwale flyover. On Thursday, special judge (ACB) S R Navander ordered her remand in police custody till January 20. “We will investigate to see if any other person is involved,” ACB superintendent of police Rajesh Bansode told TOI. An ACB officer, on the condition of anonymity, said the woman, using an alias, contacted the complainant last week. “She claimed there was a criminal case against him, which she can get settled. The next day, they met and she she showed him documents bearing his name as an accused in the case. She started negotiating for money.” The man complained to the ACB, which verified the details, laid a trap and arrested the woman on Wednesday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/woman-takes-rs-2-5-lakh-to-manage-court-verdict-in-net/articleshow/80274309.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||IRCTC refunds money sans cancellation||Nagpur: The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC), an arm of Indian Railways, generally refunds money for e-tickets cancelled online. But, in one case, it has refunded the entire ticket amount of a passenger who did not cancel tickets. The passenger, R Raghav, a resident of Gokulpeth, is in shock as Rs 3,675 he paid for online tickets towards Nagpur-Kharagpur and return journey were refunded without he having cancelled the tickets. Raghav had booked two tickets on January 1 for the journey scheduled on January 22 in AC-II (WL/2) having PNR-8808177190. The return journey was on January 23 in AC-III (confirmed) with PNR-6245413936. Raghav booked tickets through his personal IRCTC ID and used his mother’s card for payment and both transactions were successful. However, on January 4, Rs 3,675 towards both the tickets were credited in the same account from which they were booked. “When I checked the PNR status of both the tickets, there was no change. I'm surprised how without cancellation of these tickets, the full amount was credited. Now I’m perplexed whether I will be permitted to travel or not,” asked Raghav. Raghav sent an e-mail to IRCTC about the goof up and requested them to retain the same status of booking for both the tickets. However, IRCTC remains silent on the status of the tickets and instead asked him to send the bank statement. Even though it was a personal matter, Raghav complied with it. IRCTC officials were not available for comments. But IRCTC officials have sent a message to Raghav that the bank statement has been sent to the concerned department. “Even as the journey date is nearing, there is no communication from the IRCTC,” said Raghav. When Raghav contacted Central Railway officials here, they asked him to lodge a complaint. “The question is the credibility of IRCTC. This is not the first time it has happened. In February last, the railways had allotted the same berth to two passengers on which my mother R Sridevi was travelling. She had booked a confirmed ticket three months earlier,” he said. Raghav told TOI, “Why should IRCTC ask for personal details like password, bank statement etc. On receipt of such complaint, it should verify the facts with reference to their PNRs.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/irctc-refunds-money-sans-cancellation/articleshow/80275400.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 15, 2021||Pune||Glitches hit e-registration of leave & licence agreements||Pune: Technical glitches have been affecting remote online registration of leave and licence agreements for the past 10 days, posing problems to people in Covid times.The snags slowed down the process across the state, prompting the Association of Real Estate Association to write to the state registration department to address the issues. Members of the association claimed that they were facing problems with the UIDAI (Unique Identification Authority of India) server authentication, followed by issues pertaining to thumb scanner and uploading photos.Association president Sachin Shinghavi said he had submitted a letter to the registration department. He said the state government had been insisting on registration of leave and licence documents on one hand, and on the other, technical issues had been a hassle for citizens.“While the government has been insisting on less footfall at the registration offices, the malfunctioning of these devices compels citizens to approach the offices,” he said.Mahendra Gandhi, a representative of the Authorised Service Providers’ Association who could not help several citizens register their agreements, iterated that there were issues with the UIDAI server link, cameras and even biometric devices. He said, “These snags are not new. It is high time that the government sorts out the issue of Aadhaar linkage. People find it difficult to enrol remotely because of these snags.”Many trying to enrol online using the services of the authorised service providers were left disappointed because of the glitches. “The registration department has been reporting such issues for last two years. It is high time they address it,” said Suma G, a resident who wants to seal her rental agreement.S Mapari, state IGR’s IT head, told TOI that the National Informatics Centre was working on these issues. “We are trying to find alternatives to biometric devices, while the IT department is working on the eKYC issue,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/glitches-hit-e-registration-of-leave-licence-agreements/articleshow/80274311.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||If you’re against the new farming laws, join our movement, BKU tells Mann||Ghaziabad: Farmer leaders protesting at UP Gate on Thursday welcomed Bhupinder Singh Mann’s decision to recuse himself from the four-member expert committee constituted by the Supreme Court to look into the three new agriculture laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said Mann should now specify whether he supports or opposes the laws, and if he is against them, he should join the movement with other farmer outfits. “His resignation is an example of the ideological victory of this movement. The farmer in him has woken up. We invite him to join the movement too,” said Tikait. Farmer leaders have clarified that they will participate in the ninth round of talks with the Centre on Friday. Tikait said it was necessary to break the deadlock. Protesters, however, reiterated that they would accept nothing less than repeal of all three laws. Meanwhile, while addressing farmers at UP Gate, Tikait reiterated that the tractor march will be held on Republic Day. “We don’t want to disturb the parade and we will hold our parade alongside. The rally will be historic and we demand that the government in Delhi provide us with five lakh Indian flags. Not a single stick will be without the tricolour,” Tikait said, adding that they would ply red tractors in the front, white in the centre and green ones at the back for the ‘tricolour look’. The farmer leader also asked the protesters to remain alert to ‘anti-social elements’. “Those making claims regarding Khalistan and Pakistan have no place in this movement. Anyone talking about violence will not be tolerated,” he said. Tikait said it was up to the government to stop the agitation. “Withdraw the law and implement the report of the Swaminathan Committee. Give us our rights and we will leave. It is an ideological movement and cannot be suppressed by guns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/if-youre-against-the-new-farming-laws-join-our-movement-bku-tells-mann/articleshow/80275385.cms||Aditya Dev
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Mann should have stayed in panel, taken stand against laws: SAD||Chandigarh: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has said farm expert Bhupinder Singh Mann should have taken a stand for Punjabis in the four-member committee constituted by the Supreme Court, “instead of weakening their case by recusing himself” from the panel. The party alleged that the committee was already heavily tilted in favour of the Centre. The Akali Dal also attacked another member of the committee, farm expert Ashok Gulati, “for acting like a wolf in sheep’s clothing” by accepting to become a member of the committee despite espousing the three agricultural laws and terming them as the 1991 moment for Indian agriculture. The party alleged that Gulati was Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh’s friend. SAD’s Maheshinder Singh Grewal said Punjabis were “astounded at the betrayal” of Gulati who had accepted membership of the committee despite the fact that he was earlier a member of the group of experts formed by the Punjab government last year under the chairmanship of economist Montek Singh Ahluwalia. “However, Punjabis are even more disappointed that a son of the soil – Bhupinder Singh Mann also betrayed them by accepting nomination to the committee at the instance of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh. This indicates that Mann acted like a pawn in the hands of not only the chief minister but also the central government and was used by both to betray farmers,” he went on to add. Grewal alleged Mann’s letter recusing himself was itself a proof that he was under intense pressure from the Punjab government as well as the Centre to come out with a verdict in favour of the agri laws. “However, instead of doing this he should have fought against this conspiracy to forcibly enforce an anti-people legislation through a hand-picked expert panel,” he added. It was now clear as to who was sabotaging the farmers’ cause, he claimed. The expert panel had lost its credibility especially considering the fact that the farmer organisations have refused to appear before it, alleged Grewal, adding they all should quit immediately.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/mann-should-have-stayed-in-panel-taken-stand-against-laws-sad/articleshow/80275378.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||‘ED examining documents submitted by Varsha Raut’||The ED is investigating a money laundering case based on an FIR lodged by city police’s Economic Offences Wing against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan of Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), PMC Bank chairman Waryam Singh and its managing director Joy Thomas, and others for causing a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank and making gains for themselves. It is alleged that HDIL had siphoned off Rs 95 crore of PMC Bank’s loan funds through Pravin Raut, a former director of Guruashish Constructions, an HDIL subsidiary. According to ED, Pravin Raut paid Rs 1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds. Out of this money, Madhuri transferred Rs 55 lakh (Rs 50 lakh on December 23, 2010, and Rs 5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as an interest-free loan to Varsha. The amount was allegedly further utilised for the purchase of a flat in Dadar (East). The investigation further revealed that Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha had reportedly received Rs 12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to a loan) on a contribution of a mere Rs 5,625. The loan amount of Rs 12 lakh is still outstanding, the ED had stated in a press release issued on January 1. Recently, the ED attached Pravin Raut’s assets worth Rs 72 crore. After recording Varsha’s statement on January 4, the ED called her again with case-related documents, including the flat purchase. They also asked her to provide them with details of companies where she was joint partner with Madhuri. On Monday, Varsha sent these documents to the ED via a relative. A source said, “ED officials are examining the submitted documents and accordingly will decide if there is a need to call Varsha again for a further statement.” The ED is also inquiring about a former Sena MP whose association received Rs 1 crore from PMC and the role of a heavyweight politician in the extended suburbs whose trust got over Rs 1,000 crore from HDIL. The money was defrauded from PMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-examining-documents-submitted-by-varsha-raut/articleshow/80274323.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Don’t want IIT, why meet Goa CM: Melauli locals||VALPOI: Villagers of Melauli on Thursday said they would not meet chief minister Pramod Sawant over the IIT issue as there was nothing left to discuss now that the project has been overwhelmingly rejected. “We don’t want the IIT in Melauli and are firm on our decision,” convener of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan, Shashikant Savordekar, told TOI, adding that if the villagers do interact with the chief minister, it would be only to demand that the FIRs against them be withdrawn. “We will also demand that government servants of Melauli who were transferred for participating in the protest, be reassigned to their earlier workplaces. One request we will make to the government is to provide the villagers with land ownership titles,” Savordekar said. Three days after villagers clashed with the police, the chief minister had said that opponents of the IIT from the village should come and meet him to resolve the issue. “I don’t want to trouble them. They should come and meet me. I have invited them to Panaji,” he had said. On Thursday, villagers from Pali and Hivre marched several kilometres to Melauli in support of the locals there. The previous day, residents of Usgao, Nanus and Morlem had undertaken a similar initiative. In all, villagers from as many as 25 locales in Sattari — including Mauxi, Dhamshe, Khotodem, Saleli, Velguem, Sanvordem, Karmali, Saleli, Tar, Kudshe, Kumthal, Caranzol, Honda, Shirsodem, Barazan, Khadki, Kumbharkhan and Poriem — have extended support to their counterparts in Melauli against the proposed IIT. Savordekar told TOI that health minister and local MLA Vishwajit Rane has been cheating villagers by changing his statements on the IIT project based on the situation and that they would never believe him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dont-want-iit-why-meet-cm-melauli-locals/articleshow/80275841.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Visitors to get prescribed travel routes in Junnar forest division||Pune: Tourists and picnickers from Mumbai, Pune and adjoining locations visiting forts and camping sites in areas under the Junnar forest division will now be required to travel only through routes prescribed by the authorities. The move is expected to check the rising instances of unauthorized garbage disposal and forest fires. Junnar forest division — spread over 60,000 hectare across Junnar, Shirur, Ambegaon and Khed talukas — is known for famous forts like Shivneri, Chavand and Jeevdhan. Besides, the scenic Naneghat mountain pass in the Western Ghats is located between Junnar and Konkan coast. Junnar deputy forest conservator Jayram Gowda R said, “Camp fires are the primary cause of forest fires in the region. We recorded 50 forest fire incidents in 2020. The tourists’ careless attitude often results in major forest fires. To tackle forest fires, we have decided to prescribe specific travel routes for visitors and picnickers, who reach Junnar with camping permits. We are also developing a website for online booking. Village-level committees and forest officials will monitor the activity of visitors.”The forest division is home to animals like leopards, jackal, Sambar deer, mouse deer and Indian giant squirrel. Forest fires generally tend to disturb the ecosystem in a significant manner. In fact, it may even result in mass migration of animals to other areas. Significantly, forest fires often result in the death of animals as they struggle to find food in new areas immediately, explained a forest official. “Our investigation of past cases revealed that people dump plastic and other garbage in open areas of the forest. This is can prove to be life threatening for the wild animals if they accidentally eat it. People need to understand such things before visiting the forest areas. While granting permission, we would make sure to apprise the visitors in detail,” Jayramgowda added.Taking unknown routes while visiting these places has also proven risky to tourists in the past, said the forest official. “Last year, a girl had fallen into a gorge while climbing a rock cliff in Naneghat. The girl had no experience of such adventure sports. We had to take a lot of effort to trace her body in the forest. We want to avoid a repeat of such situations here. Hence, fixing of particular routes is necessary so that the local forest committee and our officials can easily provide necessary aid or extend help in any emergency situation,” said another official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/visitors-to-get-prescribed-travel-routes-in-junnar-forest-division/articleshow/80274320.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 15, 2021||Goa||Positivity rate up again with 103 new cases||Panaji: With 103 new Covid infections, 67 recoveries and two casualties reported on Thursday, the state’s count of active cases was at 847. A 78-year-old woman from Raia in Salcete and a 58-year-old man from St Inez in Tiswadi, both having comorbidities died at Goa Medical College. Both had developed acute respiratory distress syndrome at the time of admission. On Thursday, the case positivity rate rose to 6%, which had remained below 5% for the past couple of days and the recovery rate was at 97%. The centres that saw rise in new cases were Panaji, Porvorim, Margao and Cansaulim. The active cases of Margao touched 100 again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/positivity-rate-up-again-with-103-new-cases/articleshow/80275458.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ganja worth Rs 51 lakh seized from SRA flat, broker held||MUMBAI: Sakinaka police on Thursday arrested a real estate broker and seized 345kg ganja worth Rs 51.8 lakh that he had stocked in his first floor flat at SRA’s Sangharsh Building. Ashok Mehtre (39) was caught from the neighbourhood after police scanned through CCTV footage. Mehtre went into hiding on learning about the raid. Police are collecting details on where the huge quantity was bought from and who was the purchaser here. The raid came less than 10 hours after Mehtre took the drugs to his flat. Acting on a tip-off, zonal DCP Mahesh Reddy supervised senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh, inspector Budhan Sawant, assistant inspector Liladhar Patil and detection staff. “Mehtre had left his flat on learning about the raid. We opened his house in the presence of a panch and found the huge quantity of drugs,” said Patil. Police are on the lookout for Mehtre’s three aides. He has been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ganja-worth-rs-51l-seized-from-sra-flat-broker-held/articleshow/80276247.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Just 18 hospitals in Pimpri Chinchwad have fire dept NOC||Pune: Less than 50% of the 46 hospitals with 50 beds each have a no-objection certificate from the fire department in the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation limits.The hospitals are required to get a safety clearance from the fire department before applying for/renewing a licence. According to the fire brigade’s sub-officer Prashant Chavan, only 18 hospitals have the requisite permission — two of these are civic-run facilities. He said six hospitals had temporary NOCs owing to ongoing construction work. Chavan stated that every hospital must undergo a third-party fire safety audit and submit a ‘B’ form in January and July of each year. He said many hospitals did not undergo the audit last July due to Covid-19 outbreak. PCMC health department’s assistant medical officer Laxman Gophane said the administration told 46 50-bed hospitals to submit their NOC earlier this week. “Once we have all the documents, we would have clarity on the total number of hospitals,” Gophane said. Pune chief fire officer Prashant Ranpise said they plan to issue a public notice to private hospitals to renew NOCs at the earliest. PMC assistant health officer Manisha Naik said they wouldsoon conduct a survey to check how many of the 700 registered hospitals had NOCs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-18-hospitals-in-pimpri-chinchwad-have-fire-dept-noc/articleshow/80274324.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Kisan-adhyapak’ roped in to eliminate communication gap among farmers||Patiala: The farmer leaders of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) have roped in kisan-adhyapak (farmer-teachers) to create awareness among about the policies to garner more support for the agitation at the Delhi borders and Punjab. The union leaders claimed that a third and final meeting was held in Maisarkhana village of Bathinda district on Thursday. Two meetings were held earlier at Ugrahan village of Sangrur and in Moga on January 10 and 11 respectively. After the meetings, training was given to the farmers, who have been appointed as kisan-adhyapak. They will spread the message of the union in around 16 districts where BKU (EU) has spread its wings. “We have appointed over 1,400 farmers as farmer-teachers. They will guide the farmers on the ground to keep an eye on the ‘secret employees’ of the intelligence at the protest sites,” said S S Kokari Kalan, Punjab general secretary BKU (EU). “The youth will also be guided to keep their cool and be provoked,” he added. The collective information about the deaths of farmers who died during the agitation will also be spread among the farmers without mentioning the names of the farmer union to which the martyr farmers were members. The message to keep united will also be spread among the farmers as the efforts were being made by the central agencies to create a divide among farmers and farm groups. The agitation started from Punjab and how it has become a mass movement. “In a day or two, we will also have pamphlets to distribute among the farmers in the villages and those sitting at protest sites,” said the general secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/kisan-adhyapak-roped-in-to-eliminate-communication-gap-among-farmers/articleshow/80275453.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 15, 2021||Pune||Constable arrested on graft charge||Pune: The state anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested a woman constable posted with the Bharati Vidyapeeth police on Thursday afternoon on the charge of demanding a bribe of Rs15,000 and accepting Rs5,000 to expedite the chargesheet in an immoral trafficking case. The police had registered the case in November last year against a man. His brother had approached the police for faster processing of chargesheet. However, when the constable allegedly demanded money for the same, he decided to approach the ACB with a complaint. “After preparing the chargesheet, the police submitted it in court. There was no delay in submission. However, the police constable demanded Rs 15,000 from the man. But when he bargained with her, she settled for Rs 5,000,” an ACB officer said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/constable-arrested-on-graft-charge/articleshow/80274326.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Meerut||Only 51% govt schools in UP inspected for state schemes in December||Meerut: Despite the Uttar Pradesh government directing the state schools to conduct monthly inspections to keep a check on various government policies such as midday meals, Prerna mission and others, only 51% of the total schools were inspected in December 2020, according to the state report. While only 40% schools were inspected in the month of November.“Instructions were given to each district to conduct inspections of schools every month to keep a check on the state schemes and to see that all of them are being executed properly. These schemes include midday meals, distribution of school uniforms, books, school bags and others,” read the order issued by director general, school education, UP, Vijay Kiran Anand.The target for the month of December was to cover 76,350 schools, however, only 39,112 schools underwent the inspection which is 51%. It was found during the analysis of reports submitted by all the 75 districts of the state that inspection of only 51% of the total schools in the state was completed in November.According to the target given in November, as many as 76,350 schools were targeted to undergo inspection. However, only 30,189 schools were inspected.Anand further said that disciplinary action will be taken if there is no improvement. “All the district magistrates are instructed to ensure that the inspection is conducted as per the target or they will have to face action. The monthly inspection should be conducted without fail and a report should be submitted in this regard,” Anand added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/only-51-govt-schools-in-up-inspected-for-state-schemes-in-december/articleshow/80274336.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 15, 2021||Thane||Ex-staff of NRC protest, stop ‘illegal’ razing||KALYAN: Former employees of National Rayon Company (NRC) residing in the firm’s housing colonies in Ambivli on Wednesday protested against the “illegal” demolition of the officers’ colony, forcing Adani group to stop the work.  They claimed that Adani group, which recently got rights of the NRC land, had started the demolition without paying them compensation, for which they have been fighting a court battle since 11 years. Adani did not repond to calls or email from TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/ex-staff-of-nrc-protest-stop-illegal-razing/articleshow/80276253.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 15, 2021||Varanasi||CM Yogi launches information dept’s digital directory and app||Gorakhpur: Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath launched the information department’s digital directory and app at an event in Gorakhpur on Thursday. With this launch, Uttar Pradesh has become the first state in the country to launch its digital information directory. The digital directory and app will make all the information about public representatives, government departments and officials easily accessible to people on mobile phones. Speaking on the occasion, Yogi said, “In the age of technology, comprehensive reforms can be brought in every field and it is good that we are changing according to the times. Information department has taken innovative initiative by launching digital diary and app.” “With the use of technology, people now get pension, scholarship directly in their Jan Dhan bank accounts while sitting at home. Under the guidance of PM Narendra Modi, technology also helped us in providing financial aid every month to 2.35 crore people and funds to 54 lakh migrant workers in the state during the pandemic,” he added. The chief minister also unveiled the postal department’s special cover with a ticket on the occasion. The special cover is dedicated to Mahant Avaidyanath, former head priest of Gorakhnath Temple and five-time MP from Gorakhpur. “The effort of the postal department will help in carrying forward our heritage and tradition. This will also help our future generations to know about our ancestors,” said CM Yogi. The brochure attached to the special cover contains detailed information about the Khichdi fair held in Gorakhpur on Makar Sankranti. Additional chief secretary, information department, Navneet Sehgal said, “CM Yogi gave inspiration for the digital diary and app during Covid-19 pandemic. Anyone can download the UPIDINFO app from Google Play Store for free. Till date, the diary was not accessible to everyone. Officials of all government departments can be easily contacted through the app.” Additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Awasthi, media adviser to CM, Mrityunjay Kumar, Gorakhpur MLA Radha Mohan Das and others were also present on the occasion. The digital diary was prepared by the information department team led by director Shishir Kumar, and deputy directors Hemant Singh, Kumkum Sharma, Dinesh Sehgal and Mahendra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/cm-yogi-launches-information-depts-digital-directory-and-app/articleshow/80274345.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Work towards bringing Ram rajya in country: Governor||Nagpur: Governor Bhagatsingh Koshiari flagged off the donation drive for building the Ram Janmabhoomi temple at Ayodhya on Friday, and also called for working towards bringing ‘Ram rajya’ in the country. Koshiari was one of the guests of honour along with Hindu spiritual leader Acharya Avdheshanand for the function held at the over century old Poddareshwar Ram Temple in the city. A grand yearly Ram Navmi procession starts from the Poddareshwar Temple since decades. Koshiari, who donated Rs1.11 lakh, also addressed the audience at the packed temple, making a fervent appeal for ‘Ram rajya’ and donating generously for the temple. Linking the Ram temple to the dispute on the line of actual control (LAC) with China, the governor said Lord Ram stood like a mountain of courage. “He was rock steady like the Himalaya, like the ones who stand firm at Galwan valley, no matter how much it snows or the Chinese try to intrude,” said Koshiari. “We have gained success after years of efforts and a grand temple is set to be built in Ayodhya. However, the mission would indeed be accomplished only when each one in this country rises to establish Ram rajya. I believe that the country is going in the right direction toward making of Ram rajya. Instead of raising demands, we should think what have we done for the country,” said Koshiari He said Ram has united the entire country since ages and is the national deity. “I was surprised to read his description in the same words in both, Valmiki Ramayana written in Sanskrit and Kamban Ramayan, which is the Tamil version.” “Even today Kamban’s descendants may not know Hindi so well but centuries ago the Tamil poet wrote the exact description like Valmiki. Both said Ram was courageous like a mountain and calm like the oceans,” he said. The governor urged workers to reach out door-to-door and collect contributions for the temple to make entire endeavour a success. Apart from accepting regular donations for the temple, the Ramjanmabhoomi Teerthakshetra Nyaas has started a month-long donation drive throughout the country in which people will be directly contacted to buy coupons. Acharya Avdheshanand visited different places for the drive, including the Ramtek temple. Avdheshanand said he will be going around door-to-door seeking donations for the temple.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/work-towards-bringing-ram-rajya-in-country-governor/articleshow/80290482.cms||Shishir Arya
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Government resolution out on 50% cut in premiums for developers||MUMBAI: The state governme-nt on Thursday issued a government resolution (GR) slashing construction premiums paid by builders by 50%, a week after the cabinet approved the proposal. According to the GR issued by the urban development department, builders will have to pay premiums based on the Ready Reckoner (RR) rates of 2019 or 2020, whichever is higher. All real estate premiums and charges are calculated on the basis of RR rates. Developers who opt for the 50% reduction in premiums will also have to pay the entire stamp duty when . Developers who opt to avail the discount will have to give an undertaking to the local bodies that they will pay the entire stamp duty and not charge any stamp duty from homebuyers. The scheme will be valid till December 31. The discount will only be on premiums, not on development charges and cess, but will be applicable for both ongoing and new projects. To ensure that the scheme is implemented effectively, the government will coordinate with MahaRERA, the GR stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/gr-out-on-50-cut-in-premiums-for-developers/articleshow/80276257.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||Stamp, notary ticket racket busted, two held||(With Pics) Kanpur: An interstate fake stamp paper and notary ticket racket, operating in the city, was busted on Wednesday night with the police arresting two men for allegedly trying to sell fake stamp papers. The arrested persons have been identified as Sheezan, and Ranjit Kumar Rawat. Sheezan is a resident of Colonelganj area of the city while Ranjit resides at Stanley Road, Civil Lines in Prayagraj. Police are on the lookout for other accused across various districts and states. The breakthrough came on the basis of a tip-off, which led to the arrest of one Sheezan and Ranjit while they were trying to sell fake stamp papers and notary tickets near Sachan crossing in Barra. Following their arrest and the information, police recovered a fake stamp worth Rs 5.5 lakh from their possession. “We had specific inputs about the two men selling fake stamp papers and notary tickets. A police team laid trap and arrested them late on Wednesday night from near Sachan crossing in Barra area. When we questioned the accused, they confessed of procuring old stamp papers and notary tickets from Kolkata and Patna and Bhagalpur in Bihar, erased the script using chemicals and hi-tech machines, and sell it to gullible people,” said SSP/DIG Preetinder Singh. “They also claimed to have licenses for notary vendors. Fake stamp papers and notary tickets, of the value of Rs 5.5 lakh, were recovered from Sheezan and Ranjit,” he added. “We are trying to ascertain since when they are involved in the racket. They have been booked under sections 255 /258/259/261 /263 /420 of IPC at Barra police station and sent to jail,” SP South Deepak Bhuker said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/stamp-notary-ticket-racket-busted-two-held/articleshow/80274372.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Chargesheets filed in 271 FIRs lodged against Indian Jamaatis||Lucknow: UP Police has filed chargesheets in 271 cases lodged against 2,238 Indian Tablighis, who attended the Nizamuddin Markaz in Delhi in March last year and were booked under Epidemic Act, Disaster Management Act and charged with negligence causing spread of disease and violation of prohibitory orders. Additional director-general of police, law and order, Prashant Kumar, said he personally monitored these cases and instructed districts to adhere to guidelines while dealing with Tablighi Jamaatis. Nobody was harassed or forced to give statement,” said the officer. Kumar also said, investigations were based on scientific evidence and police made strenuous efforts to track down 2,615 persons, who had attended the Markaz in Delhi last year. Later, 276 FIRs were registered against 2,254 persons. At least 1,648 Jamaatis were arrested under different IPC sections of which as many as 1,644 got bail from different courts, said the officer. “Notices were served on 606 persons for recording their statements and 30 Jamaatis were challaned and let off after 24 hours in detention. No action was taken against 339 others due to lack of evidence,” said Kumar. He said, in Meerut district five persons were found to wrongly named in the FIR and their names were expunged. “Four from Prayagraj police zone are still in jail,” said ADG. UP Police were first in the country to rely on call details record (CDR) and strengthen health department’s contact-tracing measures. CDRs helped police to narrow down on those who had a travel history, said officials privy to the probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/chargesheets-filed-in-271-firs-lodged-against-indian-jamaatis/articleshow/80276254.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Spl software to select beneficiaries for vaccine||Lucknow: Instead of officers hand-picking people for Covid-19 vaccine shots, a special software will select the intended beneficiaries randomly for Day 1 on Saturday from the priority-wise data fed into computers. This will minimize human intervention, checking any chances of manipulations in the process. The software has been installed in the centralised portal for supervising vaccination. It will finalise the names by Friday afternoon and send SMSes informing beneficiaries. “Data of all health workers has already been uploaded. The software will select on a random basis; any scope of favouritism will be nullified,” said chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. “Besides, there is no need of rush because eventually all those on the list will be vaccinated. Over 51,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase starting Saturday. Similar process will be followed for about 23,000 frontline workers in the second phase,” he added. Beneficiaries would be called in two shifts: 50 each in the morning and afternoon. The vaccination process will start at 9am and end at 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/spl-software-to-select-beneficiaries-for-vaccine/articleshow/80276366.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Goa||Shripad’s health improving: GMC||Panaji: Though Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik continues to be on high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC), all his vital parameters are stable and his general health condition is improving, Goa Medical College (GMC) dean Dr S M Bandekar stated in a medical bulletin on Thursday. The minister is under treatment after he met with a road accident in Karnataka on Monday. Four surgeries were performed on him as he had suffered multiple fractures in the accident that killed his wife Vijaya and a close aide. “All his tests were done and the readings were found to be within normal limits. His wounds are also healing,” the medical bulletin stated. Naik’s health is being closely monitored, Bandekar said. On Wednesday, a team of doctors from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, had examined and found the treatment given to him at the GMC was satisfactory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/shripads-health-improving-gmc/articleshow/80275501.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||J&K beat UP by eight wickets in T-20 league match||Kanpur: Jammu & Kashmir trounced Uttar Pradesh by 8 wickets in a low-scoring league match of Syed Mushtaq Ali T -20 cricket tournament being played at Alur cricket stadium, Bangalore on Thursday. It was UP’s third consecutive defeat in the league phase. UP has so far failed to open its account in the point table. UP, after being invited to bat first, could post 124 runs for the loss of 5 wickets in 20 overs. Their beginning was a nightmare as they lost top two wickets for just 6 runs. They thereafter never appeared confident. However, opener Madhav Kashik showed some resistance and scored 26 runs before returning back. Captain Priyam Garg and Shubham Chaubey tried to push UP to a respectable score and in their effort they added 53 runs in their fourth wicket union. Abdul Samad broke their union, claiming Priyam Garg in front of the wicket. Priyam contributed 35 runs in 36 balls, Shubham Chaubey was next to return after scoring 28 runs. Aryan Juyal displayed defiant batting and returned unbeaten on 22 scored in 15 balls. Mujtaba Yusuf emerged as the best bowler claiming 3 wickets for 14 runs. J&K in reply hit the required 126 runs in 15 overs. Abdul Samad scored the highest unbeaten 54 runs in 35 balls hammering 2 boundaries and 4 sixes. He and Shubham Khajuria took charge in the middle when the score was 37 for 2. Thereafter, in their unbeaten partnership they added 89 runs and won the match. Khajuria scored 34 runs in 25 balls with the help of 3 boundaries and a six. After the match, UP coach Gyanendra Pandey in a telephonic conversation stated that UP batsmen are talented but somehow could not click. “The physical fitness camp was held under Covid fear and a couple of players were found positive too. This feature might have made an impact on the rest of the players,” he said. As a coach, I motivated them. Now, it depends on them how they fare in the middle of the ground. It was very sad that they were not getting their rhythm, he added. He conceded that UP was almost out of the title race, but if the state would win its remaining two matches then the team would regain its confidence and perform better in Ranji Trophy matches. Brief score: Uttar Pradesh -124 for 5 ( Madhav Kaushik 26, Priyam Garg 35, Shubham Chaubey 28, Aryan Juyal 22, Mujtaba Yusuf 3 for 14, Abid Mushtaq 1 for 20, Abdul Samad 1 for 14) J & K – 126 for 2 (Qamran Iqbal 17, Suryansh Raina 15, Abdul Samad 54no, Shubham Khajuria 34no, Mohsin Khan 2 for 17)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/jk-beat-up-by-eight-wickets-in-t-20-league-match/articleshow/80274356.cms||Anant Shekher Misra
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||Number of birds decline in Mainpuri sanctuary||Kanpur: Amid bird flu scare in the country, here's distressing news for bird lovers. A sharp decline was witnessed in the number as well as species of birds during the recent Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), 2021, carried out at the newly designated Ramsar site — Saman Bird Sanctuary in Mainpuri — by a team of volunteers under the supervision of AWC Delhi state coordinator, ecologist and conservationist TK Roy. “This year, AWC started on January 2. It recorded 40 water bird species with a total population of 803 in comparison to last year’s figure of 45 and 4,005,” Roy told TOI on Thursday. As per AWC 2021, out of 40 species, 22 are resident waterbird species while 18 are migratory bird species, which includes only six species of long distance winter migratory ducks. “However, many other usually migrating species did not arrive in the sanctuary this year due to degraded wetland habitat, i.e., largely drying wetland and open threats by human disturbance,” said Roy further. Roy informed TOI that IUCN red-listed species recorded this year includes wooly-necked stork (16 in number) and sarus crane (31 in number), which comes under the vulnerable category of threatened species, besides black-headed ibis, which comes under nearly threatened species. “Among the winter migratory water birds (ducks) recorded, were common teal, which migrates from North Asia, northern shoveler, which migrates from North Asia, gadwal, which migrates from Central Asia and red-crested pochard, which migrates from Central Asia,” he said. “Likewise, AWC also recorded, black-necked stork, an Indian resident species, black-headed ibis, and Indian resident species and painted stork, an Indian resident and oriental darter, again an Indian resident species. All these birds are local migratory species and which come under IUCN red-listed threatened species.” The census was carried out in active collaboration with the National Chambal Sanctuary Project, Agra. A team of volunteers from Dr B R Ambedkar University, Agra and Biodiversity Research & Development Society, Agra also participated, Roy added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/number-of-birds-decline-in-mainpuri-sanctuary/articleshow/80274353.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||Blinding fog leaves one dead, 16 hurt on e-way||Agra/Meerut/Bareilly: Dense fog and a bone-chilling cold gripped most of western UP early on Thursday. The day saw mercury dropping to as low as 2.8 degrees Celsius in Meerut, making it the coldest day of the season for the district. The blanket of thick fog that reduced visibility in many areas to almost zero resulted in three accidents on the Agra-Delhi Yamuna expressway, claiming one life and leaving 16 injured. A report from Agra said one person was killed and 12 were injured after a sleeper coach bus rammed into a pickup truck on the expressway, near milestone 135 in the Baldeo area at 5am. The deceased was identified as Rahish from Rajasthan. Following this accident, another bus collided with the stranded vehicles due to poor visibility. Two canters collided near milestone 109 on Yamuna expressway in Raya area, injuring wo persons. Soon a few other vehicles crashed into them. Meanwhile, Meerut woke up to the coldest day of the season at 2.8 degrees Celsius. “The maximum temperature recorded in Meerut on Thursday were 15.8 degrees Celsius, which is six degrees below normal, and minimum, 2.8 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal.” said Brij Mohan, Meerut Met in-charge. Moradabad was also enveloped in a thick fog on Thursday, the first this season, according to residents. Throughout the day, a thin fog hung over the city.The minimum temperature plunged to 5 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature was recorded at 17.0 degrees Celsius. The damp cold kept people indoors and few vehicles plied on the road due to the fog-induced poor visibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/blinding-fog-leaves-one-dead-16-hurt-on-e-way/articleshow/80273401.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Swachh way: Technique from Delhi park to treat sewage water flowing into Gomti||Lucknow: Sewage water flowing into the river Gomti will now be treated and cleaned as is done in the Hauz Biodiversity Park of Delhi. After attending a meeting in Delhi for Swachh Bharat Survey on Thursday, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi announced that Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) will adopt the ‘phytoremediation’ technique for future sewage treatment plants (STP). Along with professor emeritus at Centre for Environmental Management of Degraded Ecosystem at Delhi University CR Babu, the LMC commissioner, environment engineer Pankaj Bhusan and chief engineer Mukesh Verma visited Hauz Biodiversity Park and looked at phytoremediation technique being used there for treating sewage before it is discharged in the lake. Prof Babu said, “The constructed wetland system is similar to a natural wetland but is engineered for efficient treatment of sewage. It is an alternative to the conventional technology of STP, which takes more than two years for installation. The new technology STP can be put in place in 120-150 days. Besides, a phytoremediation STP of 80-100 million litres per day (MLD) capacity will cost Rs 8-10 crore, whereas a conventional one will cost around Rs 125 crore,” he added. The professor explained, “The constructed wetland at Neela Hauz has oxidation ponds, where microbes first break down the organic material in sewage water. Water is then passed through treatment tanks for filtration of suspended solids. In the last stage, the remaining pollutants are biodegraded by plants and microbes. The water which comes out is almost crystal clear.” Dwivedi said, “We will soon invite the professor to conduct a workshop for our engineers.” On an average, 675 MLD sewage gets discharged into the Gomti through 12 big and 180 small drains. The city has two STPs: 345 MLD capacity at Bharwara and 56 MLD capacity at Daulatganj. The third of 120 MLD is being built at Haidar Canal. The new technology is expected to be used in the fourth and fifth STPs which will be for the remaining 274 MLD of untreated sewage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/swachh-way-technique-from-delhi-park-to-treat-sewage-water-flowing-into-gomti/articleshow/80276350.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Kayasth panel forhuge Vivekanand statue in Lucknow||Lucknow: MSME minister Sidharth Nath Singh launched a website on Chitragupt Dham at an event organised by the Kayasth Foundation Trust on Thursday. Office bearers of the trust have appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi through Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to clear the “mystery behind the death of former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri”. They also demanded installation of a statue of Swami Vivekanand in Lucknow on the lines of the statue of Sardar Patel in Gujarat. Singh said that the government is fully supporting all classes and communities. It would consider all proposals submitted by the trust and take appropriate action on them. He would personally take up all the issues raised by the trust with the CM. He said that the trust should be expanded and more people be linked with it. Its communication arm should be strengthened and it should be publicised far and wide.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/kayasth-panel-forhuge-vivekanand-statue-in-lucknow/articleshow/80276313.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Govt set to develop Sankisa as Buddhist pilgrimage centre||Lucknow: When Lord Buddha completed one of his varsha vaas (rain retreats) in the heaven and decided to return to the earth, his disciples got three ladders of gold, silver and jewels that brought him to the city of Sankasya. In the modern times, the place is known as Sankisa — located on the outskirts of Farrukhabad in Uttar Pradesh. During his recent visit to Farrukhabad, chief minister Yogi Adityanath had told the state tourism department to develop Sankisa village on the lines of Sarnath and Kapilvastu into a pilgrimage site. He had also told officials to draw a route map from Sarnath to Gautam Budh Nagar linking Sankisa. “It is a matter of pride that UP is home to majority of the places associated with Lord Buddha. The state government is already working on development of the Buddhist Circuit and Sankisa surely deserves to be included,” the CM had told officials, adding that “the place was also related to the Mahabharata.” Scholars and historians, including Alexander Cunningham, have documented the importance Sankisa. The place is revered by the Buddhists across the world. In fact, countries like Sri Lanka, Japan, Myanmar, Bhutan, Tibet, Cambodia have already set up monasteries here.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-set-to-develop-sankisa-as-buddhist-pilgrimage-centre/articleshow/80276246.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||PM’s trusted man joins BJP amid talks of key role in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trusted bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma, who resigned as MSME secretary on Monday, formally joined the BJP in Lucknow on Thursday. Speaking on the occasion, he thanked the party, and especially Prime Minister Modi as he was picked up without having any political background or a strong legacy. Sharma joined the BJP in the presence of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and cabinet minister Dara Singh Chauhan, who is also MLA from Madhuban assembly seat in Mau. Speculation that Sharma may be fielded in MLC pollsI am overwhelmed and look forward to work for the party in the best possible way,” said Sharma, amid whirling speculations that he would be given a significant role in the UP government after being routed through Vidhan Parishad later this month. Sharma, a native of Mau district and Bhumihar by caste, said he hailed from a backward village but rose to become an IAS through sheer hard work. Sharma was a Gujarat cadre IAS officer and joined Modi in 2001 as his secretary when the latter took over as the Gujarat’s chief minister. He worked with him for almost 20 years with just one small break when he went to Australia on a study break. When Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, Sharma joined the PMO and was later made secretary in the union ministry for Micro Small and Medium Scale Enterprise (MSME) in April 2020. He chose to take Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) from the services two years before his due retirement to begin, what is being tipped as key political innings from UP where state assembly elections are due next year. He said there were many political parties but BJP happened to be world’s biggest party. “Meri koi political legacy nahi hai. Mujh jaise vyakti ko achanak utha kar BJP mein lana shayad Narendra Modi aur BJP hi kar sakti hai (I did not possess a strong political legacy. A person like me being taken into party fold can happen only because of Narendra Modi and in BJP),” he said. UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh said Sharma’s joining would not only raise the stature of BJP but would also strengthen the UP government as well as the Centre. Singh, however, ducked the question if party had any plans to declare Sharma as a candidate in the legislative council elections and then get him routed into a key position in UP government. “Whatever high command of the party would decide would be implemented in the state,” Singh said. However, political analysts said that Sharma did not take the VRS to become just an MLC and instead a bigger role was in store for him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/pms-trusted-man-joins-bjp-amid-talks-of-key-role-in-up/articleshow/80276233.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP achieves 5-year electronics manufacturing target||LUCKNOW: The UP government has achieved its five year targets for the electronics manufacturing sector in just three years, it has claimed. In three years, it has attracted investments of Rs 20,000 crore and generated employment for three lakh persons. The government has said that due to its policies, especially during the Covid-19 period, companies from China, Taiwan, Korea have shown interest in investing in the state. ‘30 investors ready to invest in mfg sector’An Electronic Manufacturing Cluster is also being set up in the National Capital Region where foreign companies like Oppo, three Indian companies and four Taiwanese companies are setting up their units with an expected investment of Rs 2,000 crore. “We had to achieve the target of getting investment of Rs 20,000 crore and employment to three lakh persons by 2022 but achieved it two years earlier with as many as 30 investors ready to invest in the sector due to the policies of the state,” said Alok Tandon, industrial infrastructure and industrial development commissioner. He added that Noida, Greater Noida, and Yamuna Expressway areas had come up as electronics manufacturing hubs. Samsung, with the largest mobile phone manufacturing unit in the world, is also located in Noida.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-achieves-5-year-electronics-mfg-target/articleshow/80276223.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||AI-enabled ‘Drishti’ to keep eye on Lucknow, help curb crime||LUCKNOW: It will not be easy for criminals to escape from the city after committing a crime, as 5,000 Artificial Intelligence-enabled cameras will keep a round-the-clock vigil in Lucknow Police commissionerate. All these cameras will be linked to the control room ‘Drishti’ that is being upgraded. Any unusual activity by anyone captured by the AI-enabled cameras will generate an alert to the control room. Lucknow police commissioner D K Thakur said after the completion of this project, the surveillance in the state capital will be advanced like in Hyderabad and Chennai. Joint commissioner of police, Headquarters/crime, Nilabja Chaudhury said AI-based cameras are extremely beneficial for police forces as they can identify criminals in a crowd. Another key aspect is that smart cameras can identify a person through faceless recognition by just using physical characteristics like height, built and posture. Besides, patterns of activities could be used in different environments to single out criminal behaviour. These cameras will also have the capability to read number plates and check registration data. All the shopkeepers in the city would also be asked to install AI-enabled CCTV cameras, which will be then linked to the control centre. JCP Chaudhury said that fibre optical network will be required to handle the feed of high-end AI-enabled CCTVs. The optical fibre is being laid and will be completed by the end of January, he added. Another police officer said that a sum of Rs 4 crore has been sanctioned for the installation of AI-enabled smart cameras. In the past also, Lucknow had planned similar surveillance in 2017 after which ‘Drishti’ control room was set up. The project had started and cameras were installed at 20 crossings but failed as most cameras became defunct soon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ai-enabled-drishti-to-keepeye-on-city-help-curb-crime/articleshow/80276414.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Easily available molasses behind hooch menace in UP?||LUCKNOW: With six persons falling prey to illicit liquor in the first week of 2021, the deadly brew has emerged as a major killer in the state. Over 150 people, including women, have lost their lives in 40 hooch tragedies in different parts of the state since 2017. A senior excise officer said that long stretches along major rivers, including the Ganga and Yamuna, have become a safe haven for manufacturers of illicit liquor. “As they enjoy support of lower-rung officials of the police and excise departments nobody dares challenge them,” he said, adding that molasses is also easily available to illegal brew makers as the government has lifted a ban on the licence for sugar crushers. Expressing similar views, a senior IPS officer posted in western UP said that “while the excise department keeps record of molasses being produced by big sugar factories, it has no control on crushers in western UP which too produce molasses in good quantity and its major portion is being supplied to illicit liquor manufacturers.” However, principal secretary, excise, Sanjay Bhoosreddy said that collective efforts of different departments, including excise, have resulted in unearthing of several illicit liquor units. “This has also resulted in a considerable rise in the consumption of ‘desi’ (country-made) liquor. In fact, in the last four years, from 20 lakh litres per month the consumption of country-made liquor has gone up to over 60 lakh litres per month,” he said, adding that Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also taken a serious view of deaths in hooch tragedies and has directed officials concerned to initiate strict steps against gangs involved in illicit liquor trade. The past four years’ figures clearly state that maximum deaths (56) were reported from Meerut followed by the state capital which recorded 25 hooch deaths. Kanpur 23 deaths, Varanasi 22 and Gorakhpur with 11 deaths were not too far behind. What concerns top police and excise officials that hooch tragedies have been continuously striking the state and are claiming lives. While in 2017, 21 persons had died, in 2018 the death toll had gone up to 23. In 2019, 81 people lost their lives and in 2020, 22 fell prey to illicit liquor. Though police have been slapping NSA, Goonda Act and Gangster Act on people involved in manufacturing and sale of illicit liquor, the trade is still thriving in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/easily-available-molasses-behind-hooch-menace/articleshow/80276251.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Probe against Giri Institute’s former V-C to conclude soon||Lucknow: The probe into a series of allegations against the former vice-chairman of the Giri Institute of Development Studies, NC Bajpai, and its former acting director, BK Bajpai, is about to be completed. Additional chief secretary Devesh Chaturvedi, who is conducting the probe, will submit its report to the government soon for further action. Both NC Bajpai, who is also a former chief secretary of the state, and BK Bajpai were removed from the post in October after Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath ordered the probe against them following a complaint received by his office. Bajpai had been appointed vice-chairman of the state planning commission after his retirement during the Akhilesh Yadav government. In April 2017, the Yogi government appointed him as the vice-chairman of Giri Institute. He continued on the post till the state government intervened in October. After their removal, the charge of Giri Institute was given to the additional chief secretary and principal secretary of the planning department. When TOI contacted BK Bajpai, he said that disgruntled elements who had faced inquiries during his regime had leveled false allegations against him and the complaints carry no basis. Also, he said, he resigned on his own and not on the orders of the state government. TOI tried contacting retired chief secretary NC Bajpai, but he did not respond to the phone calls and text messages in this regard. Last week, the board of the institute formally appointed Rajiv Kumar, the vice-chairman of Niti Aayog, as its chairman and the state information commissioner (SIC), retired IAS officer Rajiv Kapoor as its vice-chairman. The institute will also appoint its new director once the board of directors’ meet is convened on the matter. A complaint alleging huge embezzlement in the institute by then acting director BK Bajpai was received by the office of the chief minister office last year. The complainant had alleged that the appointment of BK Bajpai as acting director even after his retirement in April 2017 was in blatant violation of law as it had been done by then vice-chairman NC Bajpai without approval of the board of the Giri Institute. The complaint also questioned how both of them continued in the offices of the vice-chairman and acting director for over two-and-a-half years and did not call even a single board meeting with full-fledged members. The third major allegation against the institute authorities had been embezzlement of funds released by the Centre, state and through other sources including studies and surveys carried out by the institute at the behest of the government. Acting on the complaints, the CM, who is also the minister for the planning department, called a high-level meeting and removed NC Bajpai and BK Bajpai from their positions in September last year and ordered a high-level inquiry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/probe-against-giri-institutes-former-v-c-to-conclude-soon/articleshow/80276237.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Govt asks DMs to carry outdrive to curb illegal mining||Lucknow: As construction activities gain momentum after lockdown and decline in Covid-19 cases, the state government has sounded an alert over incidents of illegal mining in various parts of the state. The department of mining and geology has asked the authorities in various districts to carry out a week-long campaign with the help of a specially-constituted task force to check transportation of illegally mined minerals. In a missive to all DMs, secretary, geology and mining, Roshan Jacob said officials in districts should conduct enforcement drive every week and recover penalties from vehicles illegally ferrying minerals. She said the authorities should send action taken reports to the government by the first week of following month. Officials said the district authorities should coordinate with the mining department in carrying out enforcement drives against illegal mining. The development comes less than a week after mining department suspended an official in Sonbhadra and initiated departmental inquiry against another in Prayagraj. An overloaded truck was nabbed by the district administration in Sonbhadra and was handed over to a mining official for seizure. The truck was, however, let off by the official who was later found to be conniving with illegal miners causing revenue loss to the exchequer. Similarly, 16 tractor trolleys carrying illegally mined sand were caught in Prayagraj but officials let off four tractors. The Centre has asked state governments to recover the entire value of illegally-mined minerals from violators involved in ripping off natural resources. Currently, the fine imposed by enforcement agencies differs from state to state and case to case. It hardly matches the value of minerals siphoned off by mafias in various states, including UP. Officials said that according to Centre, illegal mining should be treated like plunder of public property and the total value should be claimed instead of levelling mere token fines, in consonance with national mineral policy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-asks-dms-to-carry-outdrive-to-curb-illegal-mining/articleshow/80276268.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 15, 2021||Allahabad||Don’t feed migratory birds, forest dept tells devotees||Prayagraj: In view of the bird flu outbreak, the forest department of Prayagraj has appealed to the pilgrims at the Magh Mela to refrain from feeding the migratory birds that flock to the Sangam area. The Indian Skimmer, locally known as Siberian bird, is one the main centres of attraction at Sangam. Pilgrims feed them sev (a snack). These birds can often be seen sitting on the palm of visitors and eating sev. So popular is this snack among the Siberian birds that they can be seen hovering on the boats and the banks of Ganga and Yamuna, and fighting among themselves to consume it. Even though there is no report of bird flu getting transmitted from birds to humans, divisional forest officer YP Shukla said that the Magh Mela visitors should avoid feeding the birds. The official informed that three dedicated teams with members who are experts in analysing bird behaviour, are constantly patrolling the mela area through boats and on foot in order to keep a check on the health of the birds residing here. “If a bird is active and is swimming and feeding itself along with its fellow birds, we know that it is healthy. But if a bird is seen sitting at one place for a long time, and is sluggish in movement, we keep a close vigil on that particular bird,” said the DFO. In an effort to protect migratory birds the forest department has deployed nine teams throughout the district to keep a watch on them. The department has also decided to launch a special campaign to protect these birds in areas like Phaphamau, Shringverpur, Daraganj and Sangam. Through this campaign, it aims to make the locals aware of the need to protect these feathery visitors, and ensure strict surveillance in the areas. As part of this surveillance which started from November 15 and will last till the end of February, the nine teams are patrolling the terrestrial areas on foot and the waterbodies by boats. The teams strive to not only protect the migratory birds, but their nesting sites as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/dont-feed-migratory-birds-forest-dept-tells-devotees/articleshow/80274308.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||WWII airstrip to be turned into new airport at Lalitpur||Lucknow: Lending a boost to air connectivity in the economically poor Bundelkhand region, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Thursday gave his nod to development of Lalitpur airport and make it fit for landing of ATR aircraft. This would be the fourth airport in Bundelkhand region, after the ones in Jhansi, Chitrakoot and Sonbhadra, for which the state government has given a green signal. Situated on the border of UP and Madhya Pradesh, Lalitpur airport has an airstrip which was constructed during World War II. The airstrip, however, remained unused and non-functional. A government spokesperson said that attempts to develop the Lalitpur airstrip for commercial use were made in the previous government’s rule but did not fructify. The government is also planning to set up a bulk drug park in Lalitpur. At the same time, the ambitious Defence Corridor is being set up in Bundelkhand. “The coming of an airport in the district would push development not only in UP but also in Madhya Pradesh,” the spokesperson said. The government is in the process of developing 14 airports in the state, including Jewar airport in Greater Noida. The development of airports in Bareilly and Kushinagar have been completed, while the one in Aligarh, Azamgarh, Meerut, Moradabad and Chitrakoot would be completed in the next two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/wwii-airstrip-to-be-turned-into-new-airport-at-lalitpur/articleshow/80276294.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||UP police in Karnataka to nab youth booked for ‘love jihad’||GORAKHPUR: A three-member police team was dispatched to Bijapur, Karnataka, late Wednesday to arrest a Muslim youth booked under Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance in Gorakhpur for allegedly kidnapping a teenage girl for marriage in the garb of a job offer and then forcing her to change her faith. The FIR against the Karnataka-based man was lodged at Chiluatal police station in the district on January 11. The couple is yet to be traced. “The girl’s father lodged a missing report on January 5 and fresh charges under the new anti-conversion ordinance were added after the girl’s call records showed she was in touch with a Karnataka man, Mehboob, for over a year. The girl’s father, who later lodged a police complaint, alleged Mehboob concealed his religious identity to kidnap his daughter with a fake job offer,” said SHO Chiluatal police station, Neeraj Kumar Rai. “I accompanied my daughter to Sardar Patel Institute of Technology on January 4 and she did not return home that night. On January 5, I lodged a missing complaint. Later, I found that my daughter was in touch with Mehboob via Facebook since November 2019,” the girl’s father stated in the complaint. The youth was booked under Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance, 2020, along with charges of kidnapping a woman to compel her for marriage on January 11, said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-police-in-ktaka-to-nab-youth-booked-for-love-jihad/articleshow/80276258.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Fake farmers sold 17,000 quintal paddy at UP govt centre, FIR lodged||LUCKNOW: An FIR has been lodged at the Lalganj police station against 60 persons after it was found that they managed to sell over 17,000 quintals of paddy at a government purchase centre using fake identity. The district magistrate ordered lodging of FIR after their details were found missing from revenue records. “An inquiry was conducted in this regard and the police have registered a case against 60 people, including the centre in charge, on the complaint of lekhpal Lallan Singh after finding the complaint against them to be true," said a government spokesperson. Singh in his FIR to that the SDM of Mariahu on December 28, had shot a letter stating that anomalies had been found in the online purchase of e-paddy at NCCF center located at Santnagar. The enquiry further revealed that the land record of none of the farmers who sold paddy at the centre could be found in the land revenue department. It was also revealed that fraudsters in connivance with the purchase centre in charge without even registering themselves as farmers availed all the facilities. SHO, Lalganj, Subhash Rai, said that on the basis of the complaint of Lallan Singh, an FIR was registered for dishonesty and punishment for cheating by impersonation. Rai also said that of the 60 persons, 59 were named in the FIR while only the post of NCCF purchase center in charge was mentioned. He also said that the accused included 19 women and 40 men as fake farmers who sold paddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/fake-farmers-sold-17000-quintalpaddy-at-govt-centre-fir-lodged/articleshow/80276433.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 15, 2021||Varanasi||Locals flock to Ramgarh Tal to see UP’s highest tricolour||Gorakhpur: The state’s highest tricolour unfurled a day earlier by chief minister Yogi Adityanath drew huge crowds on Thursday as people thronged the site at Ramgarh Lake to see the huge national flag and clicked selfies at the spot. Most people offered khichdi at Gorakhnath temple and then proceeded to Ramgarh Lake to see the state’s highest Indian flag. Industrialist Amar Tulsiyan, who had conceived the idea of installing UP’s highest tricolour in Gorakhpur, said, “When I saw our national flag at Connaught Place in New Delhi, I was amazed and thought of having the state’s highest flag in Gorakhpur. A proposal was prepared after taking approval from CM Yogi ji. I am very happy that my dream came true.” The 246 feet high flag has become the centre of attraction in the city. The flag is 540 square metre in area and is visible from a distance of 15 km. Many people were seen taking selfies near the flag. Surekha Singh, a student, said, “I am very proud that the state's highest national flag is in my city Gorakhpur. It fills me with a feeling of nationalism and pride.” “Earlier, we only used to only hear that Gorakhpur is a backward place, but things have changed drastically as a lot of development work has been done by the state government in the last three years. It is really a matter of pride that we have the state highest flag in our city,” said a man at the spot, seeking anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/locals-flock-to-ramgarh-tal-to-see-ups-highest-tricolour/articleshow/80274330.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Biting cold & pandemic fail to dampen spirits on Day 1||Prayagraj: The draw of faith overpowered biting cold and concern over a raging pandemic as lakhs of devotees turned up to take a dip in Sangam on Makar Sankranti as the Magh Mela started in Prayagraj on Thursday. The Makar Sankranti snan is the first of six snans of the 57-day Magh Mela that attracts hundreds of visitors from worldwide every year. Devotees started trickling in since the crack of dawn amid tight security arrangements and the numbers only grew as the day progressed. The flow of devotees to Sangam continued till evening and police were seen struggling to regulate the crowd on ghats to ensure that the Covid-19 safety protocol was followed. Policemen continuously made announcements to remind people to wear masks and maintain social distancing. The cops were assisted by squads of commandos, Rapid Action Force and Provincial Armed Constabulary in keeping vigil. Apart from Mela police, civil defence volunteers were also seen urging devotees to follow the Covid-19 safety protocol. Ironically, around a dozen visitors reportedly fainted after taking a dip in the river water and were taken to Ganga and Triveni Hospital for treatment. IG (Prayagraj range) KP Singh said that , “Devotees had started reaching Sangam in early Thursday hours. The first snan went on peacefully and no untoward incident was reported. The elaborate security arrangements helped in manning the huge rush of devotees. Patrolling between Sangam and Quila Ghat helped in regulating the crowd. There were separate points for entry and exit to the venue so that there was no confusion.” Many policemen were spotted guiding devotees who were either lost or did not know their way around the venue. Meanwhile, Jal police personnel maintained a close watch on the boats plying. A separate river line was formed in Yamuna for easy transportation of boats. Police made it mandatory for devotees opting to go on boat rides to wear life jackets. Many devotees donated til (sesame), jaggery, groundnuts and gajak as is customary on Makar Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/biting-cold-pandemic-fail-to-dampen-spirits-on-day-1/articleshow/80274313.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||NCB seeks voice samples in Sushant Singh Rajput case||MUMBAI: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) moved the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court seeking voice samples of eight accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput-related drugs case. Among the eight are actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and film executive producer Kshitij Prasad. NCB told the court they need the samples as voice calls need to be verified. Chakraborty and Prasad are out on bail. The plea will come up for hearing on January 22. Showik was granted bail by the Special NDPS Court in connection to the drugs case on December 2, 2020. The NCB arrested him after a drugs angle emerged during Sushant’s death case probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-seeks-voice-samples-in-ssr-case/articleshow/80276265.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Bird posse gets myna freed from ace killer’s talons||CHANDIGARH: Small birds evolve different strategies and tactical manoeuvres to escape the clutches of the dreaded, common hawk of Tricity gardens, the Shikra. A common myna had much to thank the community of birds that got together and vigorously heckled and mobbed a female Shikra in a Sector 19 garden after the hawk had swooped on her under a mulberry tree and pinned her down to the ground with powerful talons. As luck would have it, the hawk somehow let go of the shrieking myna as the ace hunter was unsettled by the anarchy of fluttering feathers hovering over her like angry hornets. The hunter was besieged by an uproar of angry calls from mynas, jungle babblers, rufous treepies, red-vented bulbuls, magpie robins and tailor birds that rushed to the tree like a mohalla community responding to the summons of distress. Grateful, the trembling would-be victim flew away in a limp manner from under the mulberry tree where she had been attacked to seek refuge in a shaded flower pot next door but the formidable Shikra’s terror had evidently unnerved the myna community. Had the Shikra not been challenged by the bird posse, who got after her like angry hornets, the myna would have been defeathered and shredded while pinned under the Shikra’s claws. A Shikra’s victims are eaten alive through several minutes of an agonising but fruitless struggle against the hawk’s steely grip and piercing, aquiline beak. Renowned for courage and ruthless pursuit of quarry, the hawk derives her common name from Persian via Urdu and Hindi for “shikari”. The escape underscored the fact that raptors like the Shikra often fail in their hunts and must work hard through repeated bids to gather food for themselves and their young. For example, a research study conducted on the iconic Peregrine falcon showed that the success of hunts varied between 7.63% to 62% for different Peregrines.  The agility and varying tactics employed by smaller birds to escape the Shikra’s swoops was observed in the field and in great detail by the late IFS officer, BB Osmaston. Writing in the prestigious “Journal of the BNHS”, Osmaston observed that the majority of small birds would dive into the nearest bush knowing that the Shikra would hesitate to chase as it could injure the hunter’s wings. In case the Shikra decided to follow her quarry into the bush, the small bird could easily dodge her assassin in the bush’s labyrinth or exit the bush quicker than the pursuing hawk!  A remarkable incident is recorded by Osmaston when the Shikra caught a jungle babbler also known as the “seven sisters”. As the pinned down babbler screamed lustily, the rest of her flock rushed to the spot and piled upon the Shikra with beaks and claws. So vigorous was the counter-attack by babblers that one of them gripped the Shikra deeply with her legs and would not let go, come what may! Osmaston observed that it was this “mutual cooperation” between the Seven Sisters that accounted for the Shikra not being able to bring down babblers easily as compared to other birds or even garden lizards which comprise the Shikra’s most frequent food. If it was community support in the case of the myna and the babbler that saved the day, what does a lone, small bird like a common kingfisher do? Upon being chased by the Shikra, the kingfisher had darted upstream. “The Shikra followed and was steadily overhauling the former and about to seize it when the kingfisher made a sudden plunge into water. The disappearance of the kingfisher was so sudden and unexpected that the hawk overflew the spot and the kingfisher emerging the next moment from the water, sped back downstream and got such a good start that the hawk gave up the pursuit,” wrote Osmaston in his memorable account.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bird-posse-gets-myna-freed-from-ace-killers-talons/articleshow/80274374.cms||VIKRAM JIT SINGH
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Gene sequencing for new Covid strain starts in KGMU, CSIR labs in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Gene sequencing for the new strain of Covid-19 virus will now start in Uttar Pradesh labs also. Earlier, the samples were sent to designated labs in New Delhi or Pune. The labs in UP starting gene sequencing are King George’s Medical University, Central Drug Research Institute and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research in Lucknow and Institute of Medical Sciences Banaras Hindu University, in Varanasi. CDRI and IITR come under CSIR. Additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said on Thursday, “The gene sequencing facility has been started on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Gene sequencing is crucial for tracking the new strain of Covid-19 virus and controlling its spread. The facility will lessen the time in determining the mutant strain so that surveillance and control activities are launched on time.” As per government orders, all international travellers from countries where mutant strain has been found have to be tested for coronavirus infection on arrival. If they test positive, their sample is sent for gene sequencing to test the strain responsible for causing infection in the patient. “UP has emerged as a leader in Covid-19 testing. The state not only embraced new technologies, it also scaled several benchmarks,” Dr Dube said. From testing just five-six samples a day in March 2020, the state is now conducting an average of 1.5 lakh tests per day. It has undertaken more than 2.58 crore tests, of which more than 1.25 crore have been through the gold standard of RT PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/gene-sequencing-for-new-covidstrain-starts-in-kgmu-csir-labs/articleshow/80276328.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||Gene sequencing for new Covid strain starts in KGMU, CSIR labs in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Gene sequencing for the new strain of Covid-19 virus will now start in Uttar Pradesh labs also. Earlier, the samples were sent to designated labs in New Delhi or Pune. The labs in UP starting gene sequencing are King George’s Medical University, Central Drug Research Institute and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research in Lucknow and Institute of Medical Sciences Banaras Hindu University, in Varanasi. CDRI and IITR come under CSIR. Additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said on Thursday, “The gene sequencing facility has been started on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Gene sequencing is crucial for tracking the new strain of Covid-19 virus and controlling its spread. The facility will lessen the time in determining the mutant strain so that surveillance and control activities are launched on time.” As per government orders, all international travellers from countries where mutant strain has been found have to be tested for coronavirus infection on arrival. If they test positive, their sample is sent for gene sequencing to test the strain responsible for causing infection in the patient. “UP has emerged as a leader in Covid-19 testing. The state not only embraced new technologies, it also scaled several benchmarks,” Dr Dube said. From testing just five-six samples a day in March 2020, the state is now conducting an average of 1.5 lakh tests per day. It has undertaken more than 2.58 crore tests, of which more than 1.25 crore have been through the gold standard of RT PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/gene-sequencing-for-new-covidstrain-starts-in-kgmu-csir-labs/articleshow/80281323.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 15, 2021||Kanpur||Three more cases of sodomy against ex-official surface in Jalaun||Jhansi: A day after a retired kanungo and former BJP city vice-president in Kotch, Jalaun was sent to jail for sodomy, his involvement in three more cases came to light on Thursday during investigation. Police suspect more cases to surface during scrutiny of the hard disc, laptop and DVR seized from his house during a raid. The accused is also said to be involved in running gambling and betting den at his house, police said. Police had arrested the accused, Ram Behari Rathore, a retired kanungo from his house in Kotch area of Jalaun district on Tuesday night after parents of two minor boys lodged a complaint of sodomy against him. Rathore was also the BJP city vice-president of Kotch before he relinquished the post in December last, informed the party city president in his statement to the media. Rathore was sent to jail on Thursday after a case was lodged against him under sections 328, 377, 506 IPC , section 3/4 of POCSO Act and section 6/7 of IT Act. SP Jalaun Yashveer Singh, who visited his place on Thursday, had to face the rage of parents and kin of the victim who demanded hanging of the accused. As per the statement released by the SP, police have found some explicit clips during initial scrutiny while detailed analysis is being done by the cyber cell. The SP said three more similar cases have surfaced, taking the total number to five so far while many more are feared to surface. The matter came to light when on January 9, Rathore lodged a named complaint to police against one of the minor victims, claiming that the boy had stolen a digital video recorder DVR from his house. During police investigation, the minor boy told the police that he had deliberately taken the device to hand it over to the police and reveal the shameful activities of Rathore. “Rathore has been indulging in similar activities since 2017 apart from being also involved in running gambling den in his home. In total, five cases of sodomy have surfaced so far for which we have already lodged a case against him. Irrespective of his political or social status, we will take appropriate action against him based on detailed investigations,” SP Jalaun said. BJP Jalaun district president, Ramendra Singh Bana, said, “After I came to know about Rathore’s misdeeds on Wednesday, I immediately got him out of the party though I was also informed by the city president that he had given his resignation a month earlier.” The case is similar to that of a junior engineer of UP irrigation department in Chitrakoot who was arrested by CBI in November last for sodomising dozens of minors and selling their explicit videos on dark sites.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/three-more-cases-of-sodomy-against-ex-official-surface-in-jalaun/articleshow/80274402.cms||Arindam Ghosh
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Pvt hospitals want govt to end quota of Covid-19 beds||Nagpur: Private hospitals in Vidarbha have appealed to the state government to revise the Covid-19 reservation of beds in the region as the pandemic is under good control these days and number of patients is also going down.Vidarbha Hospital Association (VHA) has stated that beds were anyway unconstitutionally reserved for Covid section in private hospitals, and the government forced them to serve in capped charges without any compensation, bypassing national authority guidelines. “Only Covid-19 patients can be admitted in beds reserved under government norms. Several non-Covid patients are not getting beds despite of there being vacant beds in hospitals,” said Dr Anup Marar, convener of VHA.As many as 65 private hospitals in Nagpur are marked as Covid-19 hospitals. They cannot admit non-Covid patients on the beds reserved for Covid. In Nashik, guardian minister Chhagan Bhujbal has ordered an end to the Covid hospital reservations after cases went down significantly in New Year. Similar decisions have been taken in several Western Maharashtra districts. “At least the local authority can free smaller nursing homes from the Covid tag looking at the present situation. Do we really need 65 hospitals engaged in Covid duty at present? Also, in case the number of patients increase, we are ready to serve again,” said Dr Marar. Recently, a delegation of doctors consisting of Dr Anup Marar, IMA president of Hingoli Dr Sachin Bagadiya, and Dr Amol Bagadiya, had a meeting with Maharashtra Legislative Assembly speaker Nana Patole to draw attention towards the problems being faced by medical community. “Apart from bed reservation issue, we also pointed out unjust enhancement in biomedical waste disposal charges by NMC authorized agency during Covid times. The agency has overruled the terms and conditions stipulated in the tripartite MOU signed for 30 years,” said Dr Marar. D Sachin Bagadiya submitted that even though private doctors catered to more than 2/3rd of Covid patients, the Covid martyrs from private health care sector have not yet been considered for any compensation by government, which is unfair.Dr Amol Bagadiya appealed to the speaker to direct health insurance companies to respect the clinical acumen and autonomy of treating specialists as ethical discretion of admission need and their treatment lies with the clinicians. Doctors said Patole assured to look into the grievances and promised to sensitize the government on the issue.TIME TO RETHINK - Cases of Covid-19 have gone down significantly- More than 70% patients in Nagpur are under home isolation - Hospitalization rate is down, but beds are still reserved for Covid-19 - So, hospitals cannot admit other patients on these beds - Hospitals have demanded that Covid reservation should end now||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/pvt-hospitals-want-govt-to-end-quota-of-covid-19-beds/articleshow/80273418.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 15, 2021||Varanasi||600 beneficiaries to get vaccine on day one||Varanasi: The vaccine shots for Covid-19 would be administered to 600 frontline warriors in the city on the inaugural day after the launch of CoWin app by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Some beneficiaries at Government Women Hospital vaccination centre will also get the opportunity of sharing their experience of getting Covid-19 vaccine on the inaugural day with PM Narendra Modi by interacting with him through video conferencing. As the countdown for the biggest vaccination drive has started, district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma told TOI on Thursday, “All the preparations at six vaccination centres have been completed. The drive will commence with the PM’s address and he will also interact with beneficiaries in Varanasi and Jhansi through video conferencing, necessary arrangements for which have been made at the women hospital here. One beneficiary will get the opportunity to share experience with the PM.” Chief medical officer Dr VB Singh said vaccination will be done at six centres, including GWH, DDU district hospital, BHU hospital, Heritage medical institute, and the primary health centres at Devapuri and Kashi Vidyapeeth. “At each centre, 100 beneficiaries will be administered the vaccine by the teams as per protocol,” he said. “Armed security personnel have been deployed round-the-clock at all stores where vaccines are stocked. All vaccine transportation is being done amid tight security. Static magistrates have been deployed at each vaccination centre. Trained personnel have been provided at vaccination centres for prompt feeding of data of the beneficiaries,” said the DM. Following arrival of 1.85 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccine at LBS International Airport and their stocking at regional drugs warehouse on Wednesday, officials dispatched the share of 14 districts in Varanasi, Prayagraj, Mirzapur and Azamgarh divisions by late Thursday evening. “We have received 10,000 vaccine doses although 20,980 beneficiaries are registered for the initial phase of vaccination,” the CMO said. “After Saturday, vaccination will be done on January 18, 22 and 25. On each day, vaccines will be administered to 3,000 beneficiaries at 30 centres,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/600-beneficiaries-to-get-vaccine-on-day-one/articleshow/80274321.cms||Rajeev Dikshit
January 15, 2021||Goa||Lifeguards carry out fewer rescues in 2020 as visitors keep off beaches||Panaji: The Dristi Marine lifeguarding agency conducted fewer rescues in 2020 as compared to 2019 due to drop in footfalls on the account of the pandemic-related travel restriction. Over the year, the state has been witnessing a rise in incidents of tourists getting caught rough currents and rescue operations tell the tale. In 2019, 619 people were rescued, which is much higher than the 376 saved from drowning in the sea in 2018. The numbers came down in 2020, with only 249 rescues, of which 79 were in December alone. Most drowning incidents in Goa are reported during December as the state receives more tourists this time of the year than at any other time. At times the state sees a surge in arrivals on weekends and extended weekends. During peak season beaches are crowded and often swimmers end up in no-swim zones. Some in their zest to have a good time neither pay heed to what lifeguards have to say nor pay attention to sign boards. Head of Drishti Marine Goa, Ravi Shankar, said that many tourists consume alcohol before stepping into the sea, which can prove dangerous, especially when the sea is rough and there are undercurrents. “Visitors are not familiar with sea conditions and when lifeguards appeal to them to enjoy responsibly, their instructions are ignored,” Shankar said. He said there exists a complete indifference to authority, rules and instructions, particularly among domestic tourists. Besides tourists, beach shacks also occupy a lot of the beach area by putting out tables and chairs, especially in Baga and Calangute, which leads to congestion. “There is little space available for lifesavers to navigate when they conduct rescues. There needs to be a dedicated space that is left open for life savers to rush to the sea and back in the quickest possible way while doing a rescue. Time is critical for a victim,” Shankar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lifeguards-carry-out-fewer-rescues-in-2020-as-visitors-keep-off-beaches/articleshow/80275594.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||A humble start led them to dream big, score high||Lucknow: At a time when girls in her village were not allowed to venture out, she crossed all barriers, pursued her dreams and is now being awarded a gold medal in BTech civil engineering. Vaishali Narula, daughter of a farmer, who is the first girl to be an engineer from her village Malsagirdharpur, Uttarakhand, will be awarded the medal along with others at the annual convocation of APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University (AKTU) on Saturday. “Belonging from a village where the mindset towards girls is that they should not step out to study, I feel honoured to be the first girl to study engineering and receive this gold medal,” the girl said. As she excelled in studies with 9.8 CGPA in 10th and 91.8% in 12th, her father encouraged her for further studies. She cleared the entrance exam and joined KIET Group of Institutions, Ghaziabad. “I think that girls should pursue their career to show the world that they are worthy enough of achieving their dreams,” said her father Surendra Kumar. Like Vaishali, there are several AKTU toppers battled odds to achieve success. Arun Kumar Maurya, son of an electrical mechanic in Bareilly, will be an electrical engineer, a proud moment for the family. He will also be awarded a silver medal for excelling in academics. “I have seen my father work at long, odd hours at a meagre pay to educate me,” said Arun, who has done BTech electrical and electronics from Ajay Kumar Garg Engineering College, Ghaziabad, and is now preparing for Indian Engineering Services. Arun’s father Jagannath battled financial crisis and saved money to educate his son. “I want to see my son holding the degree of an electrical engineer, which I could not become,” he said. Vikas Gupta, silver medalist in BTech mechanical engineering from Vision Institute of Technology, Kanpur, comes from a poor family in Fatehpur, “My father travels 60-70 kms every day to pick 'khoya' from the wholesale market and sell it to the local shops,” he said. During lockdown, markets were closed for three-four months and earning a single penny became tough for the family. However, Vikas has now got a job in Gurgaon.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-humble-start-led-them-to-dream-big-score-high/articleshow/80276398.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||‘75 wonders of UP’ to be new ODOP promotion theme||Lucknow: The MSME and export promotion department is launching an aggressive campaigning of the one district one product (ODOP) scheme on the theme ‘75 wonders of Uttar Pradesh’ for promotion and marketing of traditional handicrafts and products of the state. In a meeting at Lucknow on Thursday, MSME and export promotion minister, Sidharth Nath Singh directed officials to launch a campaign on ‘75 wonders of Uttar Pradesh’ theme through hoardings, banners and video vans across the state so that the 75 articles shortlisted by chief minister Yogi Adityanath under ODOP scheme for their publicity among people so that their sales improve and also ensure that the products are readily available. The ODOP promotion campaign will also emphasise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s turning call for turning local into global, the minister said. Singh said the ODOP programme Of Uttar Pradesh has been praised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi also because of the way in which it has improved exports from the state in the last three years and given employment to people in the state. “These are not the simple brick and mortar products, as each carries its history and heritage and is rooted in the cultural history of the state and that is why they should be promoted as 75 Wonders of UP,” remarked the MSME minister, who has also been marketing the state’s industrial potential across the nation and abroad and has succeeded in drawing investments of hundreds of crores to the state, besides major projects.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/75-wonders-of-up-to-be-new-odop-promotion-theme/articleshow/80276245.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Varanasi||Gene sequencing for new Covid strain starts in KGMU, CSIR labs in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Gene sequencing for the new strain of Covid-19 virus will now start in Uttar Pradesh labs also. Earlier, the samples were sent to designated labs in New Delhi or Pune. The labs in UP starting gene sequencing are King George’s Medical University, Central Drug Research Institute and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research in Lucknow and Institute of Medical Sciences Banaras Hindu University, in Varanasi. CDRI and IITR come under CSIR. Additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said on Thursday, “The gene sequencing facility has been started on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Gene sequencing is crucial for tracking the new strain of Covid-19 virus and controlling its spread. The facility will lessen the time in determining the mutant strain so that surveillance and control activities are launched on time.” As per government orders, all international travellers from countries where mutant strain has been found have to be tested for coronavirus infection on arrival. If they test positive, their sample is sent for gene sequencing to test the strain responsible for causing infection in the patient. “UP has emerged as a leader in Covid-19 testing. The state not only embraced new technologies, it also scaled several benchmarks,” Dr Dube said. From testing just five-six samples a day in March 2020, the state is now conducting an average of 1.5 lakh tests per day. It has undertaken more than 2.58 crore tests, of which more than 1.25 crore have been through the gold standard of RT PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/gene-sequencing-for-new-covidstrain-starts-in-kgmu-csir-labs/articleshow/80281321.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 15, 2021||Allahabad||Gene sequencing for new Covid strain starts in KGMU, CSIR labs in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Gene sequencing for the new strain of Covid-19 virus will now start in Uttar Pradesh labs also. Earlier, the samples were sent to designated labs in New Delhi or Pune. The labs in UP starting gene sequencing are King George’s Medical University, Central Drug Research Institute and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research in Lucknow and Institute of Medical Sciences Banaras Hindu University, in Varanasi. CDRI and IITR come under CSIR. Additional chief secretary medical education, Dr Rajneesh Dube said on Thursday, “The gene sequencing facility has been started on the instructions of Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. Gene sequencing is crucial for tracking the new strain of Covid-19 virus and controlling its spread. The facility will lessen the time in determining the mutant strain so that surveillance and control activities are launched on time.” As per government orders, all international travellers from countries where mutant strain has been found have to be tested for coronavirus infection on arrival. If they test positive, their sample is sent for gene sequencing to test the strain responsible for causing infection in the patient. “UP has emerged as a leader in Covid-19 testing. The state not only embraced new technologies, it also scaled several benchmarks,” Dr Dube said. From testing just five-six samples a day in March 2020, the state is now conducting an average of 1.5 lakh tests per day. It has undertaken more than 2.58 crore tests, of which more than 1.25 crore have been through the gold standard of RT PCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/gene-sequencing-for-new-covidstrain-starts-in-kgmu-csir-labs/articleshow/80281324.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Bird flu scare: 3 days on, Mohali awaits forensic test report||MOHALI: Three days after sample collection, Mohali is awaiting the forensic test report of approximately 400 poultry birds. Animal husbandry department deputy director Sangeeta Toor said while collecting samples from various poultry farms in Derabassi and Kharar, no deformity or symptoms of bird flu were detected. Asserting that the exercise would continue till further orders, she said, “Teams, under supervision of 30 veterinary officers in their respective jurisdictions, will continue picking up samples from poultry farms and meat shops till further orders. We have collected 400 samples from 30 farms and these have been sent to Northern Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (NRDDL), Jalandhar, and reports are awaited. Samples are being collected after discussing the modalities with NRDDL.” Toor said teams were following directions of NRDDL so that the samples may not turn inconclusive during testing. She confirmed that to date, there has been no reports of deaths of chicken from any of the poultry farms situated at Derabassi, Lalru, Zirakpur, Kharar, Gharuan and Banur. Recently, dead chicken samples collected by the animal husbandry department, Panchkula, turned inconclusive, after which a team of NRDDL arrived at Barwala and took the samples again.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bird-flu-3-days-on-mohali-awaits-forensic-test-report/articleshow/80274384.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||All flyers discharged, 7 results still awaited from NIV||Nagpur: Finally, all 140 residents of the city who returned from countries in Europe, Middle East and South Africa stand discharged, with no positive case of mutated variant of Covid-19 from UK found in the city as yet. Results of genome sequencing of three suspected patients of UK variant and three family members are still awaited from National Institute of Virology (NIV), Pune.Medical officer of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) Dr Sanjay Chilkar told TOI, “GMCH discharged three suspected patients from special ward on Tuesday evening. Four recent flyers were also discharged from quarantine centres as they tested negative and completed seven days of institutional quarantine. Now, no one is admitted in GMCH and quarantine centres,” he said.Of the who returned from these particular countries between November 25 and December 23, 100 persons were tested, of which eight came positive in RT-PCR tests. They were admitted as suspected patients of new strain. Their swab samples were sent for genome sequencing to examine whether they were infected with old or UK strain.Genome sequencing of three suspected patients could not happen as they tested negative in RT-PCR tests so they were discharged on January 4. Result of one suspected patient was negative for UK mutated variant, and was discharged on January 7. Another suspected patient was discharged on January 7 as results were awaited from NIV but he completed 15 days quarantine and tested negative in two consecutive RT-PCR tests.One suspected patient’s genome sequencing could not happen as GMCH reportedly sent insufficient quantity of swab sample. He was recommended discharge but continued to stay in GMCH as his son did not get discharge. He was among the three who were discharged on Tuesday.The last patient was discharged on Tuesday as he completed 15 days and tested negative in consecutive two RT-PCR tests.Results of three suspected patients are yet to be received from NIV despite passing of 20 days.Swab samples of three family members of city’s first suspected patient were sent for genome sequencing as he came negative in RT-PCR test when admitted in GMCH. Results of these three persons are also awaited from NIV.Officials of NMC and GMCH have no idea when NIV will send the results.Of the 40 persons who returned from these particular countries after December 24, and were admitted in institutional quarantine centres, all tested negative and completed seven days quarantine before being discharged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/all-flyers-discharged-7-results-still-awaited-from-niv/articleshow/80273425.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||MD among 17 sugar mill staffers booked for buying cane from mafia||Bareilly: Badaun police on Thursday booked 17 people, including the managing director of a local sugar mill, for refusing to procure sugarcane directly from eligible local farmers, instead buying it without cane supply tickets from the mafia. The FIR in the case was registered at Islamnagar police station on the order of district magistrate Kumar Prashant. The sugar mill also owes farmers nearly Rs 40 crore in cane price arrears. The DM said, “We received complaints that the sugar mill was not paying farmers for cane procured, and were solely purchasing sugarcane via middlemen. A team from the cane department accompanied police to the factory on Wednesday night, where we found several tractor trolleys loaded with cane from other districts parked inside for weighing. The cane had come from Sambhal and Bulandshahr districts, and did not have valid cane supply tickets. An FIR was immediately ordered against 17 people, including the MD. The cane was seized and the mill was given notice to clear pending dues of farmers at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/md-among-17-sugar-mill-staffers-booked-for-buying-cane-from-mafia/articleshow/80272136.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||10,000 more birds culled in Barwala||tnnPanchkula: The Panchkula administration is yet to receive reports from the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) laboratory, Bhopal, of the bird samples it had sent on January 8. Meanwhile, 10,000 more birds were culled here on Thursday. With this, the administration has, so far, culled over 47,000 birds at three poultry farms in the Barwala belt. More samples were collected and sent to the laboratory from other farms.Following the standard protocols, the samples were sent to the Bhopal institute from the Northern Regional Disease Diagnostics Laboratory, Jalandhar.The administration is taking regular updates from the Bhopal institute. Sources said, “It is taking more time as samples from across the country have reached the laboratory.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/10000-more-birds-culled-in-barwala/articleshow/80274380.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Charges against Maharashtra minister are serious, says Sharad Pawar||MUMBAI: On a day it appeared that social justice minister Dhananjay Munde of the NCP, who is facing rape accusations, could be sacked from the MVA cabinet with his party chief Sharad Pawar saying charges against him were “serious,” two politicians — BJP’s Krishna Hegde and MNS’s Manish Dhure — approached Amboli police accusing the woman complainant in Munde’s case of blackmailing them. It also emerged on Thursday that the woman had earlier filed a sexual harassment case against another individual. Pawar said, “allegation of rape against Dhananjay Munde is serious. We will discuss the issue within the organisation. We will have to take a decision as a party. Munde met me and explained the sequence of events. NCP will take a call as soon as possible.” Sources said a section of Munde’s supporters within the NCP feels the party leadership must wait for the outcome of the police investigation before taking a decision. The woman had on January 10 lodged a complaint with Oshiwara police saying that Munde had sexually abused her since 2006 and that he should be booked for rape. Police have not lodged an FIR yet but have said they will call Munde and the woman for recording statements. Munde has said he had a consensual relationship with the woman’s sister and even had two children from her. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, asked about the case, said that “family matters must not be used for political purposes” and that “the NCP leadership is strong enough to take a decision.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/charges-against-maharashtra-minister-are-serious-says-sharad-pawar/articleshow/80276815.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 15, 2021||Amritsar||US doctor keeping Tikri fit with ‘Pind California’||BATHINDA: Delhi’s Tikri border is now second home to American cardiologist Dr Swaiman Singh. Leaving behind a three-year fellowship at New Jersey in US, this MS-qualified doctor is camping with the farmers for the past 45 days, giving them free checkup, books, and night stay, besides helping clean up the protest site. Settled in the US for 24 years, he leads the ‘5 Rivers Heart Association’ that responds to healthcare and education crisis by holding medical camps and distributing educational material. With ‘protect our farmers’ as the new motto, his volunteer organisation has set up night shelter Pind California for 4,000 protesters, women mainly. His father, Jaswinder Pal Singh, now a lawyer in the US, was one of the founders of the Students’ Federation of India in Punjab, while his mother, Surinder Kaur, moved from student politics to being a librarian in the US. A few doctors from Delhi run 5 rivers’ Tikri medical camps, while Dr Swaiman Singh supplies medicine and equipment to the camp. He told TOI: ““I could also examine people if the Indian laws permitted. Just six months away from completing a three-year specialisation in cardiology, I got to know about the Punjab farmers’ protest outside Delhi and joined it in first week. I tied up with doctors and gave away the protesters 9,000 books to read. We’ll expand Pind California to sleep 10,000 people. Our volunteers lead a cleanliness campaign as well.” The doctors on this team are from various hospitals of Delhi. Dr Swaiman Singh said: “I will move out only when the protesters do. I am indebted to the farmers for what they suffer to feed the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amritsar/us-doctor-keeping-tikri-fit-for-fight/articleshow/80275597.cms||Neel Kamal
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Student from Virar held for providing fake I-cards||MUMBAI: A student from Virar was arrested by railway police for providing fake identity cards of government and non-government sector to passengers who wanted to travel in local trains. Ordinary citizens cannot travel in local trains even though Western Railway is running 1,201 trains daily. Only essential service staff, as designated by state government, can travel, including, state and central government, banking sector, lawyers, medical and health field staff or proprietors.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-held-for-providing-fake-i-cards/articleshow/80276308.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||HC rejects review plea alleging irregularities in PM Cares Fund||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday rejected a review PIL alleging irregularities in the PM Cares Fund. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Anil Kilor made it clear that it lacked merit.Petitioner Arvind Waghmare had contended that three trustees weren’t appointed on the board till date despite clear guidelines, but crores of rupees are being accepted.“The petitioner-in-person has not shown as to how these additional grounds are replete with manifest errors. This perspective opens another window enabling us to again find that the grievance regarding demand for public disclosure of fund money, based upon non-availability of any effective regulatory mechanism, is devoid of any merit.”The judges pointed out that not every matter of public interest or curiosity could be made subject matter of PIL. “The constitutional courts were not expected to conduct administration of the country; to be precise, of any charitable trust. This court further found that if any such prayer demanding public disclosure of fund money was to be granted, in the facts and circumstances discussed in the judgment under review, it may amount to interference in the administration of fund affairs and also power of authorities exercising superintendence and control over the fund.”The judges added that the petitioner didn’t point out any gross violation of constitutional or statutory provisions for invoking public interest jurisdiction. “The contributions to fund were voluntary in nature and there was no compulsion for anyone to donate. He has an objection about interpretation made by this court of the provision conferring power upon Board of Trustees chairperson to nominate three members. This was an enabling provision giving discretion to the chairperson and not obligating him to nominate three trustees,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-rejects-review-plea-alleging-irregularities-in-pm-cares-fund/articleshow/80273438.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Covid-19 thief, who had fled from Mayo hospital, nabbed in Naxal belt||Nagpur: Naresh Malinge, 25, who had fled from Covid ward of Mayo hospital in November last year, was trapped by the crime branch team in the Maoist-belt of Chhattisgarh this week. After fleeing from the hospital, the cops feel he may have been involved in burglaries and thefts in other districts for money to splurge at brothels and gambling.Malinge, who is in police custody, was involved in a latest burglary at an office of a trader named Mukesh Agrawal at Wardhaman Nagar from where he had fled with Rs5lakh. The crime branch team of senior inspector Kishor Parvate, under supervision of DCP Gajanan Rajmane and addl CP Sunil Phulari, has detected 16 offences of thefts and burglaries from Malinge and his accomplice Mukesh Jambhulkar at different police stations in the city, Khapa in rural and also Duggipar in Gondia.Police said Malinge purchased car for moving around at different locations searching for locked houses and offices to break in. After a big thefts, he would sneak away to his residence in Chhattisgarh to wait until police diverted their attention.While working out about his whereabouts, police managed to arrests around four of his past accomplices including one Akshay Bhaisware who was wanted after stringent Maharashtra prevention of dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act was invoked against him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-19-thief-who-had-fled-from-mayo-hospital-nabbed-in-naxal-belt/articleshow/80273455.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||269 fined for flying kites with banned nylon manja||Nagpur: The nuisance detection squad (NDS) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday caught red-handed 250 persons while flying kites with the banned nylon manja on Makar Sankranti. The city police too caught 19 people with the manja from different areas of the city.The police and NDS had launched a joint action after death of a 23-year-old engineering graduate Pranay Thakre whose throat was slit due to the nylon manja on Tuesday.The NDS led by commandant Veersen Tambe also seized 4,048 banned plastic kites and 107 nylon manja chakris after raiding 424 shops. The squad also collected Rs55,000 in fine from the offenders.The NDS teams fanned across the city since 8am. The highest number of cases were found in Dharampeth and Mangalwari zones where the team caught 70 people using the nylon manja.The NDS caught 30 persons each in Hanuman Nagar, Nehru Nagar and Lakadganj zones, 25 in Gandhibagh zone and 20 each in Laxmi Nagar and Ashi Nagar zones, 15 in Satranjipura and 10 in Dhantoli zones. The Nagpur city police had recently issued a prohibitory order banning kite flying with nylon manja.Police personnel from Dhantoli, Ambazari, Ganeshpeth, Pratap Nagar and Kalamna caught two kite flyers each. Gittikhadan police and Nandanvan police caught four and three kite flyers each. Kapil Nagar and Tehsil Nagar police stations caught one person each.As a precautionary measure, the Nagpur city traffic police kept all the flyovers in the city closed for the entire day to prevent any accident due to the manja.In 2017, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) banned the production, storage and sale of nylon manja since the thread can leave deep cuts leading to death of humans or animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/269-fined-for-flying-kites-with-banned-nylon-manja/articleshow/80273450.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||At nine vaccination hubs in Mumbai, FAQ sheets & CoWin app anxiety||MUMBAI: With the mammoth immunization drive less than 48 hours away, the vaccination centres within the city’s medical colleges saw hectic last-minute preparations on Thursday. Most centres, where officials were eagerly waiting to download the CoWin application, were disappointed as it didn’t go live till late on Thursday evening. Beneficiaries have still not started getting text messages with date and time of vaccination. Mumbai’s four medical colleges -- Sion, KEM, Nair and Cooper -- will handle the bulk of vaccinations. The vaccination centre at Parel’s KEM, set up on the second floor of the new hospital building, saw computers and internet connectivity being installed on Thursday. The entry and exit signages were being earmarked, even as vaccine FAQs sheets were being plastered on the walls. “We are already a designated vaccination centre for yellow fever, and we intend to use that experience,” said professor of community medicine Dr R S Kembhavi, who is the nodal officer of the centre. The token display system was yet to be installed, though hospital authorities said it would be complete by evening. The clinical pharmacology ward that has been converted into a vaccination centre will see at least 2,000 people being inoculated every day. There would be 10 vaccinators working in seven-hour shifts and an equal number of data operators for the verification step. A ward in the corner with three beds has been readied to handle adverse effects. A nurse said they have not handled or seen the actual CoWin application. “Vaccinating people is not new for us, but the app is,” she said. Dr Gajanan Velhal, head of community medicine, said they will be conducting a dry run on Friday to ensure people were acquainted with the steps. Similar activity was going on at Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central, where a massive tent has been set up to serve as the waiting area once a beneficiary reaches the centre. The vaccination room has 10 chairs and stools placed in a row, with each set being divided by an antibacterial curtain. The hospital has two data operators for now. “The observation area can seat at least 60 at a time. We will be posting anaesthesia, medicine and chest medicine resident doctors to tackle any adverse effects,” said Dr S R Suryawanshi, head of preventive medicine. He too said people were waiting to see and experience how the app functions. Dean of Sion Hospital Dr Mohan Joshi said a ward above casualty department has been earmarked for vaccination. Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of Nair hospital, said beneficiaries were likely to receive messages by Friday. AMC Suresh Kakani said preparations were complete across nine centres in the city where the drive would be launched initially. “The number of centres has been reduced to not overwhelm the online system. As the drive progresses, centres may be increased too,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-nine-vaccination-hubs-in-mum-faq-sheets-cowin-app-anxiety/articleshow/80275678.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||13 more dead birds’ samples test -ve for avian influenza||CHANDIGARH: In a major relief for city residents, the reports of 13 more dead birds’ samples came negative for avian influenza. With this, all the 21 samples sent, so far, from Chandigarh to Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, have tested negative. UT’s chief conservator of forests (CCF) Debendra Dalai said the reports received on Thursday came as a relief not only for the city residents, but also for the department. The reports include samples of eight dead crows, which were found near Chandigarh railway station. Others were some stray cases, but the railway station one was of eight crows, therefore the department was eagerly awaiting the report, he added. Dalai also appealed to the city residents to be watchful for any symptoms in birds and inform at the UT forest and wildlife department helpline 0172-2700217. Earlier, the UT had sent two sets of samples of eight birds, which had also tested negative. A senior UT officer said there was no need to panic and it was safe to eat properly cooked chicken and eggs. He said mortality of birds in the city could be due to cold weather. More than 50 birds have been found dead in the city in the past more than a week. Different teams of the UT forest and wildlife department continued surveillance at the regulatory end of Sukhna Lake, Nepli and Kansal range of Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary, nature trail of Sukhna Lake forest, and other parts of the city. In December 2014, the UT administration, with the assistance of experts from Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, had conducted a culling operation of 110 domesticated geese after the Central government notified the outbreak of avian influenza in captive ducks and geese at Sukhna Lake. The senior officers said in winter, migratory birds begin flocking Sukhna Lake and water bodies in Sukhna Wildlife Sanctuary. The regular winged guests include ruddy shelducks, white-eyed pochards, common pochards, common coot, ferruginous pochards, tufted ducks and greylag goose among others. These migratory birds come from Siberia, China and other parts of the world during November and December and stay till March, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/13-more-dead-birds-samples-test-ve-for-avian-influenza/articleshow/80274439.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 15, 2021||Pune||Maha to cut vaccination sites to 285 for inaugural day||Pune: The Centre has directed health officials in Maharashtra to scale down the number of its vaccination sites to 285 from the 358 announced earlier.State immunisation officer Dr D N Patil told TOI that the Centre late on Wednesday asked the state to revise its plan. “This is for the inaugural day (January 16). The number of sites can be scaled up in the coming days,” he said, adding that the Centre gave no reasons for the need to cut the number.Of the 285 sites, Mumbai will have the maximum (40) followed by Pune (31) and Thane (23). The lowest number of vaccination sites is at Hingoli (2), Gondia, Akola, Sindhudurg and Bhandara (3 each).Patil said 100 beneficiaries will be covered at each site as per the guidelines of the vaccination programme. “We expect 28,500 beneficiaries to be covered on the first day,” he said.Commissioner (family welfare) N Ramaswami told TOI that the respective districts have been intimated about the vaccination sites. “We have received all 9.8 lakh vaccine doses — 9.63 lakh from Serum Institute of India and 20,000 from Bharat Biotech, which have been distributed,” he said.The Centre has scaled down the number of vaccination sites across the country to around 3,000 from the 5,000 planned initially. Asked about the reduction, NIIT Aayog member Dr Vinod Paul said the vaccination programme would be started with the 3,000 sites before being scaled up to 5,000 or even more if needed.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has received 9.8 lakh doses and the remaining should be dispatched by the Centre in the next 8-10 days. As per the state’s calculation, the required number of doses is 16 lakh for 8 lakh workers and another 1.5 lakh doses in case of damage. “As of now, we have reserved two doses each for 4.9 lakh health workers. The remaining health workers will be inoculated when we get the remaining doses,” he told TOI.Tope said the Centre has also asked states to select the days for the vaccination programme so that it does not affect routine work. 4 med colleges, 2 hosps in state to use CovaxinFour government medical colleges and two district hospitals in Maharashtra will administer the Covaxin vaccine from Bharat Biotech under the vaccination programme. The four medical colleges are in Solapur, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Mumbai (Grant medical college and J J Hospital). The two district hospitals are in Pune (Aundh) and Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/maha-to-cut-vaccination-sites-to-285-for-inaugural-day/articleshow/80275649.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Firm orders 1,250 bicycles, battery-run ones in demand||Chandigarh: The private company, which has been carrying out the Public Bicycle Sharing (PBS) project in the city, has placed an order for 1,250 bicycles. The project will be operational by May-end. The company’s record clearly shows that the craze for battery-operated bicycles is more as compared with the manual ones.All the 5,000 bicycles will come to the city in a phased manner, and the first phase will be complete by May-end. Besides, 155 docking stations will also come up by then. “Since the project has been planned in a time-bound manner, the company has placed orders accordingly. The project has shown tremendous success so far, but the number of people opting for battery-operated bikes is quite high. In the coming days, the company will order more battery-operated bicycles,” a senior officer said.As per records, to date over 15,000 have registered with the PBS project and the centre has been receiving a number of query calls daily. The company is gathering more data, so that it could get clarity on usage and demand of the bicycles in the coming days.The project was started on a trial basis in the last week of October, and at present there are over 250 bicycles with 25 docking stations. The docking stations have been set up at prominent locations of the city like Sukhna Lake, Sector 17, Sector 22, PU, PGI, Punjab and Haryana high court, among others, on a pilot basis. The chargesThe charges for bicycles under the PBS project will decrease for the members from May-end. Since the company has to start making members by May, the charge will be half for them. At present, the riders have to pay Rs 20 for one hour and Rs 10 for half-an-hour, which will be halved when they become members. The charges will be the same for both battery-operated and manual bicycles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/firm-orders-1250-bicycles-battery-run-ones-in-demand/articleshow/80274440.cms||Deepak Yadav
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Bhandara tragedy: Two of the 7 rescued babies discharged||Nagpur: With no more VIP visits expected now, the Bhandara district general hospital on Thursday discharged two babies out of the seven which survived the January 9 fire incident in its Sick Newborn Care Unit on the first floor. The mothers were allotted beds on the floor above in ward numbers 10 and 11.Following the incident, the parents were reluctant to keep their babies at the hospital, which had shifted the infants to its family welfare section for the time being. In fact, some of the babies were to be discharged on January 9 itself but it got postponed after doctors got busy with damage control. Parents then went on to allege that the hospital was forcibly holding their babies back to “show them off to VIPs”. Governor BS Koshyari was the latest to visit the hospital on Wednesday, while chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had come on Sunday. Several cabinet ministers, MLAs and politicians have also visited the hospital.Dinesh Khandate, one of the parents, was in a dilemma as the hospital discharged one of his twin daughters but told him that the other baby had been kept back. Khandate said he lived 40km away from the hospital, and it would not be possible for him to bring the mother daily if needed. He is still at the hospital.Meanwhile, the parents also complained that they had been dumped after the VIPs’ visit, and that the government and district administration had focused only on the parents of 10 babies which died in the incident. “We too have gone through similar trauma and mental harassment. In fact, after the incident, the hospital administration used us and our seven babies to wash its sins of being responsible for the death of 10 babies. We haven’t been offered any monetary aid,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bhandara-tragedy-two-of-the-7-rescued-babies-discharged/articleshow/80273462.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Post SC relief, UT sets ball rolling for power dept privatisation||Chandigarh: After getting relief from the Supreme Court, the UT administration has resumed the sale of request for proposal (RFP) for UT electricity department privatisation. UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The Supreme Court, on Tuesday, had vacated the Punjab and Haryana high court stay on the privatisation of the UT electricity department. Thereafter, a meeting was convened and discussions were held on the issue. It has been decided to restart the sale of tender documents, which was earlier stopped due to the high court order. Accordingly, directions have been issued to resume their sale,” he said.  The SC had issued its order on a petition filed by the Chandigarh administration against the HC’s order of staying the directive of the UT, wherein it had floated a tender for privatisation of the department. A senior official of the UT engineering department, who is closely associated with the privatisation project, said, “The infrastructure is already in place. Selection of a firm after the tender process and transition are likely to be completed by June-end. The department will also take care of interests of UT electricity department employees.” On December 1, the high court had stayed the privatisation till the next hearing and issued a notice to the Union government, the UT administration and the UT chief engineer on a petition filed by Gopal Dutt Joshi, general secretary of the UT Powermen’s Union. While challenging the UT’s decision to float a tender for privatisation, the petitioner had submitted that the electricity rates were less in Chandigarh in comparison with the neighbouring states and still the department was in profit. Despite the good financial state, the UT administration wanted to privatise it, he said.The administration, in its tender, had proposed to give licence to a distribution company, to be finalised after the bidding process, for 25 years under the power department privatisation project.Recently, the UT had written a letter to the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) and submitted the roadmap for the department’s privatisation. For the project, 14 private firms, including CESC Limited, Torrent Power Limited, Sterlite Power, Adani Transmission Limited, Tata Power Company Limited, GMR Generation Asset Limited, India Power Corporation Limited, DNH Power Distribution Corporation Limited and NTPC Electric Supply Limited, had bought request for proposal (RFP) documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/post-sc-relief-ut-sets-ball-rolling-for-power-dept-privatisation/articleshow/80274444.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||3 firms in race to convert press bldg into museum||Chandigarh: Even as the central government has ordered for the closure of the Government Printing Press in Sector 18, the Chandigarh administration has sped up the work to convert the building into a museum of heritage furniture and vintage cars.UT adviser Manoj Parida said the administration has received three bids to convert the building into a museum and they would soon hold a meeting with the bidders to take the project forward.Requesting anonymity, a senior UT official said the museum would also aid the administration’s efforts to check the sale of heritage furniture abroad. In the wake of the administration drawing flak over frequent sale of such furniture abroad, it had recently prepared an action plan to check these auctions. The Heritage Protection Cell of the administration had also suggested that the government press building be converted into a heritage furniture museum, he said.The official further said the UT administration would also display vintage cars owned by private people in the city at the museum. It would work out modalities with such car owners for displaying their vehicles there, the official added.The UT administration has prepared an inventory of as many as 2,793 heritage items belonging to Chandigarh, which have been divided into 190 categories. These include furniture, tapestry, drawings and other items, which were designed, made and used by city’s creator French architect Le Corbusier, his cousin Pierre Jeanneret and others associated with the founding and planning of Chandigarh in the 1950s and 60s. The UT Government Museum and Art Gallery in Chandigarh also has a possession of a large number of heritage items, including furniture, drawings and murals, among others, made by Corbusier and his associates. Besides, the Punjab and Haryana Civil Secretariat, Punjab and Haryana Vidhan Sabha and the Punjab and Haryana high court also have huge stocks of heritage furniture, including chairs and tables.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-firms-in-race-to-convert-press-bldg-into-museum/articleshow/80274446.cms||Rajinder Nagarkoti
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Polls for 3,857 GPs in Vidarbha today, results on Jan 18||Nagpur: Elections for 3,857 gram panchayats in Vidarbha will take place on January 15. The elections are taking place all over the state. Counting will be held on January 18. Gram panchayat elections are not contested on party symbols, but leaders of all parties try to get their supporters elected. These elections are, therefore, a test of hold of rural MLAs and zilla parishad (ZP) members over their constituencies. BJP will be looking to avenge its defeat in MLC elections held in December. A poor showing in GP elections will raise question mark on the leadership of leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state party president Chandrakant Patil. In Nagpur district, 130 panchayats were slated to go to polls. However, election was cancelled in Kadal village following complaints of massive errors in the voter list. Now, voting will take place for 129 GPs in the district. Total 2,798 candidates are in the fray for 1,181 seats in these 129 villages. The number of polling centres is 595. In Gondia district, 3,251 candidates are in the fray for 1,382 seats in 189 villages. The figures for other districts are: Bhandara 2,745 candidates, 1,236 seats and 145 villages, Chandrapur 9,266 candidates, 4,191 seats and 604 villages, Gadchiroli 5,461 candidates, 2,276 seats and 361 villages, Wardha 1,301 candidates, 448 seats and 50 villages, Yavatmal 15,756 candidates, 6,715 seats and 925 villages, Amravati 10,001 candidates, 4,397 seats and 537 villages, Akola 4,411 candidates, 1,741 seats and 224 villages, Buldhana 9,664 candidates, 4,805 seats and 527 villages and Washim 3,192 candidates, 1,487 seats and 163 villages. Due to restrictions imposed by the State Election Commission (SEC), campaigning for the elections, which began on January 5, had to be toned down. Candidates used social media on a large scale to make up. Large number of candidates opened Facebook accounts for campaigning. WhatsApp was the most popular messenger app for reaching out to voters. This time, the SEC has decided to declare the reservation for posts of sarpanchs after the elections. Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has abrogated the previous BJP-Sena government’s decision of holding direct elections for the post of sarpanch. The sarpanch post will be reserved for SC, ST, OBC and women through draw of lots. This factor has reduced enthusiasm among the candidates as well as voters. However, this will be known for certain only after the SEC announces the final polling percentage on Friday night.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/polls-for-3857-gps-in-vidarbha-today-results-on-jan-18/articleshow/80274430.cms||Ashish Roy
January 15, 2021||Patna||Over 4L passengers use UTS mobile app to book train tickets||BHAGALPUR: Over 4,00,000 passengers have been benefited following the resumption of Unreserved Ticketing System (UTS) on mobile application on January 5, Eastern Railway (ER) sources said here on Wednesday. Besides facilitating train passengers, the ER also was able to earn more than 17lakh through selling of tickets for local trains in the suburban section by ‘UTS on mobile app’.Incidentally, the Railway Board and the railway ministry are providing 5% bonus on buying of tickets through UTS on mobile application to encourage train passengers to use the mobile app and avoid gathering at ticket booking counters. Chief public relations officer (CPRO) Kamal Deo Das said that UTS on mobile application for train passengers in the suburban sections of ER has been restored with effect from January 6 with the assistance from Centre for Railway Information Systems (CRIS). “There was a growing demand from the passengers for restoring the UTS app. It facilitates passengers to purchase tickets through digital mode conveniently and avoid standing in queues at the ticket booking counters,” Das said.Passengers have to download the UTS application and activate it on their cellphones to purchase tickets for local trains. The app allows passengers to book suburban railway tickets within 10 minutes. Generally, passengers deposit money in their R-wallets and book single-journey ticket or generate, renew passes.“The UTS on mobile app has provided protection in the backdrop of Covid and enables a passenger in maintaining physical distancing on the station premises as per Covid protocol,” the CPRO said.Another senior ER official said that the UTS app also aims to encourage the central government’s initiative towards digitized and cashless economy besides hassle free journey besides taking-off pressure from the ticket booking counters at the railway stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/over-4l-passengers-use-uts-mobile-app-to-book-train-tickets/articleshow/80256447.cms||Kumar Rajesh
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid norms top priority at today’s gram panchayat polls||Aurangabad: Elections to 579 gram panchayats in Aurangabad, 2,238 in Nashik and 1,820 in Kolhapur will take place on Friday by following all Covid-related prevention norms. Among the nine talukas in Aurangabad district, 38 local self-governing bodies have been elected unopposed and as per official data, as many as 16,942 candidates are in fray for a total of 4,694 seats in different gram panchayats across the district. Tehsildar Anita Bhalerao said polling would be held across 2,268 booths in the district from 7.30 am to 5.30 pm. “Acting on the directives of the state election commission, all Covid-related norms have been ensured at every polling booth, including thermal scanning, proper sanitisation and social distancing. As per official instructions, even Covid positive patients can cast their vote during the last half an hour,” she said. In Nashik district, self-governing bodies of 236 gram panchayats have already been elected unopposed and election for two panchayats have been cancelled by the state election commission over alleged auction of the seats. Across the division, around 8,400 police personnel — assisted by 4,600 home guards and five companies and five platoons sourced from reserved police — have been deployed for ensuring fair elections. Around 23.65 lakh men, 21.72 lakh women and 27 belonging to the others category will cast their votes for the election, the counting for which will be held on Monday. Meanwhile, heavy police security arrangement has been deployed in four districts of western Maharashtra — Kolhapur, Sangli, Solapur and Satara — where voting will take place on Friday. This is also the first major poll for the Mahavikas Aaghadi after formation of the Thackeray government. Voting will be conducted in 386 villages across Kolhapur district, out of which 80 have been identified as sensitive. A team, led by a police officer and 10 constables will be deployed in all the sensitive villages. More than 2,500 police personnel have been deployed in all the villages where the elections will be conducted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-norms-top-priority-at-todays-gram-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80272753.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Goa to make new law to stop misuse of name change||PANAJI: In the backdrop of allegations of misuse of name change, law minister Nilesh Cabral on Thursday said the state government will come up with a new law making it mandatory for a person to get a no objection certificate (NOC) from the sub-registrar’s office, specifying the purpose behind the change in name, before publishing it in the newspapers. “We want to know for what purpose they want to change the name. It is for this purpose, we are in the process of getting a new law and it is being examined by the (law) department,” he said. In the past couple of years, the state has seen many changes in name notices in newspapers and most of them were from non-Goans. Publication of change in names in newspapers raised suspicion of misuse and the matter was also discussed in the assembly in 2019. It was also alleged that names were being changed for the purpose of ancestral property matters or for some other motive. Cabral himself had asked the DGP last year to inquire into publications of these advertisements. “The Change of Name Act was passed in 1990 by the central government. No name is changed in the original birth certificate, but the sub-registrar’s office provides Form B, which is attached to the original birth certificate,” Cabral said. He said all the change in name notices issued in newspapers are not with the registration department. “All the change in name notices that appear in newspapers are not for change in the actual name. People are changing their names for various purposes,” Cabral said. Referring to streamlining of marriage registrations, he said: “We have started online marriage registration to avoid fraud and to avoid duplication.” Responding to Congress allegation that same marriages were being registered at different sub-registrar offices, Cabral said he would order a detailed inquiry into registration of marriages in different talukas. Reacting to the Congress allegation that a sub-registrar’s office takes money for executing registration of marriages, Cabral said if we start an inquiry before registration of marriage, then people will blame us for creating hurdles. “The person who has sworn in the affidavit for two marriages has committed fraud and not the sub-registrar’s office,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/state-to-make-new-law-to-stop-misuse-of-name-change/articleshow/80275673.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Farmers to agitate if onion export ban returns: SC panel member||Nagpur: The Shetkari Sanghatana may once take on the government if the ban on onion export returns, says its president Anil Ghanawat who is now also a member of the Supreme Court (SC) appointed committee on farm laws from Maharashtra. The Sanghatana had last month actively taken part in the agitation to lift ban on onion exports so that growers get a better rate. “The rates have improved after the ban was lifted with effect from January 1,” said Ghanawat. “The Sanghatana had threatened that if the ban is not lifted then onions would be thrown each time a BJP leader was spotted. The ban was lifted soon after,” he said. “Now, as a member of the SC appointed committee, I may not take part in the Sanghatana’s activities in my individual capacity,” Ghanawat told TOI after taking over as the member. “Earlier, onions fetched a rate of Rs10 to Rs15 per kg in the wholesale market. After exports were allowed, the prices have improved to over Rs30,” he said. The Sanghatana has also been supporting the new farm laws in some of the counts. Ghanawat also said he personally believes that apart from freedom to market access as envisaged in the new farm laws, the farmers should also be given freedom of access to technology. “Even if the market system is freed, the farmers need to get access to the last technology so as to compete in the global market in terms of yield. Famers need to be give high yield technologies so that they can match their produce with world standards,” he said. In 2019, Ghanawat had led the Shetkari Sanghathana drive demanding approval to commercial production of genetically modified, herbicide resistant (HT) cotton seeds. The organization’s members had openly defied the law and had grown the unapproved HT cotton in the fields across the state, demanding that the government should now legalize the variety. Herbicide tolerant cotton is based on technology developed by erstwhile Monsanto. The seeds are resistant to glyphosate based herbicides. Using it helps in saving the cost of physically clearing weeds in a farm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/farmers-to-agitate-if-onion-export-ban-returns-sc-panel-member/articleshow/80274443.cms||Shishir Arya
January 15, 2021||Goa||Travel body calls for action against drinking on beaches||Panaji: Owing to the growing nuisance of empty and broken bottles dumped on beaches by tourists, the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa (TTAG) has put forth some suggestions to the government to contain the menace. During the past few days, the beach cleaning agency has picked up about two tonne of glass bottles from across 37 beaches, most from Baga and Calangute. Tourists leaving behind glass bottles in the sand despite the ban on public drinking on beaches is a common across the state. “It is high time the government starts penalising people found drinking on beaches. We want signages to be installed warning visitors of the consequences of drinking on beaches,” said Nilesh Shah, TTAG president. “More police personnel should be deployed at the beach entry points during the peak period to ensure that visitors don’t carry alcohol bottles to the beaches,” he said. Last week, the tourism department was in the process of installing signboards on beaches informing tourists about the do’s and don’ts. The pathway leading to Calangute beach is lined with numerous liquor stores. It is not uncommon to see tourists purchasing alcohol from these shops as they proceed to the beach. Shah said that the stores selling alcohol close to any beach must have boards informing consumers that drinking on the beach is a punishable offence. As it is becoming increasingly difficult for security personnel to keep tabs on tourists when beaches get overcrowded, TTAG also wants beach carrying capacity to be estimated to ensure that the presence of visitors at a particular beach is not in excess than its carrying capacity. The TTAG president also said that the reason for people leaving behind garbage on the beach is probably due to inadequate bins. Karnataka Commercial and Industrial Corporation Pvt Ltd, the beach cleaning agency appointed by the tourism department, collected about 20,000 kg of waste between December 31 and January 3. The segregated waste is sent to the Saligao waste treatment plant for disposal. The agency also conducts cleanliness drives to create awareness.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/travel-body-calls-for-action-against-drinking-on-beaches/articleshow/80275684.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||3 arrested thieves belong to all-woman gang: Cops||Aurangabad: Three women, who were recently arrested by the detection branch of Kranti Chowk police, have turned out to be the members of an all-woman gang wanted by major police units across the state. The authorities suspect that this gang is also involved in committing series of property offences in other states. The detection branch squad — comprising police sub-inspector Santosh Raut, assistant sub-inspector Naseem Khan, head constable Manoj Chavan, constables Manda Jadhav and Komal Sanvate — nabbed three women from the Central Bus Stand (CBS) after they robbed two women of their gold chains while boarding a state transport bus heading towards Shahada. The incident took place on January 7 and the complainants realised that their gold chains were missing after the bus started moving. One of the women then called her husband, who immediately rushed to the CBS and alerted the police. Soon the message was passed on to the area police station and the DB squad rushed to the spot. Seeing the police team arrive, the accused women — Shivrata Bhosle, Ravina Sathe and Sonali Pagare, all hailing from Ahmednagar district — hurriedly tried boarding another bus. “The accused women’s behaviour appeared to be suspicious due to which the women constables nabbed them,” Raut said. Realising that they had run out of luck, the women confessed of committing the crime. They were produced before the court following which they were remanded in three-day police custody that again was extended by two more days. During their interrogation, police found that the accused belong to an all-woman gang of thieves and are wanted by different district police — including Pune, Nagpur, Mumbai police units. The women have been remanded to judicial custody and after being alerted by Aurangabad city police, other police units have initiated the process of taking their custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/3-arrested-thieves-belong-to-all-woman-gang-cops/articleshow/80272765.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Metro One services to be scaled up to 230 as ridership rises to 70,000 a day||MUMBAI: Daily Metro services on the Versova-Andheri-Ghatkopar (VAG) corridor will increase to 230 from 200 from Monday to keep up with rising ridership. Mumbai Metro One Pvt Ltd (MMOPL) restarted it services from October 2020 after a gap of almost seven months due to the Covid-19 pandemic-related lockdown imposed in March last year. By December, the daily ridership touched 50,000 and in one month around 20,000 more passengers were added. An MMOPL official said, “As the ridership on weekdays is around 70,000, the number of services will be increased. Moreover, more entry and exit gates will be opened at stations to ensure a smooth flow of passengers.” The services will run at a frequency of 5 to 10 minutes. From January 18, Mumbai Metro One will extend its operating hours too. Now, the first train from Versova will leave at 7:50am and from Ghatkopar at 8:15am. Similarly, the last train from Ghatkopar will be scheduled at 10:15pm and from Versova 9:50pm. Earlier, services were from 8:30am to 8:30pm. In addition, Mumbai Metro One will open the gates at both ends of Saki Naka, Marol Naka, Chakala/JB Nagar and Western Express Highway Metro stations. All stations will open 15 minutes before the scheduled departure of the first train. According to Covid-19 norms, only 300 passengers are permitted to travel on each train. When services resumed, MMOPL had hoped to carry 60,000 people per day, and the target has been achieved. The state government, though, has permitted just 30% of the workforce in private offices. Besides, private sector employees are still not permitted to travel by local trains. Sources said more people can commute to work if local trains are also opened for common citizens. Housing ministry guidelines issued in September for Metro travel state only asymptomatic passengers are allowed in coaches and it is mandatory to wear masks at all times.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/metro-services-to-be-scaled-up-to-230-as-ridership-rises-to-70k-a-day/articleshow/80275715.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Man admits to killing nursing student, held||Nashik: A 21-year-old nursing student, missing since Tuesday was found dead (allegedly murdered) in a hotel near the Central Bus Stand, the Sarkarwada police said on Thursday. According to the police, a missing complaint was filed by the girl’s parents and they were called to the hotel room by the suspect’s uncle. The deceased has been identified as Archana Boir, while the suspect has been identified as Tanmay Dhanwa, who is known to the girl’s family. Dhanwa, a resident of Palghar district, has been arrested under section 302 of the IPC and he has confessed to crime. He was presented before a court and has been remanded in four-day police custody. “The suspect and the girl were in a relationship and had checked into the hotel on Wednesday. They got into an altercation following which the suspect assaulted the girl and she started bleeding, leading to her death,” the police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/man-admits-to-killing-nursing-student-held/articleshow/80272776.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||4-member panel formed in Madhya Pradesh to monitor adverse events||BHOPAL: MP’s health department has formed a four-member committee that would monitor Adverse Event Following Immunisation (AEFI). The AEFI surveillance system will be utilised to monitor adverse events and understand the safety profile of the vaccines. The reporting of AEFI — through Surveillance and Action For Events Following Vaccination (SAFEVAC) — has been integrated with Co-WIN software. Every AEFI is to be reported at the district level and to facilitate the referral mechanisms in case any AEFI needs to be put in place. Currently, an AEFI committee headed by an AIIMS Bhopal official meets every month to follow up on state immunisation programme. The State AEFI committee for coronavirus vaccination would monitor the process on a 24x7 basis. Members of the district AEFI committee have been oriented on AEFI surveillance and regular meetings are expected soon. Health department’s deputy director (Immunization, Nodal Officer-India Code Portal), Dr Padmakar Tripathi would head the committee, said a health department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/4-member-panel-formed-to-monitor-adverse-events/articleshow/80274504.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit gets 9,720 doses of Covishield; vaccination to begin at three centres on January 16||Pilibhit: Three vaccination centres in Pilibhit have been chosen as part of the Prime Minister’s virtual launch of Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16. They are the private Sharda hospital and two community health centres at Puranpur and Barkhera block headquarters, said additional chief medical officer Dr C M Chaturvedi. He said the district has been supplied 9,720 doses of the Covishield vaccine for the first phase of vaccination, under which 7,967 health workers at government and private hospitals and nursing homes will be covered. The district is maintaining 13 cold chain points to store vaccines, he said. Developed by Oxford and licensed to AstraZeneca, Covishield is being manufactured in India by Serum Institute. It is popularly the preferred of two vaccines being distributed by Government of India (GoI). “We’ll vaccinate 100 health workers each session at each of the 27 vaccination centres. Each vaccination session will be held four times over two weeks, on Mondays and Fridays,” Chaturvedi added. Health workers will get SMS alerts about their turn for vaccination directly through GoI’s Covid-19 portal. The district had already been provided with 4.5 lakh auto-disable syringes for the vaccination drive. Each vaccine vial has 10 doses, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-gets-9720-doses-of-covishield-vaccination-to-begin-at-three-centres-on-january-16/articleshow/80271481.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||Five held with 25k litres of methyl alcohol ‘meant for Panchayat polls’||Bareilly: Around 25,000 litres of methyl alcohol, meant for making illicit liquor to be used allegedly during Panchayat elections, was seized from a roadside eatery on NH-24 in Meerganj area of Bareilly district on Wednesday. Police arrested five persons while they were transferring the alcohol from a tanker to containers. The alcohol-laden truck was heading to Jharkhand from Punjab. A team of Meerganj police station was on routine patrolling on Wednesday when they observed a man standing on a tanker at a dhaba pouring some liquid from the tanker to drums and four other men were helping him. Finding it suspicious, the police team stopped, checked the drums and found alcohol in it. All the suspects were taken into custody and during the interrogation, they said that they were transferring methyl alcohol from tanker to drums which will be sent to villages for making liquor.SSP Bareilly Rohit Singh Sajwan said, “The methyl alcohol was recovered from a dhaba near Bareilly-Rampur district. We have arrested five persons including the dhaba owner Kulwant Singh. Singh told us that he was planning to use 1,000 litres of methyl alcohol to prepare alcohol during elections. This was 2.5 grade methyl alcohol which is extremely dangerous to human life. We have registered an FIR against all the accused under IPC sections 420 (cheating), 379 (robbery) along with sections of Excise act. All the accused have been sent to jail.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-held-with-25k-litres-of-methyl-alcohol-meant-for-panchayat-polls/articleshow/80272777.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Bytco to get centre for diabled people||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will shift the centre, which provides disability certificates to disabled people, from Zakir Hussain hospital to Bytco hospital. The centre at Zakir Hussain was not operational due to the outbreak of Covid. Zakir Hussain hospital continues to be a Covid hospital so the NMC has decided to shift the centre to Bytco. This decision was taken during the meeting held by municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav for all the head of the departments (HODs). “We will soon start the new centre at the Bytco hospital,” said Bapusaheb Nagargoje, the medical superintendent of NMC.  The state government has been insisting various government agencies to implement projects and schemes for the welfare of disabled people. There are over 500 disabled people who have registered with the municipal corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bytco-to-get-centre-for-diabled-people/articleshow/80272788.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: Ramesh Chennithala alleges Rs 100 crore graft behind IMFL price hike||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government conspired with distillery owners to steeply increase the price of Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL), opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala alleged in the assembly. He said that the government is keen to ensure a ‘support price’ for liquor in the state and the LDF government can at least claim to have made an achievement in this regard. Chennithala accused the government of orchestrating a corruption of Rs 100 crore in the deal. “Even when the price of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) was Rs 47 per litre, the then UDF government had allowed only 6% increase for IMFL brands below Rs 400 and 4% for those above Rs 400. When the present government took over, the rate of ENA was Rs 53 which has now become Rs 58. The LDF government allowed a price hike of 7% in 2017, and another 7% now, which means that effectively it hiked the price of IMFL by 14%,” said Chennithala, while taking part in the discussion on thanksgiving motion to the governor’s address, on Thursday. Chennithala said that private distilleries are supplying approximately 20 lakh cases of IMFL to Bevco every month. “Even if the rate of IMFL is calculated at Rs 700 per case, the turnover is worth Rs 140 crore per month. In total, there is a business of approximately Rs 1,680 crore a year, and it is over this that a 7% increase has been given,” he said. In effect, the government has offered an additional business of Rs 120 crore for the distilleries. The earlier hike of 7% had provided an additional business of Rs 100 crore. In effect, the LDF government has offered an additional business of Rs 250 crore, he alleged. He said that the present government had come to power with the support of liquor businessmen, and it was the commitment given by the government to them that the prices will be increased when the LDF comes to power Excise minister T P Ramakrishnan rubbished the allegations of the opposition leader as totally baseless and intended to create a smokescreen. “No brewery owner approached me for a hike and I don’t know any of them,” he said, adding that price hike is being decided by the Bevco board by considering the increase in the prices of ENA. He said that the UDF government had in 2013 increased the price of IMFL by 6%. In the last two years, there has been an increase of price of ENA in the range of Rs 10 to Rs 22 per litre. The companies had asked Bevco for an increase in the rates by 20%. But the KSBC board decided to increase the rates by 7%, considering the increase in the rate of ENA and since the rates have not been increased in the last three years, Ramakrishnan said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/chennithala-alleges-rs-100cr-graft-behind-imfl-price-hike/articleshow/80273519.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||New Covid cases continue to fall in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: Madhya Pradesh continues to witness a decline in Covid-19 cases. On Thursday, 420 new cases of Covid-19 were diagnosed across the state. This is the fourth consecutive day that MP has recorded less than 500 cases in a single day. With the new infections, the count of Covid-19 cases has touched 2,50,429, according to health department reporting. With eight more people succumbing to the viral infection, the overall death toll rose to 3,740 in the state. A total 598 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the state’s recovery count to 2,39,581. Two Covid deaths were reported in Indore and one each in Bhopal, Khargone, Barwani, Mandsaur, Damoh and Rajgarh. Of the 420 new cases, Bhopal accounted for 92 and Indore 54. With this, the number of cases in Indore rose to 56,844, including 914 deaths, while Bhopal’s case tally stood at 41,299 with 594 fatalities. Indore now has 1,964 active cases, while this figure for Bhopal is 1,992.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/new-covid-cases-continue-to-fall/articleshow/80274540.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||NMC eyes Water Plus tag to improve Swachh ranking||Nagpur: With a view to improve its ranking in the Swachh Bharat Survekshan, the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is planning to procure Water Plus certification this year. According to government norms, a city can be awarded Water Plus certification provided all wastewater released from households, restaurants and other commercial establishments, drains and nullahs is treated to a satisfactory level, before releasing it into any river or any other place. The proposal put forth by the NMC solid waste management (SWM) department will come up for discussion in the first general body (GB) meeting of mayor Dayashankar Tiwari on January 20. The proceedings will be held through video conferencing. As against 525 MLD sewage water generated daily, the NMC is currently treating and reusing 340 MLD (65%). SBM Water Plus is the next level of certification after open defecation free (ODF++) for which the city has already has been recognized by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. Now, it is also a precondition for a city to compete for the seven star garbage-free city rating to get listed among the top cleanest cities in Swachh Survekshan 2021. To apply for the water plus certification, the civic administration will require self-declaration certificates from the mayor, corporators and citizens’ representatives. The civic body had invited suggestions and objections from the citizens in this regard last month but received no response. The NMC, which got zero star rating in Swachh Survekshan 2020, aims at achieving 5 star rating as a garbage free city. This proposal too will come up before the general body meeting for its nod. For this too, the department will need self-declaration certifications from mayor, corporators, garbage lifting operators and citizens’ representatives. For this rating, the NMC is required to ensure water level segregation of wet and dry waste at source, user charges, scientific landfill, no visible solid waste in water bodies etc. But apart from scientific landfill and plastic ban, the civic body actually isn’t eligible to contest under this category, said sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-eyes-water-plus-tag-to-improve-swachh-ranking/articleshow/80274500.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||No mitigation steps in Bor corridor, deer dies in road hit||Nagpur: It is a double whammy of sorts for wildlife and the environment on Butibori-Yavatmal NH-361. Neither has the 1.25 lakh saplings planted by National Highways Authority India (NHAI) survived — resulting in huge environmental loss — nor have any mitigation measures been taken — which is causing wild animals to be killed in road hits. On Thursday, a full-grown deer was knocked dead by a speeding vehicle near Kelzar. The spot where the animal died is close to the social forestry nursery encompassing a perennial nullah. This is also the migratory path of wild animals moving in the corridor patch between Bor and Melghat Tiger Reserve. “The animal is suspected to have been hit early in the morning. We learnt about it at 9am. The spot where the deer died is a regular migratory path of animals,” said Hingni RFO Geeta Vaidya. “While the NHAI did not take mitigation measures, the forest officials should also be held responsible for the mess for not demanding an underpass at the said spot when the highway was being widened,” said Jaydeep Das, former honorary wildlife warden. On May 9, 2018, Das had written to the state’s chief wildlife warden pointing out that around 1km near Khadki-Kelzar forest nursery is an established carnivore crossing path linking Bor to Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary and Melghat. He wanted this to be kept in mind while the Butibori-Wardha road was being widened. “Tigers have been regularly crossing this particular patch. I had urged the PCCF (wildlife) to take up the issue with NHAI for having adequate mitigation measures while proposing road development in the stretch. Now we are crying over split milk. I don’t know how many more animals will be killed,” said Das. In July 2009, a tigress with two cubs had made a defunct explosives factory on the other side of the road at Kelzar its home. The tigress had dispersed from Bor. According to Pench chief conservator (CCF) & field director Ravikiran Govekar, a sub-committee of the state wildlife board (SBWL) consisting of experts and user agencies including highways have taken up the issue of mitigation structures at Kelzar and another near Bazargaon on NH6, where Bor’s dominant tiger Bajirao was killed in a road hit in 2017. “The issue should have been raised by the then forest officials when the road was being constructed,” added Govekar. Kishor Rithe, one of the members of the committee, said, “The Samruddhi Mahamarg is running parallel to the Butibori-Wardha road and the MSRDC have agreed to take up mitigation measures on the other side of Kelzar. So it becomes imperative to construct an underpass at Kelzar for safe passage of wild animals. Earlier too there were animal deaths near the same spot.” “Four days ago a meeting of the committee was held in which the issue was raised but NHAI officials were not present. Due to the reluctance of NHAI, mitigation measures are not in place and till then such fatal mishaps will continue to happen,” Rithe added. Das said such mitigation steps should be included in the detailed project report (DPR) but user agencies choose to ignore wildlife and forest issues. No underpasses have been constructed between Butibori and Yavatmal for wild animals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-mitigation-steps-in-bor-corridor-deer-dies-in-road-hit/articleshow/80274534.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 15, 2021||Nashik||NMC all set to hold vaccination drive at 3 centres, each beneficiary to get 2 doses||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) is all set for the Covid vaccination drive scheduled to start from January 16. Initially, frontline health workers such as doctors, nurses and health staff involved in treating Covid-19 patients are to administered the vaccine. “Earlier, we had identified six centres in the city to administer the vaccine to frontline health workers, but the government has reduced the number of centres to three,” said medical superintendent of NMC Bapusaheb Nagargoje. “Now, the Covid vaccines are to be given at the New Bytco hospital, JDC Bytco hospital at Nashik Road and Indira Gandhi Hospital in the Panchavati division of the city,” said Nagargoje. According to Nagargoje, the municipal corporation has received 16,000 vaccines and each frontline health worker is to be given two shots. The second vaccine is to be given 28 days after administering the first vaccine. Hundred vaccines are to be given per day in each of three centres. The frontline health workers, who are to be administered the vaccines, are to be informed about the time of the through SMSes. Accordingly, they have to visit the vaccination centre to get a shot of the vaccine. “We are fully prepared for the vaccination drive as per the government guidelines. We will administer vaccines to frontline health warriors who come to the centre,” Nagargoje said. “We have deployed health staff of five people, including a vaccinator at each of three centres in the city. They have already been given training and have been prepared for the drive,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-all-set-to-hold-vaccination-drive-at-3-centres-each-beneficiary-to-get-2-doses/articleshow/80275719.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Vaccine is like ‘Sanjivini booti’ for protection from Covid: MP CM||BHOPAL: Stating that the vaccine is like “Sanjivini booti” for protection against Coronavirus, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, said that both “Covishield” and “Covaxicin” are completely safe and urged the administration, people’s representatives and media not to allow any rumours about the vaccine crop up. He sought cooperation of all in making the Coronavirus vaccination drive a big success, which eliminates fear of Coronavirus once for all. Chouhan said vaccination will take place in batches and 4.25 lakh health workers, who worked hard to save lives during the Coronavirus outbreak,would be the first to get the vaccine dose. Chouhan said that he would like that the first vaccine dose on January 16 (the day the vaccination drive takes off) is given to a sanitation worker. It would also be a recognition of their services during the crisis period. The chief minister was interacting with district collectors and divisional commissioners from across the state on Coronavirus vaccination drive through video conferencing after inaugurating the NHM building at Bhopal. He said that the vaccination would begin at 9.00 am on January 16. Praising the Prime Minister Narendra Modi, he said that Modi made all the arrangements possible to save people from the impact of Coronavirus pandemic. Timely lockdown gave a chance to make necessary arrangements. He also brought people together to fight against the pandemic. In MP, too, the situation was not allowed to go out of control and all the arrangements were made to protect people of the state from the deadly virus. Speaking about different phases of vaccination, the chief minister said that everyone would be administered two doses of the vaccine at a gap of 28 days and 14 days after the second dose is administered, antibodies of Coronavirus would be developed in the body of the vaccinated person. Vaccine will not have an immediate impact. District-wise allotment of vaccines has been made. Private hospitals have also been identified to carry out vaccination along with the government hospitals. Expressing gratitude towards frontline Corona workers for exemplary work during the pandemic, he said a protocol has been decided for vaccination and frontline workers including the police and revenue department personnel will get priority in vaccination because their safety is a must. Vaccination will take place according to order of registration. There will be no out-of-turn vaccination through push & pull, he said. He asked the administrative officials to enlist the help of religious leaders in reaching out to people on order of vaccination and remove any misgivings that they may be nurturing about the vaccine due to rumours or misinformation. He said, “If anyone develops minor allergy after vaccination, there should be no panic and it should not lead to negative publicity of the campaign. He expressed the confidence that the media would also cooperate in presenting only the factual stories about the vaccination campaign. People should know that the vaccine is reliable and safe.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/vaccine-is-like-sanjivini-booti-for-protection-from-covid-cm/articleshow/80274542.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Patna||Covid-19: Vaccine doses dispatched to Bihar health centres||PATNA: A day after receiving the Serum Institute, Pune’s Covishield vaccine, the Patna district administration on Thursday began dispatching the vials from the district cold-chain storage to the selected centres for the January 16 immunisation drive. Patna DM Chandrashekhar Singh said a total of 598 vials, which include 11,960 doses, have been received at the district cold-chain storage, out of which 4,400 doses were dispatched on Thursday to 10 health facilities for the vaccination drive. The remaining sites would get the Covishield doses by Friday morning. Altogether 680 doses dispatched to PHC-Maner, 610 to CHC-Phulwarisharif, 600 to CHC-Dhanarua, 590 to CHC-Bakhtiyyarpur, 560 to Guru Gobind Singh College-Patna City, 470 to CHC-Fatuha, 190 to Sadar Hospital-Danapur, and 90 each to Sadar hospitals at and Masaurhi. Singh told this newspaper on Thursday that the hospitals in the city area like IGIMS-Patna, NMCH-Patna, PMCH, Ruban Hospital, Paras HMRI and Apolo Big Hospital will get the doses by January 15 as per the allocation list. “The doses were escorted in a deep freezer van to all centres amid strict vigilance,” he said. He added, “Security personnel deployed to all centres, where the vaccines are stored in an ice lined refrigerator, which has been provided by the state health department to selected sites.” The Bhagalpur district immunization officer, Dr Manoj Chowdhary, at the Sadar Hospital received the first consignment of 4,360 vials of vaccine for 21,780 targeted health workers residing in Bhagalpur, Banka, Lakhisarai, Munger and Jamui. Out of the 21,780 targeted workers, 15,670 doses are for Bhagalpur health personnel, 7,660 for Banka, 4,230 for Lakhisarai, 8,160 for Munger, and 7,840 for Jamui. The regional vaccine storage in Saran on Wednesday handed over the allotted number of Covid vaccine doses to the districts authorities of Siwan and Gopalganj. Earlier, this centre received a consignment of 52,070 doses, including 21,410 for Saran, 19,210 for Siwan and 11,450 for Gopalganj. Saran Civil Surgeon Dr Madhweshwar Jha said if any of the beneficiaries develop symptoms of AEFI during the observation period, they would be given proper health care in PHCs, subdivisional and district hospitals, but if needed they would be referred to the PMCH, which is the designated hospital for Saran district. In East Champaran district 2,490 doses were received on Wednesday by the Motihari immunization officer at the Sadar hospital. D M Shirshat Kapil Ashok said 21,000 listed health workers, including Anganwadi workers, would be vaccinated on January 16 at 11 hospitals and nursing homes in the district. Dr Akhileshwar Prasad Singh said all block medical officers have been informed and the vials are being distributed to the selected centres, including the Motihari Sadar hospital and several private facilities. The first consignment of 24,380 Covid - 19 vaccine doses reached Gaya on Thursday. DM Abhishek Singh received the doses at the Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital. The DM directed civil surgeon Kamal Kishore Rai and the district immunization officer Surendra Chaudhary to ensure the safety of the vaccines and maintain its quality. Vaccination of 16,596 health workers will begin at 14 centres on Saturday. The regional vaccine storage centre at Darbhanga, catering to the vaccine needs of three districts- Darbhanga, Madhubani & Samastipur districts— received 6,185 vials amid enthusiasm among the district health staff. Before the vials arrived, Madhubani and Samastipur district teams came with refrigerator vans for the vials. According to Dr Amrendra Kumar Mishra, district immunization officer, 2,302 vials dispatched to Samastipur district; 1,841 for Madhubani and 2,022 vials for 10 vaccination centres in Darbhanga district. Madhepura D M Shyam Bihari Meena at a task force meeting directed the officials to dispatch the respective doses to the centres concerned a day before of the drive. Civil Surgeon Dr R C Raman said as many as 9,441 front line warriors would get the shot on the first day. “AIFI kits are available at the Medical College Hospital to cope with any emergency problem after vaccination,” said Dr Manoj Kumar. Nawada DM, Yashpal Meena said 1,056 vials of Covaxin were brought to the district from neighbouring Nalanda under security. “At nine centres, the first dose would get administered to frontline health workers and paramedics on Friday,” he said. (With inputs from Faryal Rumi in Patna, Kumar Rajesh in Bhagalpur, H K Verma in Chhapra, C B Pandey in Motihari, Alok Kumar in Gaya, B K Jha in Darbhanga, D N Saha in Madhepura and S B Sinha in Nawada)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/vax-doses-dispatched-to-state-health-centres/articleshow/80273253.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nashik||UP couple arrested for cheating||NASHIK: The Upanagar police have arrested a couple from UP, who earlier used to live in Nashik and then Gujarat’s Ahmedabad, on charges of cheating at least seven Nashik residents to the tune of Rs 45.2 lakh. Inspector Sunil Shinde, of the Upanagar police station, said the accused were on the run. Shinde said the accused — Dineshkumar Ramadhar Mishra (45) and his wife Madhuri Mishra (35) — came to live in Nashik in January 2019. In November 2019, they borrowed large sums from various people, including goldsmiths in Nashik Road area, and then left Nashik without informing anyone. The victims registered complaints with the Upanagar police in November 2020. “The police initially had no leads. However, we got the information about the couple’s child being admitted to a school in Ahmedabad. A police team went there and got details of the couple,” Shinde said. The police have recovered the 300g gold, valued at Rs 15 lakh, and Rs 8.4 lakh in cash from the accused along with Rs 4.5 lakh in bank account that has been frozen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/up-couple-arrested-for-cheating/articleshow/80272791.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||51 dead birds found across Uttarakhand||Dehradun: The Uttarakhand forest department of Uttarakhand disposed off 51 dead birds on Thursday from its five forest divisions in Dehradun, Haridwar, Champwat and Pauri districts. The highest 38 birds were found dead, including crow (30), pigeons (5), sparrow (2) and duck (1), in Dehradun. And six crows were found in Haridwar, while four birds were found dead in Lansdowne, followed by the death of one crow and pigeon in Mussoorie, a parrot in Champawat forest division. In all, the forest department has found 747 carcasses of different birds. Meanwhile, the animal husbandry department officials have stated that they are yet to get the results of over 500 samples sent to Indian Veterinary Research Institute in Bareilly for testing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/51-dead-birds-found-across-uttarakhand/articleshow/80273509.cms||Shivani Azad
January 15, 2021||Goa||Wife of Ayush min cremated at Adpai||Ponda: The final rites of Vijaya, wife of Ayush minister Shripad Naik, who was died in a road accident in Karnataka on Monday, were performed at Adpai — Naik’s native place — in Ponda taluka, on Thursday Her body was consigned to flames by her elder son Siddesh. Naik’s neighbours and well wishers were present in limited numbers. Earlier, chief minister Pramod Sawant, deputy chief ministers Chandrakant Kavlekar and Manohar Ajgaonkar, Ponda MLA Ravi Naik, St Andre MLA Francis Silveira, former South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar and BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade, sarpanchs and panch members of different panchayats, councillors of Ponda and other municipal councils, among others, visited Naik’s Adpai house .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/wife-of-ayush-min-cremated-at-adpai/articleshow/80275725.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Retired IAF officer murder mystery solved, 6 held in MP||BHOPAL: Chhindwara police on Thursday claimed to have solved the murder of Bhopal-based retired Indian Air Force (IAF) officer with the arrest of six accused. All the accused hail from Bhopal and Chhindwara police nabbed them with the help of Bhopal police.  The two prime accused allegedly planned the murder of the victim retired officer over a financial dispute of around Rs 5 crore. They hired the four accused and paid them a ‘Supari’ of Rs 50,000 each in advance. They injected the victim with sedatives and took him to Chhindwara where they murdered him. Police seized nine mobile phones, Rs 2 lakh cash and three cars from the accused. Also, the bank account of an accused was frozen in which there were around Rs 20 lakh deposited. Chhindwara SP Vivek Agrawal said that deceased Rajesh Sahu, 54, a resident of Tirupati Abhinav Homes on Ayodhya Bypass in Bhopal, retired from the post of Group Captain in July 2020. He was a partner in property business with prime accused Naresh Gurjar. Another accused Ashok Agrawal maintained a record of their business and runs a micro finance company. After retirement when Rajesh calculated he found that he had to take around Rs 5 crore from Naresh. However, Naresh hatched a conspiracy with Ashok to kill Rajesh. Police said that Rajesh’s half burnt body was found lying in a blue car on December 27, 2020, a few feet down beside the road, in a forest area near Rainikhera village under Mahuljhir police station in Chhindwara. After much effort the body was identified to be of Rajesh. Post-mortem report revealed that the body was burnt by petrol and the victim died of suffocation. Mahuljhir police registered a case and a special investigation team (SIT) was formed to investigate the blind murder. Around 18 days later the SIT got information about business relations between Rajesh and Naresh. Subsequently, Chhindwara police with the help of Bhopal police nabbed the six accused including Naresh Gurjar, 34, Ashok Agrawal, 56, Mohammed Ismail, 32, Mahadeep Dehariya, 33, Shahrukh Khan, 28, and Shahwar Khan, 32. SP Agrawal said that the accused revealed that they chose such a spot to murder Rajesh for which there was no toll plaza on approach road. The accused administered a sedative laced injection to Rajesh and abducted him. They took him to Ranikhera where they tried to burn his body. Subsequently, they returned to Bhopal via other routes. According to information Rajesh had filed a complaint on charges of fraud against the two prime accused with Bhopal police on which investigations were on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/retd-iaf-officer-murder-mystery-solved-6-held/articleshow/80274548.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Govt reduces number of Covid vaccine sites in north Maha||Nashik: The number of Covid-19 vaccination sites in the five districts of north Maharashtra has been reduced by 10. Initially, there were supposed to be 50 vaccination sites in Ahmednagar, Nashik, Jalgaon, Dhule and Nandurbar districts. The latest missive from the state government said these five districts will now have 40 centres.The state government’s move to reduce the number of vaccination sites means fewer beneficiaries would be given the jabs on a daily basis. To start with, frontline healthcare workers like doctors, nurses and paramedical staff involved in treating Covid-19 patients would be given the vaccination. The government has decided to give 100 individuals the Covid vaccine in each centre per day.P B Gandal, the deputy director of the state health department (Nashik division), admitted that the number of vaccination sites in the five districts have been reduced. “We have not been told the reason for the reduction. The local administrations in the five districts and the municipal corporations have been apprised of the decision,” he Gandal. Ahmednagar and Nashik districts — which have the highest number of frontline health workers in the region — will now have 12 and 13 vaccination sites, respectively. Earlier, these two districts had 15 and 16 sites, respectively. Similarly, Jalgaon will have now seven sites instead of the nine planned earlier. Nandurbar and Dhule will both have four sites instead of five each.Some senior government officials in the region are of the view that since the vaccination exercise is a mammoth task, the state government wants to kick off the exercise in a controlled manner so that if there are problems, they could be addressed. “After the initial phase, the government would increase the number of sites gradually,” added a senior government functionary. The administrations of the five districts have identified over 1 lakh healthcare workers including doctors, nurses etc. who would be given the vaccination from January 16. In the meantime, people in the first batch of beneficiaries, who would get the vaccination on January 16, are likely to start receiving SMSes from Friday. The SMSes would have the details of the site and the time when the beneficiary must visit the site. “The selection of the first batch of beneficiaries would be done randomly from the database of frontline health workers that each district has uploaded in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) system that the Union government has created for the vaccination programme. “Alternatively, the district administrations have prepared a batch-wise list manually. In case of any technical glitches, the list prepared by the administrations would be used for the exercise,” said government officials.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/govt-reduces-number-of-covid-vaccine-sites-in-north-maha/articleshow/80275718.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Two groups clash over parking space in Aurangabad city, 10 held||Aurangabad: The city police have arrested 10 people and registered three cases after two groups clashed in the Mondha area of the city on Wednesday night. Five people were injured in the clash. The suspects from both the sides have been accused of using sticks, rods and metal knuckles to attack one another, said the police. Two groups, one led by the landlord of a shop, and the other led by the tenant, clashed following an argument over parking of a truck in front of the shop located near Jafar Gate area. Cross-complaints have been registered against both the parties on the charges of voluntarily causing hurt, including use of dangerous weapons for causing hurt. In addition to this, the police have registered the third offence against both the parties for rioting . Ganpat Darade, a senior inspector of Kranti Chowk police station told TOI, “We have arrested 10 accused from both the sides and the process to arrest the other accused is underway.” The officer said soon after learning about two groups clashing, a police team led by a police sub-inspector went to the spot and brought the situation under control. The police sent the injured for medical examination and rounded up a couple of suspects. When the police personnel left the spot, people from both the groups clashed again. Around the same time, another police team comprising four police personnel reached the spot and separated the member of the groups. They pushed the police personnel. Then the police control room was alerted and the riot control police rushed to the spot. The situation came under control following lathi charge on the members. All of the 10 arrested people have been granted bail. Police officers said a decision to initiate preventive action against both the parties has been taken.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/two-groups-clash-over-parking-space-in-aurangabad-city-10-held/articleshow/80272809.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand Congress to lay siege to Raj Bhawan today over farm laws||Dehradun: To express solidarity with the farmers protesting the farm laws, Uttarakhand Congress on Thursday announced that it will lay siege to Raj Bhawan on Friday.The agitation, led by state Congress president Pritam Singh, would be joined by thousands of the party workers. The protest is being organized on the call of the central leadership of the Congress party to observe January 15 as ‘kisan adhikar diwas’.Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana said a large number of party members, including senior politicians like the party's state in-charge Devender Yadav and leader of opposition Indira Hridayesh are expected to participate in the protest.“We will not sit quiet till the time the three farm laws are withdrawn by the Union government. We stand united with our farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-congress-to-lay-siege-to-raj-bhawan-today-over-farm-laws/articleshow/80273517.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 15, 2021||Delhi||When snatchers strike at will in heart of Delhi||NEW DELHI: Snatchers are running amok in central Delhi’s high-security Mandir Marg locality. In one incident, a company executive was relieved of his mobile phone by snatchers on a motorcycle. Shockingly, the bike did not have any numbers inscribed on the triangular registration plate, raising questions about how it was being driven around without being noticed by the area cops. In the second incident, snatchers on a scooter targeted a banker when he was trying to book a taxi with his elderly mother. These have created a flutter coming as they did before Republic Day. All police units, including the Crime Branch, have been pressed to nab the miscreants. Times ViewSnatchers create a sense of anxiety and dread among the public. They are constantly on guard wondering about the safety of their belongings and their own well-being. That snatchers are acting with abandon — that too in a high security area — doesn’t reflect well on Delhi Police. They should ensure that the menace is nipped in the bud.The first incident was reported on January 7 when Bhudev, 25, who works in the loan department of a private firm, was walking back home with his two brothers. As the trio was about to approach Basant Road, Bhudev’s phone rang and he started speaking to a friend. Suddenly, two men on a black motorcycle closed up to him and snatched his phone before speeding away. Bhudev told TOI, “The men were wearing black jackets and had mufflers, but no helmets. When they snatched my phone, my palm twisted badly, but luckily I did not fall or receive injuries.” His brothers and he immediately called the police and informed them about the loss. “I rushed to note down the number of the motorcycle, but there was no number on the registration plate which was shaped like a triangle,” revealed Bhudev. “This is the first time anything like this has happened to me. I really hope police find my phone. The snatchers were young and were probably between 20 and 23 year in age.” The second incident took place last Sunday at around 5.30pm when bank worker Gaurav Bhatia, 30, his wife Divya, 26, and his 60-year-old mother had finished offering prayers at Baba Lal temple. When the three came out of the temple and stood on the pavement for a taxi, Divya noticed two men on a scooter close by. “I found it suspicious and thought they were targeting my mangal sutra, so I tucked it beneath my dupatta and moved ahead,” Divya narrated. “My husband took out his mobile phone to book a cab, when the two men grabbed the phone from his hands and fled. My husband chased them but couldn’t catch them. Everything happened so fast that we could not note the number of the scooter.” Bhatia told police that the accused appeared to be in their early 20s.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/when-snatchers-strike-at-will-in-heart-of-delhi/articleshow/80274541.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nashik||NMC to kick off digital learning in all its schools||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) will start the ambitious digital learning project in all its schools — much like the civic schools in Delhi.Civic chief Kailas Jadhav said the focus will be on converting municipal schools to smart schools with the help of digital learning.“We will provide digital boards, e-books and other advanced educational equipment to municipal schools in the city. This study material will be provided to each school and visually attractive methods of learning will be introduced,” said Jadhav, adding that the school buildings will be renovated and painted.According to Jadhav, proper allocation would be made for digital learning in the budget for the next fiscal. This project would be implemented in phases as a substantial amount would be needed to turn all its schools into smart ones. “Our objective is to improve the quality of education provided in municipal schools at par with that of other private schools in the city,” said Jadhav.“We have already deployed an agency to conduct a survey of the current scenario of schools and propose what is needed to make them digitally smart as well as improve the quality of education in the schools,” added Jadhav.Besides, Jadhav said that they also aim to upgrade the skills of teachers in municipal schools. “We also plan to upgrade the skills of municipal school teachers. We will start training the teachers for developing their skills. We will provide them with all proper training and planning is being done in this connection,” said Jadhav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-kick-off-digital-learning-in-all-its-schools/articleshow/80275721.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Vaccinators confident, ready to administer shots without fear||Nashik: The vaccinators, who would be administering to the shots to the first batch of beneficiaries, are confident of carrying out the task without any fear or anxiety. Talking to TOI, some of the vaccinators, who hail from different districts in north Maharashtra, said they have been inoculating for several years and hence were confident of administering the Covid-19 vaccine without any hesitation. The vaccination against Covid-19 is all set to begin from Saturday and in the first phase, only health workers will be vaccinated against Covid-19 infection. “This is probably the most talked-about vaccination programme. There has never been so much anxiety among the masses about a vaccine. Since I have already contracted Covid-19 and also know the toll that the infection takes on the body, I don’t want others to go through the same and want every potential beneficiary to get vaccinated,” said Anupama Londhe, a staff nurse at Dhule civil hospital. “In India, we already are engaged in carrying out vaccination through routine immunization and the other government programmes – some are oral, while others are injections. For me it is just another vaccine,” said Sushama Jadhav, a nurse from Nashik appealing to citizens not to believe in rumours about the vaccine. Every medicine has side effects and that too, a handful face problems. “We have in place all the mechanism for adverse event following immunization (AEFI). Hence, people need not bother about any side effects. If they follow the guidelines, everything will be all right,” said Sunayna Pathare, a nurse from Nandurbar district. The vaccinators who have been assigned the responsibility of inoculation said they would ensure that first, only the healthy people are administered the vaccine. They further assured they would not face much problems in the first phase as it was only the health workers who would be taking the vaccine shot. “All the vaccinators have been thoroughly trained in the process, which is not different from the earlier ones, except that here, the beneficiaries will have to be verified first. Besides, the pregnant women, the ones with allergies, etc will not be given the vaccine,” said Pankaj Kale, public health nurse at the Ahmednagar district hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/vaccinators-confident-ready-to-administer-shots-without-fear/articleshow/80275722.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||New Khapri ROB to be ready in Feb 1st week||Nagpur: The new railway overbridge (ROB) at Khapri, parallel to the existing one, will be ready by the first week of February. It is expected to prevent traffic jams on the old ROB during morning and evening hours when people travel between Nagpur and Butibori. Abhijit Jichkar, project director of National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), said that the curing period of the structure would be completed on January 18. “After that we will lay a layer of bituminous concrete, followed by masting (a type of asphalting). A load test will be performed and if it is successful the structure will be ready for traffic,” he told TOI. The 1.1km long ROB will cost Rs50 crore. The work had begun in April 2017 and was slated to be complete in March 2019. It has been delayed by about two years due to various reasons. Work of the ROB was complete over two months ago, except for the portion above the railway line. Central Railway head office in Mumbai asked NHAI to change the design for this portion. NHAI asked Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) to prepare a new design. Work began on the stalled portion earlier this month after CR approved VNIT’s design. In 2020, work on the project was hit as NHAI had difficulty in meeting simultaneous requirements of CR and Airports Authority of India (AAI). The ROB site is near the Nagpur airport and permission was required from AAI to launch the girders. AAI provided a time slot between 1.30pm and 3.30pm when CR found it difficult to stop trains. Its initial launch scheme was rejected by commissioner of railway safety (CRS) and hence a new scheme was initiated wherein the girders were split to lower the weight. NHAI split the 55 metre long girder into two having lengths of 33 mt and 22 mt.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-khapri-rob-to-be-ready-in-feb-1st-week/articleshow/80274546.cms||Ashish Roy
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Lakhs of devotees take holy dip on Makar Sankranti at Har-ki-Pauri||Haridwar: The Har-ki-Pauri ghat in Haridwar saw scores of devotees congregating on the banks of Ganga on the occasion of Makar Sankranti festival on Thursday, marking the end of the winter solstice and start of longer days.This year’s festival is considered significant as it is the first prominent bathing day of the year when the Kumbh Mela is being held. Traditionally, the Kumbh Mela also begins with the Makar Sankranti 'snan' but this year, due to the Covid pandemic, the official start of the mega festival has been pushed ahead by a month.Kumbh Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal told TOI, “Around seven lakh pilgrims took the holy dip till evening. No traffic congestion was reported on highways or in the city. Five teams of police divers and SDRF were deployed to prevent drowning incidents. No untoward cases were reported and the festival passed off well.”Most of the pilgrims were from Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Kumaon region of Uttarakhand. Measures were in place to ensure the Covid-19 guidelines were strictly followed. At least 975 people were penalised for not wearing face masks.Also, 38,000 pilgrims were thermally screened and antigen tests were conducted at different points. Three people were found Covid-positive at the Narsan border check post.Chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat also celebrated the festival in Haridwar by offering prayers at Patanjali Yogpeeth with his family in the presence of yoga guru Ramdev.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/lakhs-of-devotees-take-holy-dip-on-makar-sankranti-at-har-ki-pauri/articleshow/80273538.cms||MS Nawaz
January 15, 2021||Kolhapur||BJP suspends Solapur deputy mayor from party||Kolhapur: The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) suspended Solapur deputy mayor Rajesh Kale, who was arrested in connection with extortion, on Wednesday night. Solapur BJP general secretary Shashi Thorat said Kale was suspended by the state-level disciplinary committee of the party because of his consistent bad behaviour. Thorat said the party will decide on further action if the administration moves a proposal to remove Kale from the post. BJP Solapur unit had recommended action following serious allegations against Kale. He was served a show-cause notice by the party and the unit sent its recommendation to state BJP. Kale was arrested on January 5, following a complaint by assistant municipal commissioner Dhanraj Pande. Kale had got into a scuffle with Pande and municipal commissioner P Shivshankar over the arrangement of some facilities for a wedding ceremony. Pande had insisted that the facilities could be provided only after completion of due formalities. This had infuriated Kale, who is accused of abusing municipal officers and extorting money from Pandey. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bjp-suspends-solapur-deputy-mayor-from-party/articleshow/80272872.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kochi||Opposition targets CM over ‘links’ with Kerala gold smuggling case||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The ruling front and the opposition locked horns in the assembly over the gold smuggling through diplomatic channel case, with both fronts raising accusations and heated arguments over the matter. MLA P T Thomas, who sought leave for adjournment motion to discuss the issue, directly targeted chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan saying that his former principal secretary M Sivasankar had leaked about the files on SNC Lavalin to Vijayan while Sivasankar was KSEB chairman. He also said that Sivasankar could easily manipulate the chief minister and use him for all his illegal activities. In his reply, the chief minister said that Sivasankar was conferred IAS during UDF’s tenure, and he held several key positions during UDF regime. Vijayan said that there was an attempt to link him and his family members with Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in the gold smuggling case. He said that a photograph from his daughter’s recent wedding ceremony was manipulated to show that Suresh had attended the marriage function. Saying that his hands were clean, the chief minister said that he would hold his head high as he is not scared of any probe. He said that it is the duty of probe agencies to find out how Suresh reached Bengaluru during the lockdown period when there was heavy police presence. He said that he wrote to the Prime Minister to rein in the probe agencies as they began deviating from their primary task with political motives. The chief minister said that those behind gold smuggling had misused diplomatic channels 21 times, and this was not because of any lapses by the state government or the chief minister. He said that gold smuggling has adversely affected the state’s economy as the money is invested in real estate, which are then undervalued and thereby affecting the stamp duty and registration charges that should be received by the state. He challenged the opposition to tread the same line as that of Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Sonia Gandhi, who had many a times said that the Centre was using the agencies to settle political scores. The CM also took a dig at the opposition by pointing to the different group affiliations of senior Congress leaders. Replying to the chief minister, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said that the chief minister needs not talk about group politics in Congress, as the CM himself resorted to such games to overpower CPM veteran V S Achuthanandan, who was the party secretary for 18 years. After speaker P Sreeramakrishnan denied permission for adjournment motion, the opposition staged a walkout.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/oppn-targets-cm-over-links-with-gold-case/articleshow/80273542.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||New born baby from Nepal diesnear Dharchula suspension bridge||Pithoragarh: A new born baby from Nepal on the way to a hospital in Pithoragarh died near Dharchula suspension bridge on Wednesday. The baby was eight days old and was suffering from jaundice.The boy’s father, who is a resident of Mahakali municipality in Dharchula, blamed the local authorities on the Indian side for his son's death. He alleged that the officials did not open the international suspension bridge on time. Dharchula sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), however, dismissed the allegations."My wife gave birth to a boy eight days ago. Our child was suffering from jaundice. So, doctors in Nepal advised us to visit Pithoragarh for better treatment," the man said."We arrived at Dharchula and were going to Pithoragarh with wife and ailing child. Around 35 km away at Askot, our child died. The bridge was opened at 11am while we were told that it would open at 10am. The delay caused my child's death," he added.When contacted, Dharchula SDM AK Shukla said, "At present, the border is not open for normal movement. It only opens in case of emergency. Authorities in Nepal requested us to open the bridge on Wednesday."He added, "The child was suffering from jaundice. They did not come early. There was no delay from our side."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/new-born-baby-from-nepal-diesnear-dharchula-suspension-bridge/articleshow/80273544.cms||Prem Punetha
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||PMC bank scam: ‘Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife repaid Rs 55 lakh loan after ED summons’||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha repaid a Rs 55 lakh friendly loan she had taken from a bank scam accused’s wife soon after the Enforcement Directorate summoned her to seek an explanation, sources in the agency said. The interest-free loan was taken a decade ago. On Monday, she submitted documents to the ED through a relative, showing loan repayment from funds generated from the film ‘Thackeray’ penned by her husband. Varsha was one of the producers of the movie. Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment. The ED, investigating money laundering case in the PMC Bank-HDIL loan scam, had issued her four summons from November last year, but she had failed to present herself before the officials. On December 29, she had sought time till January 5. She appeared before the ED on January 4. ‘ED examining documents submitted by Varsha Raut’The ED is investigating a money laundering case based on an FIR lodged by city police’s Economic Offences Wing against Rakesh Kumar Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan of Housing Development Infrastructure Ltd (HDIL), PMC Bank chairman Waryam Singh and its managing director Joy Thomas, and others for causing a loss of Rs 4,355 crore to PMC Bank and making gains for themselves. It is alleged that HDIL had siphoned off Rs 95 crore of PMC Bank’s loan funds through Pravin Raut, who is a former director of Guruashish Constructions, an HDIL subsidiary. According to ED, Pravin Raut paid ₹1.6 crore to his wife Madhuri from the proceeds. Out of this money, Madhuri transferred ₹55 lakh (₹50 lakh on December 23, 2010, and ₹5 lakh on March 15, 2011) as an interest-free loan to Varsha. The amount was allegedly further utilised for purchase of a flat in Dadar (East). The investigation further revealed that Varsha and Madhuri are partners in Avani Construction. Varsha had reportedly received ₹12 lakh from this entity (as overdrawn capital converted to a loan) on a contribution of a mere ₹5,625. The loan amount of ₹12 lakh is still outstanding, the ED had stated in a press release issued on January 1. Recently, the ED attached Pravin Raut’s assets worth Rs 72 crore. After recording Varsha’s statement on January 4, the ED called her again with case-related documents, including the flat purchase. They also asked her to provide them with details of companies where she was a joint partner along with Madhuri. On Monday, Varsha sent those documents to the ED through a relative. A source said, “ED officials are examining the submitted document and accordingly will decide if there is a need to call Varsha again for a further statement.” The ED is also inquiring about a former Shiv Sena MP whose association received Rs 1 crore from PMC Bank and the role of a heavyweight politician in the extended suburbs whose trust received over Rs 1,000 crore from HDIL. The money was defrauded from PMC Bank.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rauts-wife-repaid-rs-55l-loan-after-ed-summons/articleshow/80276509.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: BPO staff pose as Microsoft executives, four held||NEW DELHI: Police have busted a call centre whose employees were impersonating Microsoft staffers and duping people. Four people have been arrested and 10 others are being questioned. The accused had even procured a toll free number of Spain to sound genuine, police said. The arrested men have been identified as Mohammed Tauqeer Kidwai — the owner, Imran, Azam and Deepak Lal. “Five Google accounts have been seized and four laptops and 10 CPUs, along with hard disks, have been recovered. Cops have seized four Wi-Fi routers that were being used in the crime, apart from 14 mobile handsets belonging to the accused,” said RP Meena, DCP (southeast). The call centre was located in southeast Delhi’s Sunlight Colony. On January 13, police had received a tip-off that some people were running a racket targeting foreigners in Spain posing as executives of Microsoft Corporation. “It also come to notice that the fraudsters were engaged in using illegal techniques of VoIP Calling bypassing the legal International Long Distance gateways and, thus, causing wrongful loss to the public exchequer,” the DCP said. Subsequently, a raid was conducted at the given address and many people were found engaged in calls and international numbers were displayed on screens installed on the desktop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bpo-staff-pose-as-microsoft-execs-4-held/articleshow/80274549.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Amid Covid curbs, pilgrims witness Makaravilakku at Sabarimala temple||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Makaravilakku festival was celebrated at Sabarimala temple in strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol. When the Makara joythi flashed atop the hill at 6.42pm, there were only 5,000 pilgrims who had assembled on the temple premises to view the holy spectacle. No pilgrim was allowed by the police at the several other view points in and around Pamba and Sabarimala where thousands of pilgrims used to throng during previous years. Makara Samkranthi puja led by tantri (head priest) Kandararu Rajeevaru and chief priest V K Jayaraj Potti was held at 8.40am. Pilgrims who reached the temple since Thursday morning were allowed to stay back and view Makaravilakku in the evening. Thiruvabharanam procession, which began from Pandalam on Tuesday, reached Saramkuthi by 5.30pm. A 20-member delegation led by devaswom executive officer V S Rajendra Prasad received Thiruvabharanam and carried it to Sannidhanam. By 6.40 pm, deeparadhana on idol adorned with Thiruvabharanam was held. Soon after deeparadhana, Makara Jyothi flashed thrice on the hilltop. Earlier in the day, Singer Veeramani Raju received Harivarasanam award of the state government. Devaswom minister Kadakampally Surendran handed over the award that comprises Rs 1 lakh in cash, a plaque and certificate to the popular singer. The renovated annadana mandapam at Sannidhanam was also inaugurated by the minister. Surendran also requested the help of devotees as there was a sharp decline in the temple revenue. “Owing to Covid-19 crisis, only limited number of devotees could be allowed. The revenue from this season is only Rs 16 crore while it was Rs 166 crore in the previous year. The government is committed to help TDB to tide over the crisis. I request devotees to also help as much as they can,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/amid-covid-curbs-pilgrims-witness-makaravilakku/articleshow/80273550.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Three city private hosps set to begin vaccination tomorrow||Kolkata: Three private hospitals in Kolkata — AMRI Hospitals, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and Apollo Gleneagles Hospital — have been given the nod to join the Covid vaccination programme with state hospitals from Saturday. Employees of these three hospitals will attend a joint training programme at the RTIICS campus on Friday, paving the way for the vaccination flag-off in private facilities. More hospitals will join the drive next week. A day after the state health department asked private hospitals to join the exercise, several geared up their arrangements and identified personnel for the job. Many are expecting an inspection of their facilities by the health department on Friday which would be followed by a short training programme for the staff who will be involved in the vaccination delivery process. AMRI Hospitals have identified two floors at Dhakuria unit for vaccination, though one will finally be selected. As per the requirement, three rooms have been identified along with a dozen employees who would be taking part. The hospital has identified two portions — one on the ground floor of the old building and another on the first floor. “We are proud to be among the first hospitals to join the vaccination programme. Our employees will attend a training programme on Friday. We hope to be able to serve the first batch of recipients on Saturday and will continue the programme. This is by far the most important task on our hands now and we hope to be able to carry it out successfully. This should help to wipe out the pandemic,” said AMRI Hospitals CEO Rupak Barua. He added that AMRI would eventually be doing it at its other two units — Mukundapur and Salt Lake — as well. A sprawling 8,000 sq ft floor that has been recently constructed at its eye hospital building will serve as the vaccination centre at Belle Vue Clinic. The hospital has also identified around 35 employees for the exercise, which, the authorities expect to begin early next week. “We have sent a letter of intent to the government this morning and expect an inspection either by the second half of Friday or on Monday. Once the training is done, we will be ready to roll out with 100 vaccines a day,” said Belle Vue Clinic CEO P Tondon. He added that the hospital will subsequently double its capacity to 200 shots a day. “We have another newly constructed floor at the same building available for use. Once the number of recipients rises, it may also be used,” added Tondon. RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) has prepared two parallel sites for vaccination within the hospital campus. Each site will be managed by a five-member team of nurses and doctors who will cover the process of receiving, registering, vaccinating and post-vaccine monitoring for 30 minutes. A dedicated medical team led by a medical officer has been assigned to carry out the process. The entire program will be supervised by a nodal officer. “Inspection of the sites by the authorities may be completed by Friday. The vaccination protocols in these sites are designed as per the guidelines issued by the health department. Each site will spread across 500 sq feet,” said zonal director R Venkatesh A part of the nursing college on the main campus has been earmarked and readied for vaccination at Peerless Hospital. An inspection was due on Thursday but it was postponed. “We expect it to happen by Monday after which we will begin. Rooms and personnel have been kept ready and we have made sure the exercise happens away from the wards, as per the requirement,” said CEO Sudipta Mitra. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has identified space and employees. “We are waiting for a communication from the government,” said medical superintendent Amit Roy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/three-city-private-hosps-set-to-begin-vaccination-tomorrow/articleshow/80274634.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Conduct fire audit by Feb 15 or face action: NMC to bldgs||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) on Thursday issued a public notice asking all the hospitals, residential and commercial buildings to complete the fire audits and submit the reports by February 15, failing which, the civic body will snap the water and power supplies. The NMC has also warned of sealing the buildings with the help of the police if the fire audits are not conducted. Praveen Ashtikar, the additional commissioner of NMC and Sanjay Bairagi, NMC’s fire brigade chief, have issued the public notice following the directives from municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav. NMC has identified 11 categories where the fire audits will be conducted, which include government and semi-government offices, hospitals, hotels and petrol pumps, commercial buildings like shopping complex, malls and offices, wedding halls, cinema halls and auditoriums, industrial buildings, warehouses and residential buildings with height above 15m among others.According to the public notice, these residential and commercial buildings have to make provisions of fire systems and conduct fire audits by the agencies concerned.Bairagi said teams of officials have already been set up across all the six divisions of the NMC to ensure the hospitals, commercial and residential buildings have taken fire safety measures.He said those who have already installed all the fire safety equipment should ensure the system is functioning properly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/conduct-fire-audit-by-feb-15-or-face-action-nmc-to-bldgs/articleshow/80275726.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Delhi||‘Despite fund crunch, Delhi govt to release Rs 938 crore for civic staff’||NEW DELHI: Delhi government on Thursday announced release of Rs 938 crore to the municipal corporations for paying salaries pending for months. “Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal decided to help the employees and ordered for funds to be arranged from wherever possible. Even Delhi government is short of funds and only half of the tax money is coming in. The market is in a bad shape due to Covid-19 and the lockdown,” deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said in a press conference. However, despite its financial constraints, Sisodia said, the government has “somehow managed to arrange Rs 938 crore by stopping other schemes and by cutting the funds of other departments” to ensure that civic employees get paid. BJP, running the corporations for 14 years, has bankrupted the three bodies due to rampant corruption, alleged Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s finance minister. “Now, only Rs 12 crore is left in the bank accounts of the north corporation and Rs 99 lakh in the accounts of the east corporation,” he claimed, adding that the civic bodies owed Delhi government Rs 6,276 crore. “BJP bankrupted the corporations to such an extent that they don’t even have the money to pay their own employees,” Sisodia said. “Now I would like to tell BJP people not to steal this money too. Just pay the salaries to your employees.” Claiming that such corrupt corporations cannot be found anywhere in the world, Sisodia alleged, “BJP leaders themselves believe that there is a lot of corruption going on in the corporations. This is the reason that all other municipal bodies are given financial assistance by the Centre, while the municipal corporations of Delhi do not get any.” The corporations should get Rs 11,500 crore from the Centre, he added. Even the chief minister has repeatedly written to the Centre to give funds to the municipal corporations in Delhi, Sisodia pointed out. In 2017, the then Delhi BJP chief had promised to get funds from the Centre, but failed, he added. “In the 2017 municipal elections, BJP itself admitted that its councillors were laundering money, so they had changed all candidates.” Calling Sisodia’s comment misleading, Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said the 14th Finance Commission had recommended that the Union territories with “local state governments” won’t be eligible for the grant. The funds released by Delhi government are not even one-third of its dues to the corporations for the 2020-21 financial year, Kapoor claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/despite-fund-crunch-govt-to-release-rs-938cr-for-civic-staff/articleshow/80274589.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Rs 1,000 reward announced on absconding wife of club owner wanted in fraud case||Dehradun: Dehradun police have announced a reward of Rs 1,000 on the absconding wife of the owner of the club, World Integrity Center(WIC) on Rajpur Road. The couple, Sachin Upadhyay and his wife Nazia Yusuf Izuddin, have been booked in a case of alleged fraud. While Upadhyay has been arrested, Nazia Yusuf Izuddin has been absconding since a year, SHO of Rajpur, Rajesh Sah said. In 2017, a case of fraud was registered against the couple at Rajpur police station and the couple was accused of presenting forged documents to take loan from a bank. Later, on the intervention of court, a fresh case was registered in January 2020.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/rs-1000-reward-announced-on-absconding-wife-of-club-owner-wanted-in-fraud-case/articleshow/80273548.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 15, 2021||Kochi||Two held in Thrissur on charges of electrocuting wild boar||THRISSUR: Forest department officials have arrested two people on charges of electrocuting a wild boar for consuming its meat at Vattulli near Chelakkara in the district. The arrested are Kurien (77), son of Pothanal Veettil Ouseph, and Suvedan (58), son of Thottathil Veettil Govindankutty Ezhuthachan. Officials had also seized 25 kg of meat from them. The incident had occurred on Tuesday last. Machad range section forest officer K Riyaz said investigations indicate that the accused inserted insulated wires through sturdy PVC pipes for tapping electricity from live public electric lines. The wires were then connected to the traps laid for catching the wild animals which stray into human habitations. Riyaz said a report has been submitted to KSEB officials as this practice involves theft of electricity. Wildlife experts said such practices have become more frequent during the pandemic period. Social scientists have also raised fears of loss of human lives in such methods. Recently, a youth was electrocuted when he accidentally came into contact with a water pool in which live electric wire was laid as a trap to catch wild boars at Vazhali at Painkulam panchayat near Chelakkara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/two-held-on-charges-of-electrocuting-wild-boar/articleshow/80273556.cms||T Ramavarman
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand schools allowed to charge entire fee amount from students of Class X, XII||DEHRADUN: The state education department has decided to allow the government, government-aided and private schools to charge the entire fees for students of Classes 10 and 12. The decision has been taken after several requests were made by the private schools association. Earlier, the schools were allowed to charge only the tuition fees but the department has now made it clear that the schools can charge the entire fees from the period when the schools were allowed to reopen, which is November 2. It has been made clear that the schools will continue charging only the tuition fees from the students of non-board classes. Schools found charging the entire fees from students of other classes will be reprimanded by the education department. The education department officials told TOI that in case a parent is still unable to pay the entire fee of his/her ward, then the school will need to give the parent extra time or relaxation instead of putting pressure for the payment. Private schools and others have been allowed to charge the entire fee from November 2 because though a large number of students were yet to turn up, still, the schools were operating in full capacity since November. “I think it is a reasonable demand from the schools and the government has done the right thing in allowing us to charge the entire fee from the students of board classes. These students have started coming to the schools which makes it ethical for us to charge the entire fee amount from them,” said DS Mann, senior vice-president of the Principals Progressive Schools' Association. However, Arif Khan, president of the National Association for Parents' and Students' Rights, said, “It is not the right thing to give the private schools a free-hand in charging the fees. Still, only 10% of students in board classes are turning up at schools and asking all 100% to pay the entire fees is not right." "The private schools will take advantage of this order and start putting pressure on the parents to pay the entire amount,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhand-schools-allowed-to-charge-entire-fee-amount-from-students-of-class-x-xii/articleshow/80273551.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||778 average daily cases, 700 recoveries in January so far||Nagpur: Vidarbha reported 747 new cases of Covid-19 while 752 patients recovered from it on Thursday. On an average, the region has been reporting 778 new cases and 700 recoveries per day in January. The average number of new cases this month so far is less than average cases reported in the last three months. In December, on an average 1,000 cases were reported per day, in November over 1,100 and in October over 1,500 per day. In January, the number of daily cases has been more or less constant, hinting at good control over disease. With vaccination starting this week, further control is expected. The region reported 16 deaths on Thursday, taking the toll to 6,778. Out of 16 deaths, eight were in Nagpur district — two from Nagpur rural and three each from Nagpur city and other districts/states. Bhandara reported two deaths, Wardha (2), Amravati (2), Gondia (1), and Yavatmal (1). The case fatality rate of the region is 2.57%, while the state average is 2.54% and national average is 1.44%. The new cases on Thursday came from Nagpur (323), Yavatmal (92), Amravati (57), Buldhana (53), Bhandara (45), Wardha (40), Gondia (39), Akola (34), Gadchiroli (25), Chandrapur (22), and Washim (17). This took the caseload to 2,63,152. On the other hand, 752 recoveries of the day came from Nagpur (355), Yavatmal (85), Amravati (55), Buldhana (55), Gondia (48), Wardha (40), Akola (36), Bhandara (32), Chandrapur (22), Gadchiroli (15), and Washim (9). With 248550 patients recovering from Covid-19, the region’s recovery rate is 94.45%. Bhandara: Two deaths took the district’s toll to 313 on Thursday. The district conducted 565 tests on Thursday. Out of them, 45 tested positive, taking the caseload to 12,909. Number of recovered patients touched 12,206 after discharge to 32 patients on Thursday. Recovery rate of district is 94.55%. Currently, 390 patients are under treatment. Gondia: The district reported 39 new cases, 48 recoveries and a death of 73-year-old man on Thursday. The case count mounted to 13,989, including 13,559 recoveries and 181 deaths. Gondia’s recovery rate is 97%. Gadchiroli: District’s caseload increased to 9,239 with addition of 25 new cases while 14 patients were discharged, taking the recoveries to 9,004 on Thursday. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 97.5%. The district has reported 105 deaths so far while 130 patients are under-treatment. Washim: With 17 patients reported in a day, Washim’s caseload reached 6,832 on Thursday. The day also saw nine patients getting discharge. This took recovery count to 6,561 which means recovery rate of Washim is 96%. No death was reported on Thursday and the toll remains at 152. Now, 118 patients are under treatment. Buldhana: The district received 478 reports. Of them, 53 tested positive taking total number of cases to 13,169. Recoveries jumped to 12,694 after discharge to 55 patients. The district reported no death on Thursday. Now, 318 patients are under treatment. Akola: Out of the more than 500 tests conducted in last 24 hours, 34 tested positive in Akola. The day also saw 26 recoveries and no death was reported. The district caseload is 11,040, including 10,121 recoveries, 326 deaths and 593 active cases. After Nagpur, Akola is the only district in Vidarbha to have more than 500 patients under treatment. Yavatmal: The district recorded one death, 92 cases and 85 recoveries. On Thursday, Yavatmal received 18,500 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. On January 16, the vaccines will be administered to 100 beneficiaries each at five centres. Amravati: Two Covid-19 deaths took the district's toll to 407 on Thursday. While the day saw 57 new patients, the recoveries were 55. The caseload went up to 20,460 and the total recoveries to 19,819. This left 334 active cases. Wardha: Two died due to coronavirus and 40 tested positive on Thursday. With 40 patients discharged, recoveries crossed the 9,000 mark and now stand at 9,001. 331 patients are under treatment. Chandrapur: There were 22 new cases, while equal number of patients were discharged from hospitals and isolation centres on Thursday. No death was reported. There area 318 active patients in the district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/778-average-daily-cases-700-recoveries-in-january-so-far/articleshow/80274674.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Terai farmers gherao state edu minister’s residence, burn effigies of PM||Rudrapur: The farmers of Terai region who have been protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws gheraoed the residence of state education minister Arvind Pandey in Gularbhoj, Udham Singh Nagar district, on Thursday and burnt effigies of him and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The incident took place during a tractor rally organised by the farmers, seeking withdrawal of the contentious agri laws and a legal guarantee for the minimum support price. The rally was joined by leaders and workers of various non-BJP political parties. This came after Pandey had gone to Delhi last month with some farmers to meet Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar to express support for the agri laws. Ever since then, Pandey has been facing flak from the farmers and was also shown black flags in his constituency twice. On Thursday morning, hundreds of farmers assembled at Gurudwara Dineshpur and took out a rally with a large number of tractors. The angry farmers raised slogans against Pandey and sought his resignation for “betraying farmers’ interests”. Senior Congress leader Shilpi Arora said her party has joined farmers' fight against the “anti-farmer laws” amended by the central government, adding that party volunteers will participate in each protest. However, the security was beefed up at Pandey's residence and police personnel deputed there did not allow farmers to enter the minister's residence.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/terai-farmers-gherao-state-edu-ministers-residence-burn-effigies-of-pm/articleshow/80273601.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Statehood agitator dies in road accident||Dehradun: Statehood agitator Jeetpal Singh Bhartwal (65) died in a road accident after the motorcycle he was travelling in got hit by a speeding truck near ISBT flyover. His son Vivek also suffered injuries in the accident. According to Patel Nagar police, the truck hit the rear side of the two-wheeler near gate number 2 of the ISBT on late Wednesday night. Bhartwal died on the spot, whereas his son suffered minor injuries in the accident. Leaving the truck behind the driver escaped from the spot. The truck has been taken to Patel Nagar police station, police said. A resident of Mothrowala, Bhartwal played a key role in the statehood agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/statehood-agitator-dies-in-road-accident/articleshow/80273565.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||2 leopards rescued: One from a well, other from IAF area||Aurangabad: A female leopard was rescued by the forest department from a well at a farm in Pangra Rodgi village in Ardhapur taluka of Nanded district, around 250km from Aurangabad, on Thursday evening. Honorary wildlife warden Atindra Katti said the leopard clung to a water pipe inside the well for more than 18 hours and was brought out with the help of a charpoy. “The well neither had a fence nor any protective wall. The leopard must have fallen into the well while looking for a prey in the dark. The owner of the farm, Anil Kadam, spotted the wild animal in the well when he went to his field around 11 am on Thursday and immediately alerted the department,” said Katti. The rescue team lowered the charpoy in to the well and allowed the leopard to settle on it for sometime. “The next big challenge was getting the leopard into the cage. After we pulled the charpoy out of the well, we aligned it with the entry point of the cage. The leopard had little choice but to enter the cage,” said Katti. The leopard is being kept under observation and will be released into its natural habitat once it is deemed medically fit, said officials from the forest department. 6-year-old leopard rescued from Air Force station A six-year-old male leopard was trapped in a cage installed at the Air Force station in Upnagar area of the city on early Thursday. Vivek Bhadane, the range forest officer (RFO) of the state forest department, said the leopard had strayed into the Air Force station area and was lurking there for the past four to five days. The leopard was unable to escape as the area was fenced. “We erected a cage on Wednesday and the leopard was finally trapped on Thursday,” he said. “A veterinary doctor conducted a medical check-up and found the leopard medically fit. We will soon release the leopard as per protocol,” said Bhadane. -With in puts from Tushar Pawar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/2-leopards-rescued-one-from-a-well-other-from-iaf-area/articleshow/80275731.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||From tomorrow, rent a cycle for Rs 2 per hour at Versova station||MMOPL will launch a bicycle-on-rent facility at Versova station from Saturday, January 16, for last mile connectivity. Commuters will be able to rent a cycle at merely Rs 2 for an hour. For starters, this facility will be available at Jagruti Nagar Metro station. Gradually, it will come up at eight more Metro stations along the 12km-long corridor. Equipped with GPS location, these cycles can be hired on weekly or monthly plans . Users will have to download MyByk, a cycle-sharing mobile app, to avail of this service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/from-tomorrow-rent-a-cycle-for-rs-2-per-hour-at-versova-station/articleshow/80275737.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand HC to govt: Restore Adi Shankaracharya’s samadhi fully in a year||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Thursday directed the state government to restore the samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya within a year. The samadhi was damaged in the 2013 floods in Kedarnath and is yet to be fully restored even after seven years.The direction came from the bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari while it was hearing a PIL filed by Delhi-based activist Ajay Gautam.Speaking to TOI, Gautam said the state government informed the court that it has completed almost 40% of the construction work but needs more time to finish the rest.“The government attributed the delay to the Covid pandemic and adverse weather conditions and said the work will resume in May once the snow melts,” Gautam added.The state government further said that once the restoration work restarts, it will take at least a year to finish the task. “The court has, therefore, directed them to finish the complete work by May 2022,” Gautam said.The samadhi of Adi Shankaracharya, who is said to have attained 'moksha' in Kedarnath at the age of 32, was destroyed in the flash floods of 2013. Born in Kalady village of Kerala, Shankaracharya is credited with unifying and establishing the main thoughts in Hinduism. As reported by TOI earlier, Gautam had filed the PIL in 2018 and the court had then directed the state to complete the construction in a year. However, even after more than two years of the court’s order, the samadhi is yet to be restored.Hearing the same PIL last month, the court had observed that there has been a “gross disobedience” of its order and had issued a show-cause notice to the tourism secretary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-hc-to-govt-restore-adi-shankaracharyas-samadhi-fully-in-a-year/articleshow/80273608.cms||Prashant Jha
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Wild boar mauls woman to death||Dehradun: A 56-year-old woman was mauled to death by a wild boar in Neni village of Almora forest division on Wednesday. The woman, identified as Saraswati Devi, went to get grass for her cattle when she came under attack, according to the forest authorities. Local villagers, watching the woman succumbing due to excessive bleeding, killed the wild boar. The boar has been declared a vermin in the state. “We are investigating the case whether the killing of boar took place in self-defense or it was simply out of rage. And penalty or action will be taken accordingly,” officials said. Incidentally, wild boar and nilgai have been declared as vermin by the chief wildlife warden, but culling an animal with adequate measures and approval are a must as pre-decided by the chief wildlife warden of the forest department. He said that some part of the compensatory money has been given to the family members of the victim. This is the first such incidence in the Almora forest division this year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/wild-boar-mauls-woman-to-death/articleshow/80273606.cms||Shivani Azad
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Man offers lift to pet delivery boy, flees with two Persian cats||MUMBAI: A 33-year-old man was arrested on Thursday for duping a delivery boy of cash and whisking away two Persian cats he was to drop to Pune. Iqbal Dayya, the accused, was to sell off the cats each of which costs Rs 10,000. On Monday, Saqir Kukwa (18), a delivery boy, had picked up the consignment of two cats from a pets dealer in Vasai. He was to drop the cats to a customer in Pune. The pet dealer had given him Rs 40,000. Kukwa reached Dadar railway station when a man stopped him, saying he was a cop and checked what he had with him. He offered Kukwa a ride to Pune in his car and pointed out to a parked SUV which he said was his, and gave a phone number, claiming it was his. He took the cash and Persian cats with him and asked the teenager to get him cigarettes. Soon after, the man vanished. “After Kukwa lodged a complaint with the railway police, they checked CCTV footage and activated their informer network. “On a tip-off, we picked up Dayya and have recovered the cats,” said crime branch senior inspector Shailendra Dhiwar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-offers-lift-to-pet-delivery-boy-flees-with-2-persian-cats/articleshow/80275739.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad scrap trader duped of Rs 19.4 lakh||AURANGABAD: A scrap trader from Aurangabad city has been duped of Rs 19.4 lakh by five unidentified people from Mumbai and Gujarat. An offence of cheating and criminal breach of trust has been registered at the Jinsi police station against the suspects. According to the complainant, Mohammed Mazhar Khan (48), a resident of Silk Mills Colony, received a call on December 15 from an unknown person pretending to be an agent of a metal scrap dealer. The suspect said he has about 300 tonne of scrap at one of the locations in Gujarat and offered the scrap at a cheaper rate. The suspect also sent some images of metallic scrap to Khan over Whatsapp, following which, he discussed the offer with his business partner Aref Patel. Convinced that the offer was profitable, Patel and Khan sent two trucks to Chikhali in Gujarat to load the scrap material.During making the deal, it was decided the amount would be transferred only after the scrap was loaded in the trucks and ready to leave for Aurangabad. Assistant inspector Sainath Gite said, “The traders were convinced the trucks were loaded with scrap and set to leave for Aurangabad so they deposited the amount in the given bank account, but the suspects fled with the money.” He said due to absence of an e-way bill and GST receipt, the traders were forced to unload the scrap material. The trader lodged a complaint after the accused stopped responding to calls.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-scrap-trader-duped-of-rs-19-4-lakh/articleshow/80272850.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata airport now a hub for Covid vaccine distribution||KOLKATA: The Kolkata airport has turned into a hub of Covid-19 vaccine distribution with consignments being flown from Pune and later loaded on to flights headed for various cities in the north-east. On Tuesday, the SpiceJet flight that flew in from Pune with nearly 1 lakh doses later flew to Guwahati with 2,40,000 doses of vaccine. Of these, 2,04,000 doses were meant for Assam while the rest were for Meghalaya that was despatched by road from Guwahati airport. Of the 9,96,000 doses that had arrived in Kolkata by the Spicejet cargo aircraft, 6,96,000 were meant for the health workers in Bengal. The rest were stored in the Central government regional vaccine depot at Hastings. From the depot, 1,20,000 doses were transported to Kolkata airport on Wednesday. Two Indigo flights — one to Agartala and the other to Imphal — flew out with 60,000 doses of vaccine each. On Wednesday, 24,000 doses of Covishield were flown into Kolkata airport from Pune by an IndiGo flight. These vaccines were transferred to a waiting Air India flight to Aizwal. “Kolkata airport will be the nerve centre of hub-and-spoke operations during the vaccination drive with vaccines being flown in from Pune in bulk and then flown out to various north-eastern states as per the requirement. While the government depot in Hastings will act as an interim storage facility for the vaccine, Kolkata airport too is ready with cold storage,” said an airport official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kol-airport-now-a-hub-for-covid-vaccine-distribution/articleshow/80274703.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Won’t tolerate apathy, delay in Gosikhurd project: Gadkari||Nagpur: Expressing dismay over the inordinate delay of over three decades in completion of Gosikhurd dam for one or other reasons, Union surface transport minister Nitin Gadkari on Thursday warned the concerned officials that any apathy or delay in completion of project work wouldn’t be tolerated. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also visited the project on Wainganga river on January 6 and assured to complete it within three years after taking a review of its ongoing works. Reviewing the project in presence of Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) officials and Bhandara MP Sunil Mendhe, Gadkari further cautioned them of instituting an inquiry if they found to be unnecessarily delaying the project work, during his proposed meeting with central water resources minister in Delhi in a couple of weeks. Without naming anyone, the heavyweight minister blamed administrative apathy and political interference that led to the inordinate delay. “This project has the capacity to usher in a change in the lives of farmers from this region. When I was looking after the charge of the ‘Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation’ department, I took a lead to bring funds for its completion. I also took regular reviews to expedite its incomplete works. However, the delay in its completion due to various reasons is paining me now,” he said. The city MP pointed out that a lot of work was remaining to be completed regarding the land acquisition and rehabilitation of project affected persons (PAPs). Around 495 hectares of land for the project was yet to be acquired which included 150 hectare that will go under the submerged area, he said. “Tendering and re-tendering of the same work should immediately be stopped. Instead, the VIDC officials should start issuing tenders of approved works and focus on their early completion. In my scheduled meeting with the Union water resources minister, all the concerned officials from the state and centre would be invited to further discuss the project and expedite incomplete works,” he said. Pointing out that funds released by the central government for national projects can’t be diverted for any other purpose, Gadkari told officials to remove any confusion in this regard. After the meeting, divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar assured the minister that he will issue directives to collectors from Nagpur and Bhandara and other places to expedite the land acquisition process and other works. Accorded national status on February 20, 2009, the Gosikhurd Indira Sagar National Project has eight major components. It included construction of a dam on Wainganaga river having capacity of 40.46 TMC up to its full level of 245.5m. Its components included — Dam and spillway, right bank canal (RBC), left bank canal (LBC), Asolamendha tank, along with Nerla, Mokhabardi, Ambhora and Tekepar lift irrigation schemes (LIS).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/wont-tolerate-apathy-delay-in-gosikhurd-project-gadkari/articleshow/80274609.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Corporation employees to continue stir in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Even after Delhi government announced on Thursday to allocate funds of Rs 938 crore to municipal corporations for paying pending salaries of their employees, the employee unions did not change their minds on holding protest march from Civic Centre to Delhi Secretariat and abstain from Covid-19 vaccination drive. Union members argued that teachers and para medical staff, including nurses engaged in the vaccination drive, don’t have money to even commute to the centres or bear other expenses due to non-payment of salaries for five months. “We have not changed our plan to hold a protest march and appeal to everyone to participate in the march, scheduled to start from 9.30am on Friday, in large numbers. We are not in a position to trust anyone as of now. Because, even if the amount is allocated by the state government to municipalities, when and how much salaries would be transferred to our account we don’t know,” said AP Khan, convener of Confederation of MCD Employees Union. While the North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor, Jai Prakash, claimed to have fixed a meeting with the agitating members on Friday, union members said that no proper call for a meeting was made. Criticising the AAP government for taking credit for issuing the amount that was due to the civic bodies last quarter, Prakash said that their own (urban development) department has no clue about issuing funds. “We checked with their officials and they are not aware about when the funds will be issued. They are not giving anything extra to us so why take credit,” he said. Meanwhile, in a letter to the medical superintendent of Kasturba Hospital, the nursing union informed about an indefinite strike from January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/corpn-employees-to-continue-stir/articleshow/80274640.cms||Vibha Sharma
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Few birds hurt as kite flyers celebrate Sankranti at home||Nashik: The restrictions on gatherings because of the Covid-19 outbreak may have forced people to stay at home, but they could not dampen the festive spirits on Makar Sankrantui.A large number of people, especially youths, went to the terrace of their homes and dotted the sky with their colourful kites on the occasion of Makar Sankranti that was observed on Thursday. “I fly kites only during Sankranti. This year, since we had decided against congregating for Sankranti, we took to our terraces and made the most of the festival by flying kites,” said Nilesh Kulkarni, an undergraduate pursuing science. Many families had also decided on not inviting their friends. “Since we had only members of our building, families came together on the terraces to celebrate Sankranti. While some flew kites, others had a gala time with their neighbours over snacks,” said Rajesh Patel, a businessman and resident of Gangapur Road. In the evening, citizens exchanged the ‘til-gul’ and other traditional sweets ansd savouries with their loved ones as most avoided visiting neighbours.Seven birds injured in NashikOnly seven birds were injured on Sankranti this year compared to the 28 injured last year till this report was filed. The fire brigade had received no calls for rescue throughout the day. “Only two birds were brought to the veterinary hospital for treatment, which is far less compared to the number of birds we had treated in the last two years,” said Sandeep Pawar from the animal husbandry department. “We received calls only from two locations about birds being injured,” said Vaibhav Bhogle from Eco-Echo Foundation. In 2020 11 pigeons, two cuckoos, four owls among others — totaling to 28 — were injured on Makar Sankranti while 26 were injured in 2019. “This year, a pigeon, a cuckoo and five more birds, including an eagle, were injured. Three stitches were applied to one of the wings of the eagle,” said Bhogle.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/few-birds-hurt-as-kite-flyers-celebrate-sankranti-at-home/articleshow/80275746.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||MAGIC to expand support||Aurangabad: The Marathwada Accelerator for Growth and Incubation Council (MAGIC), a not-for-profit incubator that runs under the aegis of the regional industry body, has announced to scale up its network building and start-up support in different parts of the region. MAGIC, which was conceptualised by the Chamber of Marathwada Industries and Agriculture (CMIA) authorities, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoUs) with academic institutions from the region. “These institutions will act as ecosystem partners of MAGIC, who are directly or indirectly connected with entrepreneurs. The beneficiaries of incubators can use facilities like labs from these institutions and also gain access to academic mentors,” MAGIC director Ashish Garde said. Supported by German firm GIZ, MAGIC is currently running 10 work stations in CMIA building. “Each CMIA member is a mentor at MAGIC, so the incubatee can receive mentorship from any of these members. The incubator can also help them in geting funding,” Garde said. ‘Marathwada Innovation Challenge’, a contest to identify and support bright ideas, has proved to be a hit among stakeholders. Garde said the challenge was meant for eight districts of Maharashtra, over 225 entries poured in from 85. Seven of these promising start-ups have ‘graduated’ from MAGIC. Coinciding with the anniversary of ‘Start-up India Scheme’ and five-year of conceptualisation of MAGIC, Union minister for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Nitin Gadkari is scheduled to address a virtual meet on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/magic-to-expand-support/articleshow/80272862.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: Onion pinches pocket, price jumps by Rs 20 in four days||KOLKATA: The scare over eating chicken owing to bird flu, rising price of mutton and fluctuating onion price are mostly leaving kitchens with a little option to spice up the dinner. After a hiatus, the rising onion price is again burning a hole in the pockets of buyers. In the past four days, onion price jumped by Rs 20 to touch a new high of Rs 58-60 a kg. On January 8, onion price hovered around Rs 38-40 while it rose to Rs 45 a kg in the evening on the same day. On Wednesday, the vegetable was sold at Rs 58-60 a kg in major markets like Maniktala. Onions are transported to Bengal in bulk from Nasik in Maharashtra and Bellary in Karnataka. In 2019, the vegetable touched the record price Rs 150 a kg. Asked the reason behind such rise in price, Bhola Das, an onion seller at Lake Market, said, “It is not very clear to us. The supply has become a bit erratic. The wholesale rate has been very inconsistent and rising. Today a 40- kg onion bag is being sold at Rs1,800-1,900. Only four days ago it was Rs 1,400-1,500. Moreover, the quantity of damaged or rotten onions is higher in every bag.” “There was untimely rain in the western part of the country, where onions are produced. The rain led to the rotting of crops. There were issues over loading and unloading. A large number of farmers also joined the anti-farm law agitation in Delhi. All these had a collective impact on the supply of onions to our state,” said Chandan Chakraborty, working president of Onion Merchant Association at Posta. Keeping in mind the erratic supply, the onion price is unlikely to dip before the end of February when the new onion crop of Bengal will hit the market. The price rise is all due to the gap between demand and supply, said Taraknath Trivedi, general secretary of West Bengal Federation Traders Organization (FTO). Chandan Chakraborty also hinted at nefarious nexus at some major unloading points in Dhulagarh, Posta, Sealdah and Shyambazar, where some people dictated the price to maximise their profit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/onion-pinches-pocket-price-jumps-by-rs-20-in-four-days/articleshow/80274723.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Bird flu scare: Owner ‘caged’ in poultry farm in Bhandara for 14 days sans power||NAGPUR: Dhananjay Bhusari is desperately waiting for the next 10 days to pass. His poultry farm in Palandur village of Bhandara has been sealed after death of 300 birds, and he has been ordered to be in ‘quarantine’ there for 14 days. The farm is on a secluded plot, over 4km away from his home, says Dhananjay. Dhananjay’s farm of over 300 birds was the third case of unusual mortality of poultry livestock in the region. The samples have been sent to the western regional disease diagnostic laboratory at Pune, from where they may further to go the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Bhopal, for more tests, if needed. Till the results come in, Dhananjay will have to stay at the poultry farm in Lakhni tehsil of Bhandara district. There were no deaths at his farm on Thursday. In the village, even his family of six have been confined to home and fields, he says. Cases of poultry deaths have been reported at other farms at Nagpur, Yavatmal, Akola, Gondia and Amravati in Vidarbha. Yet, Bhusari remains the only owner who has been quarantined along with his family in the region. Officials in animal husbandry department say taking basic precautions is enough for humans. However, district administration officials at Lakhni said there were collector’s orders on these lines to prevent further infection to humans. “They have sealed the farm, and I am here all alone since last three days and have to spend 10 more days. I haven’t seen my brother and parents, who have been confined to their homes in the village. There is no electricity at the farm and I have to manage with batteries,” Dhananjay told TOI. Dhananjay said his family manages to send food once a day through some of the neighbours who have farms close by. “They keep the box outside the door at home and one of the neighbours, who owns fields near my poultry farm, comes and delivers it outside my gate.” The authorities have also barred vehicles delivering bird feed to the farm. “I have got stock to last for 2-3 days and still around 200 birds are alive,” he said. “The scare has led to even markets shutting down in the area,” he said. Dhananjay built the poultry farm this year using his father’s retirement funds, hoping that it would supplement the farm income. This year the paddy yield was down to a quarter of last season, he says. At Lingti village of Yavatmal, Pravin Raut is a free man, however, deaths continue at his farm. In last four days over 900 of the 2,700 birds have died, he said. Even Raut had started the farm less than a year ago hoping to supplement income from his three acres of holding. “The crop has been bad this year and now I am staring at losses of more than a couple of lakhs due to the poultry deaths. Hope the government compensates poultry farmers,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-flu-scare-owner-caged-in-poultry-farm-for-14-days-sans-power/articleshow/80274663.cms||Shishir Arya
January 15, 2021||Agra||Agra, Pilibhit get first lot of Covishield vaccine||AGRA/PILIBHIT: Agra received its first batch of Covishield vaccines against novel coronavirus on Thursday for the vaccination drive that commences on January 16 across the country. District magistrate Prabhu N Singh said, “A total of 2,628 vials (26,280 doses) of Covishield were delivered by the state government for Agra district on Thursday morning. The vaccines have been safely stored at the CMO office in ice lined refrigerators.” Besides Agra, 7,322 vials of Covishield to be transferred to Aligarh, Etah, Firozabad, Hathras, Kasganj, Manipuri and Mathura districts were also stored at the CMO office. In Agra district, the six designated centres for vaccination are the district hospital, Lady Lyall Hospital (district women hospital), SN Medical College, Pushpanjali Hospital and the community health centres at Khandoli and Etmadpur. Chief medical officer of Agra district, Dr RC Pandey, said, “At each centre, 100 people will be vaccinated every day. We are sending text messages to all the health staffers shortlisted for vaccination on Saturday.” People given the vaccine shot will be kept under observation for at least 30 minutes. Each vaccination team will have six members including a doctor, nurse, supporting staff and volunteers. Police will ensure strict security arrangements at the vaccination centres, the CMO said. In the first phase, a total of 18,901 doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated in Agra district. In Pilibhit district, 7,967 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive at the designated centres -- Sharda Hospital, a private medical institution, and the community health centres at Puranpur and Barkhera block headquarters, said additional chief medical officer, Dr CM Chaturvedi. The district has received 9,720 doses of Covishield vaccine. for the first phase of vaccination. The district has maintained 13 cold chain points for the storage of vaccines, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/agra-pilibhit-get-first-lot-of-covishield-vaccine/articleshow/80273614.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||No pre-arrest bail to grandadheld for ‘raping’ 6-year-old girl||Mumbai: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court recently refused to grant anticipatory bail to a 64-year-old south Mumbai man accused of raping his six-year-old granddaughter. The complaint was lodged by the child’s mother who faced stiff opposition from her husband, the son of the accused. The mother iterated her stand in court and submitted the accused had committed a heinous offence and hence should not be granted anticipatory bail. Rejecting the man’s plea, the court said, “Prima facie, the allegations are of penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim girl aged six years. Considering the nature of the allegations and an inter se relationship between the accused and the victim, the accused is not entitled to anticipatory bail.” The mother had told the cops that her father-in-law and other members of her husband’s family lived in another wing of their building. She said on the evening of December 20, the accused took the child home with him. The mother said later when she went to fetch her daughter, the child told her the accused had kissed her on the forehead and cheeks. The woman said suspecting something was amiss, she asked the child more about the acts of the accused. The child then described the sexual assault.  The accused said he was being falsely implicated over a property dispute. The prosecution though opposed his plea and said the medical report, statements of the child and witnesses, prima facie supported the case.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-grandadheld-for-raping-6-year-old-girl/articleshow/80273633.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Centenary of Coolie-Begar movement sees muted political activity in Bageshwar||Pithoragarh: Muted celebrations took place to mark the centenary of Coolie-Begar movement in Bageshwar on Makar Sankranti due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Termed as the ‘bloodless revolution’ by Mahatma Gandhi, it was on January 14, 1921, that the farmers of Kumaon rose in revolt against the Coolie-Begar system of the British government.Owing to Covid-19 this year, the centenary year saw only religious activities, whereas political activities and traditional trade fair were not allowed by the district authorities.During the event, which coincides with the Uttarayani Mela held in Bageshwar, people performed rituals on the banks of Saryu river and took a holy dip.“The Coolie-Begar movement anniversary usually attracts an array of political parties who organise public events every year. But this year, there were restrictions due to the coronavirus,” said Chandra Sekhar Dewadi, a local resident."Some of our workers threw copies of the three farm bills into the river and started our party's year-long programme to celebrate the centenary of the Coolie-Begar movement," said Lalit Pharswan, ex-Congress MLA. The Coolie-Begar system was an exploitative practice in which families of farmers were forced to provide free labour to British officers, soldiers, mountaineers and surveyors. The village headmen also used to maintain a register of coolies.In 1921, thousands of farmers marched to Bageshwar and took an oath that they will no longer work for the British as part of the dominating practice.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/centenary-of-coolie-begar-movement-sees-muted-political-activity-in-bageshwar/articleshow/80273620.cms||Prem Punetha
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||First case of new Covid strain found in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The first case of the highly infectious new Covid-19 strain was reported in Uttarakhand on Thursday. A 44-year-old individual has been found positive for the Covid strain II, according to the health authorities. As of now, the individual was the only one found positive for the new strain, though he came in "contact" with the UK returnees. He had some visitors at his home from Ireland and on suspicion of Covid, he got a test done. Five other persons also got their tests done and just one case was found positive. Thereafter, for gene sequencing, his samples were sent to Delhi and the result came positive. All other five samples were negative. The patient is a resident of MDDA, Kedarpur, and is currently placed under isolation at Tilu Rauteli women's hostel. State district IDSP authority, Dr Rajeev Dixit, said, “A person who came in contact with Ireland returnees has tested positive for Covid strain II.” According to the health authorities, the person will be kept in isolation for 14 days and another 14 days in quarantine. All the people in the area and the contacts will be tested. If any person tries to flee from the area, it will be converted into a containment zone. In total, 154 cases were tested positive on Thursday, taking the overall state's tally to 94,324. Three persons, including a 60-year-old woman, died of the disease. So far, the state has lost 1,596 people to the deadly infection. The highest deaths were recorded in Dehradun (901) followed by Nainital (218), Haridwar (150), US Nagar (114), Pauri (57) and Pithoragarh (45). Dehradun continues to receive the highest number of positive cases in the state out of all the 13 districts. On Thursday, the state capital had reported 40 cases followed by 37 in Haridwar, 30 in Nainital and 15 in US Nagar. Results of 9,577 samples are yet to be out while at present there are 2,510 active cases in the state. On Thursday, 187 patients recovered, taking the overall tally to 88,948. Currently, there are six containment zones - four in Uttarkashi and two in Dehradun.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/first-case-of-new-covid-strain-found-in-ukhand/articleshow/80273629.cms||Shivani Azad
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||NMC mops up only Rs 25cr out of Rs500cr property tax arrears||Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters providing 80% waiver in penalty has received a lukewarm response. Against Rs500 crore arrears, the civic body could mop up only Rs25 crore in the one-month window to avail the scheme. Given the poor response, the NMC has extended the last date of the scheme till January 20. The amnesty scheme for property tax defaulters was launched on December 14 midnight to recover pending dues. Currently, NMC’s outstanding demand from property tax is around Rs810 crore which includes arrears. As per Abhay Yojana 2020 (amnesty scheme), the civic body had announced 80% waiver on interest for tax defaulters if they pay the dues between December 15 and January 14. But with the new extension, the waiver will be reduced to 50% if the dues are paid between January 21 and February 14. According to property tax department data, 23,956 tax defaulters paid their arrears and current year’s property tax. The department has collected Rs13.30 crore arrears and Rs7.99 crore as current property tax. The defaulters have also paid 20% of their penalty, which comes to around Rs1.65crore. The highest number of taxpayers were from Ashi Nagar zone where 3,484 property owners cleared their outstanding arrears amounting to over Rs1.98 crore and Rs96.96 lakh in current tax. Similarly, 3,241 property owners from the Nehru Nagar zone cleared their arrears of Rs1.46 crore and current tax of Rs88.88 lakh. About 3,013 property owners under Mangalwari zone paid Rs2.18 crore arrears and current property tax of Rs1.30 crore. Deputy municipal commissioner Milind Meshram said that the dates were extended as citizens complained about their inability to avail the scheme due to non-working or slow working of the NMC site. The decision to extend the deadline for the amnesty scheme was taken by mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, standing committee chairman Vijay Zalke and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B. They have appealed to tax defaulters to avail the scheme to clear their outstanding tax.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/nmc-mops-up-only-rs-25cr-out-of-rs500cr-property-tax-arrears/articleshow/80274680.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Safety first at schools prepping to resume classes from January 18||NEW DELHI: With the need to follow Covid-19 regulations, schools will have shorter hours and fewer students when classes resume on Monday. Lessons will be on for five hours at the most in a day and only 12-15 students may be seated in one classroom. Handwashing consoles and sanitisers will be readily available in the corridors. Most schools also plan to divide the class X and XII students into two batches for each class, with the groups attending school on alternate days. While the schools await the return of the consent forms from parents, Ameeta Mulla Wattal, principal, Springdales School, Pusa Road, said, “The students are excited to return. The Class XII students haven’t attended a single class this year. In a few months, they will leave school forever, so I am sure many will be coming for classes.” The schools hope to be able to conduct the pre-board exams assessments in physical form. At Ahlcon School, there are around 350 students who can be easily accommodated in a single batch. However, for the practical classes, the institution has decided on not more than 10 students in one laboratory. “We have five subjects that require practicals, so at any given time around 50 students will be present in the labs,” said Ashok Pandey, director, Ahlcon Group. Government schools too are making similar arrangements. The principal of one in east Delhi’s Seemapuri said, “We have instructed our sanitation workers on the additional duties of sanitising the school before and after classes. As we have a large number of students, teachers will be deployed at the entry/exit points to see that social distancing norms are adequately followed.” Teachers at Mount Abu Public School, however, felt that they could call all their students at the same time. Principal Jyoti Arora said, “Having all of them present isn’t a problem because we have big classrooms. Even keeping physical distancing in mind, at least 20 students can be accommodated in one room.” Arora added that the school would ensure as few students were in school at any particular time as possible. She said there was still some time to plan things and exuded optimism that 80% of the parents would be amenable to sending their children back to school.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/safety-first-at-schools-prepping-to-resume-classes-from-monday/articleshow/80275808.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 15, 2021||Agra||Blinding fog leaves one dead, 16 hurt on e-way||Dense fog and a bone-chilling cold gripped most of western UP early on Thursday. The day saw mercury dropping to as low as 2.8 degrees Celsius in Meerut, making it the coldest day of the season for the district. The blanket of thick fog that reduced visibility in many areas to almost zero resulted in three accidents on the Agra-Delhi Yamuna expressway, claiming one life and leaving 16 injured. A report from Mathura said one person was killed and 12 were injured after a sleeper coach bus rammed into a pickup truck on the expressway, near milestone 135 in the Baldeo area at 5am. The deceased was identified as Rahish from Rajasthan. Following this accident, another bus collided with the stranded vehicles due to poor visibility. Two canters collided near milestone 109 on Yamuna expressway in Raya area, injuring wo persons. Soon a few other vehicles crashed into them. Meanwhile, Meerut woke up to the coldest day of the season at 2.8 degrees Celsius. “The maximum temperature recorded in Meerut on Thursday were 15.8 degrees Celsius, which is six degrees below normal, and minimum, 2.8 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees below normal.” said Brij Mohan, Meerut Met in-charge. Moradabad was also enveloped in a thick fog on Thursday, the first this season, according to residents. Throughout the day, a thin fog hung over the city.The minimum temperature plunged to 5 degrees Celsius while the maximum temperature was recorded at 17.0 degrees Celsius. The damp cold kept people indoors and few vehicles plied on the road due to the fog-induced poor visibility.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/blinding-fog-leaves-one-dead-16-hurt-on-e-way/articleshow/80273634.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Student held for providing fake I-cards for train travel||Mumbai: A student from Virar was arrested by railway police for providing fake identity cards of government and non-government sector to passengers who wanted to travel in local trains. Ordinary citizens cannot travel in local trains even though Western Railway is running 1,201 trains daily. Only essential service staff, as designated by state government, can travel, including, state and central government, banking sector, lawyers, medical and health field staff or proprietors. A WR spokesperson said, “RPF traced the student on the basis of a message circulated on Telegram. The youth, a final year Arts student, was arrested for cheating and forgery from his residence.” A source said, “A cottage industry has come up to produce fake I-cards, which are sold for Rs200-500.” WR chief public relations officer Sumeet Thakur said travelling with an unauthorized identity card was a punishable offence. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/student-held-for-providing-fake-i-cards-for-train-travel/articleshow/80274489.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Opposition to expansion by mining firm||Bicholim: Villagers of Amona and Navelim in Bicholim taluka have strongly opposed the planned expansion of a mining company’s plant, the public hearing for which is scheduled to take place in Navelim village on January 24. The villagers have demanded that the hearing be called off and they have also objected to the manner in which it is scheduled to be conducted Former Sakhali sarpanch Pravin Blaggon said the nature of the public hearing called for is questionable as just 100 people have been invited to participate Former Pale MLA Pratap Gawas and Congress leader Nilkanth Gawas, who are backing the villagers, questioned as to how Goa State Pollution Control Board had approved the project when it is located so close to a thickly populated area. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/opposition-to-expansion-by-mining-firm/articleshow/80275787.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||BJP, Congress camps fight to get credit for hotmixing work of road in Margao||Margao: PWD minister Deepak Pauskar on Thursday landed in acute discomfiture after he was caught in the crossfire in the clash for credit between BJP and Congress camps over the issue of launching of hotmixing of roads at Comba. Minutes before Pauskar could do the honours, Margao MLA Digambar Kamat, as it turned out, had already inaugurated the same work at a different venue in the presence of a large number of his supporters and, significantly, PWD engineers. Pauskar, meanwhile, alongwith local BJP leaders and supporters, had to wait endlessly for the paving machine to arrive at the scheduled venue at Comba once Kamat was done with breaking the coconut elsewhere and announcing the commencement of the road work. If a seemingly embarrassed Pauskar later told reporters that he would take up the issue with chief minister Pramod Sawant, enraged BJP workers cornered the two PWD engineers who had attended Kamat’s event calling them “stooges” of the Opposition leader. BJP functionary Sharmad Raiturkar, speaking in the presence of Pauskar, accused Kamat of blocking all development works in Comba – including hotmixing of roads – for the last several years, and credited former chief minister Manohar Parrikar with initiating all the long-pending works once the BJP came to power in 2012 – restoring water supply lines, underground electricity cabling work, and laying of sewer lines. “Parrikar even closely followed up with the sewerage work of Comba whilst he was being treated in US once the work order was issued to the contractor. However, for the last four days PWD engineers have been attempting to block the work of restoring the dug-up roads, and we all know at whose behest they are doing it,” Raiturkar said. He demanded with Pauskar that an inquiry be initiated into the episode where PWD engineers “insulted the PWD minister, the BJP government and the people of Comba”. Pauskar, in reply to a query, acknowledged that “locals’ sentiments have been hurt” by the incident but advised restraint. He said he would leave it to the chief minister to act on the issue. On the other hand, president of Margao block of Congress, Gopal Naik, issued a press statement accusing BJP workers of “physically assaulting” PWD engineers on duty. He demanded that authorities take suo-moto cognisance of the incident “whose videos are now viral on social media and book all Margao BJP workers for obstructing and attacking government staff on duty.” “We have documentary evidence to prove that the works are carried out in the constituency on the initiative of Margao MLA Digambar Kamat and the local BJP workers have no right to claim credit for the same,” Naik said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-congress-camps-fight-to-get-credit-for-hotmixing-work-of-road-in-margao/articleshow/80275815.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Three men arrested for stealing vehicles||Kolhapur: The local crime branch has arrested three men, who were allegedly involved in vehicle theft cases in the district.  The accused have been identified as Ramesh Lagmanna Patil (31) of Gandhiglaj, Jawed Nazir Sayyed (21) of Chandgad and Shivaji alias Sachin Kumar Chikhalbi (28) of Kolhapur. The trio had been stealing two-wheelers since November last year. Patil and Syyed were spotted by the police near Ujlaiwadi because of their suspicious movements. The duo revealed Chikhalbi’s name, who was picked up from his residence in Kasba Bawda. Police seized nine two-wheelers from Patil and Syyed, and five from Chikhalbi.tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/three-men-arrested-for-stealing-vehicles/articleshow/80272884.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Morena effect: Raids across Bhopal on illicit liquor gangs||BHOPAL: The Morena hooch tragedy has once again brought into focus the problem of illicit liquor that haunts Madhya Pradesh. It’s the second such tragedy in three months — in Ujjain, 14 people were killed after consuming illicit liquor in October last year. According to rough estimates, the state loses Rs 100 crore a month due to the illicit liquor trade — this, without taking into account the cost in human life and health.  In a crackdown against spurious liquor after the Morena tragedy, Bhopal administration raided several places on Thursday morning, includingHaripura, Arjun Nagar, Naronha Saankal, Tanda, Kokta, Kanhasaiyya, Sukhi Sewania, Amoni Bhadbhada, Kheria Tapra and Balampur. The team seized around 8,400kg of Mahua Lahan and 320 litres of hand furnace liquor, under Excise Act 1915. Officials say, the gangs engaged in hooch trade are so vicious that officials of excise and police department have often been attacked during raids. In one such incident, around a dozen vehicles of the excise and police department were damaged by a hooch gang during a raid in Bhopal last November. Sources say, such gangs are active across the state. They illegally manufacture liquor using industrial alcohol and other raw materials. It does not comply with the production standards and is not fit for human consumption. The spurious liquor in the Morena tragedy was manufactured from industrial alcohol, say officials. “It must be noted that Madhya Pradesh does not manufacture industrial alcohol. It is made in nearby states like Uttar Pradesh, Haryana among others,” said deputy commissioner (excise), Vinod Raghuvanshi, adding that industrial alcohol is smuggled from tankers carrying the spirit which pass through Madhya Pradesh. “There are areas where people manufacture illicit liquor. We regularly raid such places, but they keep on moving their bases. They are kept on a close watch always,” said Raghuvanshi. The back-to-back hooch tragedies have come as wake up call for MP. Strict measures need to be taken to tackle this evil, as it is evident from the Morena tragedy that the illicit liquor mafia is far from vanquished.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/morena-effect-raids-across-bhopal-on-illicit-liquor-gangs/articleshow/80274744.cms||Ramendra Singh
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Treat parents of accident victims as dependants to award compensation: Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: Parents of a dead accident victim are to be treated as dependants to award compensation, held Delhi high court. It further clarified that loss to the estate (compensation calculated for loss of savings and other amenities for the family) was not applicable to the claim of the parents in respect of the death of their child, since they were eligible for compensation under the category of dependants. “This court is of the view that the parents of the deceased are considered in law as dependants, considering that the children are bound to support them in their old age, and the law imposes responsibility on the children to maintain them. Even if the parents are not dependent on their children at the time of the accident, they will certainly be so, both financially and emotionally, at the later stage of their life,” justice J R Midha observed, enhancing the compensation for the mother of a 23-year-old man, who died in a road accident in 2008. The court said it would “be unfair and inequitable to deny compensation for loss of dependency to a parent, who may not be dependent on his/her child at the time of accident per se, but would become so at his/her later age”. In the process, the court allowed the appeal filed by the mother and hiked the compensation amount from approximately Rs 2.4 lakh to Rs 6.8 lakh along with interest at the rate of 9% per annum from the date of filing of the claim in 2010. The court modified the motor accident claims tribunal order, which had held that the accident occurred due to the rash and negligent driving of the driver of a dumper. But it concluded that, since the father of the youth was working with Delhi Police as sub-inspector, he wasn’t dependent on him, nor could the mother be said to be dependent as her husband was employed. The claims tribunal held that the parents were not entitled to compensation for loss of dependency, but only to compensation for loss of the estate — a view set aside by the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hc-treat-parents-of-accident-victims-as-dependants-to-award-compensation/articleshow/80275830.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 15, 2021||Goa||Goa: Families choose to exclude chicken & eggs from plates||PANAJI: Several families that have stopped eating chicken for a week now following reports of bird flu in other states, say they haven’t been affected by the ban on poultry transportation to Goa. “We have stopped buying or eating chicken as a precaution. Our fridge is full of beef and pork for the time-being, so we are not short of meats,” Filomena Dias, a housewife from Raia, told TOI. A family from Old Goa said they turned vegetarian during the Covid-19 pandemic when it was reported that the virus had originated in a wet market. In Porvorim, the Naik family that eats non-vegetarian food four times a week, has stopped purchasing even eggs. “I have been skipping omelettes at breakfast just to be safe. Instead, I have been eating shrikand, cheese, the previous day’s curry, daal and bhaji,” Mahesh Naik said. The Da Costa family in Taleigao stocked up on chicken for their children and dogs no sooner had they read about bird flu in other states. “I expected a ban and hike in prices, so I stocked up for two weeks initially. I also spoke to doctors who told me there wouldn’t be a problem if I washed the chicken thoroughly and cooked it well,” Radha Da Costa told TOI. Another family in Panaji has stopped buying chicken breasts that would be shallow fried. “I used to buy boneless chicken breast and have this cut in thick slices/steak pieces, but since I would only cook these for seven minutes, I decided to stop buying it during this time. Instead, I buy chicken reared in Goa and make sure it is cooked well in a curry preparation for 20 minutes. I make a chilli fry from whatever is left over so the chicken is overcooked and safe,” the mother of two said. Meanwhile, popular poultry retailer Royal Foods, continued to sell chicken for Rs 159 per kg and eggs at Rs 62 per dozen. “Our chicken doesn’t come from across the border. We have our own farms. There is a lot of misinformation being circulated,” a salesperson said. The South Goa administration had on Tuesday banned transportation of birds and eggs into the district from Maharashtra and Karnataka “either directly or indirectly” in view of the bird flu outbreak in these two states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/families-choose-to-exclude-chicken-eggs-from-plates/articleshow/80275829.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 15, 2021||Goa||Cabbies urged to shun violence||Calangute: Taxi owners at Candolim have been urged by the All Goa Taxi Owners’ Association to not take the law into their own hands and to peacefully resolve issues arising out of the tussle with GoaMiles operators over picking up passengers from resorts. An “awareness” meeting was held on Tuesday at the Candolim beach promenade parking lot by the association. Taxi union leader Chetan Kamat said the meeting was called in view of the rising incidents of violence against GoaMiles operators and the registration of police cases against the offenders. “The meeting was called to unite our taxi owners and to request the government to scrap the GoaMiles app and to handle the tussle between taxi owners and GoaMiles operators peacefully. We have decided that we are not going to allow GoaMiles operators to pick up customers from the coastal belt, but without violating the law and order,” he added. Some days ago, the taxi operators had urged ports minister Michael Lobo to scrap the GoaMiles service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabbies-urged-to-shun-violence/articleshow/80275828.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||WR staffer assaulted by 2 with expired passes||Mumbai: A senior Western Railway (WR) ticket examiner was assaulted by two commuters after they were caught travelling on expired monthly season ticket passes on an intercity train on Thursday. Arjun Singh was assaulted when on duty on 12922 Flying Ranee at Kelve Road station at 8.30am by Chinmay Bari ( 27) and Dhirendra Patil ( 21). A WR spokesperson said they had boarded the train from Dahanu. An FIR has been registered for assaulting a public servant on duty. The duo had ID cards of Raheja Hospital, but the authenticity of the cards is under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-staffer-assaulted-by-2-with-expired-passes/articleshow/80274491.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 15, 2021||Goa||‘Western bypass to have wider culverts’||Margao: Public works minister Deepak Pauskar on Thursday said that the pending 2.7km-stretch of the Western bypass from Margao wholesale fish market to Khareband will be completed within the next 6-7 months. The rest of the bypass from Navelim to Nuvem, he said, was almost ready. Addressing a gathering on the occasion of the launching of hotmixing work at Comba, Margao, Pauskar said that the work order would be issued to the contractor in the next few days. Replying to a query, he said that as the demand for construction of the bypass on stilts has been rejected, wider culverts will be constructed instead to ensure smooth flow of rainwater to avoid flooding of low-lying areas. “The width of box culverts has been increased from 3m to 6m. This will take care of the issue,” he said. He also reiterated that the under-construction four-lane Zuari bridge would be completed by May. He added that the work of laying hotmix carpet for all roads – village roads, major district roads, and state highway – across all constituencies and talukas of the state would be completed before May. As regards the hotmixing of the road at Comba, Pauskar said that the work has been tendered at a cost of Rs 1.1cr. He credited former chief minister Manohar Parrikar for having initiated the work of laying underground lines for power, water and sewerage at Comba. Since the demand for the construction of the bypass on stilts has been rejected, the culverts will be widened from 3m to 6m to ensure smooth flow of rainwater||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/western-bypass-to-have-wider-culverts/articleshow/80275822.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Tiger relocated from Corbett finally traced in Rajaji Tiger Reserve||Dehradun: The forest department authorities on Thursday claimed that the male tiger which was relocated from Corbett Tiger Reserve to Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) on January 9 has been found in the RTR.According to the officials, the CCTV captured the tiger preying on a sambar deer and subsequently, it was seen moving around in the forest. The five-year-old tiger had dropped its radio-collar in the enclosure meant for it and fled on Tuesday, triggering panic among the forest officials.“CCTV images captured on Thursday showed that the big cat has comfortably settled in its new habitat and also caught a prey,” chief wildlife warden of Uttarakhand forest department J S Suhag told TOI. Meanwhile, the department is yet to relocate three more tigers at the RTR.According to official sources, a female tigress will be relocated within 10 days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-relocated-from-corbett-finally-traced-in-rajaji-tiger-reserve/articleshow/80273657.cms||Shivani Azad
January 15, 2021||Agra||Mainpuri cops arrest 16 for looting arms & electrical items from UPPTCL godown||Agra: Mainpuri police on Thursday arrested a 16-member gang in connection with the loot of electrical items and firearms from a godown of UP Power Transmission Corporation Limited after taking its four security guards hostage, last week. Three of their associates, though, are still at large. Police have recovered three of the stolen firearms, along with electrical products worth Rs 10 lakh, from their possession. The gang allegedly operated between Rajasthan’s Alwar and Delhi, said police. Mainpuri SP Avinash Pandey said four teams were formed to crack this case. Of the three absconding criminals, two are said to be masterminds of the gang. A reward will be declared for their arrests. The SP added that strict action will be taken against them. He confirmed the gang had no local connection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mainpuri-cops-arrest-16-for-looting-arms-electrical-items-from-upptcl-godown/articleshow/80273671.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Spl court lets Bhujbal renew his passport||Mumbai: State minister Chhagan Bhujbal, facing prosecution in separate cases of money laundering and corruption, has been allowed to renew his passport for three years. Bhujbal had moved pleas before the special court and said that his passport expired in 2020. While the Enforcement Directorate objected to his plea in the money laundering case on the grounds that he could abscond, the court said that he was to return the document to the police after its renewal. The court had earlier said he must seek prior permission before flying abroad. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/spl-court-lets-bhujbal-renew-his-passport/articleshow/80276017.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Chargesheet filed against 7 persons in Torda murder case||Panaji: Porvorim police on Thursday filed a chargesheet against seven persons before the judicial magistrate first class (JMFC), Mapusa in connection with the murder of Vilas Methar in Torda. Porvorim police inspector Ninad Deulkar said that the chargesheet runs into 508 pages, and the statements of 71 people have been recorded. Deulkar said that the chargesheet is filed against builder Altaf Yergatti, Khayad Shaikh, Pawan Badigar, Iqbal Nanpuri, Santosh Pillai, Shailesh Shetty and Vishwajeet Dabholkar under Section 302 (murder) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Police had said that Yergatti met supari ‘contractors’ Badigar, Nanpuri and Dabholkar a month ago prior to the incident to hatch the plan to kill Methar. Initially, the plan was to threaten Methar as he had filed some complaints against Yergatti. On October 14 last year, Methar, who was driving, was waylaid near the Torda creek by two persons who poured fuel on him and set him afire. The victim had sustained severe burn injuries and succumbed at Goa Medical College and Hospital the following day. Police had said that the motive behind the murder was because Methar used to file RTI applications and complaints against the builder pertaining to the extension done in open space in a building in Donwado, Salvador do Mundo, where he (Methar) was living. Methar had approached the panchayat and also filed RERA related complaints.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chargesheet-filed-against-7-persons-in-torda-murder-case/articleshow/80275832.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Niranjani Akhada gets new chief||Haridwar: Kailashanand Giri was anointed Acharya Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panchayti Niranjani Akhada, one of the largest naga sanyasi akhadas, on the occasion of Makar Sankranti in Haridwar on Thursday. Among those present for the anointment ceremony, referred to as ‘Pattabhishek’ was governor Baby Rani Maurya. Ascetics of the Niranjani Akhada had announced the name of Kailashanand Giri as Acharya Mahamandaleshwar some days ago. The seer, who is the religious guru of former UP minister Shivpal Yadav, was earlier the mahamandaleshwar of Agni akhada.Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri, who is also a senior ascetic of Niranjani Akhada, told TOI, “Akhada sadhus have the right to choose their Acharya Mahamandaleshwar, who would be their guru. Swami Kailashanand Giri is an apt person for this post.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/niranjani-akhada-gets-new-chief/articleshow/80273680.cms||MS Nawaz
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Kid chases kite, falls into dung pit in Kandivli, dies||MUMBAI: A 10-year-old boy lost his life after he fell into a five feet deep pit of cow dung and water in Kandivli (W), while trying to retrieve a kite, on Thursday. Durgesh Jadhav, a class V student, lived in a neighbouring building at Shankar Pada and had ventured into a cow shed, police said. An accidental death case was recorded but police will probe if the shed owner was at fault. Duresh, who lived with his parents in an SRA building, was at home with his mother when he saw a kite sweep down towards the shed around 3.30pm. The plot is surrounded with asbestos sheets on all sides. Police said he found a gap, but slipped in and fell. Yusuf (20), from another building, saw the child fall in, so he rushed to his rescue. But Jadhav slipped back twice as Yusuf struggled with him. Yusuf too got stuck in waist-deep dung, said a police officer. Workers from a construction site nearby and residents got a crane and some men sat in its bucket to reach the spot. Yusuf tried to hoist him and he was brought out. Locals tried to revive him but a doctor who was summoned declared Jadhav dead. Kandivli police were then summoned. “Jadhav told his mother he was going to retrieve a kite nearby. Had Yusuf not seen him fall nobody would have known where he disappeared,” said a police officer. Jadhav’s body was sent for an autopsy. His father, a daily wage worker, was informed by residents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/kid-chases-kite-falls-into-dung-pit-dies/articleshow/80274494.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Goa minister Nilesh Cabral rolls out red carpet for IIT in Curchorem||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Thursday said he and the people of Curchorem constituency, which he represents, would welcome the setting up of IIT-Goa there. He, however, said a decision in the matter has not been taken yet. Cabral’s statement comes just days after his cabinet colleague and Valpoi MLA Vishwajit Rane said he would stand by the people of his constituency who have been opposing construction of the premier technical and research institute at Melauli. “The issue is still not decided. If it is, I and the people of my constituency welcome IIT-Goa. There will be a small issue that will be settled by talking to the people,” Cabral said. “Many have still been asking me why IIT-Goa is not coming to our side.” The power minister told reporters that when there was an issue with setting up IIT-Goa at Canacona initially, he had identified nine lakh sqm of land in the Curchorem constituency and had even informed then chief minister Manohar Parrikar about it. “There was a small issue, but we were trying to settle it,” he said. Subsequently, however, it was decided at a cabinet meeting that 15 lakh sqm of land were available in Melauli, of which 11 lakh sqm could be directly handed over for IIT-Goa, Cabral said. Taking the recent protests at Melauli into account, Rane had changed his stand on the setting up of the IIT in Sattari. In his letter to chief minister Pramod Sawant, the health minister had asked to “scrap the project”. He went on to tell the CM that as long as “blood flows through my body, every drop of blood will be used for development of Sattari and Usgao”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cabral-rolls-out-red-carpet-for-iit-in-curchorem/articleshow/80275833.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Deonar woman held for ‘trying to kill’ hubby gets bail, he supports it||MUMBAI: A year after a now 41-year-old Deonar woman was arrested along with her paramour on charges of attempting to murder her estranged husband, a sessions court has granted her plea for bail as her spouse submitted an affidavit supporting her release. Granting bail to Anita Yadav, the sessions court observed an important aspect was that the husband in his affidavit had said the incident took place out of matrimonial dispute. “She demanded money for maintenance and he denied it. So out of sudden provocation, the incident occurred. His wife is handicapped and suffers from an ailment. So, he has no objection to her bail,” the court said. The court also pointed out one of the reasons cited by the investigating officer to oppose the bail was that Yadav would tamper with the witnesses. The court though reasoned, “As per the prosecution case, the incident occurred inside a house. The injured informant is the only eyewitness. He has filed an affidavit giving no objection to the bail of his wife. So there is no question of tampering.” Yadav and her paramour, Pradip Sable, were arrested on December 24, 2019. In her bail plea, the defence said on the day of the incident, a dispute arose as Yadav demanded money for maintenance and she hit the victim with a wooden plank on his back. The prosecution said, “As she caught hold of the hands of the injured, the co-accused was able to give a knife blow.” The court though said the victim was out of danger and had resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wife-held-for-trying-to-kill-hubby-gets-bail-he-supports-it/articleshow/80275831.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Manjha menace takes a toll on birds||JAIPUR: Kite flying on Makar Sankranti left hundreds of birds injured due to manjha. Many were brought to the bird hospital and camps set up by different NGOs across the city. Around 150 injured birds were brought to the Jain Bird Hospital, Johari Bazaar, for treatment. According to the management of the hospital people have been bringing the birds since morning. “From January 10-14, we have to work 24X7 in the hospital due to the number of injuries. Because of ongoing bird flu, people are scared to touch the birds due to which every day we got just 30 cases during this period, except on Thursday when around 150 birds were brought to the hospital. We clean their wounds and put a bandage on them. After which they rest in the cage till they become healthy,” said Ramesh Chandra Verma, a doctor at the hospital. Most of the birds injured are pigeons, a few eagles and small birds as well. To save these birds, especially pigeons, they have to be kept surrounded by other pigeons or else the birds will die of fear. Verma explained that until the pigeons find their own species, they will not survive in a strange environment. Over 60 birds were rescued by the volunteers of Raksha NGO who has set up a camp in Malviya Nagar. Rohit Gangwal, member of Raksha, said that due to bird flu and pandemic they had to use PPE kit and follow strict government guidelines due to which they are not been able to recue more birds. Rohit said, “We are trying to attend as many rescue calls as possible, but it is very tough to help everyone as we have to follow the protocol. Still, we received more than 70 birds on Thursday and we are currently treating them.” Another NGO Hope and Beyond, whose camp was set up at C-scheme in Deer Park, said that they made their volunteers wear a plastic sheet over the PPE kit to avoid dirt getting over the kits. Around 40 birds were rescued by the NGO volunteers, but they also found injured birds with bird flu symptoms which they avoided touching.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/manjha-menace-takes-a-toll-on-birds/articleshow/80274792.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Wife held for trying to kill hubby gets bail, he supports it||Mumbai: A year after a now 41-year-old Deonar woman was arrested on charges of attempting to murder her estranged husband along with her paramour, a sessions court has granted her plea for bail as her spouse submitted an affidavit supporting her release. Granting bail to Anita Yadav, the sessions court observed an important aspect was that the husband in his affidavit had said the incident took place out of matrimonial dispute. “She demanded money for maintenance and he denied it. So out of sudden provocation, the incident occurred. His wife is handicapped and suffers from an ailment. So, he has no objection to her bail,” the court said. The court also pointed out one of the reasons cited by the investigating officer to oppose the bail was that Yadav would tamper with the witnesses. The court though reasoned, “As per the prosecution case, the incident occurred inside a house. The injured informant is the only eyewitness. He has filed an affidavit giving no objection to the bail of his wife. So there is no question of tampering.” Yadav and her paramour, Pradip Sable, were arrested on December 24, 2019. In her bail plea, the defence said on the day of the incident, a dispute arose as Yadav demanded money for her maintenance and she hit the victim with a wooden plank on his back. The prosecution, though, said, “As she had caught hold of the hands of the injured, the co-accused was able to give a knife blow.” The court said he was out of danger and had resumed work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wife-held-for-trying-to-kill-hubby-gets-bail-he-supports-it/articleshow/80273692.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 15, 2021||Dehradun||Police Grievance Redressal Committee solves half the issues raised by cops in 45 days||Dehradun: To help solve the issues of the police personnel, the department had come up with a Police Personnel Grievance Redressal Committee on December 1 last year. Since then, out of 366 problems that were brought before the committee, 184 have been solved.“While keeping in mind the happiness quotient of the police personnel, the committee was formed. Through a transparent way, the issues related to the police personnel are being solved,” DGP Ashok Kumar said.In one of the instances, a policeman had informed the committee on December 30 about his requirement of Rs 8 lakh for the treatment of his wife. Taking swift action on the recommendation of the committee, the amount was deposited into the account of the police personnel on January 2, 2021.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/police-grievance-redressal-committee-solves-half-the-issues-raised-by-cops-in-45-days/articleshow/80273685.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||City’s kite flying tradition has a UP connect||Jaipur: Makar Sankranti is synonymous with kite flying across the country, a tradition which has 150-year-old history in Jaipur.According to the historians, kite flying tradition in Pink City was brought from Uttar Pradesh.Kite flying was made popular by Maharaja Sawai Ram Singh II (1835-1880 AD) who brought the tradition of kite flying from Lucknow to Jaipur and during his tenure many kite makers from Lucknow used to visit Jaipur city.According to the information provided by the City Palace museum in Jaipur, at the time of Sawai Ram Singh II, a special kite of big size, with fine cloth used to be made which was called ‘tukkal’. Instead of small thread, big charkhis with specially made strings were used to fly these enormous kites. At the end of kites, small bells were also tucked.Sangeeta Sharma, professor of history at Rajasthan University, said, “Maharaja was so fond of kite flying that he started a ‘Kaarkhana’ i.e. a department in Jaipur dealing with kites. A room in the palace was filled with tukkal i.e. kites. The kite flying is still an important part of the royal family who celebrate the tradition on the terrace of city palace every year.”At the time of Sawai Ram Singh II, cutting the kite strings of maharaja was sort after, but palace guards were put on alert who would go galloping on the horses to get the tukkal back to the palace. Maharaja encouraged the tradition of kite making in the city due to which many colonies of kite makers emerged in walled city, the prominent amongst it is Handipura, which is still the biggest market of kites in Jaipur.Before independence, kite flying competitions for common public was organised at Lal Dungri and Jal Mahal. Even today, Rajasthan tourism department celebrate kite festival at Jal Mahal.Every year, city palace exhibit centuries old tukkal and charkhis of Maharaja Sawai Ram Singh II at the city palace museum on Makar Sankranti. Due to pandemic, this year, city palace didn’t celebrate the kite flying festival at the palace roof but the custom made popular by the former Maharaja, is still followed by every Jaipurite on Sankrant.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/citys-kite-flying-tradition-has-a-up-connect/articleshow/80274779.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Goa: Chicken rates down by Rs 10/kg on poor sales||PANAJI: After the state banned the entry of chickens into Goa from neighbouring states, the resultant shortage of the white meat coupled with poor response from consumers has led to a decrease in chicken rates in the local market. Chicken was selling for Rs 140-150 per kg until a few days ago. Most vendors have brought the prices down by Rs 10 on every kg of chicken – owing to which live chicken is going at Rs 129 per kg on wholesale rate and Rs 139 in retail. “The consumption has reduced out of panic among customers. Due to this, sales have reduced, and we have to store the birds for a longer period of time which has led to a shrinkage or loss of weight among the chickens,” said a vendor, Alfredo Dias. The cold snub from consumers has led some vendors to cut the prices by almost half. Salhauddin Shaikh, a vendor from Panaji market was selling broilers for Rs 80 per kg on Thursday and local (gaavti) chicken for Rs 200 per kg. Despite this, he struggled to find buyers. “The market is fully down yet we will continue to keep our shops open. We still have live chickens that were supplied to us prior to the ban order from the collector. Until we sell the last bird, we will have to keep the shop shutters up,” Shaikh said. The hostility from buyers in some cases has reached a level of comic absurdity. Siolim-based Rixon Fernandes had an instance on Thursday wherein a customer who was unaware of the avian influenza outbreak in other states arrived at his store to purchase chicken and left the meat behind after she heard from other customers about the flu. “I had no choice but to take the fresh meat home for my own consumption. There is fear in people’s minds even though well-cooked chicken is safe for consumption,” he said. The rates at his store had come down to Rs 125 per kg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chicken-rates-down-by-rs-10/kg-on-poor-sales/articleshow/80275836.cms||Nida Sayed
January 15, 2021||Goa||Goa: Power dept begins drive to unplug defaulters’ lines||PANAJI: Power minister Nilesh Cabral on Thursday said that his department has already commenced a drive to disconnect power connections of defaulters. He urged people to avail of the benefit of the one-time settlement scheme (OTS) to clear their pending electricity bill dues. The scheme has been extended till January 31, and Cabral told reporters that there are seven lakh power consumers in the state of which 1.4 lakh are not paying their bills on time. For the benefit of defaulters, the state government had come out with the OTS scheme in December 2020. However, very few have come forward to avail of the scheme’s benefit, the power minister said. He said that under the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission, the department has to issue notices to those who do not pay their bills for three months. “We have to act against such people. We served them a 15-day notice and started the disconnection drive,” Cabral said. The power minister said that if no action is taken against the defaulters then the customers who pay their power bills regularly will also not feel the need to do so. “I appeal to the people of the state to log in and pay the principal amount to avoid disconnection,” he said. The cabinet had approved a structured waiver of the DPC — 100% waiver for two instalments; 80% for three instalments; 60% for four instalments; 40% for five instalments and 20% for six instalments.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/power-dept-begins-drive-to-unplug-defaulters-lines/articleshow/80275835.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Anguished over targeted killings in Afghanistan, says India||NEW DELHI: India expressed deep concern on Thursday over the targeted killing of journalists and civil society members in Afghanistan, saying that these were aimed at suppressing the freedom of expression and informed discussion on critical issues related to peace and governance. Stating that the people of Afghanistan longed for a peaceful future, the government called for an immediate and comprehensive ceasefire that will lay the ground for a meaningful peace process to establish a peaceful, prosperous and progressive Afghanistan. “India stands with the people of Afghanistan in their journey towards peace,” said MEA spokesperson Anurag Srivastava. Asked about NSA Ajit Doval’s two-day visit to Afghanistan, Srivastava said that his discussions with Afghan leaders focused on bilateral relations and the peace process.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/anguished-over-targeted-killings-in-afghanistan-says-india/articleshow/80277076.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Andheri duo steals card, cops ‘contact’ them at Dadar store||MUMBAI: Two thieves thought they were lucky when they found a contactless card in a commuter’s wallet they had stolen at Dadar station. They went to a store outside the station to shop with the card but details of their transaction were relayed to the commuter via a text alert from the bank, and he rushed to police to get them caught. Police said Andheri residents Nikhil Pandey (28) and Sonu Yadav (22) had stolen wallets from two commuters, and they are verifying if the duo has a criminal history. On January 11, Badlapur resident Kiran Chavan was on the FOB at Dadar when his wallet was stolen from his backpack around 5pm. Between 5.50pm and 6.05pm, Shivaji Mundhe from Borivli was on the FOB when his wallet was stolen from his backpack. Later, Mundhe got a text message on the transaction of Rs 4,858. He found that his wallet was missing and informed police on the platform. “The transaction alert gave the location where the card had been used. Our team went to the store and picked up Pandey and Yadav soon after they had shopped,” said detection officer Manoj Bhagat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/andheri-duo-steals-card-cops-contact-them-at-dadar-store/articleshow/80274496.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Celebration turns sour as many got injured in city||Jaipur: At least 100 persons rushed to hospitals, including 34 at Institute of Traumatology and Orthopedics of SMS Hospital, who got injured in kite flying related accidents. Two were hospitalized after falling from rooftop while chasing snapped kites.Father and mother of a seven-year-old boy, who was rushed from Dausa after fallen from the rooftop while flying kite looked worried while doctors were examining the boy and providing the treatment. “He was flying kite, but accidently fell from the rooftop,” said his mother.SMS Hospital officials said that out of 34 persons brought with injuries due to kite-related injuries were most of those who were suffered cut on faces, nose, ear from the string of snapped kites while riding bikes.“Some were brought as they fell from the bikes after being entangled in string of snapped kites,” said the official.The officials said that out of 34, two were hospitalized, and 32 were discharged after provided with first aid and stitches to those who suffered cuts on face, nose and neck.The other hospitals including Kanwatia and Jaipuria Hosptials also reported persons injured in kite-related incidents. Some were rushed to private hospitals for the treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/celebration-turns-sour-as-many-got-injured-in-city/articleshow/80274803.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Devotees celebrate Sankranti in Pushkar||Ajmer: Hundreds of devotees on Thursday took a dip in Pushkar Sarovar on the occasion of Makar Sakaranti. While there is no kite flying riatual, at Pushkar the sky was full of kites.Songs and music were played on loud speakers everywhere in Pushkar during Patang Utsav and tourists enjoyed flying kites at the mela ground full which is full of sand dunes. Devotees from different parts of the state mostly from villages came to offer prayers. Hundreds gathered with families early in the morning and took a dip in the cold waters of Pushkar Sarovar. Devotees also gave donations and gifts to poor and distributed food at many places.In Ajmer, religious programmes were organised at many temples. Almost at every cross roads, people were seen feeding cows resulting in traffic snarls at many places. With local bodies elections of Ajmer Municipal Corporation on 28 of January, contestants were seen greeting people in their wards and distributing sweets to woo voters.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/devotees-celebrate-sankranti-in-pushkar/articleshow/80274796.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Biker dies as Chinese manjha slits his throat||Udaipur: A 22-year-old biker lost his life after coming in contact with Chinese manjha that slit his throat in Udaipur on Thursday.The incident occurred when the victim, identified as Laksh, was riding a bike on the highway near Naya Gaon area of Kherwada settlement.“Lakshya and his friend were on the bike and as they reached near hotel Bhagyodaya, he came in contact with a glass-coated Chinese manjha and collapsed. Blood oozed out from his body and his throat was found deeply cut. He was taken to the community health centre where he was declared brought dead,” a police officer said. The pillion rider who tried to hold the manjha sustained injury on his thumb. On the occasion of Makar Sankranti, many people were flying kites on the terraces of buildings and plain ground. One of the kites tied with the Chinese manjha caught the young biker. Eye witnesses said the riders couldn't see the thread due to the sunlight. The body was shifted to mortuary, police said, the victim's father works in Kuwait and hence, his brother and uncle claimed the body.Police team led by SHO Shyam Singh Charan from Kherwada station went to the spot and took details of the incident. Police said a case has been registered against unidentified person.The sale of Chinese manja is banned by the state government and recently too, the home department had directed the district magistrates to check stocking and sale of the deadly plastic thread used for flying kites specially on Makar Sankranti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/biker-dies-as-chinese-manjha-slits-his-throat/articleshow/80274802.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Covid fails to dampen spirit of Makar Sankranti||Jaipur: If Covid-19 had dampened the festivals like Holi, Eid-ul-Fitar, Diwali and Christmas, it fails to impact the festivities of Makar Sakranti.The festival of kites was celebrated across the city with zest and zeal by people of every age and religion on Thursday. In the evening, colourful fireworks in the sky came as a happy ending climax of the festival.Since early morning from teenagers to old people thronged the terraces of their houses despite the fact that the winds were not favourable for the kite flying. Many people were annoyed with the Jaipur Met office forecast of mainly clear sky and velocity of winds to be 10 km/hour.“It is all cloudy and winds are not blowing. It appears this time Makar Sakranti would be spoiled due to cloudy conditions,” said Hemant Sharma, a native of Jhotwara locality who was seen with his family on the terrace with his bunch of kites.However, the prayers of the kite lovers were answered when by 12am the sky was clear and low-velocity winds started blowing. People with loud speakers and microphones were also doing live commentary of the kites which were been snapped from their terraces. By 2pm, good and favourable winds supported the kite lovers in the city.“This is better. In the morning there were hardly any wind. But, there is a need of some high-velocity winds for my special Bareilly kites which are big-sized,” said Amit Saraswat, a native of Chandpole Bazaar who was flying kite on his terrace with his family and friends.While men on the terrace were flying kites, women were bringing various dishes made up of sesame and jaggery along with daal ke pakode. But after wrapping up the kitchen work they too thronged the terraces in the afternoon.“My father had taught me how to fly kites. Now, I can easily snap opponent kites in the sky,” said Ranju Shekhawat while snapping a kite from her house situated at Vaishali Nagar.In the evening people did all what they could not do because of Covid-19 restrictions during Diwali. Firecrackers were burst and people also lit lantern in the sky.Members of two communities clashed over snapping of kites, five detained - Tension prevailed at the Poorani Basti locality when members of two communities were into violent confrontation over snapping and looting of kites. Local representatives and councillors along with police intervene on time and brought peace in the area, Both the confronting groups have lodged FIRs against each other while five persons have been detained.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-fails-to-dampen-spirit-of-makar-sankranti/articleshow/80274805.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Over 50% of 44 dead bird samples in Maharashtra test positive for avian flu||PUNE: The animal husbandry department on Thursday revealed that over 50% of the 44 dead bird samples in the state have so far tested positive for avian influenza. The department received the test results of the 44 samples on Thursday. Thane district had the maximum positive samples (7), followed by Nanded (6). Out of the 44 samples, eight poultry samples from Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for bird flu. Thirteen poultry bird samples from Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Pune and Solapur tested negative. Nine crow samples from Mumbai, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Nashik and Nanded tested positive for bird flu. Ten samples of birds such as heron, parrot and sparrow, from Parbhani, Latur, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar have tested positive. “In exercise of the powers conferred under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, the Maharashtra government in a recent notification has conferred all its powers on the district collectors for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza within their local jurisdiction,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. The local administration now has to undertake the process of declaration of “alert zone” in an area from where mortality in poultry birds (suspected to have died of bird flu) has occurred, apart from implementing necessary precautions and preventive measures under these conferred powers. “We have seen that most crow deaths have occurred due to bird flu in Maharashtra. The district collectors can implement the local restrictions and surveillance where such deaths have been reported. For positive samples in poultry birds, the collectors could give culling orders within one km radius of the infected zone,” said Singh. 382 more birds dead in MahaAs many as 382 birds were found dead in the state on Thursday, of which 331 were poultry birds—110 in Nagpur, 86 in Chandrapur, 50 in Satara, 47 in Latur, 25 in Gondia, 10 in Yavatmal and three in Raigad. The 51 non-poultry birds found dead included two crows each in Pune and Jalgaon, one crow each in Nashik, Yavatmal and Nandurbar, eight peacocks in Wardha and 34 herons, sparrows and parrots in Sangli. As many as 3,378 dead birds have been found in the state since January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/over-50-of-44-dead-bird-samples-in-state-test-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80282345.cms||Neha Madaan
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Over 50% of 44 dead bird samples in Maharashtra test positive for avian flu||PUNE: The animal husbandry department on Thursday revealed that over 50% of the 44 dead bird samples in the state have so far tested positive for avian influenza. The department received the test results of the 44 samples on Thursday. Thane district had the maximum positive samples (7), followed by Nanded (6). Out of the 44 samples, eight poultry samples from Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for bird flu. Thirteen poultry bird samples from Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Pune and Solapur tested negative. Nine crow samples from Mumbai, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Nashik and Nanded tested positive for bird flu. Ten samples of birds such as heron, parrot and sparrow, from Parbhani, Latur, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar have tested positive. “In exercise of the powers conferred under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, the Maharashtra government in a recent notification has conferred all its powers on the district collectors for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza within their local jurisdiction,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. The local administration now has to undertake the process of declaration of “alert zone” in an area from where mortality in poultry birds (suspected to have died of bird flu) has occurred, apart from implementing necessary precautions and preventive measures under these conferred powers. “We have seen that most crow deaths have occurred due to bird flu in Maharashtra. The district collectors can implement the local restrictions and surveillance where such deaths have been reported. For positive samples in poultry birds, the collectors could give culling orders within one km radius of the infected zone,” said Singh. 382 more birds dead in MahaAs many as 382 birds were found dead in the state on Thursday, of which 331 were poultry birds—110 in Nagpur, 86 in Chandrapur, 50 in Satara, 47 in Latur, 25 in Gondia, 10 in Yavatmal and three in Raigad. The 51 non-poultry birds found dead included two crows each in Pune and Jalgaon, one crow each in Nashik, Yavatmal and Nandurbar, eight peacocks in Wardha and 34 herons, sparrows and parrots in Sangli. As many as 3,378 dead birds have been found in the state since January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/over-50-of-44-dead-bird-samples-in-state-test-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80282347.cms||Neha Madaan
January 15, 2021||Pune||Over 50% of 44 dead bird samples in Maharashtra test positive for avian flu||PUNE: The animal husbandry department on Thursday revealed that over 50% of the 44 dead bird samples in the state have so far tested positive for avian influenza. The department received the test results of the 44 samples on Thursday. Thane district had the maximum positive samples (7), followed by Nanded (6). Out of the 44 samples, eight poultry samples from Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for bird flu. Thirteen poultry bird samples from Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Pune and Solapur tested negative. Nine crow samples from Mumbai, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Nashik and Nanded tested positive for bird flu. Ten samples of birds such as heron, parrot and sparrow, from Parbhani, Latur, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar have tested positive. “In exercise of the powers conferred under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, the Maharashtra government in a recent notification has conferred all its powers on the district collectors for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza within their local jurisdiction,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. The local administration now has to undertake the process of declaration of “alert zone” in an area from where mortality in poultry birds (suspected to have died of bird flu) has occurred, apart from implementing necessary precautions and preventive measures under these conferred powers. “We have seen that most crow deaths have occurred due to bird flu in Maharashtra. The district collectors can implement the local restrictions and surveillance where such deaths have been reported. For positive samples in poultry birds, the collectors could give culling orders within one km radius of the infected zone,” said Singh. 382 more birds dead in MahaAs many as 382 birds were found dead in the state on Thursday, of which 331 were poultry birds—110 in Nagpur, 86 in Chandrapur, 50 in Satara, 47 in Latur, 25 in Gondia, 10 in Yavatmal and three in Raigad. The 51 non-poultry birds found dead included two crows each in Pune and Jalgaon, one crow each in Nashik, Yavatmal and Nandurbar, eight peacocks in Wardha and 34 herons, sparrows and parrots in Sangli. As many as 3,378 dead birds have been found in the state since January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-50-of-44-dead-bird-samples-in-state-test-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80275838.cms||Neha Madaan
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Over 50% of 44 dead bird samples in Maharashtra test positive for avian flu||PUNE: The animal husbandry department on Thursday revealed that over 50% of the 44 dead bird samples in the state have so far tested positive for avian influenza. The department received the test results of the 44 samples on Thursday. Thane district had the maximum positive samples (7), followed by Nanded (6). Out of the 44 samples, eight poultry samples from Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for bird flu. Thirteen poultry bird samples from Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Pune and Solapur tested negative. Nine crow samples from Mumbai, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Nashik and Nanded tested positive for bird flu. Ten samples of birds such as heron, parrot and sparrow, from Parbhani, Latur, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar have tested positive. “In exercise of the powers conferred under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, the Maharashtra government in a recent notification has conferred all its powers on the district collectors for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza within their local jurisdiction,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI. The local administration now has to undertake the process of declaration of “alert zone” in an area from where mortality in poultry birds (suspected to have died of bird flu) has occurred, apart from implementing necessary precautions and preventive measures under these conferred powers. “We have seen that most crow deaths have occurred due to bird flu in Maharashtra. The district collectors can implement the local restrictions and surveillance where such deaths have been reported. For positive samples in poultry birds, the collectors could give culling orders within one km radius of the infected zone,” said Singh. 382 more birds dead in MahaAs many as 382 birds were found dead in the state on Thursday, of which 331 were poultry birds—110 in Nagpur, 86 in Chandrapur, 50 in Satara, 47 in Latur, 25 in Gondia, 10 in Yavatmal and three in Raigad. The 51 non-poultry birds found dead included two crows each in Pune and Jalgaon, one crow each in Nashik, Yavatmal and Nandurbar, eight peacocks in Wardha and 34 herons, sparrows and parrots in Sangli. As many as 3,378 dead birds have been found in the state since January 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/over-50-of-44-dead-bird-samples-in-state-test-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80282346.cms||Neha Madaan
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt to pay Rs2,000 cr DA hike arrears to staff||Mumbai: The cash-strapped state government has decided to release long-pending arrears of a dearness allowance (DA) hike given to employees in 2019. The payout for six months’ worth of arrears is expected to cost Rs 2,000 crore and will be given this month. The arrears of the 3% DA hike will be given for January to June 2019. Officials said with several allowances deferred due to Covid-19, it was necessary to start making some payments. “If we do not release some now, the burden in two years will be too high. These arrears are being released after one-and-a-half years,” said a finance department official. For employees who fall within the Sixth Pay Commission’s grade, a 6% DA hike had been given. That payout will also be made for arrears from January to June 2019. The state had given cut-backs on salaries and allowances during the pandemic. In March, the top administration had a 60% salary cut, while grade I and II cadre officers got a 50% pay cut. Salaries were paid in two instalments. In June 2020, it deferred payment of the second instalment of the Seventh Pay Commission’s arrears worth Rs 5,000 crore. In May 2020, it froze DA and LTC of employees for two years, saving Rs 18,000 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-to-pay-rs2000-cr-da-hike-arrears-to-staff/articleshow/80274502.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee sets up team to take on ‘BJP IT cell’||MUMBAI: Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee has set up a 428-member social media team to campaign against ‘BJP’s IT cell’. “We set up a team of 428 social media warriors, they will counter BJP’s rumours against the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. BJP is making all-out efforts to create an atmosphere of hate and communal tension,’’ MPCC general secretary Abhijeet Sapkal, who is also in-charge of social media, said. As per the action plan drafted by All-India Congress Committee, Sapkal said responsibility to take on the cell had been entrusted on the 428 party activists. Congress has involved 48 district Congress presidents, 252 presidents of the assembly segments, 118 pradesh Congress delegates and 10 core committee members. Sapkal said they were selected after a rigorous exercise and from many activists at grassroots level. “Our social media team reached out to maximum people during lockdown. We provided essential commodities and medicines to people from different walks of life. We drafted a plan to reach out to all sections of society,’’ Sapkal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/congress-sets-up-team-to-take-on-bjp-it-cell/articleshow/80274505.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||NCB seeks voice samples in SSR case||Mumbai: Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) moved the special Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act court seeking voice samples of eight accused in the Sushant Singh Rajput-related drugs case. Among the eight are actor Rhea Chakraborty’s brother Showik Chakraborty and film executive producer Kshitij Prasad. NCB told the court they need the samples as voice calls need to be verified. Chakraborty and Prasad are out on bail. The plea will come up for hearing on January 22. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncb-seeks-voice-samples-in-ssr-case/articleshow/80274507.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Cops totally depending on circumstantial evidence in Khar teen’s death case||Mumbai: Khar police, probing the alleged murder of a 19-year-old Psychology student, are totally depending on circumstantial evidence as they have failed to get an eyewitness or concrete evidence after questioning the accused for 13 days. Jhanvi Kukreja’s body was found with 48 injuries, including a severe skull fracture, near the staircase on the ground floor, at Bhagwati Heights in Khar (W) on January 1. Her family has arranged a condolence meet at Khar Gymkhana on Friday between 5pm-6pm. Police are awaiting the forensic report to know if the accused and 14 others at the terrace party, consumed drugs. Investigations showed that the building watchman had slept around midnight on December 31, after working the entire day, and did not hear any fight on the second floor. Bandra court on Thursday sent Shree Jogdhankar (22), a catering college student, and Diya Padalkar (18), a first year college student, to judicial custody. Both denied any role in the killing and told investigators they do not remember anything that happened that night. Jogdhankar claimed he does not remember how he suffered injuries. “We are waiting forensic reports to know how Jogdhankar suffered severe injuries and are waiting for a forensic report on reconstruction of the crime scene along with a report on whether drugs were consumed at the party,” said a police officer. Kukreja’s lawyer, Trivankumar Karnani, said 13 days’ police custody was secured for both accused. “My submission to court was that maximum opportunity be given to police to complete custodial interrogation, and we must not incapacitate them. Jogdhankar has been sent to Taloja jail and Padalkar to Byculla women’s jail,” said Karnani. Police wanted the remaining days of police custody to interrogate Jogdhankar further, claiming he had been uncooperative, and he was violent, and there was a non-cognizable offence at Vakola police station, around a year back for assault of a paan shop vendor. They also claimed Jogdhankar’s friends stated that around two years back, he had assaulted a taxi driver, and when four of them intervened, he beat them up too. “Senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule orally told this to court. He also said Padalkar informed them on questioning that Jogdhankar was very violent and Jhanvi talked about his nature. But the three episodes were not mentioned in the remand application,” said Jogdhankar’s lawyer, Mahesh Vaswani. Vaswani said police also told court orally that Padalkar cooperated in the investigation, but Jogdhankar did not. “I submitted that the contention of the investigating officer is not tenable in law. The so-called NC, if any at Vakola police station, will not be an NC if he had assaulted someone, as the NC means Vakola police had not even taken cognizance of any offence. Further, it was not produced in court. The court also allowed the application by me for medical treatment of Jogdhankar, and a request to provide him books in jail for his Hotel Management course.” He said how come police got details of alleged incidents from a year and more back, but could not get an eyewitness to state that Jogdhankar assaulted the deceased. There were 14 persons at the party, other than the two accused and deceased. Police have names of all. But they could not produce an eyewitness or statement. “Khar police have also been unable to unravel the mystery on how Jogdhankar got injured. He has an eight-inch injury on the back of the head, his ribs are fractured and his spinal cord has been dislocated. None of this can be self-inflicted. Possibly, something happened which police did not investigate,” he said. IPS officer-turned-lawyer Y P Singh said, “Conviction in murder cases are generally based on oral or physical evidence supported by circumstantial evidence. But there have been cases where people are convicted only based on circumstantial evidence. Convictions based on circumstantial evidence are rare and happen only when physical evidence is not forthcoming.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-totally-depending-on-circumstantial-evidence-in-khar-teens-death-case/articleshow/80274508.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 15, 2021||Patna||State receives 1k vials of Covaxin||Patna: Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH), the main storage centre of Covid vaccines, on Wednesday received 1,000 vials of Covaxin developed by Bharat Biotech. This is apart from the 54,900 vials of Covishield which the state received from Pune on Tuesday. Sources said 1,000 vials of Covaxin had reached Patna on Wednesday. Each vial contains 20 doses of the vaccine, taking the total number of doses to 20,000. The security at NMCH has been beefed up since Tuesday as the vaccines being brought are kept there for further distribution to the ten regional centres from where the vials will be sent to the districts for the vaccination drive to be launched across the country on January 16. State health department special secretary Manoj Kumar said all the districts have been instructed to ensure security of these vaccines at the centres where they are stored, as well as during transportation. Kumar said security personnel escort the refrigerated vans carrying vaccines from the city airport to NMCH and from there to regional centres. Kumar said the Covishield vials from NMCH have been sent to respective regional centres and some of the districts have also got their share on Wednesday. “The Centre had allocated the Covishield vaccines to different districts and, accordingly, they were distributed. For Covaxin, no such allocation has been made by the Centre and we will prepare the distribution list by Thursday,” he said. NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh said they have got six security personnel from the district administration to guard the storage on the campus. “We already have six to seven guards apart from the security personnel. There are CCTV cameras and round-the-clock vigil as well,” he said. He further said the stock of Covishield received on Tuesday were already supplied to all the regional stores on Wednesday and they were left with the new consignment of Covaxin only at the NMCH store.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/state-receives-1k-vials-of-covaxin/articleshow/80258102.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||SP MP slams BJP, says it’ll use ‘Hindu-Muslim’ formula for next polls||Bareilly: Samajwadi Party's Moradabad MP ST Hasan slammed BJP saying that the ruling party will once again use its “Hindu-Muslim” formula for the next elections. The MP claimed that the ruling party will convince “a few people from the Muslim community to pelt stones at the time of donation campaign for the construction of Ram Mandir to trigger violence and hatred among the two communities.” Hasan made the statement while addressing the public at an event organised by the Samajwadi Party in Moradabad on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand. ST Hasan said, “Seeking donation from the public in the name of the construction of Ram temple is nothing but a political act. This time also, the party will play its Hindu-Muslim card by engaging a few people from our community in violence, such as pelting stones on the crowd during the campaign, in order to trigger hatred between the communities. All this will be done for the next elections.” He added, “The focus of the ruling party has always been on creating rift, provoking people and making deliberate attempts to spoil communal peace. People must become aware of their political tactics.” The BJP had earlier announced that the party workers will, from January 14, begin a door-to-door campaign to collect donations from the public for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-mp-slams-bjp-says-itll-use-hindu-muslim-formula-for-next-polls/articleshow/80272975.cms||Maria Khan
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Petrol 2 paise shy of all-time high, diesel at highest ever||MUMBAI: Petrol price in Mumbai is now close to an all-time high, two paise shy of the record. The rate was hiked by 25 paise on Thursday, taking it to a new high of Rs 91.32 per litre. This is the highest rate across all metros. The price of petrol in Parbhani is the highest in the country at nearly Rs 94 a litre. The retail price escalated to Rs 93.73 on Thursday at local pumps. The price hike has also hit other districts, with almost all registering rates over Rs 91 for petrol. The state government burdens consumers by charging VAT on petrol at 26% not only on the basic price and transport cost, but also on excise duty. Over and above, it also charges cess of Rs 10.12/ litre. Sources said petrol is taxed at 250% to 300% of the basic cost. Similarly, government charges VAT on diesel at 24% on the basic cost, transport cost and central excise, as well as a cess of Rs 3 per litre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fuel-tariff-in-parbhani-is-highest-in-the-country/articleshow/80275889.cms||Somit Sen
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||Pilibhit on alert as report confirms roosters died of bird flu||Pilibhit: Days after 20 roosters were found dead in Pilibhit’s Sherpur village, a medical report of Bareilly-based Central Avian Research Institute (CARI) confirmed bird flu as cause of death. An alert was immediately sounded and quick response teams (QRT) deployed at each block headquarters to monitor birds in rural , municipal and town areas, collect samples of suspected infected birds for testing and take protective measures. Foresters have been directed to watch birds in the forest areas and around water bodies. Giving details, DM Pulkit Khare said a district control room has been set up to supervise bird flu-related operations and keep track of information from public. Appealing to people not to panic, DM Khare ordered a ban on supply of poultry, meat and eggs in and out of the district. “The block development officers in rural areas and the executive officers of municipal councils in urban areas have been handed over the command and control of the QRTs. The telephone number of the bird flu control room is 05882 287820,” he added.Poultry and meat shop owners and traders of eggs have been told to ensure proper sanitation of their establishments and adhere to bio-safety measures.Earlier, a containment zone had been announced within 1-km radius of each affected spot with directions to cull all the birds there and to bury them at a safe depth, said Khare. Since January 10, the district reported the death of 20 roosters and one duck at Sherpur village, four owls in Kalinagar town and four crows at Gaybojh village. Seven pups that fed on the dead roosters were also found dead. Asked why chief veterinary officer, Dr Akhilesh Garg, had not sent samples of the dead pups for tests, the DM said he had directed the CVO to try and collect the pups’ samples, if they had not decomposed, and send them for tests to Bareilly-based Indian Veterinary Research Institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/pilibhit-on-alert-as-report-confirms-roosters-died-of-bird-flu/articleshow/80272984.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Shortlisted health workers in Delhi get call: Vaccines totally safe||NEW DELHI: The district health authorities called up the healthcare workers shortlisted for vaccination on Saturday to ensure that they turn up at designated centres and assure them about the safety of the Covid vaccines. Mostly young and healthy healthcare workers have been shortlisted for vaccination on the first day. For the launch, 8,100 healthcare workers from private and government hospitals have been selected. They were told that the vaccines were totally safe and multiple trials had been conducted before they were approved for use. Banners and educational materials have also been put up on the safety issue at all vaccination booths. In several of the 11 districts, a ground-level campaign has also started to make common people aware about the safety of the vaccines. “Calls were made by local healthcare workers to the beneficiaries to make sure that they have received the SMS sent to them for vaccination and find out what are their plans about getting vaccinated,” said a district official. “Most of them said that being healthcare workers, they know the importance of the vaccines and they trust the vaccines.” The official added that some of the healthcare workers had some doubts about the safety, but those were addressed by the callers. Among the 81 vaccination centres to be used on Saturday, 75 centres will give Covishield shots while six will administer Covaxin. The central government has made it clear that the vaccines are 100% safe. According to sources, while a large number of healthcare workers think they should get the vaccines, some are not confident about getting them first. The authorities are using posters and educational materials at vaccination centres to encourage healthcare workers to take the shots and show the way to others. The health department has roped in ASHA and anganwadi workers to go door to door and clear doubts of people regarding vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/shortlisted-health-workers-get-call-vaccines-totally-safe/articleshow/80293960.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||No entry on Thane-Belapur road for bridge girder work||NAVI MUMBAI: Traffic police will not allow vehicles on Thane-Belapur road from 11pm to 6am on January 16-17, as MMRDA is carrying out girder installation work as part of Kopri railway bridge widening on Eastern Express Highway. DCP (traffic) Purushottam Karad said vehicles from Navi Mumbai heading towards Nashik and Ahmedabad via Airoli and using Kopri bridge at Thane will be prohibited from plying along Thane-Belapur road to avoid traffic snarls. All LMVs and HMVs, which come from JNPT via Amra Marg and then ply along Sion-Panvel highway and Thane-Belapur road, before further using Kopri bridge to head towards Ahmedabad and Nashik will not be allowed entry from 9pm till 5am. Karad said HMVs and multi-axle vehicles coming from JNPT towards Thane, Ahmedabad and Nashik will be diverted from Nhava Sheva-Karal phata via NH4B till D-Point in Panvel and head towards Kalamboli Circle and travel towards Panvel-Mumbra road to reach Reti Bundar till Kharegaon toll plaza and travel further to their destinations. HMVs and multi-axle vehicles along NH66 and NH04 to reach Nashik and Ahmedabad will be diverted from Kalamboli Circle towards Panvel-Mumbra road till Kharegaon toll plaza and further. Mahape traffic senior inspector Dattatray Kindre said, “Vehicles moving from Navi Mumbai towards Nashik and Ahmedabad during the no entry period (11pm to 6am) on Thane-Belapur road, will be diverted from Turbhe MIDC road, near Savita Chemicals to reach Shilphata and travel towards Kalyan and further towards Nashik and Ahmedabad.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/no-entry-on-thane-belapur-road-for-bridge-girder-work/articleshow/80274509.cms||George Mendonca
January 15, 2021||Delhi||DDMA orders 100% attendance in govt offices as Covid cases dip||NEW DELHI: With the number of fresh Covid-19 cases and positivity rate in the capital constantly dipping, Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has reviewed its earlier order of work from home for 50% of Delhi government employees and ordered 100% attendance with immediate effect. However, appropriate measures to enforce social distancing would have to be ensured. The latest order issued on Thursday mentioned that the Covid-19 situation had been reviewed by DDMA and, as the positivity rate had declined significantly, it was decided that all offices of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, public sector undertakings, corporations and local bodies could function at 100% strength. All secretaries and heads of departments of Delhi government, apart from Delhi Police commissioner, heads of municipal corporations and local bodies and district magistrates, have been directed to comply with the order. On November 28, 2020, DDMA, which is headed by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal, had ordered all offices of Delhi government, autonomous bodies, public sector undertakings, corporations and local bodies to function with 50% staff engaged in non-essential work. However, 100% attendance was required for officers of grade-one level or above. As Covid-19 cases were surging, the order had also advised the private sector to stagger office timings and follow work from home policy as much as possible. This order was effective till December 31, 2020, but was extended till January 31. When the earlier order was issued in November 2020, Delhi had witnessed 4,998 fresh Covid-19 cases and the positivity rate was 7.2%. As the capital was facing the third Covid wave, the number of active cases stood at 36,578. In comparison, the number of active cases on Thursday was 2,937. Friday, in fact, saw the lowest number of new cases in the past eight months, while the positivity rate stood at an all-time low of 0.4%. The November order was not applicable to those involved in essential services, such as health and family welfare, medical services, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire, district administration, electricity, water and sanitation, pay and accounts office, disaster management and other related services.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/ddma-orders-100-attendance-in-govt-offices-as-cases-dip/articleshow/80294045.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: No pre-arrest bail to grandad held for ‘raping’ six-year-old girl||MUMBAI: A special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act court recently refused to grant anticipatory bail to a 64-year-old south Mumbai man accused of raping his six-year-old granddaughter. The complaint was lodged by the child’s mother who faced stiff opposition from her husband, the son of the accused. The mother iterated her stand in court and submitted the accused had committed a heinous offence and hence should not be granted anticipatory bail. Rejecting the man’s plea, the court said, “Prima facie, the allegations are of penetrative sexual assault on the minor victim girl aged six years. Considering the nature of the allegations and an inter-se relationship between the accused and the victim, the accused is not entitled to anticipatory bail.” The mother had told the cops that her father-in-law and other members of her husband’s family lived in another wing of their building. She said on the evening of December 20, the accused took the child home with him. The mother said later when she went to fetch her daughter, the child told her the accused had kissed her on the forehead and cheeks. The woman said suspecting something was amiss, she asked the child more about the acts of the accused. The child then described the sexual assault.  The accused said he was being falsely implicated over a property dispute. The prosecution though opposed his plea and said the medical report, statements of the child and witnesses, prima facie supported the case. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-pre-arrest-bail-to-grandad-held-for-raping-6-year-old-girl/articleshow/80275902.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Film shooting gets a boost with online permit system, more sops on cards||Jaipur: In a bid to ease the process of granting permissions for film shooting in Rajasthan, the state tourism department has introduced an online service which will provide relief to filmmakers from physically visiting the offices. In addition, the department is working on a mechanism where producers can pay fees online so that there is complete ease of doing business.Alok Gupta, principal secretary, department of tourism, said filmmakers had wanted such a mechanism and accordingly we have created a platform where they can get permits online. “We are also trying to provide them an online facility so that they can pay the fees online and there would be no requirement to visit the office physically,” added Gupta.The portal connects all related departments like archaeology and museums, forest, local-self government and all districts of the state for speedy disposal of applications.Sources in the department said there are plans to offer subsidies in the Rajasthan Film Tourism Incentive Scheme. Exemptions of all fees and charges for film shooting at the monuments under the administrative control of the state government are on the cards. Even the plan includes exempting fees at ASI monuments which are not under the control of state governments.While the government does get some revenues from shootings, it is the promotion of tourism which is most important for the department. “Films are the most effective way to promote destinations. People are more attracted to locations where films have been shot. That’s why revenue generation from film shooting is not important, rather the promoting destinations is what we look for,” said the source.To incentivize film shootings in the state, the regulations were amended in June 2016 by waiving off application fee and all types of security deposits. In the last four years, the department has issued 93 permissions for shootings.The state is a popular destination for movie and commercial video shoots and permission for such purpose is granted under Rajasthan Film Shooting (Amendment ) Regulations 2016. Even during the lockdown, the department had released standard operating procedures for film shootings to facilitate the movie industry.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/film-shooting-gets-a-boost-with-online-permit-system-more-sops-on-cards/articleshow/80274845.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Ajmer gets 22K vax doses||Ajmer: The first consignment of Covid vaccine numbering around 22,000 doses reached Ajmer on Thursday afternoon. Vaccination will begin at seven health centres on Friday and around 400 health workers are likelt to get the first shot.The district and health department claimed that preparations were complete and vaccination will start from JLN Hospital. A pooja was done when doses of vaccination reached the department where they have been kept in a freezer amid high security.Officials said though they received 22,000 doses, 11,000 will be kept in reserve. There will be four days of vaccination in a week and people have to register for them through the Co-WIN app. In the first stage, health workers, para medical staff, lab technicians and ward boys will be vaccinated. Besides JLN Hospital, vaccination drives will also be conducted at Janana Hospital, Mittal Hospital, Satellite Hospital, Beawar, Kekeri and in Kishangarh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/ajmer-gets-22k-vax-doses/articleshow/80274844.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Nine e-waste centres found violating rules: CPCB||New Delhi: Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has told National Green Tribunal (NGT) that during recent inspections by Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC), nine e-waste collection centres associated with 56 producers were found to be non-compliant with the e-waste rules, 2016. DPCC, based on inspections primarily in east and northeast Delhi and survey of 251 units till December, has ordered closure of 142 illegal e-waste units. Under E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016, producers of electrical equipment are required to collect e-waste back as part of the extended producer responsibility (EPR) clause. Each producer has to collect e-waste from the consumer as per a specific target, and dismantle and recycle it in an environmentally sound manner. For managing EPR, producers also have to obtain EPR authorisation from CPCB. For obtaining this, producers have to submit their EPR plan, which details out their system of collection, storage, transportation, dismantling, recycling, its service providers/channel partners and budget. “Further verification of two collection centres was done in the second quarter, where one was found to be complying and one was non-compliant. No actions have been taken for identification of non-EPRA producers,” said CPCB. In a recent report by environmental NGO Toxics Link, 15 of the biggest informal e-waste hotspots in Delhi-NCR were analysed, with over 5,000 illegal e-waste processing units found operating in the region. Among the violations was manual dismantling, being carried out without adequate precautions. The illegal e-waste hubs were identified in Seelampur, Mustafabad, Turkman Gate, Daryaganj, Shastri Park, Mayapuri, Saeed Nagar, Jafrabad, Mata Sundari Road, Mandoli, Brijpuri and Seemapuri. “Teams consisting east corporation, executive magistrate of revenue department, DPCC and Delhi Police have been constituted for taking action for effective closure and disconnection of power supply,” DPCC recently said in a separate report.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/nine-e-waste-centres-found-violating-rules-cpcb/articleshow/80294118.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||71,824 undeserving persons received Rs 53.63 crore under PM-Kisan in Raj||Jaipur: In all, 71,824 ‘undeserving persons’ in Rajasthan received payments under the Centre’s PM-KISAN scheme until July 31, 2020 amounting to Rs 53.63 crore, revealed an RTI reply obtained from department of agriculture, cooperation and farmers’ welfare, government of India.In all, 7,604 persons (payout of Rs 1.48 crore in 7,404 instalments) fell in the category of ‘ineligible farmers’ in Rajasthan taking the state to fifth position among all states. Also, 64,220 persons (payout of Rs 52.15 crore in 2.6 lakh instalments) fell in the category of ‘income tax payee farmer’ taking the state to the seventh position, it further revealed. The Union agriculture ministry, in its response to an RTI application filed by CHRI’s (Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative) Venkatesh Nayak, had identified two sets of undeserving recipients, namely ‘ineligible farmers’ and ‘income tax payee farmers.’PM-KISAN scheme was launched by the Centre in 2019 and it guaranteed an income support of Rs 6,000 per year (paid in three installments) to all landholding farmers’ families in the country having cultivable land.The RTI response revealed that Punjab (4.42 lakh) and Assam (3.45 lakh) have the highest number of ‘ineligible farmer’ recipients at Rs 291.35 crore and 41.34 crore payouts respectively. “In Maharashtra, which is at the third position, 68,224 recipients (payout of Rs 22.72 crore) belong to ‘ineligible farmer’ category. Madhya Pradesh with 17,302 recipients (payout of Rs 8.02 crore) comes at a distant fourth in this category. Recipients from the top-five states account for 96.84% of the undeserving persons belonging to this category (ineligible farmer),” it added.Maharashtra topped the list in terms of the number of ‘IT payee farmers’ who received PM-KISAN payouts, at 2.18 lakh recipients (payout of Rs 194.18 crore). Uttar Pradesh, at 1.63 lakh recipients (payout of Rs 145.44 crore), was at the second position followed by Gujarat, with 1.62 lakh ‘IT payee farmers’ (payout of Rs 161.32 crore), at the third position. Karnataka with 86,266 recipients (payout of Rs 77.33 crore) stood at a distant fourth position and Telangana was in the 5th position with 74,648 recipients (payout of Rs 47.64 crore) in “IT payee farmer” category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/71824-undeserving-persons-received-rs-53-63-crore-under-pm-kisan-in-raj/articleshow/80274846.cms||Sidhartha Dutta
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Dausa corruption racket: Role of former SP to be probed||Jaipur: A day after arresting the sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) of Dausa and Bandikui for allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs 5 lakh and Rs 10 lakh, respectively, the ACB sleuths are on the job of collecting incriminating evidences against the then superintendent of police, Dausa.In the investigation so far, ACB has found that the then SP, Dausa was also extorting the owners of the highway construction company.Both the arrested SDMs, Pushkar Mittal and Pinki Meena, were sent in judicial custody while the ACB had produced them in a court on Thursday. However, Neeraj Meena, a middleman allegedly demanding Rs 38 lakh from the owners of the highway construction company on behalf of former SP, Dausa Manish Agarwal, was taken in a 2-day police remand.“In the investigation so far, it was found that Agarwal was harassing the owners of the road construction company. He was into penalizing their parked vehicles through various police stations. He had once threatened that some locals might stage dharna or protest against them. Thus the middleman Neeraj Meena on behalf of the former SP was demanding a total bribe of Rs 38 lakh to make things easier,” said a senior officer of ACB on the condition of anonymity.TOI has got the copy of the letter in which the former SP had written to various police stations in his district. “He had once asked his police stations to make a survey on how many pits were dug by the construction company. This was his plan to first harass them and later when the company representatives used to bow down under pressure Neeraj came into picture,” the officer added.B L Soni, DG, ACB, said, “The role of then SP has to be investigated in this nexus of corruption. His role in the corruption racket can’t be ruled out.”Dinesh M N, additional director general, ACB, said, “In the 2-day remand of the accused Neeraj Meena, we will find more evidences against the then SP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dausa-corruption-racket-role-of-former-sp-to-be-probed/articleshow/80274847.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Western Railway staffer assaulted by two with expired passes||MUMBAI: A senior Western Railway (WR) ticket examiner was assaulted by two commuters after they were caught travelling on expired monthly season ticket passes on an intercity train on Thursday. Arjun Singh was assaulted when on duty on 12922 Flying Ranee at Kelve Road station at 8.30am by Chinmay Bari ( 27) and Dhirendra Patil ( 21). A WR spokesperson said they had boarded the train from Dahanu. An FIR has been registered for assaulting a public servant on duty. The duo had ID cards of Raheja Hospital, but the authenticity of the cards is under investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-staffer-assaulted-by-2-with-expired-passes/articleshow/80275909.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Vaccines not sufficient for registered beneficiaries, more to arrive soon||JAIPUR: Covid vaccine, which has been received by the state, is not sufficient for healthcare workers registered in Co-WIN software. The health department has issued directions to keep half of the 5,63,500 vaccines safe for the second dose 28 days after receiving the first. Health department officials claimed that they would receive more vaccines from the Centre soon. From the vaccines received so far, as many as 2,81,750 healthcare workers will be able to get the first dose, while another 2,81,750 will be saved for the second dose to be administered after receveing the first. According to health department officials, more than 4.5lakh healthcare workers have been registered in Co-WIN software. “We are in touch with the Centre and it is expected that the another lot of vaccines will reach the state on January 18,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, family welfare, health department. The vaccines received on Wednesday by the health department, which was kept in Jaipur’s and Udaipur’s vaccine storage centres, have been distributed to all the districts according to the demand raised in the Co-WIN software. Senior health department officials from their respective districts such as Jodhpur and Sikar and other districts except those which come under Udaipur division reached Jaipur and collected the vaccines and transported them in cold vans to their respective districts under police protection. In Sikar, on receiving the 12,400 doses of vaccines, the health department officials recited Vedic mantras, ayats of Quran and Ardas. Sikar chief medical health officer (CMHO) Ajay Chaudhary said they had received 12,400 doses in 1,240 vials. The vaccines will be kept at vaccine store in ice-lined refrigerators under police protection. Besides, in other districts also, the healthcare workers showed happiness in receving the vaccines, which will be inoculated to the beneficiaries on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/vaccines-not-sufficient-for-registered-beneficiaries-more-to-arrive-soon/articleshow/80274849.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Hooch tragedy toll rises to seven, several officials suspended||Alwar/Jaipur: Four more people, who were taken ill after consuming hooch in Bharatpur district on Wednesday and undergoing treatment there at a hospital, died on Thursday, taking the death toll to seven.The state government, which has suspended officials of excise department and police, have instituted a probe under the chairmanship of Bharatpur divisional commissioner. A pall of gloom descended in the village after the incident. Villagers accused that they had been complaining of the availability of spurious liquor to police and the administration, but it never invited any action.“Four more died on Thursday, taking the fatalities to seven. We have registered three different FIRs in this case and have so far arrested three persons,” said Bharatpur SP Devendra Bishnoi said. Meanwhile, on the directions of chief minister Ashok Gehlot, a number of excise officials and policemen have been suspended while Roopwas SDM has been made awaiting posting orders.“Those who were suspended included Mahesh Chandra Bhinwal, district excise officer, Bharatpur, Rakesh Sharma, assistant excise officer, Rewat Singh Rathore, patrolling officer of excise police station and Yogendra Singh, excise inspector. Also, 13 staff of excise police station have been suspended. Likewise, three policemen of Roopwas police station have been suspended. Gehlot has also announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh each to the families of deceased and Rs 50000 each to those who are undergoing treatment.The chief minister has also directed the authorities to initiate a larger campaign to check illegal manufacturing and transportation of spurious liquor in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/hooch-tragedy-toll-rises-to-seven-several-officials-suspended/articleshow/80274850.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Covid deaths dip, mortality rate stands at 0.61%||JAIPUR: In the last seven days, 17 persons lost their lives to Covid, 14 fewer than the first week of January. The mortality rate in first week was 0.91%, which has now reduced to 0.61%. The state also reported 625 fewer Covid cases in the second week of January compared to the first week. In the first week, 3,377 persons were found infected with the virus, which reduced to 2752 in the second week. In the first 14 days of this year, the state reported 6,129 new cases. As many as 25 districts have less than 200 active cases, while only one district has more than 1,000 active cases. A senior health department official said, “The number of Covid deaths have reduced, which is a good sign. People should continue taking precautions to avoid risk of getting infected.” The Covid situation has been improving since December as daily new infections have been going down. The state reported 281 new infections on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 3,14,372. In the last 24 hours, two persons died, which took the fatalities to 2,744. Jodhpur reported its 299th Covid death, while Rajsamand reported its 42nd casualty. Districts which reported new cases are Jaipur (36), Jodhpur (36), Kota (26), Udaipur (25), Bhilwara (24), Ajmer (22), Nagaur (18), Bundi (13), Pali (10), Jhalawar (8), Banswara (8), Rajsamand (7), Alwar (6), Jhunjhunu (5), Dungarpur (5), Jaisalmer (5), Sikar (5), Dausa (4), Baran (3), Bharatpur (3), Pratapgarh (2), Tonk (2), Bikaner (2), Baran (1), Chittorgarh (1), Churu (1), Karauli (1), Sriganganagar (1) and Sirohi (1).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/covid-deaths-dip-mortality-rate-stands-at-0-61/articleshow/80274848.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||SP MP slams BJP, says it’ll use ‘Hindu-Muslim’ formula for next polls||Bareilly: Samajwadi Party's Moradabad MP ST Hasan slammed BJP saying that the ruling party will once again use its “Hindu-Muslim” formula for the next elections. The MP claimed that the ruling party will convince “a few people from the Muslim community to pelt stones at the time of donation campaign for the construction of Ram Mandir to trigger violence and hatred among the two communities.” Hasan made the statement while addressing the public at an event organised by the Samajwadi Party in Moradabad on the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekanand. ST Hasan said, “Seeking donation from the public in the name of the construction of Ram temple is nothing but a political act. This time also, the party will play its Hindu-Muslim card by engaging a few people from our community in violence, such as pelting stones on the crowd during the campaign, in order to trigger hatred between the communities. All this will be done for the next elections.” He added, “The focus of the ruling party has always been on creating rift, provoking people and making deliberate attempts to spoil communal peace. People must become aware of their political tactics.” The BJP had earlier announced that the party workers will, from January 14, begin a door-to-door campaign to collect donations from the public for the construction of Ram temple in Ayodhya. Meanwhile, BJP city MLA Ritesh Gupta termed the statements made by MP Hasan as “derogatory” and “misleading”. He said, “All such statements made by the opposition are baseless.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/sp-mp-slams-bjp-says-itll-use-hindu-muslim-formula-for-next-polls/articleshow/80273059.cms||Maria Khan
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Murder accused was rusticated from school for theft, say cops||JAIPUR: Nineteen-year-old Krishna Kant Sharma, who was arrested for the murder of 55-year-old woman teacher Vigya Sharma at Shipra Path, had stolen money from the house of his tuition teacher that led to his rustication in Class IX from a Kendriya Vidhyalaya. Police in its interrogation so far have found that the accused wrong activities, including stealing of money from his grandfather and others were always ignored by his family members. Police on Thursday stated that so far they have recovered the mobile phone and golden earrings of the deceased which were stolen by the accused. “It was found that he had stolen nearly Rs 10,000 from his tuition teacher and was once rusticated from his school. Not only that he had once stolen the ATM card of his grandfather and had withdrawn money. His conduct in the locality was not also up to the mark. In this case of murder, we will also make some of the neighbours as witness with whom the youth had altercations and confrontations,” said a senior officer of Shipra Path police station. Police said the accused showed no regret about the murder. “He had stolen her mobile phone as he wanted to ensure that woman may not call up anybody if she gets back to her senses after the injury. He had hidden the mobile phone, some jewellery near a park at Muhana Mandi road which were also been recovered by us,” said Mahaveer Singh Rathore, circle inspector, Shipra Path police station. Senior officers stated that so far it is found that after the murder the accused had gone to hide the stolen mobile and jewellery and did not share about the murder. “His father had already gone out that day for the dog training and his brother was also away. His mother remains ill and was not aware of what he had done,” said Rathore. The accused would be produced before a local court on Friday when his police remand would be over.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/murder-accused-was-rusticated-from-school-for-theft-cops/articleshow/80274852.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Police solves murder mystery after six months; three arrested||Jaipur: After six long months, Jaipur police (East) have solved the murder mystery of a 29-year-old man whose body was found hanging from a tree at Jamdoli area on the outskirts of the city. Police then had considered it to be a clear case of murder due to profuse bleeding from the dead body and initiated investigations. Police arrested three persons including son of a woman along with whom the deceased man was into an illicit relationship. According to police, the body of the man identified as Subodh Sharma was found hanging from a tree on July, 18, 2020. “As our team visited the spot, the crime scene and other circumstantial evidences suggested that it was a case of murder. Thus a team was constituted to solve the mystery behind the murder,” said Abhijeet Singh, DCP (East) In the investigation it was found that Sharma was into an illicit relationship with a woman identified as Sapna Meena. “Prior to the murder, Sharma once had boozed along with the woman and later started a fight with her and her son Mohit Meena.That’s when the woman called up one of her acquaintance. Thereafter the accused Mohit Meena(20) invited his friends and thrashed Sharma. And later other accused Ravi Gujjar (36) and Kailash Meena (50) first strangulated Subodh and later hanged his body to a tree to give it a shape of suicide,” said an officer. Ravi Gujjar, Mohit Meena and Kailash Meena have been arrested, police added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/police-solves-murder-mystery-after-six-months-three-arrested/articleshow/80274853.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to pay dearness allowance hike arrears||MUMBAI: The cash-strapped state government has decided to release long-pending arrears of a dearness allowance (DA) hike given to employees in 2019. The payout for six months’ worth of arrears, expected to cost Rs 2,000 crore, will be given this month. Arrears of the 3% DA hike will be given for January to June 2019. Officials said with several allowances deferred due to Covid-19, they had to start making some payments. “If we do not release some now, the burden in two years will be too high,” said a finance department official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/state-to-pay-da-hike-arrears/articleshow/80275980.cms||Priyanka Kakodkar
January 15, 2021||Delhi||2% of Yamuna in Delhi to blame for 76% of pollution||NEW DELHI: The water quality at Palla, where the Yamuna enters Delhi, differs considerably from the last ghat at Agra canal in Jaitpur. By the time the river reaches Khajoori Paltoon Pool, the third ghat downstream at which Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) measures readings, the water quality is already beyond the permissible limits for both biological oxygen demand (BOD) and dissolved oxygen (DO) levels. The last readings collected by DPCC on December 30, 2020, showed six out of nine ghats had a DO level of 9 mg/l, whereas it should be 5 mg/l or higher to sustain aquatic life. Similarly, BOD levels, which should not be above 3 mg/l, were found to be as high as 70 mg/l at the point where the Shahdara drain meets the Yamuna, indicating the impact of considerable sewage entering the river. While high ammonia has remained a concern over the past two months, disrupting the water supply, the river’s water quality has remained toxic, deteriorating even with no immersion taking place. While Supreme Court took suo motu cognisance of the pollution levels on Wednesday and issued notices to five states, including Delhi, as well as Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), little seems to be changing on the ground. Delhi accounts for a major chunk of the pollution in the river, largely owing to untreated sewage directly entering it. The process to tap all colonies and connect them to sewage treatment plants (STP) may still take over two years, even by agency timelines. According to the National Green Tribunal-appointed Yamuna Monitoring Committee, a stretch in Delhi that accounts for less than 2% of the river contributes to 76% of the total pollution. The committee had also recommended that NGT ask both DPCC and CPCB to analyse and share reports each month of the water quality. Manoj Mishra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyaan, said while Haryana could be blamed for the high ammonia levels, the pollution in the river was all Delhi’s doing. “We have seen timelines and goalposts shift each year and we are yet to see Delhi’s drains trapped and connected to STPs. Until that is done, there will be no improvement. However, it seems unlikely that even the new timelines will be adhered to,” he added. DPCC’s data showed while the Yamuna stayed relatively clean at Palla as well as Surghat, water quality deteriorates by the time it reaches Khajoori Paltoon Pool, which falls downstream of the Najafgarh drain. While DO readings were 7.4 mg/l at Surghat and 7.9 mg/l at Palla, they plummeted to zero at Khajoori and remained zero through the remaining course of the river in Delhi, barring Nizamuddin bridge, where a reading of 0.7 mg/l was recorded. The BOD readings were 1.2 mg/l and 2.6 mg/l at Palla and Surghat, respectively, spiking to 38 mg/l at Khajoori. Incidentally, a spike in BOD concentration was seen after wastewater was introduced in the river through nearby drains. While the Najafgarh drain impacted readings at Khajoori, the highest BOD concentration of 70 mg/l was recorded at Okhla barrage, where the river meets Shahdara drain.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-of-yamuna-in-delhi-to-blame-for-76-of-pollution/articleshow/80294245.cms||Jasjeev Gandhiok
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||BEST staff to get coins for salary||MUMBAI: Despite a BEST committee nod to SBI for collecting lakhs of coins at bus depots, the undertaking on Thursday issued a circular that salaries will be paid partly in coins this month too. Panel member Sunil Ganacharya expressed surprise over the decision.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/best-staff-to-get-coins-for-salary/articleshow/80276050.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||HC seeks compliance from govt on Chinese manja ban||Nagpur: Expressing serious concern over some recent gruesome deaths due to nylon thread used for flying kites, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday directed Maharashtra government’s principal secretary (Environment) to inform on steps taken to implement its own ban on possessing and selling of such deadly threads in the state.He was told to file a detailed affidavit on what the government had done from June 18, 2016, when the selling of deadly strings was prohibited by notification under Section 5 of the Environment Protection (EP) Act, 1986, directing the wholesalers/retailers/stockist to permanently stop its stocking and sale.Taking a suo motu cognisance of TOI and other media reports on deaths of 23-year-old engineering student Pranay Thakre and 22-year-old Saurabh Patankar on Tuesday after their throats were slit by the deadly strings on roads, a division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor also asked the government to inform on compliance of National Green Tribunal’s (NGT) orders of 2016 in this regard. Based on NGT’s orders, Environment Department secretary Satish Gavai had issued June 18, 2016, notification to ban its sale.Another bench of justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote had taken a suo motu cognisance of the media reports after those were submitted by the lawyers on Wednesday, and appointed Deven Chauhan as amicus curiae to draft the PIL.Terming the current situation as grim, the amicus had prayed for holding the government responsible for all deaths due to manja and concerned officials from respective areas should be booked for inaction on NGT’s directives and June 2016 notification. It should also be directed to compensate the families who had lost their near and dear ones in such accidents.Chauhan demanded directives to the respondents, including police commissioners and collectors from all districts, to create a task force, comprising high ranking officers, for conducting surprise raids on the shops and traders selling kite flying material. If nylon strings are found, it should be confiscated and such establishments should be immediately closed. Those involved in its trade should be booked under the relevant provisions of Bombay Police Act, Indian Penal Code and Environment Protection Act. The force should also be ordered to take action against buyers who demand or possess such banned material and they should be booked for the same offences.Chauhan further demanded instructions to the respondents to strictly implement and follow NGT’s orders and submit a compliance report in HC. The Maharashtra Pollution Control Board (MPCB) should be directed to seek compliance report in this regard from the respondents as directed by NGT. The amicus insisted on ordering cyber cells of respective police stations to conduct a probe into various websites, portals and social media platforms that are selling nylon strings and register offences against the concerned persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/hc-seeks-compliance-from-govt-on-chinese-manja-ban/articleshow/80273967.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Bullet train: One-way Ayodhya-Delhi fare may be less than Rs 3,000||NEW DELHI: One-way fare to Ayodhya from Delhi by the proposed high speed (bullet) train may be around Rs 2,900 while travel to the city of Taj Mahal would cost around Rs 1,200, little more than what travel in executive class would cost in a Vande Bharat Express-type train, sources said citing a preliminary estimate by the Indian Railways. Similarly, one-way travel to Lucknow may cost around Rs 2,300 and the ticket from Delhi to Varanasi may be approximately for Rs 3,400. Currently, passengers in the executive class of Vande Bharat Express pay around Rs 2,900. The government has put the 808-km Delhi-Varanasi high speed rail (HSR) corridor project via Ayodhya, Agra, Lucknow and Prayagraj on a priority and a study is under way for preparing the detailed project report (DPR). Sources said according to preliminary estimates, the cost of the project per km would be around Rs 268 crore, which includes the rolling stock (coaches). The proposed corridor will connect Delhi with major cities in Uttar Pradesh including the upcoming international airport at Jewar in Gautam Buddha Nagar. “The exact details of the halts will be finalised after the getting the detailed project report, which is being prepared by the National High Speed Rail Corporation Ltd (NHSRCL). We expect passengers won’t mind paying the expected fare considering that they can take the train from the heart of the city to another. People would also save time,” said a source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/bullet-train-one-way-ayodhya-delhi-fare-may-be-less-than-rs-3k/articleshow/80294271.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata colleges get ready for NAAC visit||KOLKATA: After an unprecedented year, when the pandemic led to shutdown of campuses and physical classes were suspended, prominent colleges in the city are gearing up for a visit from the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) this year to renew their accreditation and pitch for an improved grade. Among the institutions that are up for re-assessment include Lady Brabourne College, Maulana Azad College, Scottish Church College, Gokhale Memorial College and Ananda Mohan College. Some of them were to be assessed in 2019-2020 but the NAAC visit was postponed owing to the Covid situation. Lady Brabourne College principal Siuli Sarkar is glad the situation is returning to normal. “We are expecting the NAAC team to visit between March and June. After the last visit, we have set up a Women’s Study Centre. It has come up with many more plans, projects, publications and awareness programmes to uphold and strengthen women empowerment. The college has received a number of grants from the central government. The ‘Lunch Box’ scheme made out of teachers’ voluntary contribution arranges for a working lunch for needy and hungry students, not for their feast,” she pointed out. The assessment body of NAAC evaluates the institutes on 30% during their visit while the remaining assessment is based on the self-study report. Scottish Church College was to be assessed for grades in 2019-end but that never happened. Thereafter, the pandemic came in the way. The college authorities are now expecting a visit soon. “We are installing solar panels and introducing rainwater harvesting. We have also established chemical waste management, e-waste management and vermicomposting on campus. A certificate course on Wildlife and Biodiversity Conservation In Changing Climates has also been introduced. In addition, our college has been turned into a disabled-friendly campus,” said college principal Arpita Mukerji. At Maulana Azad College, the NAAC visit is due in 2021-end. But with hardly any progress last year, the college officials are now sitting down to prepare the requisite documents. The college plans to highlight a 30KW solar energy grid, along with a rainwater harvesting project on the campus. “We are saving a considerable amount of funds. Rainwater is utilized for supplying water to the three hostels,” said principal Subhasis Dutta. The college also plans a 100-seat hostel for the girls. In addition, it will seek permission to start computers science and geography programmes at the UG level. Atashi Karpha, principal of Gokhale Memorial Girls’ College, plans to approach NAAC with a request to extend the re-assessment deadline that is set to end in January. “Due to the Covid situation, we have lost several days. The national accreditation body is likely to provide six additional months to institutes . During the NAAC visit, we will have to bring back students on the campus as they have a role to play in the assessment. We have been regularly uploading the data. The college has also sought sanction for setting up the solar panel and beginning rainwater harvesting on the campus. A new computer center is under way,” informed Karpha. The college authorities are also planning to write to the state government for allotting a separate land for the second campus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/colleges-get-ready-for-naac-visit/articleshow/80273977.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Drugs case: NCP minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law in NCB custody, trail may lead to US||MUMBAI: A day after the arrest of NCP minister Nawab Malik’s son-in-law Sameer Khan, the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) claimed that he, along with co-accused British national Karan Sajnani, was selling cannabinoid (made from cannabis)-infused tobacco and marijuana. Khan was remanded in NCB custody till January 18 by a magistrate court on Thursday. Khan’s lawyer Taraq Sayyed argued it was a false case and there was no substance in the allegations. “Khan was into marketing of herbal tobacco,'' he said. “Firstly, herbal tobacco does not fall under the purview of the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act and secondly, nothing was found from Khan’s possession. Only on the basis of Karan’s statement the NCB have arrested Khan. It is absurd,’’ said Sayyed. NCB officials said the duo made ready-to-use joints, which were sold at Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 for a box containing five joints. “The price depended on the profile of the clients,’’ an official said. Officials said the contraband was procured from the US by Sajnani and also sourced from Uttar Pradesh. NCB carried out raids at Rampur in UP based on information on supply of cannabinoid (CBD)-infused tobacco. “The owner of the godown is on the run,’’ the official said. The NCB is also initiating investigations in the US into supply of marijuana by Sajnani’s associates. NCB has written to three banks seeking details of Khan’s transactions to gauge the extent of financing he extended to Sajnani. NCB claims to have found a link between Sajnani and Anju Keshwani, a drug supplier arrested as part of the probe into drug use following the death by suicide of Sushant Singh Rajput. “The contraband recovered from Keshwani’s flat was supplied by Sajnani,’’ an official said. He said Sajnani, Khan and Keshwani were together in the CBD-infused tobacco rcket for the last 15 months. Officials said they have found chats on social media between Sajnani, Khan and Keshwani “It is extremely crucial to investigate the link in the drug syndicate… incriminating material is recovered from the accused. Considering the seizure…and to find… the financial link in the chain, proper interrogations is imperative,’’ said the remand application by the NCB. Khan has been booked under Section 27A of the NDPS Act, which deals with 'financing illicit traffic and harbouring offenders', and attracts 10-20 years of rigorous imprisonment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ncp-mins-son-in-law-in-ncb-custody-trail-may-lead-to-us/articleshow/80276079.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||20k doses received, 16,259 to be vaccinated in Chandrapur dist||Chandrapur: The district health authorities received 20,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday morning for the vaccination programme that will start from January 16. The first phase will cover 16,259 health workers, claimed civil surgeon Dr Nivrutti Rathod. “The vaccination will begin at eight centres in district and 100 persons will be vaccinated at each centre every day, he said. The centres are at Chandrapur GMCH, rural hospitals in Warora, Bramhapuri, Rajura and one other rural hospital along with three urban public health centres in Chandrapur city. “We had earlier completed the dry run at four of the eight centres, while similar exercise was conducted at four other centres on Thursday. Every beneficiary is going to get two doses of the vaccine. Second dose will be given after 28 days. It is likely to take one and half month to complete the inoculation under the first phase,” Dr Rathod told TOI. Dr Rathod claimed that district health department will be working in coordination with Chandrapur municipal corporation which is shouldering the responsibility of immunization at three centres. He claimed that number of centres is likely to increase as the drive progresses. Second phase of vaccination is likely to start by March end. Police personnel, municipal corporation officials and employees will be vaccinated during the second phase. Third phase will cover citizens above 50 years and those with comorbidities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/20k-doses-received-16259-to-be-vaccinated-in-chandrapur-dist/articleshow/80273986.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||DU colleges to brush up Covid readiness||NEW DELHI: As Delhi University prepares to reopen to enable final year students to complete their practical assignments, the colleges have been asked to utilise the remaining days of January to train the teaching and non-teaching staff in Covid-19 norms. Rajeev Gupta, dean of students’ welfare, has forwarded the standard operating procedures to the colleges along with the University Grants Commission’s guidelines on resumption of classes. The university is being reopened only for the final year students and for courses with practical classes. However, attendance is voluntary for the students. However, while DU has a large number of outstation students, the SOP makes no mention of whether accommodation will be provided to them. Manoj Khanna, principal, Ramjas College, indicated that hostels would not be available. “If any student wants to come for the practicals, they will have to figure out their own accommodation,” he said. A meeting on the reopening was held on January 5 and 6 with the heads of colleges and departments. The note sent to the institutions after that reads, “With the advent of the new year and the beginning of the new semester as well as the slowing down of the spread and intensity of the pandemic, it is pertinent to explore the possibilities (if any) of transiting into the blended online-offline mode of teaching and learning.” Some of DU’s recommendations to colleges: “Theory classes to be continued in the online mode till further notification. Laboratory/practical/skill/library and similar activities may be allowed between February 1 and March 31 in small numbers/batches by following all hygiene and safety recommendations of the UGC guidelines. The month of January 2021 may be used for the preparations and training of the teaching and non-teaching staff and for conducting mock-drills; the schedule for the same may please be shared with the DSW Office. The physical entry of the students should be completely voluntary and attendance of the students for the same should be completely voluntary and not compulsory.” Alongside, colleges have also been advised to form their own Covid taskforce with at least one senior faculty member in it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/du-colleges-to-brush-up-covid-readiness/articleshow/80294307.cms||Shradha Chettri
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Celebrity hairstylist gets bail, court rejects plea of ‘drug peddler’||MUMBAI: Celebrity hairstylist Suraj Godambe, who was arrested last month by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) allegedly with 11gm cocaine, was granted bail by a special court this week. Godambe had been arrested from Oshiwara on December 9 along with one Lal Chandra Yadav, who was also granted bail. The court said that the prosecution had not shown Godambe’s detention was necessary for the probe. “Merely the punishment for the offence being up to a period of 10 years cannot be grounds to refuse bail,” the court said. Meanwhile, the same court denied bail to Goa-based alleged drug peddler Chris Pereira who was arrested four months ago in the drugs case the NCB is probing in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. The plea was rejected on the grounds that “investigation in the case is at an early stage.” Another accused in this case, Anuj Keshwani, filed a bail plea on Thursday. The NCB has to submit its reply.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/celeb-hairstylist-gets-bail-court-rejects-plea-of-drug-peddler/articleshow/80276105.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air worst since Nov 10, no relief likely before Monday||NEW DELHI: Friday was Delhi’s worst air day in over two months, with the air quality index (AQI) touching 460 in the “severe” category due to a mixture of low wind speed, high relative humidity and a low boundary layer trapping pollutants closer to the surface. A visible haze blanket remained throughout the day and visibility was low. The last time Delhi had a higher AQI was on November 10 when it was 476, but stubble burning was then a factor. The current scenario is all down to meteorological factors, with conditions not expected to improve much in the next 48 hours, said experts. At 429, AQI deteriorated to “severe” on Thursday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head of Regional Weather Forecasting Centre in Delhi, said the city was experiencing “calm winds”, with speed only touching 5km/hour during the day. “Only from Monday will wind speed pick up, with easterly winds influencing the region. Some dispersal may take place then,” said Srivastava. “There is moisture in the atmosphere and pollutants are gradually accumulating in the air. The air quality has, therefore, worsened over the last 24 hours. The boundary layer is also low due to low temperatures. All these factors are combining to cause such a situation,” he added. According to System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR), this is likely to be the first prolonged “extreme air pollution event” of 2021 and secondary particulate formation may also occur. “The minimum temperature is likely to fall further. AQI is forecast to deteriorate further and rapidly,” SAFAR stated. “The secondary particulate formation, which multiplies the finer particles under congenital conditions, have already started as predicted and will accelerate under present conditions,” it added. Extremely low ventilation and shallow boundary layer height are adding to the severity. Delhi experiences greater visibility reduction than other polluted megacities under such conditions due to some unique chemical composition of particulates related to specific source emissions, SAFAR pointed out. According to CPCB’s central control room, Delhi-NCR’s 24-hour average PM2.5 concentration was over five times the standard at 335 micrograms per cubic metre at 8pm. The average PM10 concentration was 483 micrograms per cubic metre. The standards for PM2.5 and PM10 are 60 and 100 micrograms per cubic metre, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhis-air-worst-since-nov-10-no-relief-likely-before-monday/articleshow/80294321.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Mini book fair in north Kolkata from January 28||KOLKATA: After the Publishers and Booksellers Guild decided to postpone the International Kolkata Book Fair (IKBF) indefinitely, publishers on College Street had started looking for other avenues to organize alternative fairs. It has now been decided that a miniature book fair will be organised at Hrishikesh Park on Amherst Street from January 28 to 31. The Kolkata Book Fair, as this new fair has been christened, is an effort of some publishers who have got together under the banner of the West Bengal Publishers Co-ordination Committee. Publishers who have joined in the effort said that while other state-sponsored fairs are on, the Guild was dragging its feet over IKBF, which is the main income avenue for most. “We have not cancelled the fair but have just postponed it because it is not safe for people who will come in. We have over 600 stalls in the fair and lakhs visit on weekends,” reasoned Guild general secretary Sudhangshu Dey. “We understand that a small fair is happening and we welcome the effort. The IKBF will happen when things become better,” said Guild president Tridib Chatterjee The committee members of the new fair said their effort was miniscule but it was still enough to bring smiles on the faces of at least 35-40 publishers. KMC, police and fire brigade permissions have already come for the fair. “We were so crestfallen after the Guild decision. So some of us got together to discuss if anything could be done. We are happy that we got financial support from Ward 38 political leaders and have been able to offer stalls to publishers free of cost,” said Rupa Majumdar of Dev Sahitya Kutir, who is the convenor of the fair. The logo of this fair will be released on Friday by state science and technology minister Bratya Basu. “Leading publishers like Mitra Ghosh and Dev Sahitya Kutir have joined us. We will have a space for little magazines too,” said Indrani Roy of Mitra Ghosh and an executive committee member of the new fair. Some publishers like Patra Bharati and Deys, who hold important portfolios in the Guild, will be absent though. They cited the fact that district book fairs were on and they were short-staffed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mini-book-fair-in-north-kolkata-from-jan-28/articleshow/80274944.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Harvest rainwater on WEH: Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray||MUMBAI: Minister Aaditya Thackeray has directed MMRDA to set up rainwater harvesting system and increase greenery on Western Express Highway along the along the 25km stretch from Mahim causeway to Dahisar toll naka.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/harvest-rainwater-on-weh-aaditya/articleshow/80276103.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Centre must repeal farm laws: Baghel||Wardha: Chhattisgarh Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel on Thursday said the three farm laws must be repealed and the Central government should decide in favour of farmers to end the protests going on in Delhi for the last 50 days. “After selling airports and railways, the central government is now eyeing farm lands. But the farmers have understood the tactics and the Supreme Court too has taken notice of the protests,” said Baghel. Baghel was in Sewagram on Thursday to address the last day of the three-day camp organized for Chhattisgarh Congress office bearers at Gandhi Ashram. He also said the Chhattisgarh government is communicating with the tribal people living in the forest to stop spread of Maoism. “Maoism flourished in Chhattisgarh during the BJP rule but our government is taking its efforts to curb it,” said Baghel. Talking to media he said, the purpose of the camp was to create new energy among the party by propagating Mahatma Gandhi’s ideals of non-violence, peace, equality and eradicating untouchability. The CM further said, “At the camp, emphasis was laid on making the villages self-reliant by implementing the Narwa-Garwa-Ghurwa-au-Badi Yojana (NGGB scheme) in Chhattisgarh more efficiently with an emphasis on rural economy by Gram Swarajya model of Gandhian ideology.” He further said that pre-Independence village economy and post-Independence scenario were also discussed at the camp, besides how to restore and sustain the economic model through Gandhian ideology. Earlier, he visited Adi Niwas, Ba Kuti, and later Bapu Kuti where he also prayed. He said Mahatma Gandhi had a long association with Chhattisgarh. “The government is implementing various initiatives in Chhattisgarh for rural development, villages are moving towards self-reliance. Mahatma Gandhi’s Sarvodaya idea is important for Chhattisgarh,” he said. The camp was attended by Chhattisgarh Congress state president Mohan Markam, CL Bhumia, Dr Chandan Yadav, Sachin Rao, Vinod Verma, Prateek Sharma and Rajesh Tiwari. Two MLAs from Chhattisgarh, Rajya Sabha member Purvadevi Netam, all the Congress district presidents and panchayat presidents from Chhattisgarh were also present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/centre-must-repeal-farm-laws-baghel/articleshow/80274020.cms||Balwant Dhage
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM’s grandfather, father go ‘national’||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena president and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray revised a list of national personalities of the state, adding four names, of which two are Thackerays: His father, Sena supremo Balasaheb Thackeray and his grandfather, social reformer Keshav Thackeray, known as Prabodhankar. State general administrative department (GAD) headed by Uddhav issued a government resolution on Thursday revising the list of birth anniversaries to be celebrated at government offices as per protocol. The four names added are Balasaheb Thackeray (January 23), Prabodhankar Keshav Sitaram Thackeray (September 17), Balshastri Jambhekar, known as the father of Marathi journalism Balshastri Jambhekar (February 16) and social activist and the first agriculture minister of the country, Bhausaheb alias Panjabrao Deshmukh (December 27). The GR said apart from Mantralaya all government and semi-government offices, collector’s office and divisional commissioners’ office must celebrate the birth anniversaries of national personalities and national days in 2021. A circular had been issued by GAD on December 15, 2020, declaring the list but it was revised on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/uddhavs-grandfather-father-go-national/articleshow/80274510.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 15, 2021||Bareilly||TOI Impact: 3 months on, FIR filed in minor Dalit sisters’ rape case||PILIBHIT: Over three months since two minor Dalit sisters complained they had been raped by their family’s employer, an FIR was filed at the Hazara police station on Wednesday evening after the National Commission for Women and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights took note of TOI reports on the case. Police had initially dismissed the case and not filed an FIR, citing the man, Satnam Singh’s age — he’s 65 — and then accusing the girls’ family of trying to stake claim to the employer’s property. The sisters, 13 and 15, had to make four attempts before the SP forwarded their complaint on January 5. But only an inquiry was ordered, TOI had reported, and no FIR was lodged. The SHO will now be investigated. “I ordered Pilibhit police to lodge the FIR, get the victims medically tested and investigate the case properly,” IG (Bareilly) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said on Thursday. Satnam has been booked for rape and criminal intimidation. A senior police officer said, “The FIR was lodged after the NCW and NCPCR took cognizance of the TOI reports on the case.” The two bodies got in touch with the police on January 11. In the complaint on January 5, the 15-year-old had written, “He would rape me, over and over, over the past one year and threaten me against telling anyone. When I got sick, he forced himself on my sister on September 28, 2020. I complained at the police station that day, but it was not registered.” The delay in investigation means that while a medical examination has been ordered, it won’t amount to much. Dr Anita Chaurasia, chief medical superintendent of the district hospital in Pilibhit, where they are likely to be examined, had told TOI that it is “almost impossible” for any evidence of rape to persist after three months. Police are looking into the accountability for this gap. “Besides the investigation into the rape allegation, a separate inquiry will be initiated against the SHO (Umesh Chandra Solanki),” SP Jai Prakash Yadav said on Thursday. The girls’ family had moved to the village from Nepal two years ago. They lived with the farmer, who had hired the parents, who work as labourers. The sisters are students of class VIII and IX at a local school. Satnam’s son had died earlier and his daughter lives in Punjab. He used to live alone. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/toi-impact-3-months-on-fir-filed-in-minor-dalit-sisters-rape-case/articleshow/80271864.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Pune: Slight dip in engineering cut-off marks in first round||PUNE: The first round cut-off scores in the top autonomous engineering colleges in the city have come down marginally compared to the last year. It is down even for in-demand branches like computer science where the dip is in decimal points. Admissions to most central and deemed engineering colleges like the IITs, NITs started earlier than the state admissions this year. So, colleges are expecting stability in the admissions. Madhuri Khambete, principal of Cummins College of Engineering for Women, said, “Many top students have already secured their admission in one of the central institutes or in the deemed universities across the country where the admission process is already over. Hence, these students did not participate in the common entrance test (CET) centralised admission process (CAP) leading to a dip in the cut-off score in the first round.” Pimpri Chinchwad College of Engineering training and placement officer Shitalkumar Rawandale said this year the cut-off scores even in the second round are not expected to go down much. “The CET cell has said there would be just two CAP rounds. Cut-off scores are not likely to come down drastically. Most admissions will be confirmed in both the rounds, at least in the top institutes as admissions in other institutes in other states are already over.” Rajesh Jalnekar, director of Vishwakarma Institute of Technology, said the drop in cut-off score is not an indication of lowering academic quality of students. “If the cut-off score in computer science was 99.31 last year, the corresponding rank of the student was 1366. This year, even if the cut-off marks have gone down to 99 for computer science branch, the rank for the student has increased to 1302. Hence, individual scores may have come down but the cut-off ranks of the students getting admitted has actually increased,” he said. Report to FRA if extra fees are demanded by colleges Students seeking admission in the unaided private professional colleges in Maharashtra, which are under Fee Regulating Authority (FRA) have been told to check and verify, the fee structure of the college and the particular course for which they are seeking admission, by visiting the website of the FRA. In case they find that the fees demanded by the respective college is more than the approved fee as on FRA website, they need to bring into the notice of the FRA by email (fra.govmh@gmail.com) or by post, said a recent notification by FRA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/slight-dip-in-engineering-cut-off-marks-in-first-round/articleshow/80275036.cms||Ardhra Nair
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||On Makar Sankranti, communities pray for an end to a bitter harvest||Kolkata: As the sun began its Uttarayan journey on Thursday, city homes woke up to celebrate Makar Sankranti with the traditional fervour, hoping for new beginnings and relief from the pandemic. Newly harvested paddy grains, jaggery, sesame seeds and sweets were prepared by families from different communities. The common thread connecting the households was one of thanksgiving for harvest and an earnest prayer for good times in future.Bengalis celebrated Poush Sankranti while Tamils soaked in the Pongal fervour. Other communities such as Telugu, Kannadiga, Malayali, Marathi, Odia, those from UP, too, observed their own rituals for Sankranti. The Assamese had their Magh or Bhogali Bihu, Sindhis Lal Loi, Gujaratis Uttarayan, people from Uttarakhand Ghughuti. Punjabis had celebrated their Lohri on Wednesday, but festivities continued throughout Thursday.Bengali households made pithe-payesh in nolen gur, a traditional delicacy for Poush Sankranti. “This season, the weather played spoilsport and the fluctuating temperature has affected the quality of the date palm jaggery,” rued Maliya Das Bhattacharya, an economics professor at Vivekananda College for women. He cooked several delicacies at home and organized a puja at home.B Rajesh, a member of the Tamil community in Kolkata, and his wife, offered sugarcane to their deity and cooked the spicy Ven Pongal for breakfast and the sweet Sakkarai Pongal with jaggery. “The pandemic has taught us that simple festivities can be enjoyed with family in peace,” Rajesh said.The jaggery trail could again be found in Gulachi Poli at the house Lalita Bagadthey, a Marathi in Kolkata. “This is our favourite dish that we have throughout the day,” said Bagadthey, as her family relished the specially made jaggery-stuffed rotis. “Usually, in the evenings, women turn up at each others’ residences to apply haldi-kumkum bindi on each other. We are missing that this year, she added.Offerings of Makara Chaula were made in Odia homes along with bananas, coconuts, jaggery, chhenna and khoi. “It is a harvest festival so the new rice grains are offered to Lord Jagannath. We celebrated like every year,” said Bijay Lenka. Similar festivities were held at the residences of educationist B N Pati, retired banker Ranjan Mohanty and social worker Pitambar Barik. The aroma of boiling jaggery with white sesame seeds is bound to lift the mood, said school principal Vijaylakshmi Kumar, who celebrated Sankranti in the traditional ways of her home state, Uttar Pradesh.Til laddus, called bhorindas in Sindhi households, were prepared to celebrate the beginning of the month of Pohu for their Lal Loi festivities. The patron God, Jhulelal, was worshipped in a puja, called Behrana, and the aarti was done with a diya, made of atta, sweet rice called tairi and fruits, explained Nanik Samtani. His daughter and granddaughter had come from Mumbai to celebrate with them, adding to the cheer.The Malayalis bathed with Ganga water they had stored at home because going to the Hooghly was not advised this year. Most people from Kerala who are settled here connect with their relatives back in their home state on this day to find out details about the Sabarimala pilgrimage, which is a Makar Sankranti must.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-makar-sankranti-communities-pray-for-an-end-to-a-bitter-harvest/articleshow/80274122.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Asiatic Society seniors to get back to office on foundation day||Kolkata: On the 238th foundation day of the Asiatic Society on Friday, its 20-member Council comprising seniors — all above 70 years — are re-starting work on campus after a 10-month gap. All Covid precautions in place, seniors happily consented to getting back to the physical mode and said that despite the technological support, crucial research work was getting affected and hence the plunge. The foundation day celebrations will be the first on-campus event of the Society post the pandemic. Till now, all seminars and book releases were happening in the virtual mode. All books and journals were also being made digitally. However, to mark the re-start, a tome on Saraswati river (edited by Amal Kar, former head of the Division of Natural Resources and Environment, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur) has been published and will be released on Friday. “Experts in geological sciences have used satellite images and other geophysical details to trace the river and whether it is really lost as has been imprinted in our minds,” said publications secretary and historian Ramkrishna Chatterjee.“We will meet at the tomb of our founder, William Jones, make a floral offering and then reach our campus where the functions will be held,” said general secretary of the Society, Satyabrata Chakraborty, who is 79-year-old and is leading from the front. He will be accompanied by Swapan Pramanick, retired vice-chancellor of Vidyasagar University, who has just been elected the president of the Society.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/asiatic-society-seniors-to-get-back-to-office-on-foundation-day/articleshow/80274149.cms||Jhimli Mukherjee Pandey
January 15, 2021||Pune||Study centres hike rent to outstation pupils’ dismay||Pune: Civil services aspirant Vilas Kadam returned to Pune from Ahmednagar about a week ago after the dates of the state examination were announced by the Maharashtra Public Service Commission. As he settled in his rented room, he enquired with his regular study centre about reservation for a study desk for a month. To his shock, Kadam was told that the monthly subscription had increased from Rs 800 for regular seats to Rs 1,200 per month.Outstation students and those preparing for competitive exams in the city will have to shell out at least 20-25 % more fees against last year for the monthly subscriptions. The study centres, popularly known as 'abhyasika', are located in the central part of Pune city and were shut since the past nine months. Their owners have increased the monthly subscription from Rs 900 to Rs 1,200 to Rs 1,300 per month. Students who are preparing for civil service exam, national and state eligibility test or senior college usually take benefit of the study centres to prepare.Like Kadam, many other aspirants preparing for various competitive examinations have been finding it difficult to shell out more money for the monthly subscription upsetting their budgets. Kadam said, “We are staying in the city on rent and there are other recurring expenses like food, travel, and library subscriptions. With these additional expenses it will be very difficult for us to manage.Sagar Daundkar, another aspirant, said he was sharing a room with three others so it is impossible to stay at home to study. “I have to subscribe to the study centres and the advantage is they have a huge library for reference books. So even if the charges have increased, I have to bear it. There is no option.”Member of the MPSC Students’ Rights in Pune, Mahesh Bade, said some students have reported to them about the increase in the fees by the study centres. “We will have to wait for some time till the entire lot of students who had gone out of the city comes back to see if the fees are normalised,” he added. Guru Abhyasika in Sadashiv Peth had reopened the centre one month ago and the subscription is only about 35-40 % so far. The response is very slow, owner Ajit Javeri, said, “We have 106 seats but now only 36 seats are filled. We have not yet increased the fees, but we are only allowing reserved seats which is Rs 1,000 per month while our general seat which was Rs 800 per month has been stopped. Students come and take a look at the centre and then reserve their seat.”Owner of Saraswati Library, Prashant Parakh, said, “We have suffered a massive loss in the past nine months with no subscriptions. Many students had credit which has not been cleared and we doubt if they would clear it any time soon. We have increased the rent by Rs 400 so that we can make up for the loss, partially. The response is also very low so far so till it picks up, survival will be difficult.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/study-centres-hike-rent-to-outstation-pupils-dismay/articleshow/80275044.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid-19 vaccine: DC warns of action against rumour mongers||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma on Thursday thanked the doctors and healthcare workers for showing full faith in the Covid-19 vaccine. He said that it was because of their faith in this vaccine that more than 30,000 doctors and healthcare workers would be administered dose of Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase in the district alone. He urged the residents to not believe in any rumour being spread on social media. While interacting with the residents through the official Facebook page of district public relations office, Ludhiana, (http://www.facebook.com/dproludhianapage/), the DC said that the Covid-19 vaccination for doctors and healthcare workers of the district would be held from January 16-18. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar, district immunisation officer Dr Kiran Gill, Dr Bishav Mohan and Dr Anurag Chaudhary both from Dayanand Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, took part in this live session on FB. Sharma said that this vaccine had been launched after carrying out several trials and there was no need to panic. He said that people should understand that if the doctors and healthcare workers had themselves volunteered regarding this, it clearly showed that they had full faith in this vaccine. He also said that getting vaccination done was purely voluntary, but appealed that everyone should get themselves vaccinated. He said that several locations had been identified in the district, where vaccination would be carried out by different teams of expert doctors. The DC said that in the first phase, more than 30,000 healthcare workers (both government and private) of the district, who have registered themselves on the government portal, would be administered the Covid-19 vaccine, followed by anganwari workers, people aged above 50 years, people below 50 years with comorbidities and some others. He clarified that this vaccine would not be available off the shelf for the time being and only people who have got themselves registered on the government portal would be covered under it. He said that upon registration, the beneficiaries would receive an SMS informing the date and place where the Covid-19 vaccine would be administered to them. Dr Bishav Mohan said that even a fully cured Covid-19 patient should get himself vaccinated. He said that this vaccination would be done twice (once every two weeks) and when one gets vaccinated the second time, then he would be fully safe from Covid-19 virus. “For example, if a person gets vaccinated today, he/she will be vaccinated again after 14 days (for a second shot). Upon the completion of 28 days (both shots administered), he/she will have to wait for another 14 days to be fully safe from Covid-19 virus. Till then, people should keep taking precautions,” he said. Varinder said that the Covid-19 vaccine had reached the district on Thursday and urged the residents to not fall prey to any rumour on social media and warned of strict action if any person was found spreading rumours regarding Covid-19 vaccine. He said that authentic information regarding Covid-19 vaccine would be shared on the official Facebook page of the district public relations office, Ludhiana (http://www.facebook.com/dproludhianapage/) from time to time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-19-vaccine-dc-warns-of-action-against-rumour-mongers/articleshow/80274134.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Over 4.6k birds have died due to avian flu||Jaipur: The death toll of birds due to avian influenza virus has touched 4,671. On Thursday, 281 bird deaths — 165 crows, 42 pigeons, 20 peacocks and 54 other varieties — were reported in the state and 62 samples out of 266 tested positive. So far, avian influenza has been found in 16 districts. An official said, “Sample reports sent from Sriganganagar tested negative on Thursday. Earlier, samples report sent to NIHSAD, Bhopal, from five districts including Jodhpur, Bhilwara, Bharatpur, Churu, Jalore tested negative. We have observed that bird deaths are reducing in the state.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/over-4-6k-birds-have-died-due-to-avian-flu/articleshow/80275050.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Meerut||Count of migratory birds in UP's Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary dips by almost half||Experts blame dried wetlands due to inadequate monsoon & delay in onset of winter in Central AsiaMeerut: In a fortnight-long census conducted by Wetlands International, a global organisation that works to sustain and restore wetlands, the number of migratory birds recorded in Uttar Pradesh's Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary wetlands has shown marked decrease this year with just 1,674 birds making it to the sanctuary as compared to 3,103 last year.In all, 38 species were recorded in comparison to 45 last year. The 2021 census also witnessed a dip in the presence of bird species listed in the Red category of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) in the sanctuary.Seven such species, including wooly-necked stork, painted stork, black-headed ibis etc, were spotted this year as compared to nine such species last year.Citing the reasons for the sudden dip in the numbers, TK Roy, state coordinator-Delhi (AWC), Wetlands International, said, "Due to lesser rainfall in the last monsoon, seasonal smaller wetlands, especially marshlands on the Ganges floodplains, mostly dried up. Besides, several long distant winter migratory waterbirds, especially geese, ducks and waders, did not arrive due to delayed onset of winter in Central Asia."Roy added, "The Asian Waterbird Census (AWC) 2021 recorded an overall decrease in the diversity of species as well as the total population of waterbirds in the Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary, Meerut. There were fewer number of ruddy shelducks, gadwals and common teals in comparison to previous years. We kept vigilance and no migratory waterbirds were found dead, especially the bar-headed geese whose large population was found dead in the Pong Dam lake wildlife sanctuary in Himachal Pradesh."Rajat Bhargava, senior scientist at Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS), said, "Shrinking habitat for migratory birds is a worrisome phenomenon. Except for Haiderpur Wetland near Bijnor Barrage, all other smaller wetlands have disappeared over time which obviously is not good for avian species in the long run."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/count-of-migratory-birds-in-ups-hastinapur-wildlife-sanctuary-dips-by-almost-half/articleshow/80273233.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 15, 2021||Meerut||Covid-19 patient jumps to death from hosp, son alleges he was mistreated by staff||Muzaffarnagar: A 51-year-old Covid-19 patient admitted at Muzaffarnagar hospital died after allegedly jumping from the fifth floor of the hospital on Thursday morning. Raj Kumar who was admitted to Begarajpur medical college due to kidney ailment later found to be suffering from the contagious disease. His body was sent for post-mortem examination. A resident of the city’s New Mandi area, Kumar was shifted to the hospital’s isolation ward on January 8. He was later shifted to ICU after his condition worsened.On Thursday morning, Kumar took the extreme step. When relatives of Kumar came to know about the incident, they reached the hospital and alleged that hospital staff mistreated him.The deceased’s son, Ravinder Kumar, said, “After being shifted to the hospital my father complained to us that he was mistreated by the hospital staff. I suspect that he committed suicide due to this. I want a fair investigation and strong action against the hospital.”District magistrate Selva Kumari J said, “Raj Kumar was upset about problems in his family. Those in his ward told police. An investigation is going on. Action will be taken after investigation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/covid-19-patient-jumps-to-death-from-hosp-son-alleges-he-was-mistreated-by-staff/articleshow/80273235.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Govt will work for growth of tribal areas, says Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: Chief minister Ashok Gehlot said the leaders from tribal areas played a vital role in the freedom movement and creating social awakening against the foreign rule. He said the people of the state are proud of their glorious history and contribution to the national cause. He said the government will make all efforts to showcase the sacrifice and heroic deeds of the tribal people and to bring development to the area. Gehlot was speaking after unveiling the statue of Raja Banshia Bhil in Banswara in a virtual function on Thursday. He said hundreds of tribals gathered at Mangarh Dham under Govind Guru during freedom movement and sacrificed their lives for the national cause which could never be forgotten. Contributions of Mavji Maharaj, Nanabhai Khant, Kalibai, Mama Dameshwar Dayal, Bhikha Bai Bhil, Haridev Joshi, Haribahu Upadhyaya would be remembered by people with pride. Gehlot said whenever Congress government came to power, decisions were taken keeping in mind the interest of the tribal community. He said that is the reason the tribals achieved new milestones in education, health, power, road, medical and other areas of development. He said Banswara engineering college, Govind Guru tribal university, Dungarpur medical college are examples. He said the government is committed to the advancement of education and employment among the tribal youth. He said tribal people had a special place in the heart of first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru to Rajiv Gandhi and they had taken several initiatives for their upliftment. He said, “Tribal districts got the most benefit of schemes like MGNREGA, schemes that were made in UPA era.” He said the area had benefited from expansion of irrigation projects immensely. He expressed disappointment that the Dungarpur-Banswara-Ratlam rail project is now put on back burner by the Modi government which has deprived the area of the benefit of rail service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/govt-will-work-for-growth-of-tribal-areas-says-gehlot/articleshow/80275076.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Meerut||Two held in UP for raising ‘inflammatory’ slogans during fund collection drive for Ayodhya temple||MEERUT: Two men were booked and arrested in UP’s Bulandshahr on Thursday after a video purportedly showing them raising “inflammatory” slogans against people of a community during a motorcycle rally to collect funds for Ram Temple in Ayodhya was shared on social media platforms. Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) has, meanwhile, distanced itself from the accused saying they don’t belong to the outfit. According to sources, the alleged incident happened during the rally in Shikarpur area of Bulandshahr district on Wednesday. The two men shouting abusive slogans in the middle of the road also recorded their act on camera. The local police took cognizance of the video and filed a case the next day. An FIR under section 153-A (promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race etc), 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) was registered at Shikarpur police station. The two accused, Ritik and Shivam, both locals, have been arrested. “A video of two men shouting inflammatory slogans was put up on social media. Police took action soon after the video came to our notice. The two men in the video have been arrested,” said Harendra Kumar, Bulandshahr’s superintendent of police (rural areas). When contacted, VHP said that the two men were not members of the outfit. “Some youths made a video with abusive and communal remarks and circulated it on social media. Later, a complaint was made to the police. They are not functionaries of VHP,” said Nagendra Kumar Samarth, VHP’s prant sangathan mantra. VHP had in December announced a 44-day drive, beginning Makar Sankranti (January 15), to collect funds for the upcoming Ram Temple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/2-held-in-up-for-raising-inflammatory-slogans-during-fund-collection-drive-for-ayodhya-temple/articleshow/80273231.cms||Piyush Rai
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||After Osmanabad, medical college sought at Parbhani||Aurangabad: Even as the state government has cleared the decks for setting up of a new medical college at Osmanabad, stakeholders have renewed the demand for raising such institution at Parbhani in Marathwada. Director of CET Cell at Rajarshi Shahu College, Latur, Dileep Deshmukh said that setting up a medical college at Parbhani would only address the issue of academic backlog of Marathwada in the field of medical education. “In fact, the demand for starting a medical college at Parbhani is older than that of Osmanabad. While the government has cleared the proposal for Osmanabad, Parbhani should not be left out,” he said. When contacted, director of state directorate of medical education and research Dr. T P Lahane said the proposal for setting up a government medical college at Parbhani was pending with the government. “We have already forwarded the proposal and the state government is expected to take a call on it,” he said. With new medical college at Osmanabad, the total number of such state-run institutions imparting medical education in Marathwada has gone up to five. It includes government-run medical college at Aurangabad that has an intake capacity of 200 and medial college at Ambajogai (Beed district), Nanded and Latur having intake capacity of 150 each. The new college at Osmanabad is proposed to have intake capacity of 100 students. Osmanabad MLA Kailas Ghadge-Patil said efforts were on to start the new medical college proposed in his constituency by academic year 2021-22. “The new medical college and hospital attached with it will not only benefit the academic sector but also the health sector. We hope that further formalities at the level of central-level authorities will be cleared soon,” he said. Notably, the announcement for new medical college at Osmanabad was made by BJP-led government in July 2018 amid chaos in the state legislature over the issue of ‘quota within quota’ in MBBS admissions. The controversial quota was scrapped by the government in September last year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/after-osmanabad-medical-college-sought-at-parbhani/articleshow/80275080.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Meerut||‘Spurned’ school owner & 5 others get life in jail for throwing acid on woman teacher in UP’s Meerut||Strap: Convicts told to pay Rs18lakh to the survivor Meerut: The owner of a private school and five others were sentenced to life imprisonment by a Meerut court on Thursday for throwing acid on a woman teacher in November 2018. The sessions court also directed the convicts to collectively pay Rs 18lakh to the survivor, who has so far undergone seven surgeries to bring some semblance of normalcy on her face. Doctors say she still has a long way to go-- at least five more operations. The man who supplied the acid to the attackers was also among the convicts.On the night of November 22, 2018, the life of Meenakshi Singh--name changed to protect her identity-- changed forever. Four men hired by the owner of a private school she had been evading for long, emptied a bottle of undiluted acid on her face. Just three months ago, Meenakshi had quit the teacher’s job in the school to work as a guard in a shopping complex. She had taken the drastic step to escape further harassment by school owner Ajab Singh, then 63. Meenakshi was 35 then.But Ajab wanted her back in school. Spurned repeatedly, he thought of revenge.Mukesh Mittal, additional district government counsel (crime), said, “There were six accused in the case, Ajab Singh, Ankit Kumar, Rinku, Ravi, Rohit and Shravan Singh. All were booked under IPC sections 307 (attempt to murder), 395 (dacoity), 326-A (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by use of acid, etc.) and 504 (intentional insults and provocation). Out of them Shravan Singh was charged with 326-A and 307 as he was the acid supplier. All have been awarded life sentence by the Upper Session court.” Meenakshi expressed satisfaction with the judgement.“I am satisfied. It would have come earlier but got delayed due to Covid-19. Even those acid attack victims I am in contact with are of the opinion that this was one of the strongest judgments in acid cases. The fine will help me as I have already spent a lot on my surgeries."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/spurned-school-owner-5-others-get-life-in-jail-for-throwing-acid-on-woman-teacher-in-ups-meerut/articleshow/80273229.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Remove garbage from Gandhisagar Lake periphery: HC||Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Thursday directed NMC assistant commissioner from Zone-4 (Dhantoli) Kiran Bagde to remove garbage from periphery of Gandhisagar Lake and also maintain hygiene and cleanliness on its entire premises. She was told to file report within four weeks.The directives came while hearing a PIL (No 94/2018) by Pawan Dhimole and others pointing out unhygienic conditions of historic lake in Mahal also referred as ‘Shukrawari Talao’ where garbage is strewn all over. He also submitted photographs depicted the filthiness around lake’s periphery.“We’re informed that lake’s maintenance from the point of hygiene, encroachment and garbage removal is with the corporation. Since, this statutory authority is already entrusted with this task, we place the responsibility of ensuring that garbage is removed from the periphery and necessary steps are to be taken to maintain hygiene and cleanliness,” a division bench comprising justices Nitin Jamdar and Anil Kilor said, while adjourning the hearing till February 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/remove-garbage-from-gandhisagar-lake-periphery-hc/articleshow/80274190.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Six centres, including Aundh hospital, to provide Covaxin||Pune/Mumbai: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The six are four medical colleges and two hospitals. The two are district hospitals in Pune (Aundh) and Amravati. The four medical colleges are in Solapur, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Mumbai (Grant medical college and J J Hospital).  The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Overall, of the 291 centres in the state, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. According to the revised plan, Mumbai will now have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest number (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres. Health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has received 9.8 lakh doses, and the remaining should be despatched by the Centre in the next 8-10 days. As per the state’s calculation, the required number of doses is 16 lakh for 8 lakh workers and another 1.5 lakh doses in case of damage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/six-centres-including-aundh-hospital-to-provide-covaxin/articleshow/80275093.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 15, 2021||Pune||Two held for possessingfirearms||Pune: The police on Wednesday arrested two criminals on police records on the charge of possessing three countrymade pistols. The crime branch arrested criminal Ramesh Rathod (30) from Wadarwadi and recovered a pistol as well as two rounds, collectively valued at Rs1.22 lakh, from him. In a statement issued on Thursday, senior police inspector Sunil Takawale from crime branch (Unit 1) said, “During questioning, Rathod told the police that a person he knew had given him the pistol. We have launched a hunt to trace the person at the earliest.” In another case, the police arrested criminal Rohit alias Gopal Tiwari from Dhankawdi near Parvati Darshan bridge on suspicion. The police recovered a pistol and two rounds valued at Rs30,400 from him. Two first information reports (FIR) under relevant sections of the Arms Act were registered with the Bibvewadi and Dattawadi police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-for-possessingfirearms/articleshow/80275094.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||‘Withdraw COTPA Amendment Bill’||Ludhiana: The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA), a non-profit organisation representing the cause of farmers and farm workers of commercial crops, has appealed to PM Narendra Modi to recall the COTPA Amendment Bill as it will be a death knell for Indian tobacco farmers. They said the proposed amendment Bill would boost the ever-growing illicit cigarette business in India and affect the legal cigarette trade. As a result, there will be a drastic drop in the demand for tobacco grown by Indian farmers and they will lose their only source of livelihood. Javare Gowda, FAIFA president, said that in the last few years the government had imposed harsh tobacco regulations and had even withdrawn export benefits. All these are leading to adverse consequences on livelihood of crores of Indians without providing any alternatives livelihood opportunities or help to farmers. Gowda said that these harsh proposed amendments would terrorize retailers and traders and they would not want to engage in the legal sale of cigarettes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/withdraw-cotpa-amendment-bill/articleshow/80274161.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Police deploy pilot cars to escort new VIPs in town||Kolkata: The Covid vaccine, believed to be the weapon against the novel coronavirus, matched the stature of VIPs as its cavalcade travelled across the city on Thursday. Usually, 20 to 22 pilot cars are requisitioned from the police department for VIP movement in Kolkata. With the election ahead, the number at times climbs up to 30. But on Thursday, there was an additional request for seven more pilot cars, four of which were used to escort 93,500 doses of Covid-19 shots from Central Family Welfare Stores in Bagbazar to government hospitals—SSKM, NRS, MCH, RG Kar, CNMCH and Chittaranjan Seva Sadan —across the city. Senior cops, who relied on the pilot cars to execute the distribution seamlessly, said they could not remember another such instance, where escort vehicles were used for dissemination of vaccines. “Right now, the importance of the vaccine is no less than that of a VIP,” an IPS officer said. “Important dignitaries, like the governor and senior politicians and administrative heads are always provided with two to three pilot cars every day. The same number of cars are also requisitioned for those with high-threat perception, whose security requirements were recently reassessed,” said an official. “With around 70 sergeants, an equal number of drivers, reserve force personnel and commandos deployed for the security of VVIPs, the pilot car team is huge. This is one assignment, no one complained about. We had several drivers volunteering for the job on Thursday,” said an officer from the wireless section. “We have the experience of creating green channels through which we have carried organs within and outside the city, on outskirts or from the airport before transplants. But rarely have we used so many pilot cars at so many varied points across the city, connecting one hospital after another. With the exercise now set to become a long-drawn process to be repeated several times over the next few months, we have ensured that enough patrol cars are at our disposal. Friday, too, is going to be another hectic day, when we will make the distribution to newer addresses. The pilot cars will be at our disposal for the next few weeks, whenever needed,” said a senior officer from the welfare cell, the nodal police agency handling immunization process in the city.  “Thursday needed maximum coordination as the distribution was within the city. We are happy it was executed as planned,” said an officer. The government hospitals in the city have been setting up immunization sites on their premises were beneficiaries will get their first shot. Among those who will receive the dose on Saturday are doctors and paramedic staff associated with the Kolkata Police Hospital, the nodal of which will be at SSKM Hospital. Also on the list are healthcare staff of SSKM, PG Polyclinic, Institute of Psychiatry, Bangur Institute of Neurology and Ramrikdas Haralalka Hospital. “We have delivered around half the required doses to SSKM. The entire process will take around 15 days. Hence, these pilot cars will be back here yet again,” said a police driver of one of the pilot cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/police-deploy-pilot-cars-to-escort-new-vips-in-town/articleshow/80274207.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||No big celebrations for Keralites on Makkar Sankranti||Ludhiana: Unlike previous years, the Keralites missed all celebrations related to Makkar Sankranti or Makkaravillaku this year, which they used to do at Sree Ayappa Temple as per their traditions. This year, a procession will be taken out in a simple way without performance by special artists, who used to come all the way from Kerala just to take part in these celebrations. The organisers even refused to provide traditional langar at the kitchen of the temple and rather devotees would be served food in north Indian style outside the temple. They blamed Covid-19 for holding them back from holding big celebrations and keeping it on a low scale. Usually, Keralites celebrate this day with great fanfare, where in a temple over 101 diyas are lit up and food is prepared in the kitchen of the temple and is served on banana leaves. But due to Covid-19, the members of the temple committee decided not to organise things on a grand level and rather keep celebrations subdued so that nobody should face problems. Only 21 diyas will be lit up inside the temple this time just to keep the tradition alive. Artists used to come from Kerala to perform ‘Chendamelam’ (Kerala’s traditional orchestra), but this time only five people would be called for performance inside the temple. The organisers claimed that they had organised the celebrations just to keep their traditions alive and they should not miss it this year due to Covid-19. The secretary of committee of Sree Ayappa Temple, Jamalpur Biju Krishnan, said, “We are keeping everything on a very small scale due to Covid-19. The devotees have been told not to become part of the procession as less than 100 people will be there in procession. Instead of bringing elephants for bringing Lord Ayappa towards the temple, we are bringing him on our hands.” He said they organised all such functions just to remain connected with their old rituals and their younger generations could learn something about traditions, but now they have to pay attention towards the safety of people as well, so no large-scale celebrations this year. “Though the temple is open for devotees, we have not started the kitchen yet, so, this time instead of traditional food, the people will get to eat north Indian style langar with dal, pulao and roti,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/no-big-celebrations-for-keralites-on-makkar-sankranti/articleshow/80274173.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Recruitment process for PMC medical college starts||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has started the recruitment process for the proposed Bharat Ratna Atal Bihari Vajpayee Municipal Medical College. The civic body has released an advertisement for hiring staff. A total of 122 posts, starting with the dean to professors, associate and assistant professors, among others, are to be filled. The PMC has set a deadline of January 29 for submission of applications. The teaching staff and resident doctors are to be recruited for 22 different branches. The civic body has formed an educational trust in the name of the former prime minister. As per civic officials, the norms set by the union government to approve a medical college will be used for the recruitment process. The payment will be given at par with doctors of the civic hospital. It will be in accordance with the Sixth Pay Commission salaries. The municipal corporation is awaiting a green signal from the National Medical Commission (NMC).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recruitment-process-for-pmc-medical-college-starts/articleshow/80275096.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Over 50% of 44 dead bird samples in state test positive for avian flu||Pune: The animal husbandry department on Thursday stated that over 50% of the 44 dead bird samples in Maharashtra had so far tested positive for avian influenza. The department received the test results of the 44 samples on Thursday. Thane district had the maximum positive samples (7), followed by Nanded (6). Out of the 44 samples, eight poultry samples from Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Nanded districts tested positive for bird flu. Thirteen poultry bird samples from Akola, Amravati, Ahmednagar, Pune and Solapur tested negative.Nine crow samples from Mumbai, Beed, Thane, Ratnagiri, Nashik and Nanded tested positive for bird flu. Ten samples of birds such as heron, parrot and sparrow, from Parbhani, Latur, Thane, Nashik and Ahmednagar have tested positive.“In exercise of the powers conferred under the Prevention And Control of Infectious and Contagious Diseases in Animals Act, 2009, the Maharashtra government in a recent notification has conferred all its powers on the district collectors for the prevention, control and eradication of avian influenza within their local jurisdiction,” animal husbandry commissioner Sachindra Pratap Singh told TOI.The local administration now has to undertake the process of declaration of “alert zone” in an area from where mortality in poultry birds (suspected to have died of bird flu) has occurred, apart from implementing necessary precautions and preventive measures under these conferred powers.“We have seen that most crow deaths have occurred due to bird flu in Maharashtra. The district collectors can implement the local restrictions and surveillance where such deaths have been reported. For positive samples in poultry birds, the collectors could give culling orders within one km radius of the infected zone,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/over-50-of-44-dead-bird-samples-in-state-test-positive-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80275113.cms||Neha Madaan
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||FIR against three dozen for holding mahapanchayat||Jaipur: Sub-division officer of Weir (Bharatpur) Amit Kumar has lodged an FIR against three dozen people, which included former BJP MP Ramswaroop Koli, Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla and ex-chairman of Dang Development Board Jawahar Singh Baidham, for organising a mahapanchayat in Raipur village without seeking permission from the administration, in view of Covid situation in the state.  tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fir-against-three-dozen-for-holding-mahapanchayat/articleshow/80275119.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Pune||4 more vaccine nods likely by June-July will boost India’s stockpile: Top official||PUNE: Possible approvals to four more Covid-19 vaccines within the next six months will improve supply to states and increase the country’s stockpile, a top central health official has said. Dr VK Paul, senior member (health) of the NITI Aayog, said four more vaccines in play would “change the scenario completely”. He said approvals may be sought for vaccines by Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila, Russia's Gamaleya, Hyderabad-based Biological E and Pune-based Gennova Biopharmaceuticals. All the four shots are in different stages of clinical trials. Dr Paul said, “The states will get the required vaccines as the Centre remains committed to covering priority groups nationwide. And with four more vaccines likely to get approval in the next six months, the stage will be set for inclusion of persons over and above the present priority population.” Ahead of the first Covid vaccination drives for healthcare workers on Saturday, Dr Paul said both the approved shots — Covishield and Covaxin — are completely safe. “Healthcare workers should set an example and come out and get themselves vaccinated against Covid-19. The safety data has been assessed; immunogenicity of the vaccines has been studied; and side-effects are negligible. They are among the safest vaccines,” he said. The Indian Medical Association has also urged all doctors to participate.  Dr Paul added that current policy does not indemnify vaccine makers from adverse reactions in the population. “No vaccine company will be given indemnity by the government as per current policy,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/4-more-vaccine-nods-likely-by-june-july-will-boost-indias-stockpile-top-official/articleshow/80275123.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 15, 2021||Meerut||Hiding identity to marry is betrayal, so I am not against anti-conversion law: Cong leader Krishnam||Meerut: “Hiding identity to marry is equal to betrayal. I am not against this law,” said Congress leader Acharya Pramod Krishnam in reply to a media query on his stand on the controversial Unlawful Conversion of Religion Ordinance.“Hiding identity to marry is a crime in both Sanatan Dharma and Islam as well as in law,” said Krishnam, who was speaking to the media on the sidelines of an event to inaugurate a statue of Lord Parshuram in Hatinapur area in UP’s Meerut district on Thursday.Speaking over the “Brahmin politics” in the state, Krishnam said the community relegated politically in the state and the next chief minister in the state should be a Brahmin. “The situation is pretty strange in UP. If we talk about the Brahmins, this is an infection-age for them. The Brahmin community is feeling humiliated. Innocent children of Brahmins were killed in encounters. They are deprived of due political participation. We want a Brahmin to be the next chief minister of UP,” said Krishnam. Attacking the Centre on the controversial farm laws, Krishnam said, “The farmer community rallied behind the government, but the government cheated them. Now, they don’t trust the government. The farmers had raised ‘Modi-Modi’ slogans, but sadly they were cheated. It’s a responsibility of the government to pacify the farmers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hiding-identity-to-marry-is-betrayal-so-i-am-not-against-anti-conversion-law-cong-leader-krishnam/articleshow/80273237.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Raje should speak to Modi on rising fuel prices: Joshi||Jaipur: Congress chief whip in the assembly Mahesh Joshi on Thursday hit out at former chief minister Vasundhara Raje who demanded lowering the VAT on petroleum products in the state to give relief to the people reeling under inflation and Covid.Joshi said Raje should take up the issue of the rising prices of petrol and diesel, not with the state government, but with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.“It would be better if Vasundhara Ji spoke to PM Modi on the issue of VAT on fuel. The state government will not levy tax on fuel if the Centre takes a step towards reducing fuel prices,” Joshi said on Wednesday reacting to Raje’s demand.Raje had on the other day said that the prices of petrol and diesel is the highest in Rajasthan. “The state government should consider measures like reducing VAT on petrol and diesel while understanding the pain of the common man so that people get some relief from the price rise amid the Corona pandemic," Raje had tweeted in Hindi. "... During our tenure, we had to bear a financial burden of about Rs two thousand crore by reducing the VAT by four per cent on petrol and diesel, which could curb the expensive prices," she said in another tweet.She said that looking at the pain of the common people, the state government should reduce VAT on petrol and diesel so that they get some relief from inflation.Raje was referring to the hike in VAT by the Congress government in the state to mop up revenue which her government had reduced just before the assembly elections in 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raje-should-speak-to-modi-on-rising-fuel-prices-joshi/articleshow/80275095.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thane||Thane: MACT orders Rs 27.3 lakh payout to mishap victim||THANE: The Thane Motor Accident Claims Tribunal (MACT) awarded a compensation of Rs 27.3 lakh to the kin and dependents of a deceased woman who died in a mishap in 2018 . The kin of the deceased had pleaded to the tribunal that Chayya Kamble, who was riding pillion with Ashok Kumar Singh, was thrown off when the latter suddenly applied brakes. The tribunal ordered Singh and Reliance General Insurance Company Ltd, to make the payment along with 8% yearly interest to Kamble’s husband and son.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/mact-award-rs-27-3-lakh-compensation-to-kin-of-deceased-accident-mishap/articleshow/80276165.cms||Nishikant Karlikar
January 15, 2021||Meerut||UP Police to probe ‘Hindu Panchayat’ call for 'economic boycott' of Muslims||MEERUT: Police in Meerut are probing an alleged instance of hate speech during a ''Hindu Panchayat'' organised at a college after one of the speakers called for “economic boycott” of Muslims. The cyber cell of the UP police was also roped in as the video of the inflammatory speech got shared on social media, drawing widespread condemnation from several quarters. The panchayat was organised four days ago at the Chaudhary Charan Singh University (CCSU). “We have not received any information from the college staff so far. But a probe is being conducted by the cyber cell,” said Akhilesh Narayan Singh, superintendent of police (city). In the video shot during the event, Swami Anand Swaroop, head of Shankaracharya Parishad, is purportedly heard saying, “My argument is that if you (Muslims) want to remain associated with us, you should first stop reading the Quran and stop offering namaz.” In the same breath, he tells the listeners: “You decide that you will not buy anything from a Muslim. If you destroy them socially, politically and economically, they will begin converting to Hinduism from Islam.” Swami Swaroop is not new to controversies. On January 6, in Kolkata, he gave a call to declare India a Hindu rashtra. Meanwhile, the college administration has distanced itself from the event. Vice-chancellor NK Taneja claimed the university only provided space for the event. “It was not a university function. Therefore I will not be able to comment on it. We just facilitated space (for them),” Taneja said. Bhagyodya foundation, one of the organisers of the event, said such panchayats are being organised across the country. The next one will be held in Haridwar. Ram Mahesh Mishra, president of the foundation who was present at the event, said the idea behind the panchayat was to “unite” Hindus. “The Hindu community has been weakened due to its caste divisions. This weakness is being exploited by other communities. Once they are united, the country will become stronger. When Swami Swaroop gave that appeal, it resonated with us,” Mishra said. He added that such panchayats have been held in several cities across the country, including in Delhi, Lucknow, Ballia and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/up-police-to-probe-hindu-panchayat-call-for-economic-boycott-of-muslims/articleshow/80273242.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Celebrated Bengaluru biker hits camel in Rajasthan, dies||JAISALMER/BENGALURU: King Richard Srinivasan, a celebrated cross-country biker from Bengaluru, was killed when his motorcycle crashed into a camel in Jaisalmer district, on Wednesday night. Richard had travelled to 37 countries in five continents and covered 65,000 km on his bike. He was in Jaisalmer as part of an 8,000-km ride from Bengaluru. Police handed over the body on Thursday to his family members after a post-mortem examination. Zonal police officer Karan Singh Charan said Richard and his three friends were on their way to Jaisalmer, and he was riding a BMW GS when a camel suddenly came before his motorcycle in the Fatehgarh sub-division headquarters area on Wednesday night. Richard lost control of the bike and fell, dying of suspected head injuries instantly. Richard was accompanied by Narayan from Bengaluru, and Dr Vijay and Venugopal from Chennai, on the ride. Their tour was to end in Bengaluru on January 23. The 45-year-old is survived by his parents, wife, a son and a daughter. In 2018, Richard travelled to London from Bengaluru on his motorcycle. In 2019, he covered South America and North America. “I want to visit all the countries of the world,” Richard had told TOI in 2018 after his London trip. Manjunath Chikkaiah, who rode with King Richard to the UK, covering 23,500 km in 76 days, said the biker was a responsible rider. “He had left Bengaluru on January 7 and wanted to go to Kashmir, besides other parts of the country. We lost one of the greatest cross-country riders,” he said. According to his friends, Richard, who ran an aluminium furnace factory in Bengaluru, recently replaced his Triumph Tiger 800 bike with a BMW as he had plans to travel to Africa before next year. He had done multiple expeditions from Bengaluru and had covered Asia, Europe, the Americas, and Australia on the Tiger 800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/blurus-celebrated-biker-dies-in-mishap/articleshow/80275145.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 15, 2021||Pune||155 vaccinators to administer jabs on first day; civic bodies begin final preparations||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) will have 155 medical staffers on station to administer Covid-19 vaccines when the phase one of priority inoculations starts on Saturday. On Thursday, both Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad civic bodies started final preparations before the big day. The PCMC on Thursday dispatched the shots to eight centres. The PMC is set to transport its share to designated locations by Friday evening or Saturday morning, officials said.“Preparations for the transportation of vaccines to centres are underway. The schedule will be finalized and declared accordingly,” said Amit Shah, a senior official with the PMC’s health department. Shah said the civic body is expected to dispatch its shots to vaccine centres on Friday evening or early on Saturday. Officials from the PCMC said they were in the final stages of preparations, which included inspections of their eight vaccination sites. Varsha Dange, the assistant medical officer of the PCMC, said, “We transported 100 doses each to eight designated centres. Rooms for verification, vaccination and observation of beneficiaries are ready across all sites. We are also checking quality of internet connectivity and backup services for electricity and site safety.”She added that the PCMC’s vaccination drive will kickoff at the New Jijamata hospital in the presence of people’s representatives and the civic chief Shravan Hardikar. Abhay Tidke, additional district health officer (DHO) of Pune zilla parishad, said 45 vaccination officers will be present at the sites. They will be backed-up by health department personnel. All beneficiaries will be asked to wait for 30 minutes in the observation rooms after receiving their dose. The PMR has received 1.11 lakh doses for 86,708 healthcare workers from both the public and private sectors. The number of vaccination sites within PMR was also reduced from 39 to 31 on Thursday. In Pune rural, the number of sites was brought down to 15 from 23. There has been no change in the number of centres in PMC and PCMC limits, officials said.The cut in number of sites was carried out after orders from the Centre.Officials from the PMC said the first batch of doses the civic body has received would be enough for 22,000 frontline health workers. “The rest will be vaccinated once we get the rest of the allocated doses,” said Ashish Bharati, head of PMC’s health department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/155-vaccinators-to-administer-jabs-on-first-day-civic-bodies-begin-final-preparations/articleshow/80275165.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 15, 2021||Pune||Two held on smartphone theft charge||Pune: Two men landed in police custody on the charge of robbing pedestrians of smartphones in a bid to impress their girlfriends by gifting them new handsets at regular intervals. “The duo would gift new smartphones to their girlfriends to replace the older stolen ones. Then they would sell the old ones in the grey market at a throwaway price,” senior inspector Uttam Tangade of the Pimpri Chinchwad crime branch said. The police have recovered 26 smartphones and three motorcycles, collectively worth Rs4.1 lakh, from the duo — Sagar Sawale (22) and Nilesh Bhalerao (19), both from Chikhali. “We have detected nine cases so far,” Tangade said. He said sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange received a tip-off. “We laid a trap and nabbed the duo after a chase,” Tangade further said. During the questioning, the duo admitted that they had snatched smartphones of pedestrians in Bhosari and Pimpri. The suspects were produced before court and have been remanded to police custody till January 17. “The duo used to sell off the old stolen smartphones and used that money for merry making,” Tangade said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/two-held-on-smartphone-theft-charge/articleshow/80275151.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Pune||Card cloning: Data of 500 customers stolen, says cybercrime cell of Pimpri Chinchwad police||PUNE: The cybercrime cell of the Pimpri Chinchwad police on Thursday said the four men arrested in a card cloning case had stolen debit card data of at least 500 customers. The information came to light during custodial interrogation of the suspects, who were arrested after five people complained of unauthorized ATM withdrawals to the tune of Rs1.5 lakh. The police have also recovered three debit card skimmers and a laptop from the suspects’ possession and added the suspects were part of an interstate gang. Those arrested include three waiters, one from a restaurant in Bhosari and two working at an eatery in Wakad; and a Dighi resident who would collect the data and send it to accomplices in Jharkhand Bihar, who would clone the cards and withdraw money from ATMs. The cybercrime cell has identified the arrested as Nikhil Patil (23), a Madhya Pradesh resident employed at the Bhosari restaurant; Saddam Hussein (29) and Phurkan Ansari (32), both of Pimple Nilakh and working at the Wakad establishment; and Khalid Ansari (27) of Dighi. Patil and Hussein were arrested n Monday, while Phurkan and Khalid were placed under arrest the following day. “So far we have received complaints from five people, who have together lost Rs1.5 lakh in unauthorized withdrawals,” senior inspector Sanjay Tungar of the Pimpri Chinchwad cybercrime cell said. He said the money was withdrawn from different automated teller machines (ATMs) in Bihar and Jharkhand. “An interstate gang is involved in the racket; the probe is wide-ranging,” Tungar said. “According to a preliminary investigation, the suspects have stolen data from 500 customers. We are looking into how the data was transferred to the accomplices in Bihar and Jharkhand,” he said. Tungar said they would be sending a police team to Jharkhand in due course.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/card-cloning-data-of-500-customers-stolen/articleshow/80275131.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Accused only wanted to eliminate his former employer||Aurangabad: On detection of the triple murder that was committed in the wee hours of November 28 in Paithan taluka, police have found that the accused, a former help, had entered the house to murder only his former employer, but eventually ended up murdering his wife and daughter while making a futile bid on the life of a five-year old. The accused Akshay Jadhav (27) of Old Kasvan of Maliwadi in Paithan is currently undergoing his extended police custody after being arrested on January 6 by Aurangabad rural police for murdering Sambhaji alias Raju Nivare (35), his wife Ashwini (30) and their nine-year-old daughter Sayali. Raju’s six-year-old son Soham, who had sustained grave injuries, survived the attack. Superintendent of police Mokshada Patil, who had fanned out multiple teams for nabbing the accused, rewarded the police team for detecting the case. During the probe, the accused confessed to the crime while stating that he was upset over being framed in a false case last year only because he had been in a relationship with the deceased’s relative and both had eloped. Moreover, the accused suspected that Raju was behind his elder bother going missing a few months back and he feared that Raju would eliminate him. Well aware of the fact that Nivare family did not lock their doors during night, Akshay decided to murder Raju and, accordingly, entered the house in the wee hours of November 28. He slit Raju’s throat while he was fast asleep. “The accused after slitting throat of the man found that his wife and daughter woke up suddenly and saw him committing the crime, following which Akshay allegedly eliminated them too,” said assistant superintendent of police Gorakh Bhamre. While working on the case, police found that their former employee, who was thrashed by Raju, was missing since the incident. Later, it was found that he was continuously on the move from one city to another on his bike for almost 40 days, before being nabbed by local crime branch team at Mahalgaon in Vaijapur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/accused-only-wanted-to-eliminate-his-former-employer/articleshow/80275129.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Inauguration of key civic projects in city||Aurangabad: Top Shiv Sena leaders, including Aaditya Thackeray and Subhash Desai will throw open for public around half a dozen civic projects on Saturday. These projects include waste processing unit of 150 metric tonne at Padegaon and a dedicated cycle-track at Kranti Chowk in Aurangabad city. Other projects include inauguration of Bio Methanation Project for wet waste and UNDP dry-waste centre at Kanchanwadi, opening of Command and Control Centre and Master System Integrator at police commissionerate and initiation of new 100 bus stops in Aurangabad as a part of smart city mission. The Sena leaders will also inaugurate an outdoor display system set up at railway station and unveil the mural of late party chief Balasaheb Thackeray on Jalna Road, a release said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/inauguration-of-key-civic-projects-in-city/articleshow/80275162.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Celebrated Bengaluru biker hits camel in Rajasthan, dies||JAISALMER/BENGALURU: King Richard Srinivasan, a celebrated cross-country biker from Bengaluru, was killed when his motorcycle crashed into a camel in Jaisalmer district, on Wednesday night. Richard had travelled to 37 countries in five continents and covered 65,000 km on his bike. He was in Jaisalmer as part of an 8,000-km ride from Bengaluru. Police handed over the body on Thursday to his family members after a post-mortem examination. Zonal police officer Karan Singh Charan said Richard and his three friends were on their way to Jaisalmer, and he was riding a BMW GS when a camel suddenly came before his motorcycle in the Fatehgarh sub-division headquarters area on Wednesday night. Richard lost control of the bike and fell, dying of suspected head injuries instantly. Richard was accompanied by Narayan from Bengaluru, and Dr Vijay and Venugopal from Chennai, on the ride. Their tour was to end in Bengaluru on January 23. The 45-year-old is survived by his parents, wife, a son and a daughter. In 2018, Richard travelled to London from Bengaluru on his motorcycle. In 2019, he covered South America and North America. “I want to visit all the countries of the world,” Richard had told TOI in 2018 after his London trip. Manjunath Chikkaiah, who rode with King Richard to the UK, covering 23,500 km in 76 days, said the biker was a responsible rider. “He had left Bengaluru on January 7 and wanted to go to Kashmir, besides other parts of the country. We lost one of the greatest cross-country riders,” he said. According to his friends, Richard, who ran an aluminium furnace factory in Bengaluru, recently replaced his Triumph Tiger 800 bike with a BMW as he had plans to travel to Africa before next year. He had done multiple expeditions from Bengaluru and had covered Asia, Europe, the Americas, and Australia on the Tiger 800.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/blurus-celebrated-biker-dies-in-mishap/articleshow/80279253.cms||Kiran Parashar
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai start-up bags Rs 140-crore deal to supply drones to Army||MUMBAI: An IIT-Bombay incubated company, ideaForge, which manufactures unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), signed a Rs140-crore deal with the Indian army to supply an unspecified number of tactical drones over a year. The high-altitude variant of the start-up’s flagship drone – the SWITCH UAVs – is small enough to be used by infantry soldiers and special forces deployed in areas like Ladakh. The Mumbai-based firm was chosen over domestic as well as foreign competitors, including the Tata group and Israel’s Elbit Systems. “Our drones managed to fulfil all the operational requirements of the defence force, having the best flight time and flight range for systems in their weight class,” said the marketing head of ideaForge, Kruthi Aramanamada. “In fact, the weight is less than half of the other systems,” she added. The fixed-wing VTOL (vertical take-off and landing) drone, each of which weighs around 6.5 kg, needs limited area for take-off and landing, and is also man-portable. The indigenous system is built to cater to the most demanding surveillance operations of the Indian forces, she said. The startup was incubated in the Society for Innovation and Entrepreneurship (SINE) at IIT-Bombay in 2007. The founders of the firm, Ankit Mehta, Rahul Singh and Ashish Bhat, started working on the idea even before they graduated from the institute in 2005 and 2006. As students, they won several international competitions for their UAVs. IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhari took to social media to congratulate them. “In tune with the PM’s call for Atmanirbhar Bharat, IIT-Bombay is proud that its alumni-founded company will be supplying these highly sophisticated drones to the Indian defence…” he said in his post. Aramanamada said it was during the 2008 Mumbai terror attacks that they felt their product could have helped in neutralising the terrorists and they decided to take it where they could make a difference. “They developed their first fully deployable configuration in 2009. Since then they have been developing and supplying drones to the Indian Air Force, Army, Navy and even the paramilitary and state police forces and other government organisations,” she said. This procurement, however, will be the highest in terms of cost, she claimed. Mehta, also the CEO of the firm, said, “SWITCH UAV is the only product that cleared the Indian Army’s stringent trials. It is a testimony of the fact that our systems are built like a bird and tested like a tank.” The armed forces are going in for fresh acquisition of a wide variety of drones, from hand-launched mini ones to fighter-size armed ones, to add to their existing UAV fleets. (Inputs from New Delhi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/indian-company-bags-rs-140-crore-army-deal-for-tactical-drones/articleshow/80276190.cms||Yogita Rao
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Fugitive who breached police custody surrenders||Jaisalmer: Chandra Prakash Jani, who escaped from police custody with the help of his armed aides on Wednesday, surrendered on Thursday.Four teams of Barmer police are searching for his supporters and barricades have been erected in the entire Jodhpur range. ATS inspector Mahesh Kumar lodged case against Jani and his aides at rural police station. There are dozens of cases against Jani lodged in Bihar and UP, apart from Rajasthan. Barmer SP Anand Sharma said Jani surrendered himself to police. “We started searching for Jani at all the places where he could possibly hide. We put pressure from all around leaving no option for the culprit than to surrender,” he added. Jani was wanted in a 14-year-old case under excise act by Kanpur police. Kanpur police with the help of state ATS team had caught Jani and was taking him when his 20-25 supporters stopped the car at Harsani Fanta and took him away. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/fugitive-who-breached-police-custody-surrenders/articleshow/80275167.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Largest sero survey coincides with Covid vaccine drive in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Even as preparations are on to roll out the Covid-19 vaccination drive from Saturday, Delhi government has started another serological survey — the city’s fifth and largest till date. The first sero survey conducted between June-end and the first week of July last year had revealed the presence of Covid-19 antibodies in around 24% of 21,387 samples collected. The fourth survey carried out in October 2020 didn’t see a significant rise or decline as 15,015 samples collected from the 272 municipal wards revealed a 25.5% prevalence of antibodies. The third survey done in September had shown 25.1% prevalence of antibodies. The latest survey started on January 11 and is scheduled to be completed by January 21. “A serological survey is going on in Delhi and the target is to collect 28,000 samples, which is the biggest sample size till date. The survey is scheduled to be completed in about 10 days, but since we are also starting the vaccination programme, completing it might take some more time,” a senior Delhi government official said. The official added that once the sample collection was done, it would take some time for the report to come in. “The result will come after analysis by laboratories. Despite the survey overlapping with the first phase of vaccination for healthcare workers, the result will give us a good idea about seroprevalence well before the vaccination of people above 50 years of age starts,” said the official. A Shahdara district official said that nearly 1,000 samples had already been collected there. “The number of samples to be collected this time is higher, but we are trying to complete the process within the given time frame. We are working on the serological survey and making preparations for the vaccination drive simultaneously,” he added. The first sero survey was led by National Centre for Disease Control after which health minister Satyendar Jain had announced that Delhi government would conduct such surveys every month. While three more surveys were carried out after the first one, there was no huge difference in the prevalence of antibodies. However, there were significant inter-district variations in the fourth survey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/largest-sero-survey-coincides-with-vax-drive/articleshow/80275126.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||‘NREGA labour payment of Rs 500cr delayed by a mth’||Jaipur: The rural development and panchayati raj department data shows there is a one-month delay in labour payment amounting to Rs 500 crore under MGNREGA in the state.According to officials in the department, payment of MGNREGA labourers is pending since December 14. Sources say the delay was due to funds crunch and the Centre may release payments. However, the average wage rate has increased to Rs 193 from Rs 167 after the start of ‘Pura Kaam, Pura Daam’ campaign in the state from December 16. For the first 15 days, the campaign had covered five different tasks in all the districts.Banswara’s average wage rate increased from Rs 177 to Rs 216, the highest among all districts. Though Ajmer was lowest among the districts, it increased its average wage rate from Rs 114 to Rs 142. Similarly, Karauli increased the rate from Rs 146 to Rs 154 during the campaign. Jodhpur increased its average wage rate from Rs 117 to Rs 155.Among others, the average rates of Nagaur, Baran, Barmer, Bharatpur, Bundi, Dausa, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jhalawar, Kota, Nagaur, Pratapgarh, Rajsamand and Sawai Madhopur had crossed Rs 200.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/nrega-labour-payment-of-rs-500cr-delayed-by-a-mth/articleshow/80275189.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Vaccination drive in Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur from Sat||Kolhapur: The Covid-19 vaccination drive is scheduled to start in four districts of western Maharashtra from Saturday. These districts — Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur and Solapur — have received a total of 1,31,764 Covishield doses in various batches. These vaccines have been kept in cold storage and will be distributed on Friday. A total of 61 sites have been identified for vaccination programme in these four districts where 1,12, 148 frontline workers will be administered Covishield shots. Kolhapur district has received the highest share of Covishield doses (37,580), followed by Solapur (34,184). Satara and Sangli districts have received 30,000 doses each. Kolhapur district has reported the highest number of Covid-19 cases since March last year. Satara district collector Shekhar Singh said that those who will be vaccinated during the programme are required to follow all safety rules, including maintaining social distancing, washing hands frequently and wearing face masks. Sangli district health officer Dr. Milind Pore has appealed to the citizens to link their Aadhaar cards with their mobile phone number as early as possible. He said that linking of Aadhaar card was necessary for next phase of vaccination. Meanwhile, the administrations of all four districts are busy with preparations for the vaccination drive. A task force has been set up by Kolhapur municipal corporation to ensure that 11,119 health workers are vaccinated as per schedule. While Kolhapur rural has 14 sites where the drive will be launched, the city has eight sites. Sangli district has 12 sites with 26,554 beneficiaries in the first phase of vaccination whereas Satara district has 24,410 beneficiaries who will be vaccinated at 11 centres. In addition, Solapur has 14 sites which will cover 30,184 frontline workers. Solapur rural identifies 92 new cases, Satara 53 As many as 92 new coronavirus cases were registered in Solapur rural on Thursday, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 38,886, of which, 1,144 have succumbed to the contagion. Solapur city, on the other hand, reported 17 new cases along with two deaths — both senior citizens. At present, the city has 296 active cases. Besides Solapur, Satara district, too, has identified fresh Covid-19 cases. The district reported the addition of 53 patients to its list, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 55,390 since March last year. The district has reported 1,804 deaths so far while 52,786 patients have been discharged until now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/vaccination-drive-in-satara-sangli-kolhapur-and-solapur-from-sat/articleshow/80275170.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi ready for rollout of vaccine: Arvind Kejriwal||NEW DELHI: After reviewing the preparations on Thursday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that Delhi government had made all the required arrangements and was fully prepared for rolling out the vaccination exercise from Saturday. Health workers would be inoculated at 81 locations on four days in a week, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday, so that vaccination for other diseases could be carried out unhindered. Vaccination would start at 9am and continue till 5pm. Initially, 8,100 healthcare personnel would be vaccinated daily. Delhi has received 2,74,000 vaccine doses from Centre, which would cater to around 1.2 lakh health workers in the first phase. “I took stock of the situation and all preparations have been made. Teams are ready for the drive. From January 16, around 100 people will be vaccinated daily at 81 sites across Delhi,” said Kejriwal. Talking about the expansion of vaccination booths, the CM said, “The centres will be increased to 175 in the coming days. As each person will receive two doses, an extra 10% has been given to us in case of any problems.” Over 2.4 lakh healthcare workers engaged in government and private hospitals and nursing homes have registered for the vaccine. “We hope to receive the vaccine for the remaining healthcare personnel in the coming days. I hope the vaccination will bring people out of the long distress caused by the pandemic for the past one year,” said Kejriwal. The CM said the shots would be given to all frontline workers, beginning with the comparatively young and healthy individuals. “The vaccines are said to be completely safe, but adequate arrangements for the management of adverse effects following vaccination have been made. This includes effective post-vaccination observation and deployment of nodal officers in all government hospitals where people will be taken for treatment of adverse effects. Multiple dry runs have been conducted to ensure a smooth exercise,” added Kejriwal. A source said while Covishield would be given at 75 vaccination booths, Covaxin would be administered at six booths. The vaccines were sent to all the 11 districts on Thursday and stored in the cold chain points. “The vaccines will be sent to the booths on Saturday morning before the start of the exercise. Each district has 5-10 booths, so it won’t be difficult or time-consuming to deliver them,” said an official. Beneficiaries would start getting SMSs on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/city-ready-for-rollout-of-vaccine-kejriwal/articleshow/80275102.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Teen, boss in hit & run dump ‘body’ on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway, arrested||MUMBAI: A teenager taking driving lessons from her boss, a lawyer, rammed her car into a jogger and, mistaking him for dead, dumped the ‘body’ on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway at Vasai on Sunday morning. The victim, Indresh Yadav (24), was rescued after an eyewitness informed the police. He is currently recovering at a Vasai hospital where his condition is stated to be stable. Lawyer Birendra Mishra (35) and his assistant Varsha Mishra (18) were arrested after police went through closed circuit television (CCTV) footage from the spot and tracked the car. The duo has been charged with attempt to murder. They have been remanded to police custody by the Vasai court. On Sunday morning, Yadav, a resident of Vijay Residency, Fatherwadi, Vasai (east), was jogging when Varsha, who was in the driver’s seat, rammed the car into him near Madhuvan area. Birendra, a Mira Road resident was seated beside her. Yadav collapsed on the road. Varsha and Birendra alighted from the car and panicked on finding Yadav was unresponsive. Fearing he was dead, they put him in the rear seat of the car and drove toward the highway. At Sasunavghar, they dumped the ‘body’ outside an ashram and fled. However, an eyewitness saw the victim being dragged out of the car and left on the road. He informed the police, who arrived at the scene to find Yadav unconscious. Police said Varsha was learning to drive and Birendra was training her.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/teen-boss-in-hit-run-dump-body-on-highway-arrested/articleshow/80276193.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 15, 2021||Pune||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277255.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Kolhapur||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277253.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Nashik||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277254.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Thane||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277261.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Five-month-old receives heart, doctors say cadaver donor came as angel||NEW DELHI: A five-month-old boy with a birth defect was on the verge of dying due to heart failure at Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals. The Yemeni child got a new lease of life after receiving a donated heart from Dhanishtha, a child cadaver donor at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Heart transplant in children, especially very young ones, is extremely rare in India. The main reason for this is the nonavailability of cadaver donors in that age group, explained Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Apollo Hospitals. In the last 22 years, Sibal disclosed there have been only three paediatric cadaver donations at Apollo. Dr Mukesh Goel, senior cardio-thoracic surgeon at Apollo said, “Dhanishtha came as an angel to provide life to this boy.” He added, “For nearly three years, I have been a part of the New Delhi Heart and Lung group — a messaging group created by National Organ and Tissue Transplantation Organisation to alert hospitals to the availability of heart from a cadaver donor. This was the first time we received information about a heart donated by a child, exactly what we needed to save the life of a five-month-old boy.” Goel said he received the crucial information on Tuesday night. A team of doctors harvested the organ and a green corridor was created to rush it back to Apollo, where the recipient patient and team of cardiac surgeons were ready in the operation theatre. Transplant surgery started at 2.30am and Dhanishtha’s heart was stitched into the new body in an hour and a half. The team conducting the surgery included Goel, Dr Rajesh Sharma, Dr Bhaba Nand Das, Dr Muthu Jothi and Dr Deepa Singh. The doctors said the heart retrieved from a cadaver donor had to be transplanted within four hours. This is because once the organ is taken out of a body, it stops getting oxygen, blood and nutrients and the cells consequently start dying. Jothi, senior paediatric cardiothoracic surgeon, said, “In this case, the entire transplant procedure was completed in two hours and five minutes.” The Yemeni boy is under observation and in all likelihood will be off ventilator support after Saturday. He will then be put on transplant anti-rejection therapy. “The boy was airlifted to Apollo a month ago with no pulse or recordable blood pressure. After revival, he has been on ventilator support and medications to maintain blood pressure. Like many other children, he would have eventually succumbed if a heart transplant, the only permanent solution in such cases, wasn’t conducted in time. The Apollo doctors said, as per their experience and international reports, in over 90% of child heart transplants, the organ functions perfectly for at least 10 years, after which the patient might develop rejection problems or other complications arising from the administration of so many medicines. The five-month-old boy is the youngest to undergo a heart transplant in India. In 2016, doctors at Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences had conducted a heart transplant on a one-year-old child. A few other transplants involving children have also been recorded. The incidence of heart failure in children is one-two per 1,000 live births. It is estimated that 15,000 to 20,000 kids are waiting for a heart transplant in India in any given year, with very few lucky to get a donor organ.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/5-month-old-receives-heart-docs-say-cadaver-donor-came-as-angel/articleshow/80275166.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen, realtors oppose ID fee on property purchase||Ludhiana: Businessmen and realtors are furious over the special infrastructure development (ID) fee levied by Punjab government on the purchase of immovable property in the state. According to businessmen, this fee will hit hard the industrialists looking to expand their businesses by purchasing new factories and plots and the government should roll back its decision or keep the industrial properties out of the purview of this charge. Realtors on the other hand are of the view that realty market will feel the heat of this decision as investors are likely to delay their decision to get their properties registered. On Monday, the state cabinet had decided to impose special ID fee at the rate of Rs 0.25 for every Rs 100 of the value of purchase of immovable property within the state. Gurmeet Singh Kular, president of Federation of Industrial and Commercial Organisations (FICO), said, “We oppose the decision of the government of Punjab to impose the special ID fee on property purchase and we demand its immediate roll back. The industry in Punjab is already going through the struggle phase after the lockdowns, scarcity of raw material and other simultaneous problems. This is the time that the government should support the industry and people of Punjab, rather than putting additional burden on them. Any kind of additional fee or surcharge on the purchase of property will make its cost of acquisition very high and it will be a big blow to businessmen for whom the top priority is bringing down our expenditure. We request the chief minister to either roll back this law or at least exempt the industrial properties from its purview.” According to Sanjeev Gupta, a property dealer, “Already, the cost of registration of property is very high in our state and with this 25p per Rs 100 fee the registration cost will shoot up further. This means that in case of registration of a property worth Rs 50 lakh the charges will increase by Rs 12,000-Rs 13,000. The decision will certainly impact the investors who will defer the decisions of registrations, but in case of buyers who are buying property for immediately moving in, they will be having no option than to bear this hike.” Special ID fee of 25p on every litre of fuel (both petrol and diesel) too was imposed by the cabinet and fee on both fuel and property registration had been levied with an aim to create additional revenue streams of Rs 216.16 crores approximately annually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-realtors-oppose-id-fee-on-property-purchase/articleshow/80274212.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Workers who revived Cong after 2013 polls should get due: Pilot||Jaipur: Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot on Thursday said the Congress workers who resurrected the party after being decimated to 21 MLAs in the 2013 assembly elections and brought it to power in 2018 should be given their due.“We should not forget the active workers who worked hard, made sacrifices and braved tortures by the then BJP government to raise the party from 21 MLAs to full majority. It is not about posts or positions, it is about giving them recognition, respect and participation,” Pilot said, talking to reporters here on Makar Sankranti.He said, “The AICC had clearly stated about reconstituting the state unit by December 2020 because our president Dotasra ji had been working without a committee for many months. A compact and balanced PCC team has been formed. It was also decided that the task of making political appointments in boards and corporations would be completed after consulting all by January 2021 because the state government has now completed two years.”The former deputy chief minister later went to the village Lapuva near Reengas in Sikar district where he inaugurated a bust of martyr Mahesh Kumar Meena. Pilot refrained from making political remarks at the event but the large cavalcade of over 400 vehicles carrying his supporters, including more than a dozen MLAs who followed him in the district, which is the home turf of PCC chief Govind Singh Dotasra, made Congressmen to see it as a show of strength by the ex-deputy CM. Huge crowds welcomed Pilot at many places on the route. Local Congressmen seen as supporters of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and Dotasra were missing at the event.A day earlier, Pilot met AICC general secretary KC Venugopal in Jaipur. Sources said he discussed state's political issues, including impending cabinet expansion and reshuffle, with Venugopal, who is member of the AICC committee tasked to strike a balance between Pilot and CM Ashok Gehlot for power sharing in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/workers-who-revived-cong-after-2013-polls-should-get-due-pilot/articleshow/80275211.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80275288.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Pune||PMR active caseload drops 40% in a month on higher recoveries||Pune: The number of active Covid-19 cases has dropped by 40% in the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) in the last one month, with the Pune municipal limits and the rural areas leading the decline.The region had 9,352 active cases on December 13, 2020, which dived to 5,576 on January 13. Of the 5,576 active cases, the PMC limits accounted for 2,725, followed by the Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits (1,545) and the rural areas (1,306).According to the data released by the district health office, the PMC and rural areas have reported maximum dip in active patients in the last one month, with numbers declining almost by 50%. On December 13, the PMC limits’ active caseload was 5,125, followed by the rural areas (2,652) and the PCMC limits (1,575).Officials from the health department said the number of active cases dropped significantly between December 13, 2020, and January 2, 2021. Since then the active caseload has stayed between 5,800 and 5,500. On January 12, the cases had declined to 5,490 — the lowest number of cases in PMR since June. The officials said the drop could be attributed to rigorous testing and surveys, which helped in identifying at-risk people and cases before they could turn develop complications. “Testing helped bringing more cases to fore, resulting in less hospitalisation and spread. The door-to-door surveys also helped a great deal, especially in zeroing in on people with comorbidities. Besides, medical care has improved now as compared to the intial days when medical practitioners were at a loss,” an official from the health department said.The data revealed that patients in home isolation had increased in the last one month — from 50% of the total active count on December 13 to 65% of the total active caseload on January 13. Of the present 5,576 active patients, as many as 3,627 (65%) are in home isolation, while the remaining 1,949 (35%) cases are admitted in various hospitals for medical care. More patients are in home isolation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits, as well as the rural areas. A month ago, the rural areas and the PCMC limits had more patients undergoing treatment in hospitals as compared to those opting for home isolation. Sanjeev Wavare, assistant medical chief at PMC, said, “We are monitoring the trend of new cases. They are coming in a sporadic manner in the city. No particular area has reported an outbreak in the last one month. In addition to the reduction in active cases, the city has also reported a decline in the number of critical patients and those on oxygen support.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmr-active-caseload-drops-40-in-a-month-on-higher-recoveries/articleshow/80275264.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 15, 2021||Nashik||NMC to action against water tax defaulters from Feb 1||Nashik: The Nashik Municipal Corporation (NMC) has decided to stop the water supply to the water tax defaulters from February 1, if they do not pay their dues by January 31. Nashik municipal commissioner Kailas Jadhav has directed officials to take action against water tax defaulters NMC has set the water tax collection target of Rs 132 crore, including current demand and water tax dues, for the current financial year. But NMC could only collect Rs 24.5 crore so far. The civic chief told TOI there has been a drop in the revenue collected through various taxes due to the outbreak of Covid. Hence, the directives have been given. “In the first phase, water connection of the big commercial and residential water tax defaulters with tax dues of Rs 25,000 and above will be stopped. The drive will begin from February 1,” said Jadhav. He said an amnesty scheme has been introduced for the property tax defaulters from November 1, which is yielding good response from the defaulters. “We have waived penalty of Rs 4 crore to 35,000 taxpayers, who have cleared their property tax dues so far. We have collected property tax dues amounting to Rs 20 crore since November 1. I appeal to the taxpayers to take benefit of the amnesty scheme by clearing their property tax dues,” said Jadhav. NMC has 1.96 lakh water connections and 4.5 lakh property taxpayers across the six divisions of the NMC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nmc-to-action-against-water-tax-defaulters-from-feb-1/articleshow/80275195.cms||Tushar Pawar
January 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277262.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277258.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Aurangabad||Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ in Mumbai, to administer Covaxin||MUMBAI/PUNE: Six vaccination centres in the state will administer Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin to roughly 6,000-9,000 beneficiaries once the drive kicks off on Saturday. The number of vaccination centres was further reduced to 291 from 358 on Thursday since the state had doses for just 55.5% of its nearly 8 lakh registered beneficiaries. The initial plan was to have 511 centres at the launch phase. Of the 291 centres, 285 will administer the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, while the remaining six will give Covaxin. Four medical colleges— JJ in Mumbai, government medical colleges in Nagpur, Aurangabad and Solapur -- and two district hospitals in Pune and Amravati will administer Covaxin. The state has received 9.63 lakh doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin. Officials said six sites have been allocated 2,000 doses of Covaxin each, all expected to reach by Friday. N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission, said the Centre will share more details about the terms and conditions of administering Covaxin on Friday. The state’s head of immunisation Dr DN Patil said written consent would be sought from Covaxin beneficiaries at vaccination centres. The Bharat Biotech vaccine has been granted emergency approval under a ‘clinical trial mode’, which means consent of beneficiaries would be necessary and they will be followed up after vaccination. However, there was little clarity on what kind of protection would be provided to beneficiaries should they suffer any adverse events. Covaxin has been mired in controversy with the drug regulator granting it an approval before completion of Phase III trials. A senior doctor said, “It’s a Catch-22 for healthcare workers. Since we are not offered any choice of vaccine, would those apprehensive about taking Covaxin get no vaccine at all? The state must answer this.” Dr Patil said Covaxin was administered mostly in medical colleges for better management of adverse events. A senior state official said the Centre has assured them the vaccine was safe. Authorities at JJ Hospital in Byculla said they were informed of the development only on Thursday. The hospital has a day to train its staff and create a vaccination centre. “We have been told someone would train us to use the CoWin app on Friday. We will get the vaccine from Thane,” said Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, JJ dean. In another development, the Centre has told the state to prepare two centres for a live interaction with PM on the day of vaccine launch. While previously Jalna district hospital was chosen, now Pune district hospital has been chosen. Ramaswami said the PM may want to communicate with centres getting both types of vaccine. As per the revised plan, Mumbai will have 40 vaccination centres, down from 50 and initial plans of 75. Pune will have the second highest (31), Thane will have 23, while Nashik and Nagpur will have 13 and 12 each. At least 25 districts will have between 2-9 vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/6-centres-in-state-including-jj-in-city-to-administer-covaxin/articleshow/80277260.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 1,101 teams, Covid vaccine shots to 1 lakh people daily||NEW DELHI: Apart from setting up 1,000 vaccination centres, Delhi government would be scaling the number of teams to 1,101 to inoculate one lakh people daily. The drive in Delhi will start from vaccination centres set up in major government and private hospitals. This will help ensure availability of not only adequate space, but also a robust health infrastructure for a smooth vaccination programme. Apart from the infrastructure, the teams of healthcare workers and other personnel would also play a major role in carrying out this massive exercise, which would percolate to the local dispensary level in the coming days. South West district is expected to see the inoculation of nearly six lakh people in the first phase at 123 sites, both the highest in the city. It would also see eventual deployment of the most number of teams in any district at 135. On the other hand, North East district, where over three lakh people would be vaccinated in the first phase at 65 sites, would have the least number of teams at 71. Dr Suneela Garg, director and professor in department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi, and a public health expert who is a part of the vaccination programme, said each team would have 8-9 members, but the minimum number should be five. “The members of the teams, including doctors and healthcare workers, can streamline the system and also help in the case of an adverse event. However, the chances of anyone developing an adverse effect is rare. A separate area for monitoring people who have been administered the vaccine in the presence of healthcare workers or volunteers will generate confidence,” said Garg. As the vaccination of such a large section of the population across the country is a mammoth exercise, to say the least, emphasis has been given on proper training of vaccinators and other personnel involved in the process. Garg had earlier told TOI that from the doctor in-charge at the vaccination centres to primary healthcare workers, Delhi Police personnel and sanitation staff, everyone had been trained through standardised modules. This included those involved in the delivery of the vaccine, cold chain training, booth management and waste disposal at vaccination centres. The training included films depicting real-time vaccination scenario, presentations, interactive discussions, etc. “Everyone has been made well-versed with the process. Right from officials verifying cards to doctor manning the booth, everyone should know their role and responsibility clearly,” said Garg.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/1101-teams-vaccine-shots-to-1-lakh-people-daily/articleshow/80275136.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 15, 2021||Jaipur||Boy dies of rabies, dad accuses docs of negligence||Jaipur: In a heart-wrenching video that went viral, the father of six-year-old boy was purportedly seen sobbing and asking his son not to leave him alone in the world, while the boy was uttering some words while trying to keep his eyes open to communicate with his father. Sharing the video on a microblogging platform, Shaitan Ram Meena tweeted, “Chief minister @ashokgehlot51 ji, the wrong treatment provided by the doctors of BDK hospital Jhunjhunu tookmy 6-year-old Prince life. Doctors have not administered vaccine timely. The result was that Rabies affected him son’s brain and he died. Strict action demanded against all accused doctors. @RaghusharmaINC.”Meena in the tweet mentioned that his son had died of rabies. When the Times of India investigated into the matter, doctors at BDK Hospital in Jhunjhunu accepted that the boy was brought after being bitten by a dog. But, they denied any negligence in treatment. “We checked the record of the boy and found that he was brought to the hospital at 4.30pm on December 21. The vaccination facility remains open till 3pm, so he was asked him to come the next day. The first vaccine dose should be administered within 48 hours. Next day (December 22), he came to the hospital and the first dose was administered in the morning,” Dr SK Kaler, principal medical officer, BDK Hospital. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/boy-dies-of-rabies-dad-accuses-docs-of-negligence/articleshow/80275236.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Amravati district receives 17k doses, 16,262 to be vaccinated||Amravati: The first phase of Covid vaccination drive starting Saturday is set to cover 16,262 health workers of the district, said health officer Dr Dilip Ranmale on Thursday. The district received 17,000 doses from Akola around 2am on Thursday. Collector Shailesh Naval, who visited the centre in the morning along with ZP CEO Amol Yedge and civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam, said that entire machinery is ready to launch the drive. The drive will be held across five centres in the district, said Ranmale said. The centres are at district general hospital and Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Medical College in the city, sub-district hospital in Achalpur, rural hospital at Teosa and primary health centre at Anjangaon Bari. “Each of the centres will cover 100 health workers on Saturday,” said Dr Ranmale and added that these 500 beneficiaries will get their second dose after 28 days. He said that the registration process has already been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/amravati-district-receives-17k-doses-16262-to-be-vaccinated/articleshow/80274295.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Khar cops to depend on circumstantial proof||MUMBAI: Khar police, probing the ‘murder’ of a 19-year-old Psychology student, are totally depending on circumstantial evidence as they have failed to get an eye-witness or concrete evidence after questioning the accused for 13 days. Jhanvi Kukreja’s body was found with 48 injuries, including a severe skull fracture, near the staircase on the ground floor, at Bhagwati Heights in Khar (W) on January 1. Her family has arranged a condolence meet at Khar Gymkhana on Friday between 5pm-6pm. Police are awaiting the forensic report to know if the accused and 14 others at the terrace party, consumed drugs. Investigations showed that the building watchman had slept around midnight on December 31, after working the entire day, and did not hear any fight on the second floor. Bandra court on Thursday sent Shree Jogdhankar (22), a catering college student, and Diya Padalkar (18), a first year college student, to judicial custody. Both denied any role in the killing and told investigators they do not remember anything that happened that night. Jogdhankar claimed he does not remember how he suffered injuries. “We are waiting for forensic reports to know how Jogdhankar suffered severe injuries and are waiting for a forensic report on reconstruction of the crime scene along with a report on whether drugs were consumed at the party,” said a police officer. Kukreja’s lawyer, Trivankumar Karnani, said 13 days’ police custody was secured for both accused. “My submission to court was that maximum opportunity be given to police to complete custodial interrogation, and we must not incapacitate them. Jogdhankar has been sent to Taloja jail and Padalkar to Byculla women’s jail,” said Karnani. Police wanted the remaining days of police custody to interrogate Jogdhankar further, claiming he had been uncooperative, and he was violent, and there was a non-cognizable offence at Vakola police station, around a year back for assault of a paan shop vendor. They also claimed Jogdhankar’s friends stated that around two years back, he had assaulted a taxi driver, and when four of them intervened, he beat them up too. “Senior inspector Gajanan Kabdule orally told this to court. He also said Padalkar informed them on questioning that Jogdhankar was very violent and Jhanvi talked about his nature. But the three episodes were not mentioned in the remand application,” said Jogdhankar’s lawyer, Mahesh Vaswani. Vaswani said police also told court orally that Padalkar cooperated in the investigation, but Jogdhankar did not. “I submitted that the contention of the investigating officer is not tenable in law. The so-called NC, if any at Vakola police station, will not be an NC if he had assaulted someone, as the NC means Vakola police had not even taken cognizance of any offence. Further, it was not produced in court. The court also allowed the application by me for medical treatment of Jogdhankar, and a request to provide him books in jail for his Hotel Management course.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/cops-to-depend-on-circumstantial-proof/articleshow/80276222.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Repeal of farm laws only way out of current imbroglio: Cabinet||Chandigarh: The Punjab government on Thursday insisted that nothing short of repeal of the Centre’s Farm Laws, which it described as “anti-farmers, anti-nation and anti-food security” would resolve the present crisis. The state council of ministers asserted that Punjab would take all measures to protect the state’s and its farmers’ interests. “The Centre is out of touch with the ground realities,” said chief minister Amarinder Singh at a meeting of the cabinet, as the ministers declared “unequivocally” that repeal of the farm laws was the only way out of the current imbroglio. The ministers demanded that the Centre make MSP a statutory right of the farmers, who had been getting extremely low prices for their produce for the past several days despite feeding the nation. At the start of the meeting, the cabinet observed a two-minute silence in the memory of farmers who died during the agitation. An many as 78 farmers have so far lost their lives. Pointing out that even the Supreme Court had acknowledged the concerns of the protesting farmers, the ministers said that if the matter remains unresolved, it could have devastating repercussions for the country for decades to come. In a formal resolution, the cabinet reiterated its commitment to the resolutions passed by the Punjab legislative assembly on August 28, 2020, and October 20, 2020, stressing that all genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted. It urged the Centre to “repeal the farm laws as agriculture is a state subject under the Constitution, and to make MSP a statutory right.” “There is a need for broad-based dialogue and proper consultation with all stakeholders as these legislations impact the future of millions of farmers across the country, and all genuine demands of the farmers must be accepted,” said the resolution. The ministers, after a detailed discussion, took note of the Supreme Court order of January 12, 2021, staying the implementation of three farm legislations namely. It also appreciated the peaceful protest by the farmers, in keeping with the best of the democratic practices. Box No decision on moving court Even though the Punjab chief minister had announced last week that the state had already finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts, no decision in this regard was taken in the cabinet meeting. Speaking after the meeting, a minister said, “The view of the cabinet was that the state should act as per the wishes of the farmers’ unions. It was decided that we should only facilitate the protesting farmers in whatever way they want.” “There was no decision on that front in the cabinet meeting as Punjab is already impugned as a party in the matter already before the Supreme Court,” added a senior official. On January 9, Amarinder had said that the state government had finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts and would do so at an opportune time on the advice of legal experts.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/repeal-of-farm-laws-only-way-out-of-current-imbroglio-cabinet/articleshow/80275317.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||ULBs to identify beneficiaries through surveys: Health minister||Ranchi: Health minister Banna Gupta on Wednesday said the urban local bodies of Jharkhand will be asked to identify residents with co-morbidities who are in need of Covid-19 vaccine. “We have estimated that around 70 lakh people, who are above and below 50 years of age and living with underlying health conditions, need to be administered the Covid-19 vaccine. Before their registration commences, we will ask all the ULBs to identify such people through surveys,” Gupta told reporters at his government bungalow in Doranda. When asked whether the cost of vaccines for 70 lakh beneficiaries will be borne by the state, Gupta said they are yet to take a call on it. “The vaccines have just begun arriving. Let the first phase be complete. We will sit with the chief minister and discuss the issue at length,” Gupta said in his reply to TOI. When asked whether the state government will exercise complete control on the vaccination of the general populace, Gupta’s stand was inconclusive. “During the Covid-19 pandemic, we roped in private healthcare providers to mitigate the crisis. In the interests of the people, we will involve private players if needed. But as of now, nothing has been discussed on this matter,” he said. Notably, the state health minister, a Covid survivor himself, had raised doubts on the efficacy of the Covid vaccines a couple of days ago. Banna was reportedly quoted saying that India should not be turned into a nation of lab-rats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ulbs-to-identify-beneficiaries-through-surveys-health-minister/articleshow/80257488.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||No plea before Maharashtra panchayat polls, rejected candidates told||MUMBAI: A full bench of Bombay HC on Wednesday held that a candidate for panchayat elections, whose nomination has been rejected by a returning officer (RO), cannot file a petition against the rejection before the polls. A three-judge bench held that he could dispute the results through an election petition, post the counting. Such candidates can dispute the victorious candidate by citing the rejection of their nomination forms, after results are declared, the court said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-plea-before-polls-rejected-candidates-told/articleshow/80276220.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Pb startup’s contest: Solve industry’s problems||Chandigarh: Calling all startups. Punjab has challenged you again to solve some of the problems of its industry. To enter the contest, log on to www.neuron.stpi.in or https://innovate.stpinext.in/ by January 31. The Software Technology Park of India (STPI) is on with this second open challenge programme of its Neuron Centre of Excellence (CoE) to create an ecosystem for startups and encourage them to build innovative products for industry. More than 400 participants attended the programme’s virtual launch by STPI director general Omkar Rai and Punjab principal secretary for industries Alok Shekhar. The STPI has collected real-life problem statements from corporate sector, government departments, public-sector undertakings, and information technology companies, and published them on the two websites. Country’s budding entrepreneurs can attempt to solve these by participating. The solvers will use artificial intelligence, data analytics, and the internet of things (IoT). The problems are from the domains of education, agriculture, healthcare, smart cities, and electric mobility. TiE (The Indus Entrepreneurs), Chandigarh, is event coordinator. The winner of the first open challenge, Zargun Electronics and Science, start-up of an alumnus of IIT Bombay and Ohio State University, received a cash award of Rs 1 lakh at the virtual launch of the second edition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pb-startups-contest-solve-industrys-problems/articleshow/80275291.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||3 booked for porn clip in KU online class||Kurukshetra: Three alleged outsiders are charged with bombing Kurukshetra University’s social work online class with a porn video clip. Balvinder Singh of the social work department told police: “On January 7, I had 39 first-semester students in this 9.30-to-10.15am class. At about 10am, the dirty video started playing on the screen and I asked the class to name the culprit. Two-three youths started shouting that it was I. When I asked for their names, a few students said they were outsiders and should be evicted from the online meeting. The clip had played for five to six seconds before I could stop it. I took a screenshot of those students.” The teacher reported the matter to his department head on telephone and gave in writing that the video had been played from the identity of one of those three students. On his complaint, the trio was booked under Section 67-A (punishment for publishing or transmitting sexually explicit material) of the Information Technology (IT) Act at the university police station on Tuesday. University’s station house officer (SHO) inspector Rakesh Kumar said: “We’ll ask the cybercrime cell to identify the culprit out of the three people named.” tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/3-booked-for-porn-clip-in-ku-online-class/articleshow/80275289.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Daily Covid cases rise marginally in Maharashtra, drop slightly in Mumbai||MUMBAI: The state saw a marginal rise in daily Covid-19 positive cases on Thursday. An addition of 3,579 cases and 70 deaths took the state’s total caseload to 19,81,623 and toll to 50,291. Mumbai, on the other hand, saw a slight drop in new cases, numbering 607 on Thursday. The daily toll was nine. With the addition, Mumbai’s caseload reached 3,01,081 and deaths 11,221. After reporting a dozen deaths on Wednesday, it was back to single digits. Civic officials said that of the nine casualties, seven had comorbidities. State officials said that of the 70 deaths reported, 44 had occurred in the last 48 hours and 11 in the last week. The remaining 15 deaths were from before last week. Despite a clear dip in cases and deaths, there is a clear lag in updating data. A state official concurred that certain districts took a while before uploading details of fatalities. “Some deaths are audited thoroughly, and some time is spent there,” said the official. Of the 15 older deaths, four were from Amravati, two each from Bhandara, Kolhapur, Nagpur and Pune, and one each from Buldhana, Nashik and Sindhudurg. Active Covid cases in the state saw an increase on the third day in a row, from 51,892 on Tuesday to 52,558 on Thursday whereas the city's active cases saw a slight drop from 7,527 on Wednesday to 7,334 on Thursday. The case fatality rate for the state remained stagnant at 2.54% and that for Mumbai at 3.73%. Public health minister Rajesh Tope said the state’s recovery rate is now 94.75%. Of the total daily additions in the last 24 hours, MMR contributed 1,110 cases, Pune circle 776 and Nagpur circle 640 new cases, with 17, 15 and 14 deaths, respectively. Thane city recorded 94 positive cases and one death within 24 hours on Thursday. Since the outbreak of the virus, the city has reported 57,085 positive patients and 1,281 deaths. Meanwhile, 54,802 people have been discharged so far and the recovery rate is 96%. Currently the city has 1,002 active cases. There were 67 positive cases from within NMMC on Thursday, taking its total Covid count to 51,988. Of these, 96% of the patients have successfully recovered from coronavirus. One death was also reported, taking the total toll to 1,072. The PCMC areas reported 33 fresh cases on Wednesday, taking the tally to 28,101. With one death reported on Wednesday, the toll reached 618. (With inputs from Shrutika Sukhi, Vijay Singh and BB Nayak)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/daily-cases-rise-marginally-in-state-drop-slightly-in-mumbai/articleshow/80275375.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 15, 2021||Pune||Petrol price touches Rs 91/L, one litre of diesel costs Rs 80||Pune: After a brief lull, fuel prices have increased again, with petrol selling for around Rs91 per litre and diesel for over Rs80 per litre in and around the city on Thursday. A litre of petrol was priced between Rs90.99 and Rs91.06, depending on the brand. The petrol dealers association blamed the increase on a rise in the price of crude oil internationally to USD 60 per barrel, as well as on other factors like state and central government cesses and other charges. Fuel prices were higher in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, as well as in other parts of Maharashtra. The price of a litre of petrol stood at Rs93.56 in Parbhani, and in excess of Rs92 from multiple smaller cities in Maharashtra, largely due to local taxes. In MMR — Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, and Thane — petrol sold at Rs91.32 per litre on Thursday. Observers said petrol price in Pune peaked at Rs93 per litre in 2013, when the price of a barrel of crude oil stood at USD 150. “The price of crude oil is touching $60 per barrel in the international market. The state government increasing the price of petrol by almost Rs2 per litre by the way of a cess in April 2020, and the Union government raising excise duty three times from April to June to take advantage of falling crude oil prices during the lockdown, are the other factors,” Ali Daruwalla, national spokesperson for All India Petrol Dealers Association (AIPDA), said. He added that the association has requested the state government to remove a drought cess on petroleum products that was imposed in 2018 to fund relief work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/petrol-price-touches-rs-91/l-one-litre-of-diesel-costs-rs-80/articleshow/80274301.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Covid impact? City records nearly 9k less births in 2020||Nagpur: The city last year recorded nearly 9,000 less births as compared to previous year while the sex ratio at birth (SRB) also slipped by 15 points after achieving its best ever SRB of 951 girls for every 1,000 boys in 2019. The drop in birth numbers can be mainly attributed to the impact of Covid and the lockdown imposed from March 2020, as per a few experts. Data available from birth and death registration department of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) states that the city registered 44,978 births between January and December 2020 as compared to 53,907 in 2019. Last year, the lowest number of 2,820 births in a month were registered in August when Covid-19 infection cases had started climbing the peak. Of the total births registered in 2020, 23,228 were male child and 21,750 female child, for an SRB of 936. The difference of 15 points (SRB of 951 in 2019 and 936 in 2020) indicates that the city had roughly around 600 less girls against the total recorded birth as compared to the previous year. The estimate is calculated by multiplying the 15 points and the subsequent tally by 10. For 10,000 births, it comes to 150 girls less and 1,500 for one lakh. For around 44,978 births, it is roughly around 600. The city’s SRB is better than Maharashtra which stands at 913, as per the National Family Health Survey’s latest findings released last month. Beside lockdown and Covid-19, a variety of reasons have been cited for the fall in births and sex ratio in the city. A senior doctor from Daga Hospital, a tertiary care centre for pregnant women, said a detailed study would reveal the exact cause. “But preference for post-partum ICD (intrauterine device) have increased. A couple of family welfare programme running for last two years have begun to show results. Family planning services are available at all government facilities. The sex ratio dip needs to be investigated,” said the doctor. GMCH medical superintendent Dr Avinash Gawande attributed the dip in births mainly to lockdown. “Deliveries took place in those cities, towns and villages where people got stuck after the lockdown. Flow of pregnancy cases from outside city at GMCH were less in 2020,” he said. TOI shared the NMC record with Nagpur Obstetrics and Gynaecology Society president Dr Vaidehi Marathe who said she was surprised to note the dip in SRB. “The ratio is expected to improve as nobody is indulging in sex determination now. People are becoming aware. In last two years I haven’t come across a single person in the city seeking to know gender of fetus. Same is the feedback of our society members too,” she said. Dr Marathe too said that a study needs to be done to ascertain the reasons. A top NMC doctor said the committee under Pre Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostics Techniques (PCPNDT) Act, 1994, would be holding a meeting on January 22 to discuss the SRB and other related issues. “Zone-wise analysis will be done. If the SRB has declined, then we need to raise doubts on diagnostics centres. Because of Covid duties, the NMC wasn’t able to conduct surprise checks and regular inspections. These have resumed only from December,” he said. NMC’s PCPNDT nodal officer Dr Praveen Gantawar, legal officer, private lawyer, paediatrician, experts of genetics and radiology and a social worker would participate in the meeting. Table NMC birth data 2020 Month ------Male------ Female-------Total------- SRB Jan ------2,280------ 2,150-------4,430------- 943 Feb ------1,769------ 1,799-------3,568------- 1017 Mar ------1,912------ 1,744-------3,656------- 912 April ------1,643------ 1,564-------3,207------- 952 May ------1,995------ 1,847-------3,842------- 926 June ------1,759------ 1,623-------3,382------- 923 July------1,990-----— 1,789-------3,779------- 899 August------1,494 ------1,326-------2,820------- 888 Sept ------1,838------ 1,714-------3,552------- 933 Oct ------2,266------ 2,116-------4,382------- 934 Nov ------2,311------ 2,163-------4,474------- 936 Dec ------1,971------ 1,915-------3,886------- 972 Total ------23,228------ 21,750-------44,978------- 93.6  (SRB: Sex ratio at birth)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-impact-city-records-nearly-9k-less-births-in-2020/articleshow/80275346.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Aviation services launched between Chandigarh, Hisar||Hisar/Chandigarh: The Haryana government launched aviation services between Chandigarh and Hisar at Chandigarh International Airport on Thursday under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ambitious regional airport development and regional connectivity ‘Udan’ scheme. The four-seater air taxi reached Hisar at 3.10pm after taking off from Chandigarh at around 2.20pm. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar handed over a boarding pass to the first passenger of the air taxi, started by Air Taxi Aviation Company, in Chandigarh while Hisar MLA Kamal Gupta and deputy commissioner Priyanka Soni saw its arrival in Hisar. Captain Poonam and Captain Varun Suhag flew the air taxi while Deep Singh Bawa and Shubham Gaur were its first passengers. The company has fixed a fare of Rs 1,755 from Hisar to Chandigarh. There will be a daily flight between at its scheduled time even if only one passenger has booked a ticket. Gupta said the air taxi company would start services from Hisar to Dehradun from January 18 and from Hisar to Dharamshala on January 23. The flight booking will be available online at http://flyairtaxi.in, he said. However, when a TOI representative tried to book a flight from Hisar to Chandigarh for January 15 on the link given, the website stated, “We do not have any flights to match your search at the moment. Inconvenience regretted”. Earlier, air shuttle service was started from Hisar to Chandigarh on September 3, 2019, before the assembly elections. However, ticket booking facilities were not started for several days and when they did, the flights were cancelled due to technical reasons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/aviation-services-launched-between-chandigarh-hisar/articleshow/80275333.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ludhiana||Farmers threaten gherao of PSPCL employees against installation of smart meters||PATIALA: Farmers have announced to gherao Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) employees if they come to install smart meters in their villages. In some villages, farmer unions have also got made a similar announcement. PSPCL has around 95 lakh power consumers and it was planning to install 96,000 meters in urban and rural areas of the state as a pilot project. The officials claimed that the installation work started a few days ago. Given the privatisation of electricity, farmer unions in Punjab allege a deep rooted conspiracy behind installation of digital smart meters. A video of announcement appealing farmers to protest against installation of meters has been making rounds over social media groups, with message: “The ruling Captain government in Punjab has brought a new rule under which a digital meter will be installed with a chip affixed for prepaid electricity. The electricity in our home will be like a mobile recharge and when the money from the account is finished the electricity supply will be stopped till the time we get our chip recharged.” Farmer unions have also appealed to the farmers to not allow installation of these smart meters and protest or gherao the PSPCL employees reaching their villages to install them. “Otherwise, the government’s dream of privatisation of electricity and hand it over to a handful corporates will come true. Our youngsters are already protesting at the borders of Delhi. The consumer will be charged Rs 7,000 for this meter. So, do inform the farmer union leaders about employees visiting the village to install these meters,” the video says. BKU (Ekta Ugraha) general secretary S S Kokari Kalan said, “The installation of these smart meters is a major step towards privatisation of electricity. The employees reaching villages to install these meters will be gheraoed.” PSPCL director generation Paramjit Singh said, “The installation of smart meters has started as per the instructions and so far no prepaid system has started.” PSPCL employees claimed that it has nothing to do with privatisation move or the new electricity bill. “Having an in-build modem, these smart meters can be read without visiting the spot and both time and energy can be saved. These meters have a prepaid option also. The consumer will not have to pay ‘Advance Security Deposit’ while taking new connection if he/she is switching to prepaid electricity system. Each year PSPCL gets more than 30,000 new consumers,” said a senior PSPCL employee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/farmers-threaten-gherao-of-pspcl-employees-against-installation-of-smart-meters/articleshow/80275344.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Don’t believe in rumours, Rajewal writes to farmers||BATHINDA: After a flurry of social media posts spreading rumours about the January 26 plan of farm protesters, Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) Rajewal faction president Balbir Singh Rajewal has written an open letter to farmers in Punjabi saying the exact outline for the Republic Day would be declared next week but all should ensure that the agitation remains peaceful. Rajewal, who is one of farm leaders negotiating with the Union government on the issue of the three contentious agriculture marketing laws, was prompted to write the latter because of the rumourmongering on the social media. Some posts urge protesters to fix iron plates in front of their tractors to break barricades, while some claim they will unfurl flags on Red Fort. The Union government representatives had already stated in the Supreme Court that some Khalistani elements had infiltrated the protest as banned organisations like the Sikhs For Justice was providing money. In his letter, Rajewal claimed struggle now was not only limited to farmers or to Punjab and Haryana but it has turned into a ‘Jan Andolan’ in right earnest and spread to Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Uttrakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and other parts of the country. It has attracted attention in many countries. This could be possible as the struggle being well-managed and completely peaceful, he added. He said farmer organisations had already chalked out various plans for coming days as ‘Mahila Kisan Diwas’ was to be observed on January 18, Guru Gobind Singh Parkash Purb on January 20, and Neta Ji Subash Chandra Bose birth anniversary on January 23. Lots of rumours were being spread about farmers heading towards the Red Fort or the Parliament House but nothing like this was going to happen, he said, adding that their motive was peaceful struggle for their rights. “These rumours have pained us as we feel some government agencies are behind this and taking benefit of the various posts to defame the protest,” he alleged. “We urge people not to go by these rumours but reach Delhi borders in large numbers on January 26. The action plan for January 26 will be declared next week,” he added. When contacted, Rajewal said, “I have written the open letter going by various things going on to defame and derail the completely peaceful protest. I also wanted to warn anyone from whichever side not to indulge in anything which is against the interests of the peaceful and one of the historic struggles.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/dont-believe-in-rumours-rajewal-writes-to-farmers/articleshow/80275318.cms||Neel Kamal
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Key accused in Ormanjhi murder case arrested||Ranchi: Acting on a tip-off, Ranchi Police on Thursday arrested the prime accused in the Ormanjhi case, Sheikh Bilal, from Kutte village under Sikidri police station area. Bilal was married to Sufia Parveen, whose naked and beheaded body was found at Jeerabar forest in Ormanjhi on January 3. Her head was found buried at an agriculture plot at Chandwe village on Tuesday. SP (rural) Naushad Alam said, “Upon interrogation, Bilal confessed to his crime and told us that he buried Sufia’s head and burnt her clothes to hide her identity.” He added, “Based on the information provided by Bilal, a sharp blood-stained weapon has been seized from his house which we believe was used in murdering the victim. The remains of Sufia’s clothes have also been recovered.” Following his arrest, the cops took the accused to the crime scene to understand the sequence of events. Earlier, police had arrested Bilal’s first wife and detained one person in this connection. The prime accused is a resident of Chandwe village and according to the victim’s parents, he and Sufia often had tiffs and the latter had even filed a case against him under Section 498 of the Indian Penal Code at the Pithoria police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/key-accused-in-ormanjhi-murder-case-arrested/articleshow/80273825.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand HC issues guidelines to resume offline mode of hearing in district courts||Ranchi: The Jharkhand high court has issued a standard operating procedure (SOP) for the district courts in the state to resume offline mode of hearing. A circular enumerating the SOPs has been issued on Thursday by registrar general Ambuj Nath classifying the district courts into three categories. Phase-I included districts that have more than 150 Covid patients, Phase-II consisted of districts which reported 50 to 150 cases of Covid and Phase-III comprised districts with 50 and lesser number of Covid patients, the circular said. The physical mode of hearing will be supplemented by the virtual mode and online hearing will not be completely done away with. While in Phase-I, one-fourth of the total number of courts in the district will resume physical hearing, the number for Phase-II was one-third and for Phase-III was half. The circular, a copy of which is with TOI, also mentions the different kinds of petitions that will be dealt with by the lower judiciary. The different stages of a criminal case will be executed in the virtual and physical mode for the benefit of advocates and litigants alike. Jharkhand high court advocate and State Bar Council member Hemant Kumar Shikarwar said that the move of the high court was a shot in the arm for the lawyers across the state who have not been able to resume their work, especially in the lower judiciary. Introducing physical mode of hearing in an incremental way was a great step to ease the pressure off advocates, Shikarwar added. The SOP also mentions the dos and don’ts during physical mode of hearing. Social distancing, sanitisation and a transparent curtain between the judge and advocates will also be set up in the court rooms. The general secretary of the Advocates Association of Jharkhand high court, Navin Kumar, welcomed the decision and said that the circular came after physical hearing was conducted successfully by a division bench of the Jharkhand high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-hc-issues-guidelines-to-resume-offline-mode-of-hearing-in-district-courts/articleshow/80273743.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||No plan for transporting vax to Kolhan hinterland||Jamshedpur: The three districts of Kolhan division are yet to make preparations to transport the Covid-19 vaccine in their remote locations. The surveillance officer of the World Health Organization (WHO), Suman Kanduluna, said, “In West Singhbhum, the identification of vaccination centres in remote hamlets located in forests and hilly terrain is still underway. Currently, the emphasis is on the first phase of vaccination, which will begin on January 16.” She said maintaining the temperature of containers for the vials during transportation could be an issue for the far-flung areas. "The administration's focus is now exploring the best mechanism to reach out to the beneficiaries," Kanduluna said. The WHO official, however, said transporting the vaccines up to the community health centres would not be much of an issue. District surveillance officer Seraikela-Kharsawan, Jhujhar Majhi, however, dispel the fears and said there are over 600 routine immunization (RI) centres in the district where road connectivity is available. Majhi, who also the nodal officer for smooth delivery of the vaccines, said, "Even though roads are not properly maintained in some parts of the remote areas in the district, we reach there for our regular immunization work. If new sites in the outreach areas must be identified for the subsequent phases of the vaccination drive, then we can think of alternatives." The additional chief medical officer of East Singhbhhum, Dr Sahir Pall, said his department will find out the requirements for the safe transport of the vaccines to remote areas after January 16. He said, "We are putting in all efforts to make sure the vaccination drive gets started smoothly and effectively on January 16. Once the start is good, we will shift our focus on the remaining phases." Pall, however, conceded that the transport of the vaccines in remote places will be a tricky affair.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/no-plan-for-transporting-vax-to-kolhan-hinterland/articleshow/80273788.cms||B Sridhar
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||BJP MLA Singh calls withdrawal of security guards an act of vendetta||Ranchi: BJP has criticised the state government’s move to withdraw guards from the bungalow of Ranchi MLA C P Singh, terming it an act of vendetta. Four constables and a havildar posted at Singh’s bungalow were withdrawn around 9:30pm on Wednesday. Singh said, “The security personnel were cooking food in the evening when a vehicle stopped at the bungalow. The jawans were taken away even before they had their dinner. The guards were provided to me 17 years ago.” Singh further said: “Instead of dealing with the rapists, criminals and other anti-social elements with an iron hand, police are using their power against us. I condemn the move as it is an act of vendetta.” He added the police action was a retaliatory step against the agitation staged by BJP on various law and order issues. BJP spokesman Pratul Shahdeo said the state government was taking arbitrary decisions. He said, “The government used pick and choose policy while awarding bungalows to various leaders and is now applying the same method in allocating security personnel. This step was taken because Singh has been very vocal against the government, particularly the police. The government should perform raj dharma and not indulge in vindictive acts.” When contacted, inspector general (operation) and Jharkhand police spokesman Saket Singh said, “Security personnel are provided keeping in view the threat against an individual.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/bjp-mla-singh-calls-withdrawal-of-security-guards-an-act-of-vendetta/articleshow/80273868.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Low-key Sankranti celebrations in Jharkhand||Ranchi: Devotees turned up at prominent temples here, including Sai Temple in Pundag and Jagannath Temple in Dhurwa, to offer prayers on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Thursday. Even the river banks and water bodies were crowded as the faithful gathered there to take a dip and pray to the sun god, all the while making sure that they wore their masks and maintained the safety norms. Many of them prayed for an end to the pandemic. For instance, a devotee named Kiran Devi said, “Besides praying for the well-being of my family, I prayed for an end to this outbreak.” Although many turned up to celebrate the festival, the turnout was less compared to previous years’ figures. Many opted to stay home and feast on the usual festive treats, like dahi-chewra (curd and beaten rice) and tilkut (made from sesame seeds and sugar or gur), in the company of their near and dear ones. Many of them even gave the usual kite-playing – which is a Sankranti tradition – a miss. College student Amrita Roy said, “Every year on this day, I go out to fly kites with my friends. But this year owing to the pandemic, I decided to do that from my rooftop.” Meanwhile, chief minister Hemant Soren took to Twitter to wish everyone on the occasion while Congress leaders, including state party president Rameshwar Oraon and rural affairs minister Alamgir Alam, assembled at the party headquarters in Shraddhanand Road and gorged on dahi-chewra and tilkut. BJP’s Ranchi MLA C P Singh distributed sweets and clothes among the poor and attended a programme hosted by a civil rights forum in Ratu Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/low-key-sankranti-celebrations-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80273810.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Rebel with Rs 15L bounty surrenders in Chatra||Chatra: Mukesh Ganjhu, the second-in-command of the outlawed Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee (TSPC), surrendered before the district police on Thursday, sources in the police department said. Ganjhu had a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head and was also wanted by the National Investigation Agency in a terror funding case. However, senior officers refused to comment on the case. Ganjhu’s name featured in the list of wanted left wing extremist group operatives, released by Chatra police earlier this week. He surrendered owing to increased police pressure, sources in the police machinery claimed. Ganjhu, also known as Muneshwar Ganjhu, founded the TSPC in 2004 along with the outfit’s chief Brajesh Ganjhu. He is wanted in Jhakhand, Bihar, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. “Cases of rape, murder, abduction, extortion and firing at policemen are lodged against him at police stations across all these states,” a senior polive officer said. Police sources claimed Ganjhu was being interrogated at Mayurhund police station and an official statement about his surrender is likely to be released on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/rebel-with-rs-15l-bounty-surrenders-in-chatra/articleshow/80273971.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Teachers not to be deployed on vaccination duty||Ranchi: Teachers have been deployed in significant numbers for Covid-19 duty earlier, but their services are unlikely to be used during the first phase of the vaccination drive. School premises, however, maybe utilised during the mass vaccination drive. A local official has issued a letter to several schools in Badagai area of Ranchi asking the management to keep four rooms ready for the purpose. When contacted, senior officers in the education department said they were not aware of any move by the government to deploy teachers for the vaccination drive. State health secretary Dr Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “The Covid vaccination drive would be carried out by trained personnel. Staff from other wings may be deployed for supervision but we are not deploying the teachers during the initial phase.” One official said that they were not in a position to spare the teachers since the preparations for Class X and Class XII board examinations were going on. In fact, sources said that a letter has been issued to the district commissioners to withdraw the teachers from Covid activity so that they could join their core work. Notably, teachers were posted at various Covid centres in the past. In a related development, the government has also sought the list of teachers who have been posted on Covid duties so that they could be vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/teachers-not-to-be-deployed-on-vaccination-duty/articleshow/80273691.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||Banna recants earlier statement, expresses full faith in Cov vaccine||Ranchi: State health minister Banna Gupta on Thursday announced that he will take the first vaccine shot on January 16 to allay doubts about the safety of the antidote. “I will be the first to take the vaccine in the state so that our healthcare workers as well as other beneficiaries do not have any doubts over the safety of the vaccination programme. I have complete faith in the research carried out by some of the brightest brains in our country that has gone into the production of the vaccines,” Gupta said. Notably, the state health minister, a Covid survivor himself, had raised doubts on the efficacy of the Covid vaccines a couple of days ago. Banna was reportedly quoted saying that India should not be turned into a nation of lab-rats. The state department of health, medical education and family welfare also said it has launched awareness campaigns to apprise the citizens of the benefits and efficacy of Covishield and Covaxin shots. Health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said sahiyas and ANMs have been pressed into service in rural areas to reduce the apprehension among the people about the vaccination programme. Kulkarni, however, said: “During the first round, the vaccines would be administered mostly to healthcare workers and they are already well aware of the benefits of the shots.” When contacted, the IEC cell of the state unit of the National Health Mission said they have already put up posters and large hoardings across the state to create awareness about the vaccination programme, besides giving advertisements in mass media. The nodal officer for the vaccination programme in the state, Dr Ajit Prasad, said: “Our sahiyas and ANMs have gone from village to village after they were trained at the district-level and have disseminated the message regarding the benefits of the vaccines.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/banna-recants-earlier-statement-expresses-full-faith-in-cov-vaccine/articleshow/80273698.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Ranchi||107 samples collected in Bokaro for bird flu test||Bokaro: The district animal husbandry department (AHD) has sent samples of 107 dead birds to Kolkata for an avian influenza test in the last two weeks, Bokaro animal husbandry officer Manoj Mani said on Thursday. “Around 8-13 samples were collected from each of the eight blocks for the test, the reports of which are awaited,” he added. Birds ranging from chickens, pigeons, crows to owls, were found dead across various parts of the district in the past few days. For instance, couple of days ago, some AHD officials said, a carcass of an owl was found by the locals near Chinmaya Vidyalaya. Similarly on Wednesday morning, four birds were found dead at a field in Bodiya village under Bermo block. Mani said that rapid response teams have been deployed across all blocks to keep a close watch on the poultry farms. The AHD officials are reportedly getting reports of dead birds from various places in Bokaro on a daily basis. Meanwhile, the forest department is also maintaining strict vigil on water bodies which are frequented by migratory birds during winter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/107-samples-collected-in-bokaro-for-bird-flu-test/articleshow/80273908.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||India||Relocation of DNB doctors leads to ‘back-door entry’||NEW DELHI: How does a candidate for DNB (a postgraduate medical degree) ranked around 34,600 in the entrance exam get allotted a high-demand specialty like radio diagnosis in a highly regarded institution? How does one ranked around 15,000 get into an institution which usually gets filled around rank 5,000? It is through an opaque process where candidates allotted to institutions that lose accreditation are ‘relocated’ to those where seats are still vacant. Candidates have accused the National Board of Examination (NBE) of facilitating such ‘back-door entry’ for select candidates. Every year, the NBE, which regulates postgraduate courses in various medical specialties, mostly in private hospitals, allots candidates to hospitals according to their preference and ranking in the entrance exam. However, the board often withdraws accreditation of entire hospitals or of seats in a few specialties after allotment, leaving hundreds of students in the lurch. In most such cases, complaints about the hospitals that lose accreditation would have been made months or even years back, but NBE not only includes the seats in these hospitals in the counselling process, it even allots students to them only to later cancel accreditation. Take the case of two students ranked in the range of 35,000 and allotted transfusion medicine in Nayati hospital in Mathura. The accreditation for Nayati was later cancelled and they were relocated to other hospitals for specialities like radio diagnosis and ophthalmology, both much more sought after. “How did they get to change their specialty? How come the seats they were given were never openly available for the mop-up counselling? There is zero transparency on how relocation is done and nothing is put in the public domain,” said a candidate still awaiting relocation months after accreditation was cancelled. The roulette of relocation can also work against you. In one such case, a candidate with rank around 15,000 was allotted general medicine in Amaltas Medical College in MP in August last year. On November 6, NBE withdrew accreditation and offered a general medicine seat in a 200-bed hospital in Hyderabad. “I had chosen a medical college because according to the regulations, if I do DNB from a medical college or a hospital with over 500 beds, I don’t need to do an extra year of senior residency to have equivalence with MD/MS. Now, I’m being allocated to a 200-bed hospital, which means I’ll have to do an extra year. I’ve filed a case, but it’s a financial loss to fight a case and mental harassment on top of it,” said the candidate. Candidates from an earlier batch allocated to Amaltas had complained to NBE about the institution over a year back. Yet, NBE included Amaltas’ seats in the 2020 counselling with no indication of the complaints or that it was under the scanner and allocated students there, and then went on to cancel its accreditation. In another case, a student with rank around 16,500 was allocated emergency medicine in Columbia Asia Hospital in Bengaluru. The candidate had chosen Bengaluru as her husband was working in the city. She joined the hospital on August 26. The NBE conducted an inspection on September 10 and the accreditation for emergency medicine seats was cancelled by October end. “I was offered a seat in a 200-bed hospital in Ahmedabad and another in Delhi which were at the level of rank 22,000 or less. I was also told that if I didn’t join the allotted seat I would be debarred from DNB for three years,” she said. Every year, accreditation of seats in over a dozen hospitals is withdrawn because they fail to maintain academic standards or to pay regular stipend. In 2020, for instance, about 100 students had to be relocated as accreditation for all DNB courses in hospitals like Aditya Birla Hospital in Pune, Nayati, Amaltas and CMRI, Kolkata, were shut down, while accreditation to specific courses in hospitals like Columbia Asia and Global Hospital, Pune was withdrawn. “NBE doesn’t put out inspection reports of hospitals. There’s no public record of complaints received against hospitals and no date of accreditation. Why is NBE not taking responsibility for accrediting substandard institutions?” asked a former office bearer of the Association of DNB Doctors. NBE did not respond to TOI’s queries despite several reminders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/relocation-of-dnb-doctors-leads-to-back-door-entry/articleshow/80277166.cms||Rema Nagarajan
January 15, 2021||Goa||Chowgule Group announces split||Panaji: The Chowgule Group, one of Goa’s largest family-run firms, on Thursday, announced that the company has been split between the two siblings Padma Chowgule and Vijay Chowgule. The move will see the 104-year old company, which has diversified interests ranging from mining and shipbuilding to education and automobiles, undergo a measured restructuring process, the company said. Started in October 1916, the Goa-based industrial conglomerate, will see the current chairman and managing director Padma retain a significant portion of the business started by the founder Vishwasrao Chowgule. “The restructuring allows a diversified vision and approach, bringing focus to growth and expansion,” said the company in a statement. The split, however, does not come as a surprise to Goa’s entrepreneurs who say that internal fissures were visible for quite some time. Padma, 65, will head the flagship company, Chowgule & Co Pvt Ltd with control over mining, pellets, salt, shipbuilding business along with the educational institutes. Vijay, 75, will retain control over the vehicle dealership, dry dock at Lavgan and Angre Port in Maharashtra and warehousing businesses.  “The next generation of the Chowgule family in the business will continue to support her,” said the company in the statement. The young generation includes Arjun Chowgule, Eshaan Lazarus, the son of Padma and Aditya Chowgule, the son of Jayawant Chowgule. Post the division, the younger generation is expected to play an even bigger role. Under Padma, the Chowgule Group has brought in professional leadership which was one of the reason for differences to creep within the family, a person close to the family said. Though the company did not specify a time frame to execute the split, it did say that it will “continue to unlock value for all its stakeholders”. Once the split is executed, both the companies will focus on “expansion in existing businesses” while also exploring new lines of business.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/chowgule-group-announces-split/articleshow/80274629.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Business||Government vehicles to have life of 15 years max||NEW DELHI: The Centre is set to go for mandatory scrapping of government vehicles which are more than 15 years old even as it moves to introduce a stringent fitness and emission-related regime for phasing out of old personal vehicles. Though the share of government vehicles is negligible, sources said at least a beginning can be made with this to roll out the formal mechanisms to scrap old polluting vehicles. However, state governments will have the final say in disposing their vehicles as transport is a state subject. Sources said while chairing a meeting on the proposed Vehicle Scrapping Policy on Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi asked the ministries concerned to finalise the policy before the budget and step up the setting up of automated fitness testing centres and vehicle scrapping centres to accelerate the implementation of the policy. There are indications that the policy is likely to be part of the budget announcements for 2021-22. The PM has also asked the officials to go through the scrapping norms of defence and railway ministries and put together the final proposal quickly, including the proposed incentives for people to junk their old vehicles. Sources said Modi has asked the transport ministry to compress the timeline for full implementation of the scheme instead of stretching it up to 2025. “There is a perception that people would go for scrapping their vehicles provided there is a proper mechanism and there are enough scrappage centres across the country. So, there is a need to increase the number of scrappage centres and automated fitness testing centres for the smooth rollout of the proposed policy,” said an official. He added Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant suggested the need for a major increase in the number of such facilities across the country. Earlier, the PM had told the road transport ministry, which is making the policy, to translate the policy document in all languages describing the necessity and the benefit of the policy to convince people to retire their old vehicles. The draft of the proposed policy was first published in May 2016 and there have been several rounds of meetings on the issue. One of the main reasons for the delay in the finalisation was inability of the government and vehicle manufacturers to agree on the incentive that could be provided for scrapping old vehicles.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/government-vehicles-to-have-life-of-15-years-max/articleshow/80277171.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 15, 2021||Nagpur||Veteran Marathi poet refuses literary award over ‘Saraswati’ portrait on stage||Nagpur: Yashwant Manohar, a veteran Marathi poet from Nagpur, has refused to received the ‘lifetime achievement award’ — the highest literary honour given by Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh (VSS) — as the organization performed a ‘Sarawati puja’ and garlanded the portrait of the goddess on stage. In his refusal letter addressed to VSS president Manohar Mhaisalkar, Manohar termed the portrait of the goddess as a “symbol of exploitation that barred women and shudras (lowest rank of the four Varnas) from education and knowledge”. The VSS is a constituent of the Akhil Bharatiya Marathi Sahitya Mahamandal which is the umbrella body of all Marathi literary organisations in the country. The award function was held at the Rang Sharada hall in VSS’s headquarters at Jhansi Rani Square on Thursday. January 14 is the foundation day of VSS. Manohar did not attended the ceremony. Instead, he issued an open letter to Mhaisalkar. VSS is the biggest Marathi literary organization in Vidarbha region. It was established in 1923 with the motive to strive for the betterment of Marathi language, literature, culture and art. This organization felicitates Marathi littérateurs with various awards every year. The lifetime achievement award (Jeevanvrati Puraskar) is given every two years in memory of veteran author and journalist GT Malkhodkar who was the editor Tarun Bharat, which has RSS leanings, from 1944 to 1966. Playwright Mahesh Elkunchwar, poets Grace and Suresh Bhat, and orator-writer Ram Shewalkar are some of earlier recipients of this award. It’s a nine-decade old tradition of VSS to garland Goddess Saraswati’s portrait on stage. “I was expecting that the VSS would think about my principles and thoughts, and make changes in the tradition and protocol before giving me the award. But, the official told me that there will be a Saraswati portrait on stage. I have already refused many such awards and honours for the same reason. I cannot accept religion in literature. So, I am humbly refusing to accept this award,” reads the letter in Marathi by Yashwant Manohar. “I cannot forego the principles I have followed throughout my life for any award. Because, if I do so, my entire life would have been a waste,” the letter concludes. Mhaisalkar said that the institution will follow its tradition and Manohar is free to follow his principles. “Manohar had agreed to accept the award and we have a written confirmation from him. A few days ago, he informed us about his objections. Worshipping Goddess Saraswati’s portrait is our tradition and we followed it. We will continue to follow it,” said Mhaisalkar. Manohar has attended at least two felicitation functions organized in private capacity to congratulate him on getting ‘lifetime achievement’ award of VSS. Manohar is a well-known Ambedkarite and had contested Nagpur’s Lok Sabha elections in 2009 on a BSP ticket.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/veteran-marathi-poet-refuses-literary-award-over-saraswati-portrait-on-stage/articleshow/80284549.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 15, 2021||Delhi||340 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi, fatality count in single digit after months||NEW DELHI: The capital recorded 340 fresh Covid-19 cases and four deaths on Thursday — the daily fatality count dropping to single digits after several months — even as the positivity rate slipped to 0.48%. Thursday was the eleventh time the daily cases count stood below the 500-mark in January. The infection tally in the capital, meanwhile, stood at over 6.31 lakh while the death toll mounted to 10,722, officials said. The active Covid-19 cases tally on Thursday dropped to 2,937 from 2,991the previous day. A total of 71,325 tests were conducted the previous day, including 39,226 RT-PCR tests and 32,099 rapid antigen tests, as per the bulletin issued by Delhi health department. The occupancy of Covid beds in Delhi has reduced to around 10%. Of the 11,953 beds reserved for treating persons suffering from the viral infection across the city, data available on the Delhi Corona app showed that only 1,199 (10%) were occupied. The occupancy of ICU beds (without ventilator support) reserved for Covid-19 patients has also reduced to 8%. This month, 585 cases were reported on January 1 and 494 on January 2; 424 on January 3; 384 on January 4, and 442 on January 5; 654 on January 6; 486 on January 7 and 444 on January 8; 519 on January 9 and 399 on January 10; 306 on January 11 and 386 on January 12 and 357 on January 13.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/340-new-covid-19-cases-in-delhi-fatality-count-in-single-digit-after-months/articleshow/80277179.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Between February 15 and UT polls, J&K won’t have any RS member||NEW DELHI: Rajya Sabha will not have any member from Jammu & Kashmir from February 15 when Congress member Ghulam Nabi Azad’s term comes to an end. All four members from the erstwhile state will retire by then. J&K’s representation in the upper House will only resume after elections to the assembly. The erstwhile state of J&K was bifurcated into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh in 2019. The end of J&K representation in the RS will come in the middle of the budget session which starts on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/between-february-15-and-ut-polls-jk-wont-have-any-rs-member/articleshow/80277181.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Goa||Bids for Bainguinim waste plant extended||Panaji: The state government has extended the time limit for accepting bids for the solid waste management facility at Bainguinim for the third time after only one bidder showed interest in setting up plant. Speaking to TOI waste management minister Michael Lobo said, “Government has extended time by 15 days to receive bids.” Goa waste management corporation (GWMC) managing director Levinson Martins said as there was only one bidder and hence the corporation has sought an extension to receive bids for setting up the plant. Initially, on September 22, 2020 the corporation had invited bids for setting up the solid waste processing facility which will have a processing capacity of 250 tonnes per day. Then on November 9, 2020, the corporation extended the period to accept bids by another 15 days. On November 24, 2020 the corporation extended the time limit for accepting the Bainguinim plant bids for the second time after three earlier bidders raised many queries. Lobo had said that the tender document was floated as per the guidelines of central public works department (CPWD). “We will wait to see how many bidders qualify and then float a fresh tender. As per CPWD guidelines, nobody qualified,” he said. In 2008, the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) had acquired land at Bainguinim to set up the plant and in 2017 it was handed over to GWMC. A public hearing was conducted by GWMC and subsequently, the environment clearance was also obtained. Four companies — Organic Recycling System, Hindustan Waste Treatment, 3R Management and Landsky Engineers — participated in the pre-bid meeting. The plant estimated to cost Rs 200 crore and is expected to cater to the entire Tiswadi taluka. CCP had also invited a request for qualification (RFQ) for the proposed plant. Bids had to be submitted before November 9. GWMC has decided to undertake the project through a PPP model.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bids-for-bainguinim-waste-plant-extended/articleshow/80274771.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Feel like part of an army serving the nation, says driver who brought first vaccines to Gurugram||GURUGRAM: Pawan Kumar had lost his job when he came into the employment of the health department as a driver on contract last March. On Wednesday evening, 10 months into his new job, he was handed the biggest task of his life — bring the first batch of Covishield vaccines to the city with which the inoculations would start on January 16. Kumar (40) and Bhu Dev, a general duty assistant with the health department who accompanied him, had relief writ large on their faces when they parked the refrigerated van with 85,480 doses at the regional vaccine store in Pataudi on Thursday. The vaccines, packed in nine cold boxes, were brought in from Kurukshetra, more than 200km away. “It was a dark and long night,” said Kumar, who left Gurugram on Wednesday at 9.15 pm and reached the vaccine storage facility at Kurukshetra at 3.30am. From a career spent mostly driving private cars, Kumar suddenly found himself as the man chosen for this historic journey, something that occurred to him only later because he had a pressing concern while at the wheel — the dense fog that blanketed large swathes of highway through which he had to safely negotiate his priceless cargo. “It was cold and the temperature kept dropping. Driving was tough because of dense fog,” he said. But it was perhaps fitting that someone like Kumar, who hasn’t been home in Jhajjar since he joined the health department on March 21, was given the task of delivering the first safety net from the pandemic to thousands of frontline workers like him who have been putting duty before everything else to save as many lives as possible. The return journey was comparatively easier. Kumar and Dev started from Kurukshetra at 9.15 am on Thursday and reached Gurugram at 1pm. “I was driving at a steady pace to keep the vaccines safe. We had gone to bed around 4am. But I could not sleep for two hours. I was excited. This was a very important job and I almost forced myself to sleep because I did not want to feel sleepy on the way,” Kumar said. Before joining the health department, Kumar was a driver at a private firm for a few years. He had been looking for work when a friend told him about a contractual job at the health department. “I applied immediately. I was asked to drive ambulances and that gave me a sense of satisfaction because I felt I could help people. But after driving the vaccine van, it feels like I am part of an army and I am serving the nation by being a part of the health team,” Kumar said. Unlike Kumar, 53-year-old Dev, who has been working with the health department for 11 years, has handled vaccines before. “I have worked at vaccine stores all my life. I know which vaccine should be kept in what temperature and in which way,” Dev said. At Kurukshetra, Dev said, he helped the local team load the vaccines in the van. “I carefully put all nine cold boxes inside the van and then, we started for Gurugram. After we reached, we took each box inside the district vaccine store,” said the Gurugram resident. The vaccine van had police protection while travelling from Kurukshetra to Gurugram. Karan Singh, the Gurugram police inspector who escorted the van till Pataudi, said: “Our job was to ensure that no harm is caused to the van and stay alert in case of an emergency.” Chief medical officer Dr Virender Yadav greeted Kumar and Dev with flowers when they reached Pataudi. “We need more people like them. It was a tough job, as they had to drive late at night in this cold,” said Yadav.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/feel-like-part-of-an-army-serving-the-nation-says-driver-who-brought-first-vaccines-to-gurgaon/articleshow/80276542.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 15, 2021||Mumbai||Road deaths in Maharashtra last year saw steepest fall in a decade||MUMBAI: Year 2020 saw the lowest road crash fatalities in Maharashtra in at least ten years, data released by the transport department on Thursday reveals. Last year, between January and December, 25,456 mishaps were reported on state and national highways, Mumbai-Pune Expressway and other roads, which led to 11,452 fatalities and left 20,1347 injured, reports Somit Sen. In 2011, the state had witnessed 68,438 mishaps, which left 13,057 dead and 45,616 injured. While there was an increase in mishaps in 2015 and a 10% rise in fatalities with 13,212 deaths, and again in 2018 with a 4.3% increase in casualties at 13,261, there was a drop in the numbers in the following two years. In 2019, fatalities reduced to 12,788, an 8% dip, and later to 11,452 in 2020, down 10%. ‘State ranked second in fatalities, more visiting vehicles a challenge’The state has been carrying out a series of measures to curb mishaps such as rechecking and correcting black spots or accident-prone areas, creating awareness among citizens about road safety, use of IT for surveillance and enforcement, and imposing penalties on offenders and suspending licences to serve as a deterrent. “The state is ranked second in the country as far as the number of deaths is concerned. The number of visiting vehicles in the state is high. This is also a big challenge,” said J B Patil, joint transport commissioner (road safety). He said the number of accidental deaths per lakh population in Maharashtra is around 10.15, which is less than some of the other states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The transport department also released other data on Thursday such as 3.8 crore vehicles have been registered in the state so far and total driving licence holders totalled 3.59 crore. In 2019-20, 26.7 lakh new vehicles were registered in the state. The total road length in the state is 3 lakh km, out of which 17,749km are national highways and 32,423km state highways. The state government will observe Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/road-deaths-in-maharashtra-last-year-saw-steepest-fall-in-a-decade/articleshow/80277217.cms||Somit Sen
January 15, 2021||Thane||Road deaths in Maharashtra last year saw steepest fall in a decade||MUMBAI: Year 2020 saw the lowest road crash fatalities in Maharashtra in at least ten years, data released by the transport department on Thursday reveals. Last year, between January and December, 25,456 mishaps were reported on state and national highways, Mumbai-Pune Expressway and other roads, which led to 11,452 fatalities and left 20,1347 injured, reports Somit Sen. In 2011, the state had witnessed 68,438 mishaps, which left 13,057 dead and 45,616 injured. While there was an increase in mishaps in 2015 and a 10% rise in fatalities with 13,212 deaths, and again in 2018 with a 4.3% increase in casualties at 13,261, there was a drop in the numbers in the following two years. In 2019, fatalities reduced to 12,788, an 8% dip, and later to 11,452 in 2020, down 10%. ‘State ranked second in fatalities, more visiting vehicles a challenge’The state has been carrying out a series of measures to curb mishaps such as rechecking and correcting black spots or accident-prone areas, creating awareness among citizens about road safety, use of IT for surveillance and enforcement, and imposing penalties on offenders and suspending licences to serve as a deterrent. “The state is ranked second in the country as far as the number of deaths is concerned. The number of visiting vehicles in the state is high. This is also a big challenge,” said J B Patil, joint transport commissioner (road safety). He said the number of accidental deaths per lakh population in Maharashtra is around 10.15, which is less than some of the other states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The transport department also released other data on Thursday such as 3.8 crore vehicles have been registered in the state so far and total driving licence holders totalled 3.59 crore. In 2019-20, 26.7 lakh new vehicles were registered in the state. The total road length in the state is 3 lakh km, out of which 17,749km are national highways and 32,423km state highways. The state government will observe Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/road-deaths-in-maharashtra-last-year-saw-steepest-fall-in-a-decade/articleshow/80277225.cms||Somit Sen
January 15, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Road deaths in Maharashtra last year saw steepest fall in a decade||MUMBAI: Year 2020 saw the lowest road crash fatalities in Maharashtra in at least ten years, data released by the transport department on Thursday reveals. Last year, between January and December, 25,456 mishaps were reported on state and national highways, Mumbai-Pune Expressway and other roads, which led to 11,452 fatalities and left 20,1347 injured, reports Somit Sen. In 2011, the state had witnessed 68,438 mishaps, which left 13,057 dead and 45,616 injured. While there was an increase in mishaps in 2015 and a 10% rise in fatalities with 13,212 deaths, and again in 2018 with a 4.3% increase in casualties at 13,261, there was a drop in the numbers in the following two years. In 2019, fatalities reduced to 12,788, an 8% dip, and later to 11,452 in 2020, down 10%. ‘State ranked second in fatalities, more visiting vehicles a challenge’The state has been carrying out a series of measures to curb mishaps such as rechecking and correcting black spots or accident-prone areas, creating awareness among citizens about road safety, use of IT for surveillance and enforcement, and imposing penalties on offenders and suspending licences to serve as a deterrent. “The state is ranked second in the country as far as the number of deaths is concerned. The number of visiting vehicles in the state is high. This is also a big challenge,” said J B Patil, joint transport commissioner (road safety). He said the number of accidental deaths per lakh population in Maharashtra is around 10.15, which is less than some of the other states such as Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The transport department also released other data on Thursday such as 3.8 crore vehicles have been registered in the state so far and total driving licence holders totalled 3.59 crore. In 2019-20, 26.7 lakh new vehicles were registered in the state. The total road length in the state is 3 lakh km, out of which 17,749km are national highways and 32,423km state highways. The state government will observe Road Safety Month from January 18 to February 17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/road-deaths-in-maharashtra-last-year-saw-steepest-fall-in-a-decade/articleshow/80277226.cms||Somit Sen
January 15, 2021||India||CBI swoops down on 4 of its own for ‘accepting bribes’||NEW DELHI: In a major embarrassment for the country’s premier investigative agency, at least four CBI officials including a deputy superintendent (DySP) are in the dock for allegedly accepting bribes and favours from a company which is being probed by the agency in bank fraud cases. The agency on Thursday confirmed it had filed an FIR against the four officials including the DySP, inspector and a steno apart from private individuals and advocates on the allegations of compromising the investigation on “extraneous pecuniary considerations”. CBI also raided their houses and offices and a spokesperson confirmed that searches were conducted at 14 locations including Delhi, Ghaziabad, Noida, Gurgaon, Meerut and Kanpur. The searches continued till late on Thursday . Those under scanner have been identified as Dy SP RK Rishi from the CBI Academy, Ghaziabad, Sameer Kumar Singh, stenographer (BS&FC, Delhi HQ), inspector Kapil Dhankad and DySP (SCII) R K Sangwan. A source said searches were also being carried out inside the CBI headquarters as there are allegations that the accused took bribe inside the office and were allegedly on the payroll of the company being probed by the agency for bank fraud. The developments come at a time when CBI director Rishi Kumar Shukla has around a month’s time left to relinquish office. According to sources, the CBI had filed an FIR against a Mumbai-based company for duping a consortium of 14 banks of over Rs 3,500 crore. The directors of the company were accused of siphoning off funds by setting up shell companies. This case was under probe by the banking fraud unit of the CBI. Sometime ago, allegations surfaced that the officials of CBI were conniving with promoters to provide relief. The anti-corruption unit of CBI swung into action after receiving complaints regarding its officials and mounted surveillance on them. Preliminary enquiries revealed that the officials were in touch with certain individuals who were acting as the middlemen for the company. Subsequently, the CBI chief ordered registration of an FIR against these officials. The case was registered under sections of IPC apart from the Prevention of Corruption Act. The CBI is learnt to have traced certain financial transactions whose beneficiaries were its own officials. Watch CBI files FIR against its own officials for receiving kickbacks from firms accused of siphoning public money||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/cbi-swoops-down-on-4-of-its-own-for-accepting-bribes/articleshow/80277205.cms||Raj Sekhar
January 15, 2021||Delhi||2°C: Delhi shivers on second coldest morning in 7 years||NEW DELHI: It was a torturous Thursday in the capital with the temperature dropping to its second lowest point in the past seven years, the air quality turning “severe” and a dense fog reducing visibility to less than 100 metres, delaying several trains. Track the pollution level in your cityWith a second cold blast of the season sweeping the region, the mercury dropped to 2 degrees Celsius at Safdarjung. This was the first winter in at least 13 years when temperature fell to 2 degrees or lower on two days. Delhi had recorded 1.1 degrees C on January 1. Thursday’s minimum was the second lowest since 2 degrees C was recorded on January 14, 2014. Delhi also recorded severe air quality with the day’s average AQI rising to 429. Min temp may rise from Jan 19Dense fog was recorded in parts of Delhi. Visibility fell to 100 metres between 7.30am and 9.30am, impacting both flight and rail operations as well. While 17 trains were delayed in the morning, five trains were rescheduled due to dense fog. Flight delays were also recorded at the Delhi airport, officials said. Thursday’s minimum temperature of 2 degrees Celsius was five notches below normal, making it the second consecutive “cold wave” day in the capital. The maximum temperature recorded on Thursday was 19.2 degrees Celsius, one degree above normal. Met officials said dense fog is predicted for Friday while the maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 19 and 5 degrees Celsius, respectively. “The minimum temperature may rise slightly on Friday but it is likely to dip again on Saturday,” said Srivastava. The minimum temperature is expected to rise from January 19, said met officials. According to railway officials, the Gorakhpur-Hisar Gorakhdam special recorded a delay of 6 hours 15 minutes, while the Howrah-New Delhi superfast special had a delay of 4 hours. Other trains like the Bhubhaneshwar-New Delhi Duronto special, the Prayagraj-New Delhi special, the Azamgarh-Delhi Kaifiat special and the Bhagalpur-Anand Vihar special also had delays of over 4 hours. “The maximum delay due to dense fog and low visibility was 6 hours and 15 minutes. Under dense fog, the speed of the train is reduced considerably to ensure safety and the same was followed by us,” said the official. At the Delhi airport, while runway 28/10 functioned normally, low visibility procedures were put into place at runway 29/11 between 7.30am and 9.30am. However, no flight cancellations occurred on account of the dense fog. During this period, an IndiGo flight bringing three boxes of Covaxin to be sent onwards to Dimapur landed at 8.10am. Delhi has already received the vaccine required for the inoculation drive on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2c-delhi-shivers-on-second-coldest-morning-in-7-years/articleshow/80277221.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Feel let down by some in TMC: Satabdi sparks buzz||BIRBHUM: Actor and TMC’s Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy, in a social media post addressed to voters in her constituency, has indicated that she felt let-down by “some people” in the party. In the post uploaded on the ‘Satabdi Roy Fan Club' Facebook account, the actor-turned-politician also gave a date and time — January 16, 2pm — to announce her decision, if she decided to take any on her political career. “Many have been asking me why I am not seen in party programmes in Birbhum. How do I attend when I don’t get to know about the schedule? I feel some people do not want me to be there,” the Birbhum MP said. According to TMC insiders, the Birbhum MP was seldom seen at party programmes in the district after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. People here saw her last during CM Mamata Banerjee’s Birbhum visit on December 28. The CM gave Roy due importance in the rally, naming her quite a few times. But party sources said Roy was not on good terms with the ruling party coterie in Birbhum for long. Local leaders did not like Roy disbursing her MPLAD funds on her own, without authorising the party to select development projects, claimed sources. Watch TMC MP Satabdi Roy hints at problems with party post resignation from Tarapith development council||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/feel-let-down-by-some-in-tmc-satabdi-sparks-buzz/articleshow/80277227.cms||Someswar Boral
January 15, 2021||India||41 Trinamool MLAs ready to make saffron switch, claims Vijayvargiya||NEW DELHI: BJP general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya on Thursday said 41 Trinamool MLAs are ready to switch to the saffron camp in Bengal. “Mamata’s kite is going to be cut, 100%, because we have given so much rope that if we pull even a bit, her government will fall,” Vijayvargiya said after some kite flying on Makar Sankranti. “I have a list of about 41 MLAs (of TMC) who want to join BJP. If I take them in, the government will collapse,” said Vijayvargiya, adding that senior BJP leaders are “exploring their backgrounds” to choose who to include in the saffron party. “Everybody realises that Mamataji’s government is on its way out,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/41-trinamool-mlas-ready-to-make-saffron-switch-claims-vijayvargiya/articleshow/80277241.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Namma Metro took 7 years to complete 6 km line, rue activists||BENGALURU: Namma Metro’s 72km Phase 2 project was cleared by the state government in 2012 and the Centre in 2014. While approving it, the then government said the project would cost around Rs 27,000 crore and would be completed in 2017. While the deadline was extended to 2020 and later to 2024, the delay has pushed up the cost to Rs 30,695 crore. On Thursday, the first section of Phase 2 (6.4Km Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute) was inaugurated. It was supposed to have been completed in 2018-end, but missed several deadlines. Experts say Metro projects are delayed mainly due to land acquisition problems and poor planning. While Metro is considered a saviour for a congested city like Bengaluru, BMRCL appears to have failed to live up to its promises. This despite the corporation having the experience of completing the 42km Phase 1 project (Purple and Green Lines), they add. Sanjeev Dyamannavar, an urban mobility activist, said: “It took seven years to complete a six-km Metro section. This is disappointing. There is a huge delay and cost overrun for Phase 2 but nobody is holding them accountable for inefficiency. Elected representatives should make sure the project is not delayed further. It’s unfortunate that it will take BMRCL 10 years to complete the entire Phase 2.” A BMRCL official said acquiring land is a major hurdle. “Land acquisition issues and PILs against tree felling are the main reasons for the delay. While some contractors have run into financial crises, Covid-19 has also slowed down work. Frequent transfers of BMRCL MDs is another reason. But Phase 2 is almost on track and most corridors will be operational by 2022.” Phase 1 (42Km) also witnessed delays. While work started in 2007, the entire project became operational only in 2017. Namma Metro is considered the slowest (in terms of work completion) in the country after Kolkata. While Hyderabad Metro, which started in 2017, operates over 69km, Chennai Metro that began in June 2015 has 45-km length. Delhi Metro, which started in 2002, now runs a 389-km network, an average of 21 km added every year. Mumbai Metro started in 2014 and is expanding at a faster pace than Bengaluru. India’s Metro Man and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation principal adviser E Sreedharan had said for each day that work is delayed, it would cost BMRCL about Rs 1.5 crore more||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/took-7-yrs-to-complete-6km-line-rue-activists/articleshow/80274002.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: 20-month-old donor, declared brain dead, saves three lives||NEW DELHI: Her organs helped save three lives: a five-month-old toddler who received the heart, a nine-month-old child who received the liver and a 34-year-old man who got a new lease of life after being donated both her kidneys. Their saviour was Dhanishtha, at 20 months old one of the youngest-ever cadaver/ deceased donors in India. The girl was playing on the balcony of her house in Rohini in north-west Delhi on January 8 when she fell and sustained serious brain injury. She was taken to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, but despite all efforts, the doctors couldn’t save her. The child was declared brain dead on January 11. ‘Decided to keep our child alive in people she saved’When informed, Dhanishtha’s father, Ashish Kumar, an employee of a private bank, decided her organs could help save the lives of others. Kumar said he had lost his child, but by donating her organs he could keep her alive in the person whose life she would have saved. Paediatric organ donation is rare because of grief and religious beliefs. Kumar, 39, told TOI that in the three days that he was in the ICU praying for his daughter’s recovery, he saw many children suffering, some of them due to organ failure. When told by doctors that his daughter was brain dead, he asked them if her organs could be used to save someone. “I consulted my wife and my father too, and they agreed readily,” Kumar said. “We didn’t even consider what others might say about our decision but went ahead with it.” Dr D S Rana, chairman of SGRH, said the noble act of the girl’s family was praiseworthy and should motivate others to donate their organs. Dhanishtha’s heart went to a five-month-old baby suffering from heart failure. Her liver was grafted into a nine-monthold baby suffering from biliary atresia, a congenital disorder that causes liver failure in newborns. Dr V Pamecha of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences, where the liver transplant was carried out, said the organ donation came at an opportune time and helped save the life of the baby who would otherwise have died. The kidneys were used enbloc in a 34-year-old man at SGRH itself. “A 20-month-old child’s kidney is very small, nearly one-fifth the size of an adult kidney. One kidney couldn’t have sustained the workload,” explained Dr Sudhir Chadha, director and kidney transplant surgeon, SGRH. “Therefore, we decided to use both her kidneys en bloc during the kidney transplant. The patient is doing well.” Impressed with the Kumar family’s gesture, Dr Harsh Jauhari, chairman, renal transplant, SGRH, said, “Paediatric cadaver donation is uncommon and requires humongous courage to overcome the grief and emotional trauma caused by the loss of a small child.” Dr Anupam Sibal, group medical director, Indraprastha Apollo Hospitals, confirmed the rarity of the act. He said his institution had received three paediatric cadaver donations in 22 years. “It is extremely rare in India. Salute to the girl’s parents.” Watch Delhi: 20-month-old baby saves three lives, becomes youngest donor||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-20-month-old-donor-declared-brain-dead-saves-three-lives/articleshow/80277247.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 15, 2021||Business||Nirmala Sitharaman to present Budget 2021 on February 1||NEW DELHI: The Budget session of Parliament will commence on January 29 and finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman will present the Union Budget on February 1. The session will be held in two parts --from January 29 to February 15 and March 8 to April 8. The 5th session of the 17th Lok Sabha will have 35 sittings – 11 in the first part and 24 in the second. President Ram Nath Kovind will address both Houses of Parliament – Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha – at 11 am on January 29. Sitharaman will present the Union Budget at 11 am on February 1, an official release said. Parliament will adjourn on February 15 to enable various Standing Committees to consider the Demands for Grants of ministries/departments and prepare their reports, and reconvene on March 8.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/nirmala-sitharaman-to-present-budget-on-february-1/articleshow/80277259.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||After summons by ED, Raut wife repays Rs 55 lakh loan||MUMBAI: Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut’s wife Varsha repaid a Rs 55 lakh friendly loan she had availed of from a bank scam accused’s wife soon after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) summoned her to seek an explanation, sources said on Thursday, reports VijayV Singh. On Monday, she submitted documents to the agency through a relative, showing loan repayment from funds generated from the movie ‘Thackarey’ that was penned by her husband. Varsha was one of the producers of this movie. Sanjay Raut was unavailable for comment. The Enforcement Directorate had issued her four summons from November last year, but she had failed to present herself before the officials. On December 29, she had sought time till January 5. She appeared before the ED on January 4. A source said, “ED officials are examining the submitted document and accordingly will decide if there is a need to call Varsha again for a further statement.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/after-summons-by-ed-raut-wife-repays-rs-55-lakh-loan/articleshow/80277264.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||National polio drive pushed to January 31||NEW DELHI: The National Polio Immunisation programme, as part of which children in the age group of 0-5 years are administered polio drops, has been rescheduled to January 31. The National Immunisation Day (NID), commonly known as Pulse Polio Immunisation programme, was earlier scheduled for January 17 across the country. “The massive countrywide Covid-19 vaccination drive will be rolled out by the Prime Minister from January 16. This would be the world’s largest immunisation exercise. Therefore, it has been decided by the ministry of health in consultation with the office of the President of India to reschedule the Polio vaccination day, also known as the National Immunisation Day (NID) or ‘Polio Ravivar’ to January 31,” the Union health ministry said. The President will launch the Polio National Immunisation Day by administering polio drops to a few children at the Rashtrapati Bhawan at 11:45am, the ministry said in a statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/national-polio-drive-pushed-to-january-31/articleshow/80277267.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||My phone is under surveillance: Sovan||Kolkata: Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Sovan Chatterjee has accused the state administration of putting his phone under surveillance. He is the second politician after Suvendu Adhikari to make such an allegation. “You may say that I was incommunicado for the last few days. First, we were out of town when BJP took the organizational decision. But more importantly, I came to realise that my phone number has been put under surveillance. And this was being done by crossing all limits of decency,” Chatterjee said at BJP’s Hastings office on Thursday. Trinamool senior and MP Saugata Roy rubbished the charge. “I fear he is suffering from persecution complex. How important is he that the administration would tap his telephone?” Roy asked. Chatterjee, after assuming charge as convener of the Kolkata organisational zone of BJP (including South 24 Parganas, Kolkata and parts of North 24 Parganas), chose TMC MP Abhishek Banerjee’s Diamond Harbour as the first place to organise a string of roadshows in January. Chatterjee and Kolkata zone co-convener Baisakhi Banerjee along with others will hit the streets at Diamond Harbour’s Bishnupur on January 18. The BJP’s Kolkata zone has a weeklong schedule starting with Bishnupur and ending with Jadavpur during the month-end. Chatterjee said BJP had put him in charge of 51 assembly seats in which TMC was losing ground fast. “We have already set up mandals in South 24 Parganas barring a few places. We only need to beef up the organisation to bring people to polling stations,” he added. Chatterjee reminded that ‘paribartan’ in Bengal in 2011 began three years after the ruling CPM suffered reverses in two districts in the 2008 rural polls. An adept organiser, Chatterjee also warned partymen against getting into “factional feuds”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/my-phone-is-under-surveillance-sovan/articleshow/80275269.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||TMC man shot at over ‘bheri’ control||Barasat: A 32-year-old Trinamool Congress supporter was shot at and injured as two factions of the party allegedly clashed over control of a bheri at Goyarmari in Najat near Basirhat in North 24 Parganas on Thursday. Victim Sunnat Gazi, who took a bullet in the chest, is admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass. Police are looking for one Khokan Gazi, alias Bachcha Khokan, who allegedly masterminded the shooting. Residents claimed that both rounds were fired and bombs hurled. “The two factions have been engaged in a bitter battle for a couple of years over money illegally gained from the fish trade. The situation took a turn for the worse on Thursday after both groups hired armed goons from outside. The guns and bombs boomed since last evening,” said a resident. District Trinamool chief and state food minister Jyotipriya Mallick rubbished internal feud. “There is no factionalism in Trinamool Congress. I have asked the police to take immediate action against the culprits involved in the clash,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/tmc-man-shot-at-over-bheri-control/articleshow/80275348.cms||Sanjib Chakraborty
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal gets 12 IAS officers from ’20 batch, 3 from state||Kolkata: The Centre has allocated to Bengal 12 IAS officers of the 2020 batch, including three from Bengal. The department of personnel and training (DoPT), which deputes IAS officers, informed the state about the same in a letter to Nabanna on Wednesday. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee had been reiterating that Bengal has a dearth of IAS officers and had demanded an increased quota. The crunch situation stopped many mid-career IAS officers from taking up central deputation, it was said. The website of Bengal’s personnel and administrative reforms (PAR) department shows the state has 290 IAS officers as of January 11, 2021. The new officers will take the figure to 302, an official said and added that around 10 IAS officers were on central deputation. “Sanjeev Chopra, an IAS of the 1985 batch, is director of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration, which trains IAS officers,” he pointed out. Bengal has been demanding an increase of IAS cadre strength to 320. The strength is reviewed by the DoPT from time to time while allocating officers. “From 1995 and 1996 batches, only two IAS officers were allocated to Bengal. R Ranjit of the 1996 batch is on study leave. Similarly, between 1998 and 2001 batches, only three IAS officers were allocated to Bengal each year,” the official said. After the CM started writing to the PM regularly on the issue, the DoPT increased the allocation, he said. Thus, from the batch of 2015, Bengal received 10 IAS officers. The highest number of 15 was from the 2018 batch. These officers are now mostly posted as OSD in different departments. From the 2019 batch, Bengal got 13 IAS officers who are currently training in different districts as probationers. The official said among the 2020-batch officers allocated to the state, Ashis Kumar, Neha Banerjee and Raunak Agarwal were Bengal residents while the other nine would need to learn Bengali to provide good governance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/bengal-gets-12-ias-officers-from-20-batch-3-from-state/articleshow/80275158.cms||Debasish Konar
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Coal scam: CBI ‘absconder’ tag for Lala||Kolkata: Days after the CBI claimed that Anup Maji, alias Lala, was untraceable, the agency released advertisements in the media claiming that the prime accused in the illegal coal trading case was “absconding”. The agency on Thursday got hold of an order from the special CBI court in Asansol for the same. “Lala is a prime accused in the case and he has not responded to any of our summons so far. We are sure he is absconding and we need to get hold of him. He has been asked to appear before the court on February 11,” a CBI officer said. On Wednesday, the agency had conducted raids on at least 10 premises across the state, including the residence of Maji. Investigators said he had earlier appeared before the income tax department, and his statement had been recorded. But, he “absconded” thereafter. Meanwhile, the CBI is also looking for one Vinay Mishra in connection with both the coal scam and cross-border cattle smuggling. While he has not responded to earlier summons, sources said Mishra’s brother has been asked to appear at CBI’s Nizam Palace office on January 15 and 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/coal-scam-cbi-absconder-tag-for-lala/articleshow/80275409.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Covid vaccines reach sites, West Bengal set for first shot tomorrow||KOLKATA: Medical colleges in the city are set for the vaccination drive, scheduled to begin on Saturday. Vials of Covishield, which had arrived in the city from Pune on Tuesday, were ferried from the warehouse in Bagbazar to cold chain facilities at the five medical colleges in the city on Thursday. Some vials were also delivered to Chittaranjan Seva Sadan, while a large quantity was transported to a storage unit in south Kolkata for further disbursement on Friday. Escorted by police vehicles, a van carrying 93,500 doses of the vaccine left the Central Family Welfare Stores at Bagbazar around 1pm on Thursday. The first stop was RG Kar Medical College & Hospital, where 1,950 doses were handed over. The vehicle then went to Medical College Hospital Kolkata (3,000 doses), followed by NRS Medical College (6,689 doses), Calcutta National Medical College (1,950 doses), IPGMER (1,650 doses) and Chittaranjan Seva Sadan (400 doses). The remaining 79,811 doses were deposited at the district vaccine centre on Ballygunge Circular Road. Statewide, over six lakh health workers will be inoculated in the first phase. “All hospitals have got more than 50% of the first dose. These will now remain in the cold chain facilities that have been converted into strong rooms with round-the-clock security,” a health official said. On Friday, vaccines from the Ballygunge centre will be ferried to the remaining vaccination sites: Dr BC Roy Memorial Hospital for Children; School of Tropical Medicine Kolkata; ID Hospital Beliaghata; and five urban primary healthcare centres in boroughs II, III, VII, IX and XI. “The vaccine doses we have received are been preserved in ice-lined refrigerators in the cold room. The doses will be kept under lock and key in the rooms, which will be guarded round the clock,” said Indranil Biswas, the medical superintendent and vice principal of Medical College Hospital Kolkata. All the medical colleges that received vaccine vials on Thursday have posted security personnel at the vaccine rooms. All nine state-run hospitals in the city that have been chosen as vaccination centres have their own cold-chain facilities. In addition, the health department had also recently allotted iced-lined refrigerators for storing vaccines. “We have received about 50% of our requirement for the first dose on Thursday. We would be getting the rest after these doses are consumed. In our hospital, we will be running one-session sites, where 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated per day,” said Ashish Mukhopadhyay, principal, Chiitaranjan Seva Sadan. State health officials said all 6,89,000 doses from the central vaccine warehouse at Bagbazar have been despatched. The cold chain facilities at this depot will get ready to receive the next consignment for the second dose. “While we have despatched about 50% of the requirement for the vaccination sites in Kolkata, the rest have been kept at the district vaccine centre at Bagbazar so that the central stores cold chain facility can take in the next vaccine consignment as and when we get it,” said a health department source.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccines-reach-sites-state-set-for-first-shot-tomorrow/articleshow/80276296.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Two VB students suspended for ‘misconduct’||Santiniketan: Visva-Bharati has suspended two post-graduate students of the economics department, both leaders of Left students’ groups, for three months or until completion of inquiry for alleged misconduct and indiscipline. Somnath Sow is district secretariat member of SFI and Falguni Pan is attached to VB Chatra Oikyo, a forum of Left-inclined students. The suspension letters, signed by proctor Sankar Majumder, says: “It has been reported that you opened/broke the seal lock of the chamber of a particular faculty member in the department of economics & politics, Visva-Bharati on 09.01.2021... Whereas the said seal was put by university administration in connection with an enquiry.” “During the period your studentship is under suspension, you will not be able to attend or participate in any class, lecture, conference, workshop, seminar, examination, viva voce etc,” the letter adds. It should be mentioned that Sudipto Bhattacharya , a teacher of the same department, was suspended a few days back. Sow said: ‘The letter has been mailed to me in the ev-ening. I’ll consult a lawyer.” The proctor refused comment. PRO Anirban Sarkar neither received a phone call nor responded to a WhatsApp message.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/two-vb-students-suspended-for-misconduct/articleshow/80275286.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||‘EC will summarily remove negligent poll-duty officers’||Kolkata: The Election Commission will summarily remove serving officers found guilty of negligence from poll duty. The EC this time may not wait for a reply from the accused official, deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain indicated during discussions with state officials ahead of the commission’s full bench visit in the third week of January. “The EC has taken the Bengal assembly polls as a challenge in view of the complaints of violence in the preceding elections,” a senior state election official said. The deputy election commissioner took note of the scale of violence in the run-up to the 2019 Lok Sabha polls and pulled up the state police for keeping the non-bailable warrants (NBW) pending despite EC directives. Jain, during his meeting with state home secretary H K Diwedi, DG Virendra and ADG (law and order) Gyanwant Singh, asked officials to send law and order reports to the EC on a regular basis. The deputy election commissioner mentioned that he had reasons to believe that criminals in jail operate during the polls from behind bars. Jain asked all DMs and SPs to get specific information about criminals in jails and send it to the commission within a week. If these are some steps the EC is mulling to ensure free and fair polls, the panel also plans to walk the extra mile and arrange for postal ballots for voters aged 80 and above and the physically challenged. “There are three categories of people — senior citizens above 80 years, Covid patients or those quarantined and the physically challenged. On the day of notification, field-level officers will go to their houses and give them form 12 D for consent. Later, a poll officer will meet the individual voter and hand over form 13A where the person will give the vote and seal it. The entire process will be videographed,” he said. The deputy election commissioner, in a meeting with education secretary Manish Jain on Thursday, also took stock of the state of school buildings in Amphan-hit districts because schools will house polling stations. Jain directed the education secretary to send him a list of Amphan-hit school buildings so that he could expedite the repair process. The EC official also asked health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam to submit a blueprint of the state’s vaccination programme to the EC. The purpose was to ensure that the vaccination programme didn’t come in the way of poll preparations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ec-will-summarily-remove-negligent-poll-duty-officers/articleshow/80275161.cms||Saibal Gupta
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Bengal to get Muslim-Dalit-Adivasi party||KOLKATA: Abbas Siddiqui, a pirzada of Hooghly’s Furfura Sharif, is set to announce his new outfit of Muslims, Dalits and Adivasis on January 21, giving a new dimension to identity politics in West Bengal. “I am going to launch the new outfit on January 21. This outfit will be a platform for Muslims, Dalits, Adivasis in Bengal. Many Adivasi and Dalit representatives came to me in the last few months. Leaders of mainstream political parties also came to me for talks. For the moment, we are aiming to contest 60-80 seats in the assembly elections,” Siddiqui said. The Furfura cleric got a boost when All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) chief Asaduddin Owaisi came to his place a fortnight ago and promised to work with him. Since then, Siddiqui had been floating the prospect of launching a new party at religious jalsas held in rural North and South 24 Parganas and East Midnapore. Speaking in one such jalsa at Kadambagachi in North 24 Parganas, Siddiqui rubbished the charge he was an Owaisi clone and was jumping into the fray to make things easy for BJP by dividing minority votes that went in favour of Trinamool Congress. “I was not in politics during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BJP got 18 seats in Bengal. How could the party get so many seats when Trinamool is in power in Bengal? We didn’t see BJP making inroads in the state during Left Front rule. We have been betrayed by the party (Trinamool) that we voted for to keep BJP at bay,” Siddiqui said. A religious cleric, Siddiqui has no intention of contesting elections. “I want some prominent Muslim, Adivasi, Dalit representatives to contest the polls to represent voice of the oppressed. They didn’t get a trusted voice in Bengal for the last 73 years. We want these men to develop their assembly constituencies into model constituencies. I have been told that former Trinamool MP Akbar Ali Khondekar once tried it in his own way,” he said. Asked if he had had talks with Trinamool leaders, Siddiqui said: “We submitted our charter of demands to Trinamool link persons. But we didn’t get a reply. Others have also contacted us. But nothing has matured till date. We are floating our own outfit. Let us see how things shape up.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/abbas-siddiqui-to-launch-new-outfit-on-january-21/articleshow/80275379.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Satabdi FB post sparks buzz in TMC circles||Birbhum: A post uploaded by Trinamool Congress’ Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy on the Satabdi Roy Fan Club Facebook account has raised brows in party circles. In her post addressed to Birbhum voters on Thursday, Roy gave indications of feeling let-down by “some people” in Trinamool. The actor-turned-politician also gave a date and time — January 16, 2pm — to announce her decision, if she takes any. “Many have been asking me why I am not being seen in party programmes in Birbhum. How do I attend programmes when I don’t get to know about the schedule? I feel some people do not want me to be there,” the Birbhum MP said. Her post further said: “I got elected to the Lok Sabha in 2009 because you supported me. I used to give more time to my constituency over the last 10 years than I gave to my family. I hope to get your support in future.” Rising above her MP post, like BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari did during his last days in Trinamool, Satabdi wrote: “I became an MP much later. People have been loving Satabdi Roy much before that.” But why is Roy feeling jittery when she is an MP and has no fear of being denied a party ticket? According to TMC insiders, the Birbhum MP was seldom seen at party programmes in the district after the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. People here saw her last during chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Birbhum visit on December 28. The CM gave Roy due importance in the rally, naming her quite a few times. But the fact remains that Roy was not on good terms with the ruling party coterie in Birbhum for long. Local leaders didn’t like Roy disbursing her MPLAD funds on her own without authorising the party to select projects. Her detractors in the district, however, pointed to her alleged Ponzi links and said she might have come under pressure from BJP. Watch TMC MP Satabdi Roy hints at problems with party post resignation from Tarapith development council||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/satabdi-fb-post-sparks-buzz-in-tmc-circles/articleshow/80275226.cms||Someswar Boral
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Ban on chicken & eggs off, Ghazipur to reopen||NEW DELHI: A day after the three municipal corporations announced a ban on selling of eggs besides raw chicken and poultry products, the Delhi government Thursday withdrew all restrictions on poultry and ordered reopening of the Ghazipur wholesale market. The decision was taken after all samples of chicken collected from the Ghazipur market tested negative for bird flu. The corporations too have revoked their order. TimesViewThe Delhi government’s decision is welcome. But it also begs the question: why couldn’t the government wait for 24 hours for the test results to be out before asking for closure of the shops. Such knee-jerk reactions neither help the people nor the government.It has come as a major relief for those who trade in chicken at the wholesale market besides thousands of retailers and shops selling chicken items who were briefly affected by the ban. Many small unlicensed chicken shops located on the outskirts of the city had also been closed. Bird flu: Random checks to continue in cityThe ban on eggs had further compounded the problem for restaurants who were threatened by the corporations with cancellation of licence if the ban was violated. “Samples taken from poultry markets have tested negative with respect to bird flu. I have directed to open the poultry market and withdraw the orders to restrict trade and import of chicken stocks,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. The Delhi government had itself banned import of live birds into the capital and shut down the Ghazipur poultry market on January 9, a day after carcasses of dozens of crows and other birds were found at different places across the capital. The animal husbandry department of the Delhi government had collected samples from Hastsal, Mayur Vihar Phase-III, Dwarka’s sector-9 and other places. Later, ducks were also found to have died in Sanjay Lake in east Delhi. These samples, including that of chicken from Ghazipur, were sent to the High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal and Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratory, Jalandhar, for tests. The results of eight samples were received on Monday with all testing positive and confirming the outbreak of bird flu in the capital. Ducks in Sanjay Lake and crows at Mayur Vihar and Dwarka had been found positive. But, on Thursday, the animal husbandry department confirmed that bird flu had not been detected in the poultry samples sent from the city. Later in the day, the corporations too revoked their order following a video conference with the union minister of animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries, Giriraj Singh. “The meeting was attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, the three mayors and municipal commissioners,” said North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash. The government has allayed all apprehensions about the bird flu in Delhi with Sisodia advising people who eat chicken and eggs not to panic because there is no risk of getting an infection from fully cooked chicken or boiled and cooked eggs. “Precautions will continue to be taken and no laxity would be allowed. We request everyone to follow the guidelines issued by the Centre,” said Jai Prakash. A press statement issued by South Delhi Municipal Corporation stated: “In pursuance of the Delhi government’s fresh order on January 14 to allow poultry related trade in Delhi, the civic agency has withdrawn its previous order to prohibit keeping live poultry birds, sale and purchase of poultry meat at shops and in restaurants and running processing and packaging units anywhere in the jurisdiction of the civic body with immediate effect.” But the corporations will continue to carry out random checks. The idea is to ensure that all establishments take safety measures and restaurants and other eateries clean, boil and cook the products properly before use,” said the south corporation’s veterinary director, Ravindra Sharma. Earlier on Wednesday and Thursday, north corporation teams inspected 1,472 shops and closed down eight unlicensed shops. The south corporation, which started the drive on Thursday, visited 60 shops in four zones but found no violation. The east corporation’s veterinary department sealed 15 shops in north-east Delhi and seized 2,500 livestock poultry birds. The south corporation’s standing committee chairman, Rajdutt Gahlot, criticised the Delhi government for its initial order (issued on January 9), saying the decision was taken in a hurry. "It not only created panic among people but those associated with poultry business suffered a financial loss,” he said. This was a day after the corporations issued their own orders, banning the consumption of even eggs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-ban-on-chicken-eggs-off-ghazipur-to-reopen/articleshow/80277277.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||58% of fresh cases from Kerala, Maharashtra||NEW DELHI: Kerala and Maharashtra together accounted for three out of every five fresh Covid-19 cases detected in the country on Thursday as the pandemic continued to recede across India except in these two states. India recorded 15,660 new cases with Kerala logging 5,490 infections and Maharashtra 3,579. Together the two states reported 9,069 fresh cases on Thursday, 58% of India's tally on the day. Thursday’s count was a drop of nearly 1,400 from the previous day’s tally of 17,042 cases. India’s total caseload has now risen to 1,05,28,522. With 189 deaths from the virus on Thursday, the overall toll in the country now stands at 151,900. Apart from Kerala and Maharashtra, no other state reported fresh cases in four figures. The third highest number was reported from Bengal, where 680 new infections were detected, followed by Tamil Nadu (665) and Chhattisgarh (607). Maharashtra continued to record the highest number of deaths from the pandemic. The state reported 70 fatalities on Thursday. Kerala reported 19 deaths, followed by Bengal (17) and Uttar Pradesh (14).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/58-of-fresh-cases-from-kerala-maharashtra/articleshow/80277280.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||PM Modi’s trusted ex-bureaucrat joins BJP in UP||LUCKNOW: Three days after resigning as secretary of the Union ministry for micro, small and medium scale enterprises (MSME), Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s trusted bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma joined BJP in Lucknow on Thursday, reports Pankaj Shah. Speaking on the occasion, he thanked the party, and especially the PM, as he was picked up without having any political background or a strong legacy. Sharma joined the party in the presence of UP BJP chief Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy CM Dinesh Sharma and cabinet minister Dara Singh Chauhan, who is MLA from Madhuban assembly seat in Mau, the home district of Sharma. “I am overwhelmed and look forward to working for the party in the best possible way,” Sharma said amid speculations that he would be given a significant role in the UP government after being routed through Vidhan Parishad later this month. He has worked with PM Modi for 20 years, ever since the latter took over as the CM of Gujarat in October 2001.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-modis-trusted-ex-bureaucrat-joins-bjp-in-up/articleshow/80277297.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Left out by BSY, 10 MLAs plan to meet BJP brass||BENGALURU: Ten BJP legislators plan to take their remonstrations about Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s cabinet choices to the party brass in Delhi, reports Sandeep Moudgal. The delegation is likely to include Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, Bommanahalli MLA Satish Reddy and Karkala MLA V Sunil Kumar. It will seek an appointment with BJP national president JP Nadda and, possibly, Union home minister Amit Shah. The group represents the second line of leadership in the Karnataka BJP and believes it has been denied space in government by the old guard. Yediyurappa inducted seven BJP members into his cabinet on Wednesday. The secondline of leadership claimed he had promoted only those who were part of his coterie.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/left-out-by-bsy-10-mlas-plan-to-meet-bjp-brass/articleshow/80277316.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||In new normal, e-pharmacies retain big chunks of customers||Kolkata: Online pharmacy chains in and across West Bengal have retained around 70% of the customers who had logged in during the lockdown period to buy medicine. E-pharmacy portal SastaSundar has found that around 69% of the ‘lockdown’ customers are still ordering through its platform. “Our customer engagement won us 77% retention in Tier-II and 78% in Tier-III cities. Our industry-leading customer retention rate is 76% in rural areas, 80% in semi-urban and 72% in urban areas during this period. The online pharmaceutical industry may have expanded owing to the pandemic but the benefits may not have trickled down to all strata of the society,” BL Mittal, founder and executive chairman of the company, told TOI. PharmEasy that has merged with Medlife retained more customers in Tier-I cities than Tier-II and -III cities. “While the retention rate stands at 80% in tier I cities, it is 72% in both tier II and III cities. The e-pharmacy business is going off well with the consumers in the post lockdown phase and many new customers have come in our fold. The pandemic has brought about a behavioural change in the buyers,” said Dharmil Sheth, co-founder of PharmEasy. The Covid-19 pandemic is making an online adaptation of online health exponentially faster and people have been more comfortable using the telemedicine portals, according to Satish Kannan, co-founder and CEO of MediBuddy, a digital healthcare platform. “We recorded over one crore medical queries last year. We have seen a spike of 80% in medicine orders after lockdown across 95% of Indian pincodes. Maximum orders are recorded from Kolkata, Bengaluru, Mumbai, Chennai and Hyderabad,” he told TOI. City-based e-pharmacy — Sabse Sasta Dukaan & Flye — has logged 80% retention of the customers who have been “ordering continuously in the last quarters.” Its CEO and co-founder Anish Agarwal said, “The reason is that we have developed our app, keeping in mind both tech-savvy and non-tech-savvy citizens. Besides, our app is vernacular.” With the new strain of Covid being found in Bengal, the e-pharmacies hope a further rise in orders. Kannan said they have partnered with various accredited labs for home pick-up of tests and launched a coronavirus risk assessment tool along with an added feature on their app, by which people can find the availability of beds at hospitals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/in-new-normal-e-pharmacies-retain-big-chunks-of-customers/articleshow/80275720.cms||Sarthak.G
January 15, 2021||India||UP cops start probe into hate speech at ‘Hindu panchayat’||MEERUT: Police in Meerut are probing an alleged instance of hate speech during a ‘Hindu panchayat’ organised at a college after one of the speakers called for “economic boycott” of Muslims. The cyber cell of the UP police was also roped in as the video of the speech was shared on social media, drawing widespread condemnation from several quarters. The panchayat was organised four days ago at Chaudhary Charan Singh University (CCSU). “We have not received any information from the college staff so far. But a probe is being conducted by the cyber cell,” said city SP Akhilesh Narayan Singh. In the video shot during the event, Swami Anand Swaroop, head of Shankaracharya Parishad, is purportedly heard saying: “My argument is that if you (Muslims) want to remain associated with us, you should first stop reading the Quran and stop offering namaz.” In the same breath, he tells the listeners: “You decide that you will not buy anything from a Muslim. If you destroy them socially, politically and economically, they will begin converting to Hinduism from Islam.” Swami Swaroop is not new to controversy. On January 6, in Kolkata, he gave a call to declare India a Hindu nation. Meanwhile, the college administration has distanced itself from the event. Vice-chancellor N K Taneja claimed the university only provided space for the event. “It was not a university function. Therefore I will not be able to comment on it. We just facilitated space (for them),” he said. Bhagyodya Foundation, one of the organisers of the event, said such panchayats are being organised across the country. The next one will be held in Haridwar. Ram Mahesh Mishra, president of the foundation who was present at the event, said the idea behind the panchayat was to “unite” Hindus. “The Hindu community has been weakened due to its caste divisions. This weakness is being exploited by other communities. Once they are united, the country will become stronger. When Swami Swaroop gave that appeal, it resonated with us,” Mishra said. He added that such panchayats have been held in several cities across the country, including in Delhi, Lucknow, Ballia and Kolkata.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-cops-start-probe-into-hate-speech-at-hindu-panchayat/articleshow/80277337.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 15, 2021||Mangaluru||Karnataka: With new SOPs, colleges to open for all students today||BENGALURU: Beginning Friday, colleges across the state will throw gates open for students in intermediate semesters after the government allowed resumption of regular classes. Based on the positive response from final year students, who returned to campuses in mid-November, institutions are expecting a decent turnout. Hopes of full attendance are soaring also because the government has done away with the rule of Covid-19 tests for all students — in undergraduate, postgraduate, engineering, and diploma courses. When final year students returned to campuses on November 15, all had to submit Covid negative certificates. Now, only those who show symptoms need to take a RTPCR test. The relaxation in the rule was announced as part of a new set of standard operating procedures (SOP) announced on Tuesday. BBG Satyaprasad of GT Group of Institutions told TOI he expects a sizeable turnout since Bangalore University has announced exam dates and students would want to prepare in earnest. “Also, the absence of RTPCR tests will make it easier for students to attend,” he said. “Final year classes are being conducted successfully and there has been no positive cases [we conducted Covid tests on campus thrice] among students or staff. Students in intermediate semesters will take confidence from this. We hope to have good attendance.” Colleges and universities are also taking extra measures to enhance safety of students on campuses. Prof TD Kemparaju, vice-chancellor, Bangalore North University (BNU), said he held a meeting with principals of affiliated colleges on Thursday to discuss reopening and the measures that need to be put in place. With 246 colleges affiliated to the varsity, Kemparaju promised strict adherence to guidelines. “Since libraries and canteens are also allowed to open, we are taking extra measures to ensure social distancing is followed at all times,” he said. Kemparaju said he expects around 40% attendance on Friday as it is a weekend. “We expect it to pick up on Monday and Tuesday next week. We will invite suggestions from students and lecturers on any additional safety measures that we need to take,” he said. Shivanshu, a second year BCom student, said he is excited to return to campus, but will return to the campus only on Monday. “My parents and I want to see how things pan out,” he said. “Although online classes are an option, I am looking forward to getting back to college. That fact that we do not have to take the Covid test has helped remove a complication,” he said, adding that it is every individual’s responsibility now to make sure they don’t skip classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mangaluru/karnataka-with-new-sops-colleges-to-open-for-all-students-today/articleshow/80281373.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: With new SOPs, colleges to open for all students today||BENGALURU: Beginning Friday, colleges across the state will throw gates open for students in intermediate semesters after the government allowed resumption of regular classes. Based on the positive response from final year students, who returned to campuses in mid-November, institutions are expecting a decent turnout. Hopes of full attendance are soaring also because the government has done away with the rule of Covid-19 tests for all students — in undergraduate, postgraduate, engineering, and diploma courses. When final year students returned to campuses on November 15, all had to submit Covid negative certificates. Now, only those who show symptoms need to take a RTPCR test. The relaxation in the rule was announced as part of a new set of standard operating procedures (SOP) announced on Tuesday. BBG Satyaprasad of GT Group of Institutions told TOI he expects a sizeable turnout since Bangalore University has announced exam dates and students would want to prepare in earnest. “Also, the absence of RTPCR tests will make it easier for students to attend,” he said. “Final year classes are being conducted successfully and there has been no positive cases [we conducted Covid tests on campus thrice] among students or staff. Students in intermediate semesters will take confidence from this. We hope to have good attendance.” Colleges and universities are also taking extra measures to enhance safety of students on campuses. Prof TD Kemparaju, vice-chancellor, Bangalore North University (BNU), said he held a meeting with principals of affiliated colleges on Thursday to discuss reopening and the measures that need to be put in place. With 246 colleges affiliated to the varsity, Kemparaju promised strict adherence to guidelines. “Since libraries and canteens are also allowed to open, we are taking extra measures to ensure social distancing is followed at all times,” he said. Kemparaju said he expects around 40% attendance on Friday as it is a weekend. “We expect it to pick up on Monday and Tuesday next week. We will invite suggestions from students and lecturers on any additional safety measures that we need to take,” he said. Shivanshu, a second year BCom student, said he is excited to return to campus, but will return to the campus only on Monday. “My parents and I want to see how things pan out,” he said. “Although online classes are an option, I am looking forward to getting back to college. That fact that we do not have to take the Covid test has helped remove a complication,” he said, adding that it is every individual’s responsibility now to make sure they don’t skip classes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-with-new-sops-colleges-to-open-for-all-students-today/articleshow/80277341.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||2 arrested for ‘inflammatory slogans’ during temple event||MEERUT: Two men were booked and arrested in UP’s Bulandshahr on Thursday after a video purportedly showing them raising “inflammatory” slogans against people of a community during a motorcycle rally to collect funds for the Ram Temple was shared on social media. VHP distanced itself from the accused saying that they don’t belong to the outfit. According to sources, the alleged incident happened during the rally in Shikarpur area of Bulandshahr district on Wednesday. The two men shouting abusive slogans in the middle of the road also recorded their act on camera. Police took cognizance of the video and filed an FIR the next day under section 153-A (promoting enmity between groups on the grounds of religion, race etc), 295-A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs) and 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace). The two accused, Ritik and Shivam, both locals, have been arrested. Watch UP: ‘Inflammatory slogans’ during temple event in Meerut, 2 arrested||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/2-arrested-for-inflammatory-slogans-during-temple-event/articleshow/80277343.cms||Piyush Rai
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Covid-19: Bengaluru sees drastic dip in untraced infected people||BENGALURU: In less than a fortnight, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), with the help from the police, tracked down more than 500 people who tested positive for Covid-19 but went missing after providing samples, reducing the number of untraceable people infected to just eight in Bengaluru. As on January 3, more than 500 infected people were yet to be traced, but BBMP data released on Wednesday (Jan 13) shows four of the eight zones have zero untraceable patients, while Bommanahalli and RR Nagar zones have four and two respectively. Bengaluru west and east zones have one each. These infected people were untraceable because of errors by data entry operators while filling personal data such as mobile number and address at the time of providing swab samples, or patients deliberately giving false information. Besides, some would even have left the city. Between January 3 and Wednesday, more than 600 infected people were sent to hospital or Covid Care Centres (CCCs) for treatment, while 1,942 were in home isolation which indicates they have only mild symptoms or were asymptomatic. In all, the data shows a total 2,557 people tested positive in that period. Overall though, the state's capital city has more than 5,000 active cases — roughly 1.4% of total infections since March — while only eight of the 198 wards reported more than 50 cases. Officials said that even the eight that have not been found yet will be traced soon. “Despite the challenges of faulty personal data and people moving out of the city after tests, we’ve managed to locate most of them. Things are now under control,” one official said. With the number of deaths in the single-digit range on all but one day when it was zero last week, data shows the city had a case fatality rate (CFR) of 1.1%. Bengaluru’s position was better than Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai and Lucknow cities, while corresponding data for Hyderabad, Kolkata and other metropolis cities was not available. Also, with fresh cases continuing to dip and a steady rate of testing, Bengaluru’s positivity rate has improved to 6.2% from 6.4% on January 3. Only two zones — Bengaluru east (6.5) and Bengaluru west (6.3%) — reported a positivity rate that’s worse than the overall rate. Comparatively, on January 3, only two zones had a rate better than the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/covid-19-bengaluru-sees-drastic-dip-in-untraced-infected-people/articleshow/80277355.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: First Phase 2 section flagged off; hop on to Kanakapura Road Metro from today||BENGALURU: In a major relief to thousands of south Bengaluru residents, the Kanakapura Road Metro section (Yelachenahalli to Silk Institute) was inaugurated on Thursday. On the occasion of Makara Sankranti, Union minister of state for housing and urban affairs Hardeep Singh Puri virtually launched the Green Line extension, the first corridor to be opened under Namma Metro’s Phase 2. Chief minister BS Yediyurappa flagged off the decked-up train’s inaugural run at 4.37pm from Konanakunte Cross station. He performed a gau puja to mark the festival before the rollout. MN Kavitha, a woman train operator, ran the inaugural train. Puri said Bengaluru is one of the major engines of the country’s economic growth. “The Automated Fare Collection gates of stations in the new Metro section are fully compliant with National Common Mobility Card and accept common mobility cards,” the minister said. He said Bengaluru Metro is the third-busiest Metro system in the country after Delhi and Mumbai. “The average daily ridership in Bengaluru Metro was 12,500 per km per hour before Covid compared to 14,000 in Mumbai and 17,500 in Delhi,” Puri added. However, he said ridership in all Metro systems is now only 20-25% of pre-Covid levels. Namma Metro’s daily ridership (Phase 1) was around 5.3 lakh before the pandemic. “Of the total patrons, 29% are women,” he said. Puri said the five stations on the section — Konanakunte Cross, Doddakallasandra, Vajrahalli, Talaghattapura and Silk Institute — will get rooftop solar panels by March. “The 6.4km extension line between Yelachenahalli and Silk Institute was completed at a cost of Rs 1,590 crore. This extension will lead to an incremental increase in daily ridership — 1.9 lakh in 2021 and 2.2 lakh in 2031,” he added. “The inauguration of the Metro extension line and foot over bridges is a step towards achieving the goals of Bengaluru Mission 2022 to enable faster commute and offer smart mobility options in the city,” said Yediyurappa. Regular commercial services will begin from 7am on Friday. The elevated Kanakapura Road Metro section was supposed to be ready by 2018-end, but missed several deadlines. Namma Metro’s Phase 1 covers 42km, including 18km of Purple Line and 24km of Green Line. With the addition of Yelachenahalli-Silk Institute, the Green Line is now 30km and the total length of the network is 48km.  Bengaluru has overtaken Chennai in terms of length of the Metro network. While Delhi Metro, which began operations in 2002, now boasts of a 389-km network, Hyderabad Metro operates over 69km and Chennai Metro 45km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/first-phase-2-section-flagged-off-hop-on-to-kanakapura-road-metro-from-today/articleshow/80273999.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||I am with protesting farmers but won’t quit panel: Ghanwat||NEW DELHI: The panel appointed by the Supreme Court to examine the new farm laws will hold its first meeting by January 20 and has appealed to farm unions opposed to the legislations to participate in the committee’s proceedings and offer suggestions, Anil Ghanwat, president of Maharashtra-based farmers’ organisation Shetkari Sanghatana, has said. Ghanwat, one of three members of the panel (after B S Mann withdrew), praised the protesting unions, saying the stir had forced the government and the SC to discuss relevant issues. “If the government does not accept our (panel’s) report, I and Shetkari Sanghatana members will join the farmers who have been protesting at Delhi’s borders,” he said. The panel’s other members are agriculture policy experts Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi. The panel will have a preliminary discussion on Friday on modalities to execute the SC mandate and ensure that as many farmers’ representatives are on board as possible. A physical meeting will follow. The Sanghatana is a key constituent of the pro-reform farm organisation umbrella body All India Kisan Coordination Committee (AIKCC), which is headed by Mann, the national president of Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU). On Mann’s decision not to be a part of the panel and demands in certain quarters that he, being a farmer leader, should also opt out, Ghanwat said he would not do so and rather work with other members to present a report acceptable to all farmers. He said he would like to work on an important issue with as many members as may be appointed by the SC. The panel will work from the Indian Council of Agricultural Research’s campus at Pusa in the Capital. Logistics support will be provided by the agriculture ministry which entrusted a joint secretary-level officer with the task. Asked about Mann’s decision, Ghanwat said, “It is his personal decision which I should respect. I can understand his position. Even I am completely with the farmers who have been protesting. After all, our motives and goals are the same. I being in the panel won’t support anything which may go against the interests of farmers opposed to the farm laws.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/i-am-with-protesting-farmers-but-wont-quit-panel-ghanwat/articleshow/80277366.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 15, 2021||India||Punjab passes resolution on MSP||NEW DELHI: The Punjab government on Thursday passed a resolution demanding MSP as a statutory right. In a meeting, the Punjab cabinet also reiterated that nothing short of repeal of the Centre’s farm laws would resolve the present crisis. “The Centre is out of touch with ground realities,” said CM Amarinder Singh at the cabinet meeting. However, no decision on moving court was taken although the CM had announced last week that the state had already finalised requisite petitions for challenging the central Acts. “It was decided that we should only facilitate the protesting farmers in whatever way they want,” said a minister after the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/punjab-passes-resolution-on-msp/articleshow/80277371.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Portfolio handover after Amit Shah’s visit?||BENGALURU: Chief minister BS Yediyurappa is likely to allocate portfolios to seven new cabinet members after Union home minister Amit Shah’s visit to Karnataka on January 16-17. He is also expected to reshuffle some cabinet responsibilities. BJP functionaries said that the original plan was to distribute portfolios on Thursday. The exercise was rescheduled as Yediyurappa was away. Yediyurappa holds the charge of Bengaluru development, energy, tourism, Kannada and culture, and sports and youth empowerment. He is likely to hand over some of these portfolios. The first two are the most coveted ones. Deputy chief minister CN Ashwath Narayan, revenue minister R Ashok and newly inducted minister Aravind Limbavali have reportedly set their sights on Bengaluru development. Murugesh Nirani, a new inductee, is said to be eyeing the industries department, which he headed during his previous stint as a minister. Yediyurappa may not be able to fulfil this wish as the portfolio is held by senior minister Jagadish Shettar. R Shankar is likely to get the excise department, which, until Wednesday, was held by independent MLA H Nagesh. There are reports that the chief minister may change the responsibilities of home minister Basavaraj Bommai and forest minister Anand Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/karnataka-portfolio-handover-after-amit-shahs-visit/articleshow/80277377.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Celebrated biker crashes into camel in Jaisalmer, dies||JAISALMER/BENGALURU: King Richard Srinivasan, a celebrated cross-country biker from Bengaluru, was killed when his motorcycle crashed into a camel in Jaisalmer district on Wednesday night. Richard had travelled to 37 countries on five continents and covered 65,000km on his bike. He was in Jaisalmer as part of an 8,000-km ride from Bengaluru. Police handed over the body to his family members on Thursday after a post-mortem examination. Zonal police officer Karan Singh Charan said Richard and his three friends were on their way to Jaisalmer, and he was riding a BMW GS when a camel suddenly came before his motorcycle in the Fatehgarh sub-division headquarters area on Wednesday night. Richard lost control of the bike and fell, dying of suspected head injuries instantly. The 45-year-old is survived by his parents, wife, a son and a daughter||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/celebrated-biker-crashes-into-camel-in-jaisalmer-dies/articleshow/80277387.cms||Vimal Bhatia
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Allahabad HC directs Amethi cops not to harass interfaith couple||LUCKNOW: A Lucknow bench of Allahabad high court has directed Amethi police not to take any coercive action against an interfaith couple, on the basis of an FIR lodged against the husband three years ago, till the next date of hearing. The bench of Justice RR Awasthi and Justice Saroj Yadav passed the order on Wednesday hearing a petition of one Chandani and her husband, who alleged that the police had started harassing them after the promulgation of UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance 2020. Woman’s dad blamed her husband for abducting herThe couple alleged that the police cited an FIR lodged in 2017 by her father against her husband at Kamrauli police station of Amethi district accusing him of kidnapping her for marriage (Section 363 and 366 of IPC). The petitioners' lawyer A K Pandey said that couple married three years ago out of their own sweet and they were living peacefully and enjoying their matrimonial life. They also have one child aged one and a half year. Directing the state government counsel to file response against the petition within a week, the court said that the case should be listed thereafter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/allahabad-hc-directs-amethi-cops-not-to-harass-interfaith-couple/articleshow/80277390.cms||Ravi Singh Sisodiya
January 15, 2021||India||Rajasthan biker dies as Chinese manjha slits his throat||UDAIPUR: A 22-year-old biker lost his life after coming in contact with a glass-coated Chinese manjha that slit his throat in Udaipur on Thursday. The incident took place when the victim, identified as Lakshya, was riding a bike with his friend. “A Chinese manjha slit Lakshya’s throat, which resulted in a lot of blood loss. He was rushed to the community health centre where he was declared brought dead,” a police officer said. The pillion rider who tried to hold the manjha sustained injury on his thumb. Eyewitnesses said the riders couldn’t see the thread due to the sunlight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rajasthan-biker-dies-as-chinese-manjha-slits-his-throat/articleshow/80277396.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP MLAs to head to Delhi with BS Yediyurappa ‘favouritism’ complaint||BENGALURU: A day after chief minister BS Yediyurappa expanded his 17-month-old cabinet, a clutch of about 10 legislators said they would head to Delhi to sound BJP’s central leadership about the alleged sidelining of young leaders and “favouritism” shown by the CM towards the old guard and new party entrants. The group includes Hubballi-Dharwad West MLA Arvind Bellad, seen as an upcoming Lingayat leader; Karkala MLA and Kerala party coincharge V Sunil Kumar; and Bommanhalli MLA Satish Reddy, who was involved with the high-stakes Greater Hyderabad civic polls. “We have already spoken of our disappointment and a lot has been said. We will speak to our party seniors and further decision will be taken,” Bellad said. Speaking in Davanagere, the CM appeared to dismiss the rumbles. “I have expanded the cabinet after discussing it with the party central leadership. Let them complain to the leadership, I have no objections,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-mlas-to-head-to-delhi-with-bs-yediyurappa-favouritism-complaint/articleshow/80277398.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Another protester dies, toll at 71||JALANDHAR: Another protester who was at the Delhi borders till last week died of illness in his village in Jalandhar district on January 11, taking the toll of unnatural deaths during the farmers’ agitation to 71, reports I P Singh. Jaspreet Singh, 42, a resident of Ucha Pind village, was at the Delhi borders ever since the protests started there and had returned home just a week ago after he fell ill. His elder brother Paramjit said he suffered from breathlessness and was on medication. “He had returned along with other farmers from our village to take material for langar,” Paramjit said. Jaspreet’s family owns three acres of land.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/another-protester-dies-toll-at-71/articleshow/80277407.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||‘The collective spirit of human beings will not let cinema die’||Kolkata: After studying at the Film and Television Institute of India, Pushpendra Singh first worked as an actor and assistant director. In 2014, his directorial debut, ‘Lajwanti’, was screened in the Berlinale Forum. His second feature film, ‘Ashwatthama’, premiered in the New Currents Competition at the Busan International Film Festival while his ‘Maru ro moti’ was shown at the International Documentary Film Festival Amsterdam. His next film is titled ‘Laila aur satt geet (The Shepherdess and the Seven Songs)’. Inspired by the poetry of 14th century Kashmiri mystic Lalleshwari, also known as Lalla or Lal Ded, and set against the backdrop of the conflict in Kashmir, ‘Laila aur satt geet' is a timeless story of the nomadic shepherdess, Laila. Although Laila becomes Tanvir’s wife, she attracts the attentions of the entire tribe, especially of a cop called Mushtaq. Amidst the magnificent Himalayas, where the police and military strictly monitor every movement, the pair exchanges amorous repartee that spins out of control. This film is competing in the Indian language film category of the 26 Kolkata International Film Festival (KIFF). Excerpts from an interview with the director… Pushpendra SinghWhy did you decide to adapt this work?The themes in the folk tale and a strong female protagonist have rarely been explored in Indian films. I found the state of Jammu and Kashmir as a strong allegorical space which was close to these themes in the folk tale. The ending of the folk tale reminded me of the mystical poetess, Lal Ded, from Kashmir. What prompted you to choose this form where you are using songs to structurally divide the film?As Lal Ded was a big inspiration, I felt Laila also should follow a journey towards her renunciation. Sufism describes seven stages to reach God. I felt the film could also be structured into seven stages to depict Laila's journey. As I’m interested in the folk aesthetics, I decided to use folk songs to describe that journey. How did you choose the songs? Is the concluding song a Baul number?The songs were chosen based on the stage of Laila’s journey. I interacted with Gujjar-Bakarwal singers from J&K and cast the Gojri singer, Sadakkit Bijran, as the husband in the film. He helped me a lot in finding many songs. The Gujjar folk researcher and archivist, Javaid Rahi, also helped me a lot. The concluding song is a Baul song sung by Parvati Baul. The spiritual traditions in South Asia, I feel, have a lot in common. The bhakti and Sufi poetry here is also very similar to each other. I wanted the final song of renunciation to transcend everything including language. Parvatidi’s rendition has such a quality and we finally decided to go ahead with it. There film works on two levels. On the one hand, it has humour and on the other it touches upon deep issues. At the script level, what did you keep in mind to achieve this blending?The humour and feminist themes are what Vijaydan Detha had already written in the folk tale. I decided to highlight the issues faced by the Gujjar-Bakarwal tribe in the J&K and how their ideas of migration and living close to nature, along with the spiritual traditions of the state, could offer a solution to the conflict. Where did you shoot? How difficult was it for your actors to shoot with animals?We shot in three stages - near the Kashmir valley where the Bakarwals stay in the summers. Then, we followed the migration in the Pir Panjal range. The final stage is where they come and settle during winters in Rajouri district. It wasn’t difficult to shoot with animals since except for Navjot Randhawa, all are real Bakarwals. Navjot also stayed with the Bakarwals and spent time working with animals and the tribe. The concluding part of the film leaves a deep impact. How did you shoot the end? How did your female lead react when you first shared your plan? Navjot Randhawa plays the female lead. When she read the script, she felt the story reflected her own journey. I realized, she was more determined than many of us. If not for her, I don’t know how the ending would have been. How much of contemporary Indian movies do you watch? Where do you think Indian contemporary movies stand in the global perspective? Since I started making films, I decided to watch as little films as I can. But during the lockdown last year, I saw many contemporary Indian films along with films from other countries. A lot of our contemporary films are strong and powerful works. Film festivals in the last decade have woken to our cinema and that is reflected in selections at top film festivals around the world. We have never ever presented so many good films in the past. So, I’m very hopeful about the future. Do films from Bengal have any influence on you? I love Satyajit Ray and Ritwik Ghatak a lot. Ray definitely is an influence on me. How has the pandemic impacted you as an artiste?Initially, it took time to sink in as my travel plans were locked for half of the year. I still haven’t been able to motivate myself to write my next scripts. There is a debate over whether or not cinema viewing in theatres will survive after the pandemic. Your movie had a full house on Thursday at Nandan II. What is your view on survival of cinema? Can it take on the onslaught of OTT? Television created a similar anxiety and many predicted the death of cinema. Video came and people had a similar opinion. Cinema will survive and the collective spirit of human beings will not let it die.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/the-collective-spirit-of-human-beings-will-not-let-cinema-die/articleshow/80277364.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 15, 2021||India||SC committee to hold first meet by January 20||NEW DELHI: The committee appointed by the Supreme Court will hold its first meeting by January 20 and has appealed to protesting farm unions to participate in the proceedings and offer suggestions, Anil Ghanwat, one of the panel members, has said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/sc-committee-to-hold-first-meet-by-january-20/articleshow/80277416.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||Special software to select Day 1 Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries||LUCKNOW: Instead of officers hand-picking people for Covid-19 vaccine shots, a special software will select the intended beneficiaries randomly for Day 1 on Saturday from the priority-wise data fed into computers. This will minimize human intervention, checking any chances of manipulations in the process. The software has been installed in the centralised portal for supervising vaccination. It will finalise the names by Friday afternoon and send SMSes informing beneficiaries. “Data of all health workers has already been uploaded. The software will select on a random basis; any scope of favouritism will be nullified,” said chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar. “Besides, there is no need of rush because eventually all those on the list will be vaccinated. Over 51,000 health workers will be vaccinated in the first phase starting Saturday. Similar process will be followed for about 23,000 frontline workers in the second phase,” he added. Beneficiaries would be called in two shifts: 50 each in the morning and afternoon. The vaccination process will start at 9am and end at 5pm.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/special-software-to-select-day-1-covid-19-vaccine-beneficiaries/articleshow/80277422.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Lucknow||No bird flu signs found in dead owls in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The death of two owls at Eco Garden in the city on Wednesday was said to be due to old age. Chief veterinary officer (CVO) Dr Tej Singh said that he came to know from the police that two owls were found dead at Eco Garden in Banthra range. “A team was sent to examine the carcass and no symptoms of bird flu were found. The dead owls were then handed over to the forest department,” he added. Meanwhile, a message stating that birds are dying in Kukrail Forest leading to panic in the area went viral on social media on Thursday. TOI informed the CVO who dashed a team to the spot but found nothing. “Locals living near Kukrail Forest and Faridi Nagar denied seeing any dead birds in the vicinity,” he said. “No case of bird flu has been found in Lucknow so far, but we are following complaints of any death of birds closely,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/no-bird-flu-signs-found-in-dead-owls-in-lucknow/articleshow/80277426.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||3 months on & under pressure, cops lodge case on minors’ rape||PILIBHIT: Over three months since two minor Dalit sisters complained they had been raped by their family’s employer, an FIR was filed at the Hazara police station on Wednesday evening after the National Commission for Women and the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights took note of TOI reports on the case. Police had initially dismissed the case and not filed an FIR, citing the man, Satnam Singh’s age — he’s 65 — and then accusing the girls’ family of trying to stake claim to the employer’s property. The sisters, 13 and 15, had to make four attempts before the SP forwarded their complaint on January 5. But only an inquiry was ordered, TOI had reported, and no FIR was lodged. The SHO will now be investigated. “I ordered Pilibhit police to lodge the FIR, get the victims medically tested and investigate the case properly,” IG (Bareilly) Rajesh Kumar Pandey said on Thursday. Satnam has been booked for rape and criminal intimidation. A senior police officer said, “The FIR was lodged after the NCW and NCPCR took cognizance of the TOI reports on the case.” The two bodies got in touch with the police on January 11. In the complaint on January 5, the 15-year-old had written, “He would rape me, over and over, over the past one year and threaten me against telling anyone. When I got sick, he forced himself on my sister on September 28, 2020. I complained at the police station that day, but it was not registered.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/3-months-on-under-pressure-cops-lodge-case-on-minors-rape/articleshow/80277441.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Gay partner, 2 friends hack hotelier to death||BENGALURU: Three men hacked a 37-year-old hotel businessman to death for allegedly seeking sexual favours from one of them and also abusing his girlfriend. The trio tried to cover up the murder by dumping the body on a railway track at Hampinagar near Vijayanagar on January 3. The body was found in two parts as a train had run over it. A passerby alerted police the next morning. Railway police, who inspected the body, suspected it was a murder and autopsy confirmed it. After identifying the deceased as Mohammed Afroz from Bihar who ran a hotel in RMC Yard, a team headed by sub-inspector Bharathi D picked up Mohammed Siddique, a welder and resident of Padarayanapura. Siddique had made a call on Afroz’s mobile phone on the day of the incident. Siddique confessed to have killed Afroz with help from his friend, Mohammed Khaleel, a carpenter, and Mubarak, welder-cum-clothes dyeing labourer, both from Padarayanapura. All are aged between 20 and 24. Siddique and Afroz were in a homosexual relationship for an year. Recently, Siddique showed his girlfriend’s photo to Afroz, who made abusive remarks about her. After this, Siddique started avoiding Afroz. “Afroz used to call Siddique repeatedly and demand that they meet. Afroz abused Siddique’s girlfriend over the phone to eliminate him,” a police officer said. Khaleel and Mubarak were taken into custody later.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/gay-partner-2-friends-hack-hotelier-to-death/articleshow/80274007.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||UP police in K’taka to nab youth under anti-conversion law||GORAKHPUR: Uttar Pradesh dispatched a three-member police team to Karnataka’s Bijapur late on Wednesday to arrest a Muslim youth booked in Gorakhpur under the UP Prohibition of Unlawful Religious Conversion Ordinance 2020 for allegedly kidnapping a local teenage girl for marriage and forcing her to convert. According to an FIR lodged at Chiluatal police station in the district on January 11, the Karnataka-based man used a job offer to befriend the girl and concealed his religious identity till the time he allegedly kidnapped her. The couple is yet to be traced. “The girl’s father reported her missing on January 5 and charges under the new anticonversion ordinance were added after the girl’s call records showed she had been in touch with the accused, Mehaboob Chapparband, for over a year,” Chiluatal SHO Neeraj Kumar Rai said. The girl’s father said he had escorted his daughter till Sardar Patel Institute of Technology in Gorakhpur on January 4, but she didn’t return home that night. “I later found out she knew Mehaboob via Facebook since November 2019.” Mehaboob is from Lachhan village under Indi rural thana in Bijapur. Vijayapura SP Anupam Agarwal told TOI from the district headquarters on Thursday that UP police had contacted their counterparts in Indi rural police station to intimate them about the case lodged against Mehaboob under the state’s new anti-conversion law. It transpired that the accused hadn’t been seen in his village lately. “We are also trying to find his location. As of now, the information we have shared with UP police is all we have,” Agarwal said. (Inputs from Bengaluru)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/up-police-in-ktaka-to-nab-youth-under-anti-conversion-law/articleshow/80277461.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Sanitation workers to get first Covid-19 vaccines in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL/INDORE: The first Covid vaccine dose in every city in Madhya Pradesh will be given to a sanitation worker. The decision was taken on Thursday at a review meeting of the health ministry in which MP health department officials participated. The same day, Gwalior got its first consignment of 1,09,500 vaccines. “The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be given to a cleanliness worker on January 16 as a mark of respect for services rendered by sanitation staff during the pandemic,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday, calling the vaccine ‘Sanjeevni buti’ (life-saver). There is a protocol for vaccination, with health workers and frontline staff getting priority. 54-yr-old health worker to be first to get inoculated in MPNo recommendation will be allowed on who has to be vaccinated first,” he cautioned. In the first phase, health workers will be vaccinated, followed by frontline workers in round-2, and all citizens aged above 50 in round-3. MP has received 5.06 lakh doses for the first phase. By 5.30pm on Thursday, 30 districts had received their share. “We are hopeful that every district will receive their doses by midnight. Everything is going as planned,” state health commissioner Sanjay Goyal told TOI. “About 4.25 lakh healthcare workers, who have been working to save people’s lives, will be vaccinated first in the first phase. Both Covishield and Covaxin are totally safe,” said Chouhan, urging administrative officers, public representatives and the media “not to let any misleading information or rumour related to vaccinations flourish”. In Indore, chief medical and health officer Purnima Gadariya had earlier announced she would take the first vaccine dose to instill faith. On Thursday, however, Grade-IV staffers were chosen as the first recipients. “We have received fresh orders from higherups. Our sweepers are ready to be inoculated,” she said. Among the first to be vaccinated in Indore and the state is 54-year-old Shiv Shinde, who expressed his apprehension regarding the vaccine. “My family members don’t want me to take the vaccine, but I will get vaccinated as asked by senior officials,” said Shinde, who has been working as asweeper in a district hospital for 33 years. Surekha Dagar, 50, who is also a sweeper said, “I don’t want to get vaccinated in the first couple of days. I will wait and get it at a later stage.” Public health and family welfare minister Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary and medical education minister Vishwas Sarang were present at the review meeting, along with chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains. In Gwalior, collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh told TOI that the city has been divided into six zones for the vaccination, two of which are military and IAF. Gwalior CMHO Manish Sharma they will administer vaccines to around 15,360 people, including 14,180 state health workers and 260 central health workers. “Around 930 are in the forces,” said the CMHO. The vaccination camps are at district hospital, GRMC, Dabra and Bhitarwar in Gwalior. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/sanitation-workers-to-get-first-covid-19-vaccines-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/80277472.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Indore||Sanitation workers to get first Covid-19 vaccines in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL/INDORE: The first Covid vaccine dose in every city in Madhya Pradesh will be given to a sanitation worker. The decision was taken on Thursday at a review meeting of the health ministry in which MP health department officials participated. The same day, Gwalior got its first consignment of 1,09,500 vaccines. “The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine is likely to be given to a cleanliness worker on January 16 as a mark of respect for services rendered by sanitation staff during the pandemic,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Thursday, calling the vaccine ‘Sanjeevni buti’ (life-saver). There is a protocol for vaccination, with health workers and frontline staff getting priority. 54-yr-old health worker to be first to get inoculated in MPNo recommendation will be allowed on who has to be vaccinated first,” he cautioned. In the first phase, health workers will be vaccinated, followed by frontline workers in round-2, and all citizens aged above 50 in round-3. MP has received 5.06 lakh doses for the first phase. By 5.30pm on Thursday, 30 districts had received their share. “We are hopeful that every district will receive their doses by midnight. Everything is going as planned,” state health commissioner Sanjay Goyal told TOI. “About 4.25 lakh healthcare workers, who have been working to save people’s lives, will be vaccinated first in the first phase. Both Covishield and Covaxin are totally safe,” said Chouhan, urging administrative officers, public representatives and the media “not to let any misleading information or rumour related to vaccinations flourish”. In Indore, chief medical and health officer Purnima Gadariya had earlier announced she would take the first vaccine dose to instill faith. On Thursday, however, Grade-IV staffers were chosen as the first recipients. “We have received fresh orders from higherups. Our sweepers are ready to be inoculated,” she said. Among the first to be vaccinated in Indore and the state is 54-year-old Shiv Shinde, who expressed his apprehension regarding the vaccine. “My family members don’t want me to take the vaccine, but I will get vaccinated as asked by senior officials,” said Shinde, who has been working as asweeper in a district hospital for 33 years. Surekha Dagar, 50, who is also a sweeper said, “I don’t want to get vaccinated in the first couple of days. I will wait and get it at a later stage.” Public health and family welfare minister Dr Prabhuram Chaudhary and medical education minister Vishwas Sarang were present at the review meeting, along with chief secretary Iqbal Singh Bains. In Gwalior, collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh told TOI that the city has been divided into six zones for the vaccination, two of which are military and IAF. Gwalior CMHO Manish Sharma they will administer vaccines to around 15,360 people, including 14,180 state health workers and 260 central health workers. “Around 930 are in the forces,” said the CMHO. The vaccination camps are at district hospital, GRMC, Dabra and Bhitarwar in Gwalior. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/sanitation-workers-to-get-first-covid-19-vaccines-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/80277474.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Jallikattu bulls not hurt, says Rahul; BJP says UPA banned it||MADURAI/NEW DELHI: Congress member Rahul Gandhi on Thursday watched the bull taming sport jallikattu in Madurai, noting that the animals were not getting injured as was being made out, and said his visit was a message to the Centre that wants to “suppress” Tamil culture. BJP ridiculed Gandhi for his ‘hypocrisy’ of witnessing jallikattu and praising the sport, reminding that the Congress-led UPA had banned it in 2011. Sharpening his attack against PM Modi and the Centre over the farm laws, he accused the government of “conspiring to destroy” peasants to benefit a few businessmen. Rebutting Gandhi’s allegations, former Union minister and BJP member K J Alphons said MSP has gone up by close to about 45% in six years of the Modi gover nment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/jallikattu-bulls-not-hurt-says-rahul-bjp-says-upa-banned-it/articleshow/80277483.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||80 companies keen on running cruise, ferry services||NEW DELHI: More than 80 companies including Adani Logistics, Shreyas Shipping, Angriya Cruise, Samudra Marine, Esquire Shipping and JM Baxi Group have shown interest in the Ro-Ro, RoPAX, cruise operation and coastal shipping across the country. Some of the players are also keen to run ferry services between Karaikal in Puducherry and Jaffna in Sri Lanka and from Paradip, Vizag and Kolkata to Chattogram in Bangladesh, sources said. The Sagarmala Development Corporation Ltd (SDCL) under the shipping ministry had recently floated an expression of interest for running such services within the country and also to Bangladesh, Sri Lanka and East Africa. Sources said none of the companies has shown interest in services to Seychelles and Madagascar in East Africa. The SDCL had identified domestic locations including Hazira, Okha, Somnath Temple, Diu, Pipavav, Dahej, Mumbai/JNPT, Jamnagar, Kochi, Ghogha, Goa, Mundra and Mandvi and six international routes, connecting four international destinations from Indian major coastal port towns for the commencement of ferry services. Sources also said there has been good interest of aviation players for the proposed seaplane services across the country to promote tourism.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/80-companies-keen-on-running-cruise-ferry-services/articleshow/80277497.cms||Dipak K Dash
January 15, 2021||India||Reds kill C’garh former sarpanch||RAIPUR: A sarpanch’s husband in Rajnandgaon district was abducted and brutally murdered by Maoists in the early hours of Thursday. Police said about 25 uniformed and armed Maoists barged into the house of 47-year-old Mainu Ram Salam, an ex-sarpanch, in Pardoni village, dragged him out and began beating him savagely, accusing him of being a police informer. Police later found his body dumped on the outskirts of the village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/reds-kill-cgarh-former-sarpanch/articleshow/80277503.cms||---
January 15, 2021||India||Government extends FCRA registration validity of NGOs till May 31||NEW DELHI: NGOs and associations whose registration under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, was expiring between September 29, 2020 — when fresh amendments to the Act were notified — and May 31, 2021, will now enjoy extended validity of their FCRA certificates until May this year, the home ministry has said. According to a public notice put out by the ministry on Tuesday, the extension of validity of all registration certificates expiring during the period outlined is aimed at ensuring a smooth transition to the amended FCRA regime. The amendments effected in September 2020 require all NGOs and associations registered under FCRA to open an account in SBI main branch at New Delhi, to receive foreign contributions. Incidentally, the home ministry’s January 12 public notice extending validity of expired or expiring FCRA licences followed a day after an important correction was made in the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) (Amendment) Rules notified on November 10, 2020. As per the corrigendum, the amended rule requiring NGOs/associations to apply for renewal of FCRA certificate in electronic form, along with affidavits by each office-bearer or key functionary, within six months “from” the date of expiry of the certificate of registration is to be read as within six months “before” the date of expiry of registration. The MHA notice therefore provides relief to the NGOs which, going by the amended rules prior to the correction, would not have bothered to apply for renewal of registration immediately, understanding that they had six months from the date of expiry of their FCRA certificate to do so. Presently, there are nearly 23,000 entities which have got a certificate of registration or prior permission to receive foreign contributions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/government-extends-fcra-registration-validity-of-ngos-till-may-31/articleshow/80277521.cms||Bharti Jain
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Morena hooch toll rises to 24, three arrested||BHOPAL: Three more villagers died of the deadly hooch in Morena district of Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, taking the toll to 24, DGP Vivek Johri said. A special investigation team (SIT,) headed by additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora arrived at Manpur village and began the probe. He had investigated the October 2020 Ujjain hooch tragedy as well. Other members of the committee are ADG-CID A Sai Manohar and DIG Mithilesh Shukla. All staff of Bagchini police station have been removed They met villagers, recorded their statements and visited police stations. Officials said 15 people are still hospitalized in Morena and Gwalior after consuming spurious liquor. Those involved are being rounded up, DGP Johri told TOI. Three out of seven people named in the FIR have been arrested, said sources. They have been for charge with culpable homicide and under the Excise Act. A reward of Rs 10,000 each was declared for their arrest. All staff of Baghchini police station have been removed on charges of negligence, and Morena’s subdivisional police officer Sujit Bhadira suspended. IAS officer B Karthikeyan has been appointed the new collector and Sunil Kumar Pande took charge as SP. Officials said that the Madhya Pradesh Deshi-Videshi Madira Vyapari Association had repeatedly warned the government about smuggling of spurious liquor. One of the letters sent by them in December last year has surfaced after the Morena tragedy. It alleges that some police and excise officials are hand in glove with bootleggers in rural parts. “If factories are made to comply with stringent rules and stopped from illegal supplies, the government can earn Rs 2,000 crore additional revenue. Also dhaba operators in rural areas are selling liquor illegally under protection of local excise and police officials,” says the letter sent to the chief secretary and principal secretary (excise) on December 22, 2020. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/morena-hooch-toll-rises-to-24-three-arrested/articleshow/80277519.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: Tansen’s birthplace freed of encroachment||BHOPAL: The land surrounding Tansen’s dilapidated house in Behat, 45km from the historic city of Gwalior, has been freed of the stranglehold of encroachment. TOI had reported on the threat to the historic site on December 25 last year. The administration has cracked down on encroachment, posted a guard and ordered police to patrol it regularly to keep encroachers at bay. Even a road is being built now. Collector Kaushlendra Vikram Singh set up a team to probe a complaint by Ashish Chaturvedi, a Gwalior-based social activist, that land attached to the Tansen Sadhna Sthali had been encroached upon by a local, who had built a room and kept it locked. “The Gwalior SDO has opened the locks and removed everything that was kept in the room by the encroacher. The keys have been handed over to the local pujari. There are no more encroachments,” the inquiry officer, an SDM, has said in his report. Plan drawn up to protect Tansen birthplaceChaturvedi had alleged that a syndicate had fraudulently turned the land surrounding Tansen’s house and a related temple into private land using forged documents. The discrepancies in the land record have also been resolved, the official added. “A proposal to research and protect Tansen’s birthplace has been sent to the archaeology department. Another proposal prepared by the zilla panchayat for development of Tansen Sadhna Sthali has been handed over to the complainant,” says the report. “The temple pujari and kotwar have been instructed to keep the premises clean. A chowkidar has been deployed to guard the Sangeet Kala Kendra. The police station in charge of Behat has been asked to conduct regular inspections of the Sadhna Sthali to keep it safe from encroachers and other anti-social elements,” said the officer. There are two properties related to Tansen in Gwalior — his tomb in Gwalior’s Hazira area and ‘Tansen Sadhna Sthali’ in Behat, the village of his birth. Tansen’s tomb is maintained by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and the sadhana sthali, where he practiced music, is protected by the state archaeology department. An RTI filed by Chaturvedi has revealed that the archaeology department has sanctioned a mere Rs5 lakh in the past 20 years for the maintenance of Tansen’s sadhana sthali in Behat. “Tansen’s birthplace has been completely ignored by the archaeology department while encroachers are making money out of it,” he had said, adding: “Tansen was one of the nine gems of Akbar’s court, you can’t allow people to spoil his memory. There isn’t even a proper road to let visitors reach his birthplace”. The SDM’s inquiry had focused on the road as well, and the tehsildar has been asked to build a road. “I am happy that the district administration has looked into my complaint and taken necessary steps for the upkeep of this sacred place. I will keep visiting the area to ensure that the recommendations made in the report are complied with,” Chaturvedi told TOI. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/madhya-pradesh-tansens-birthplace-freed-of-encroachment/articleshow/80277549.cms||P Naveen
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Highway blockades hit business, hotels ‘unable to pay staff’||REWARI: The blockades put in place due to the farmers’ protests at Jaisinghpur Khera and Masani in Dharuhera have resulted in loss of business for not only the owners of hotels, dhabas and petrol pumps dotting the Delhi-Jaipur highway, but for transporters and small traders as well. For the past 12 days, nearly 200 trucks laden with goods have been stuck on the stretch between Kapriwas in Haryana and Kotputli in Rajasthan. There are about 16 hotels, 20 eateries and 10 petrol pumps on that road. Already reeling from losses due to Covid-19 and the lockdown that followed, hotel owners said the blockades have hit their income hard, and they are not in a position to pay salaries to their employees anymore. “We are close to the protest site at Masani. Our business has collapsed because of the agitation on the highway. Earlier, about 800 to 1,000 people used to come to eat food daily at our outlet, but now that number has dropped to zero. It is becoming extremely difficult to maintain staff expenses,” said Dev Chaudhry, owner of Sukhdev dhaba at Masani. Several hotels on the highway have reported booking cancellations in the past one month. Sunil Bamba, who owns 3-star hotels in Neemrana, said most of the cancellations have come from people in Delhi who are unable to move out. On the other hand, many tourists who had to return to the national capital are stuck as well. Sanjay Yadav, president of hoteliers and restaurants association, said “there is no consistency in the government’s decisions”. “Hoteliers were never consulted and our needs and requests were never taken into consideration,” he added. While more than 25,000 vehicles used to ply on the highway earlier, many people have started avoiding this route. Due to this, petrol pump operators are also suffering losses. “Ten petrol pumps in both the lanes are closed. Fuel sales have dipped due to the traffic disruptions. How do we pay our staff? Our livelihoods are threatened,” said Shakti Yadav, general secretary of the district petrol dealers’ association. Transporters said many of these trucks, which had left with factory supplies from different places in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, were just a few kilometres from their destinations in Gurgaon and Delhi, but hadn’t been able to move an inch in the past week. Meanwhile, transporters are faced with mounting losses. “I have 11 trucks that are stuck and I’m facing a loss of Rs 2,500 for each of those every day. This includes taxes, daily payment to drivers and loss of trips. Since there is a delay, clients are unlikely to pay the entire amount for transport of goods. Most transporters are cash-strapped and have to pay heavy EMIs for their vehicles. How will we repay our loans if the vehicles are not able to make the trips? We also have to pay salaries of drivers and helpers. We can’t do that if we don’t have money,” said Rambir Yadav, a local transporter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/highway-blockades-hit-biz-hotels-unable-to-pay-staff/articleshow/80276651.cms||Shahnawaz Alam
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Join movement if you are against laws: BKU to Bhupinder Singh Mann||GHAZIABAD: Farmer leaders protesting at UP Gate on Thursday welcomed Bhupinder Singh Mann’s decision to recuse himself from the four-member expert committee constituted by the Supreme Court to look into the three new agriculture laws. Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait said Mann should now specify whether he supports or opposes the laws, and if he is against them, he should join the movement with other farmer outfits. “His resignation is an example of the ideological victory of this movement. The farmer in him has woken up. We invite him to join the movement too,” said Tikait. Farmer leaders have clarified that they will participate in the ninth round of talks with the Centre on Friday. Tikait said it was necessary to break the deadlock. Protesters, however, reiterated that they would accept nothing less than repeal of all three laws. Meanwhile, while addressing farmers at UP Gate, Tikait reiterated that the tractor march will be held on Republic Day. “We don’t want to disturb the parade and we will hold our parade alongside. The rally will be historic and we demand that the government in Delhi provide us with five lakh Indian flags. Not a single stick will be without the tricolour,” Tikait said, adding that they would ply red tractors in the front, white in the centre and green ones at the back for the ‘tricolour look’. The farmer leader also asked the protesters to remain alert to ‘anti-social elements’. “Those making claims regarding Khalistan and Pakistan have no place in this movement. Anyone talking about violence will not be tolerated,” he said. Tikait said that it was up to the government to stop the agitation. “Withdraw the law and implement the report of the Swaminathan Committee. Give us our rights and we will leave. It is an ideological movement and cannot be suppressed by guns,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/join-movement-if-you-are-against-laws-bku-to-mann/articleshow/80276664.cms||Aditya Dev
January 15, 2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Bhopal ready for pre & post-vaccination||BHOPAL: The vaccine is here. And so is apprehension in certain quarters on whether to take it or not. Expert advice is, take the shot. The benefits outweigh any concerns, they say. With mass vaccination the only way to return to the ‘old normal’, health experts are pointing to a comprehensive factsheet that comes along with Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute of India. The vaccine comes with two sets of factsheets — one for the vaccine recipient and one for use only by a registered medical practitioner, a hospital or a laboratory. Covishield vaccine has been approved for restricted use in emergency situation in individuals aged 18 years or older. The vaccine has become a first choice for many states including Madhya Pradesh. “Strictly speaking, in medico legal terms, consent is not required while administering a vaccine. That said, it is understood that when someone comes to a vaccination centre, it is it to get the vaccine. In case of Covid-19 vaccination, the factsheet has been widely circulated on social networking sites and is also available on the private company’s website,” said Gandhi Medical College (GMC) chest and respiratory medicine professor, Dr Nishant Shrivastava. Covid-19 vaccination is voluntary, according to a government statement. “I am aware of the vaccine factsheet and associated risks. My colleagues, who are health workers in the UK and USA, have undergone Covid vaccination. Virtually most had some of the flu-like symptoms as described in the vaccine factsheet. It is not uncommon and should not deter people from getting the vaccine shot,” said RKDF associate professor and Indian Medical Association, MP, Greater Bhopal, secretary, Dr Sudeep Pathak. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan assured citizens that the vaccine is safe, and urged everyone to make the mass vaccination drive a success. Additional chief secretary (health) Mohammad Suleman said at a review meeting on Thursday that the indigenous vaccines have been “approved by the best scientific institutions of India and abroad after thorough testing and analysis”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/covid-19-bhopal-ready-for-pre-post-vaccination/articleshow/80277567.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Cop focus on rallies, illegal parking ahead of Sealdah flyover shutdown||KOLKATA: The Sealdah traffic guard has pleaded with Lalbazar not to allow any rally and procession to Esplanade even as it braces for the shutdown of the Sealdah flyover from Friday night in order to allow underground tunnelling of the East-West Metro. Cops said that unlike the last two times, when similar shutdowns were sought, they will not be allowing hawkers and traders under the flyover on all three days till completion of work on Tuesday morning. “We have worked out a plan with KMDA. The specific point, where the TBM will be operational, will be kept out of bounds for hawkers. They can open shop once the TBM passes by,” said an officer. While cops will keep both the MG Road and Beliaghata Main Road arms operational, they have plans to divert south-bound vehicles towards Moulali from Rajabazar Crossing on Saturday and from Maniktala crossing on Monday if there is pressure of vehicles during office hours. They will also put extra effort on Amherst Street-Nirmal Chandra Street and MG Road that are expected to witness slower vehicular movement than normal. As an added measure, cops also want two-wheelers to be diverted through Convent Road. “We have planned for each day. Sunday should be comparatively easy and Saturday, too, will not be a big challenge. It is Monday that we are worried about. But we will be deploying personnel from four different guards to ensure there is smooth flow of traffic. Men from Jorabagan, headquarters, Park Circus , Ultadanga and Beliaghata guards have been explained in detail about each one’s role. In all, around 60 cops will be engaged with the diversions,” said a source. Beliaghata Main Road and Narkeldanga Main Road may remain comparatively less congested. CR Avenue remained snarl-free last year and cops will be hoping for a repeat. The police have begun putting up signboards. Directional arrows, too, have been put up to guide motorists. “We will place adequate signages to help motorists. They have been painted in bright colours,” said Santosh Pandey, joint commissioner (traffic). Additional traffic policemen will be posted at every intersection from 8.30 am. Police will launch special drives to ensure that there is no illegal parking across central Kolkata to allow vehicles to use maximum road width. They will concentrate on Amherst Street, B B Ganguly Street, College Street, NC Street, S N Banerjee Road, Creek Row and M G Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kolkata-cop-focus-on-rallies-illegal-parking-ahead-of-sealdah-flyover-shutdown/articleshow/80277591.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 15, 2021||Faridabad||Accused in Nikita Tomar murder case seeks re-probe||CHANDIGARH: In a new twist to the sensational Nikita Tomar murder case, the main accused has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking re-investigation of the case, claiming that the FIR was registered against him was at behest of Nikita’s family to cover up their act of "honour killing". On October 26, 2020, Nikita Tomar, 20, had been allegedly shot dead outside her college in Faridabad, by her former classmate Tohsif. Police had filed a charge sheet in the case, 11 days after the incident. The matter is pending trial. In his plea before the HC, the main accused, Tohsif, 21, and his accomplice Mohommad Rihan, 23, have sought directions for re-investigation of the case under supervision of the director general of police in a fair and unbiased manner. According to Tohsif and Rihan, they have been implicated in the matter of which they had no knowledge and were not even physically present. Challan submitted in haste: AccusedThey have also submitted that the case against them depicts the effect of ‘a media trial’ and pre-determined biased opinion of the public in general and the investigating officers’ "religious biases". Tohsif ’s counsel told the HC, "Needless to mention that as initially the brother of the deceased pointed towards the involvement of Tohsif who is a Muslim and the entire incident attracted lot of media coverage and was portrayed as a case of "Love Jihad".... They gave it a colour of religionbased action without even evaluating whether the petitioners have any involvement in the crime or not." It has also been contended that because of pressure from political leaders, media and panchayat regarding the incident, the police completed the investigation in just 11 days in an absolutely accelerated and predetermined manner. According to petitioners, the challan was submitted in haste and without awaiting the results of the alleged scientific investigation claimed to be conducted by the investigating agency. It has also been submitted that the police had deliberately not mentioned the fact that the deceased had eloped with Tohsif in 2018 and an FIR registered against Tohsif in this regard was cancelled after a compromise between both parties, accepting his friendship with the deceased. Earlier on November 23, 2020, the additional session judge Faridabad had dismissed his plea for conducting further investigation in the case. After hearing the petition, the HC on Thursday adjourned the case for January 22 for arguments of both the parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/faridabad/accused-in-nikita-tomar-murder-case-seeks-re-probe/articleshow/80277625.cms||Ajay Sura
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Accused in Nikita Tomar murder case seeks re-probe||CHANDIGARH: In a new twist to the sensational Nikita Tomar murder case, the main accused has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court seeking re-investigation of the case, claiming that the FIR was registered against him was at behest of Nikita’s family to cover up their act of "honour killing". On October 26, 2020, Nikita Tomar, 20, had been allegedly shot dead outside her college in Faridabad, by her former classmate Tohsif. Police had filed a charge sheet in the case, 11 days after the incident. The matter is pending trial. In his plea before the HC, the main accused, Tohsif, 21, and his accomplice Mohommad Rihan, 23, have sought directions for re-investigation of the case under supervision of the director general of police in a fair and unbiased manner. According to Tohsif and Rihan, they have been implicated in the matter of which they had no knowledge and were not even physically present. Challan submitted in haste: AccusedThey have also submitted that the case against them depicts the effect of ‘a media trial’ and pre-determined biased opinion of the public in general and the investigating officers’ "religious biases". Tohsif ’s counsel told the HC, "Needless to mention that as initially the brother of the deceased pointed towards the involvement of Tohsif who is a Muslim and the entire incident attracted lot of media coverage and was portrayed as a case of "Love Jihad".... They gave it a colour of religionbased action without even evaluating whether the petitioners have any involvement in the crime or not." It has also been contended that because of pressure from political leaders, media and panchayat regarding the incident, the police completed the investigation in just 11 days in an absolutely accelerated and predetermined manner. According to petitioners, the challan was submitted in haste and without awaiting the results of the alleged scientific investigation claimed to be conducted by the investigating agency. It has also been submitted that the police had deliberately not mentioned the fact that the deceased had eloped with Tohsif in 2018 and an FIR registered against Tohsif in this regard was cancelled after a compromise between both parties, accepting his friendship with the deceased. Earlier on November 23, 2020, the additional session judge Faridabad had dismissed his plea for conducting further investigation in the case. After hearing the petition, the HC on Thursday adjourned the case for January 22 for arguments of both the parties.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accused-in-nikita-tomar-murder-case-seeks-re-probe/articleshow/80277619.cms||Ajay Sura
January 15, 2021||Business||Wholesale inflation eases to 4-mth low at 1.2% in December||NEW DELHI: Wholesale inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index (WPI), eased to a four-month low in December largely due to deflation in primary articles, fuel and some food items but economists said the RBI may still continue with its pause on interest rate cuts. Data released by the commerce and industry ministry on Thursday showed inflation contracted to 1.2% in December, lower than 1.6% in November and 2.8% in December 2019. Inflation in the primary articles group contracted for the first time in five months at 1.6% in December, while wholesale food inflation declined 1.1% during the month compared with 13.3% in the same year earlier month. Arrival of fresh supplies helped ease prices in cereals and vegetables. Cereals contracted an annual 6.5%, while vegetable prices fell 13%. Onion prices, which had been on fire earlier, contracted 55% in December, while wheat prices dipped 11%. Inflation in potato prices persisted and rose 38%, third consecutive month of elevated prices. The trajectory of the WPI data was similar to the retail inflation data , which was released earlier and showed a sharp moderation in December on the back of softening of food prices and improved supplies. The WPI data also showed that core inflation (excluding food and fuel) rose to a 24-month high of 4.2%, which economists said injected an element of uncertainty over the trajectory of WPI in the months ahead. “Wholesale prices will continue to see a moderate pick-up in the coming months, especially in manufacturing, owing to firming up of global metal prices following the opening up of the economy,” said Madan Sabnavis, chief economist at Care Ratings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/wholesale-inflation-eases-to-4-mth-low-at-1-2-in-december/articleshow/80277635.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Digit Insurance first unicorn of this year||MUMBAI: Bengaluru-headquartered non-life company Digit Insurance is the latest Indian unicorn. The company was valued at $1.9 billion after its latest fund-raise of Rs 135 crore from existing investors. The insurer raised funds as growth capital to meet solvency margin requirements following a 32% growth in the first nine months as against a 0.1% growth for the industry. The private insurer had raised its first external round of funding from three growth equity investors A91 Partners, Faering Capital and TVS Capital in January 2020. This investment gave them a 10% stake in the nonlife firm and had valued the company at around $900 million. The latest round of funding increases their stake by 1%. A holding company, where Goyal and Fairfax are key investors, holds 88%. Although in a conventional industry, Digit has positioned itself as a new-age insurer by using technology to simplify the process for customers like smartphone-enabled self-inspection and audio claims. The private insurance company was launched in 2017 promoted by insurance professional Kamesh Goyal in partnership with Canadian billionaire Prem Watsa’s Fairfax Holdings. Digit expanded business during the pandemic launching new products including a fixed-benefit cover for Covid-19 under the insurance regulator’s sandbox initiative. The largest non-life company in the country, the 100-year-old New India Assurance has market capitalisation of $3 billion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/digit-insurance-1st-unicorn-of-this-year/articleshow/80277660.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala’s economic growth rate saw sharp fall in 2019-2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The growth rate of Kerala economy plummeted to 3.45% in FY 2019-20, which suggests that the downward rally of state’s growth happened even before the outbreak of Covid-19. The economic review, presented in the assembly on Thursday a day before the presentation of LDF government’s last budget, illustrated the severe financial stress Kerala was bearing well before the pandemic began while also indicating grimmer challenges in future. Kerala’s gross state domestic product (GSDP) in 2019-20 was Rs 5.68 lakh crore against the provisional estimate of Rs 5.49 lakh crore in 2018-19, thus registering a growth of only 3.45% in 2019-20, compared to 6.39% growth in 2018-19. Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac and state planning board vice-chairman VK Ramachandran in a joint news conference, attributed the sharp decrease in economy’s growth to multiple factors, including demonetisation by the Centre in 2016 and natural disasters like cyclone Ockhi and two consecutive floods in 2018 and 2019. “The deferred effect of Ockhi and the floods can be observed in the slow grow rate Kerala registered in 2019-20. The country and the state were sliding into an economic recession well before the pandemic hit the Indian economy as a result of demonetisation and other things,” said Isaac. At the same time, the economic review for the last fiscal claimed that the state had been on a revival path from 2016 to 2018, revising a downward slide in state’s economy between 2013 and 2015. For example, the rate of growth of Gross State Value Added (GSVA) – the measure of value of goods and services – in the state was 4.3%, 3.8% and 5.3% respectively in the years 2013-14, 2014-15, and 2015-16 respectively. It was significantly slower than the corresponding national average. “Ending this phase of stagnation, Kerala’s economic growth accelerated in 2016-17, with GSVA recording 7.1% growth in that year,” said the economic review. It may be noted that demonetisation was introduced in 2016. The rate of growth of GSVA in Kerala were 5.8% and 6.2% respectively in 2017-18 and 2018-19. “It is notable that in 2018-19, the growth rate in Kerala exceeded the corresponding national rate. But, GSVA growth in Kerala slowed down to 2.6% in 2019-20,” stated the review document. The economic review attributed the growth rate from 2016-17 to 2018-19 to the fast growth in sectors like fishing and aquaculture, manufacturing, trade, hotels and restaurants, social services; mainly education and health, public and professional services. However, the outbreak of Covid-19 adversely affected economic activities in state, and effects of the pandemic and the consequent lockdown was reflected in the growth estimates for 2019-20, the review document said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/keralas-economic-growth-rate-saw-sharp-fall-in-2019-20/articleshow/80277663.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Gang stole SUVs in Delhi-NCR, sold them in the northeast||GURUGRAM: Police on Thursday claimed to have busted a gang of vehicle-lifters that used to steal high-end SUVs in Delhi-NCR, particularly Gurugram, and sell them in the northeastern states by replacing the original number plate with a fake one. The accused would target only fully automatic SUVs. Once chosen, the gang would break open the vehicle’s lock by a high-end master key that allowed them to circumvent the SUV’s security system, police said. They would then change the registration number of the SUV with that of a scrapped vehicle in the northeastern states and then drive it to Nagaland before selling the same through a network of used car shops. A team of the Gurugram police’s crime unit nabbed the gang’s kingpin from Nagaland and brought him to Gurugram on Thursday. The accused has been identified as Kikhet. The kingpin was arrested after two other members of the gang, Ankit and Jalal, who were nabbed by the Gurugram cops from Hisar and Ghaziabad, respectively, last month, had revealed his name during interrogation. It may be mentioned here that in the past two years, 4,118 and 2,750 vehicles, respectively, were stolen from Gurugram. A number of the stolen vehicles were high-end SUVs, according to the Gurugram police. A high-end Fortuner that costs around Rs 40 lakh is sold for Rs 15 lakh to end users in the used car market in Nagaland. Criminals who steal the vehicle get just Rs 2.5 to Rs 4 lakh for each vehicle, cops said. The vehicles stolen in Gurugram were transported to Nagaland with new registration plates within a few days of the crime and sold there in the used car market, a senior police official said. “SUVs like Fortuner and Innova are in high demand in the northeastern states, which is the reason behind the thefts of such vehicles here,” said ACP (crime) Preet Pal Sagwan. Cops said the devices used by carjackers to bypass the engine control module (ECM) of the vehicles cost anything between Rs 50,000 and Rs 1.5 lakh and are available online or at workshops. Such devices can start the engine, read error codes and give access to the car’s computer system.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gang-stole-suvs-in-ncr-sold-them-in-the-northeast/articleshow/80276523.cms||Bagish Jha
January 15, 2021||Noida||Wind speed low, air in Noida and Ghaziabad enters ‘severe’ zone||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Very slow wind flowing at a negligible 2km/h has almost brought pollution dispersion to a standstill leading to severe air quality index (AQI) in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. Noida on Thursday registered an AQI of 412, Greater Noida was at 410 while Ghaziabad at 429. “The current AQI situation is the result of the cold weather conditions. Such a low windspeed basically leads to no dispersion of pollutants. This is a typical situation faced by NCR every year around this time and that shoots the AQI up,” Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board officials (UPPCB) explained. Noida-Ghaziabad maximum temperature was around 19 degrees and minimum was at 2 degrees. Windspeed was as low as 2 kmph with 51% humidity. The air quality of the three cities has been on a steady decline over the last few days with a shift in the weather condition following the rain. Early morning fogs have also lead to low visibility for morning commuters. The evening temperature post sunset has been plummeting by several degrees. According to the weather forecast, while there is no immediate forecast for rain, the next few days are going to be partially cloudy. “The air quality will improve as the sun becomes bright and the wind speed improves,” a pollution department official said. Meanwhile, the capital’s air condition deteriorated to ‘severe’ category on Thursday, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 429, according to Central Pollution Control Board. Experts said slow winds, change in wind direction, low minimum temperature, moisture in the air and poor ventilation have led to accumulation of pollutants. The minimum temperature recorded on Thursday was 2 degrees Celsius. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, slight improvement in the air quality is expected after Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department, and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday was less than 5 kmph, which impacted the dispersion of pollutants. The wind direction changed in the afternoon from north-westerly to south-westerly and it trapped pollutants during the transition phase. Besides, low minimum temperature and moisture in the air due to fog slowed down the dispersion of pollutants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/wind-speed-low-air-in-noida-and-gzb-enters-severe-zone/articleshow/80276517.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Wind speed low, air in Noida and Ghaziabad enters ‘severe’ zone||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: Very slow wind flowing at a negligible 2km/h has almost brought pollution dispersion to a standstill leading to severe air quality index (AQI) in Noida, Greater Noida and Ghaziabad. Noida on Thursday registered an AQI of 412, Greater Noida was at 410 while Ghaziabad at 429. “The current AQI situation is the result of the cold weather conditions. Such a low windspeed basically leads to no dispersion of pollutants. This is a typical situation faced by NCR every year around this time and that shoots the AQI up,” Uttar Pradesh Pollution Control Board officials (UPPCB) explained. Noida-Ghaziabad maximum temperature was around 19 degrees and minimum was at 2 degrees. Windspeed was as low as 2 kmph with 51% humidity. The air quality of the three cities has been on a steady decline over the last few days with a shift in the weather condition following the rain. Early morning fogs have also lead to low visibility for morning commuters. The evening temperature post sunset has been plummeting by several degrees. According to the weather forecast, while there is no immediate forecast for rain, the next few days are going to be partially cloudy. “The air quality will improve as the sun becomes bright and the wind speed improves,” a pollution department official said. Meanwhile, the capital’s air condition deteriorated to ‘severe’ category on Thursday, with an overall Air Quality Index (AQI) reading of 429, according to Central Pollution Control Board. Experts said slow winds, change in wind direction, low minimum temperature, moisture in the air and poor ventilation have led to accumulation of pollutants. The minimum temperature recorded on Thursday was 2 degrees Celsius. According to Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, slight improvement in the air quality is expected after Monday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department, and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday was less than 5 kmph, which impacted the dispersion of pollutants. The wind direction changed in the afternoon from north-westerly to south-westerly and it trapped pollutants during the transition phase. Besides, low minimum temperature and moisture in the air due to fog slowed down the dispersion of pollutants.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/wind-speed-low-air-in-noida-and-gzb-enters-severe-zone/articleshow/80279204.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Haryana governor yet to clear 75% quota bill in private sector, seeks clarity||CHANDIGARH: The Haryana governor, Satyadeo Narain Arya, has sought clarification on certain aspects of the BJP-JJP coalition government’s much touted bill aiming to provide 75% quota for locals in private jobs. The Haryana state Employment of Local Candidates Bill 2020 was passed on November 5 by the Haryana assembly and has been pending with the governor for his assent since then. Sources confirmed that the governor’s office has asked the Haryana’s coalition government to clarify on certain issues raised by the governor regarding the constitutional validity of the proposed law, including the possibility of violation of the right to equality provided under the Constitution. According to constitutional experts, in case of denial of assent by the governor, the bill may go to the President for consideration and approval. Admitting that the governor had sought some clarification on the bill, Haryana’s deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said they had received some queries raised by the governor’s office and the same would be sent with appropriate clarifications back to them. Dushyant confident of job quota bill getting approval Exuding confidence that the bill would be approved, Dushyant, who also holds the industries and employment portfolios, said there is nothing unconstitutional in the bill as nine other states in the country have already passed similar laws that are applicable in those states. The deputy CM confirmed that even if the bill is referred to the President of India for consideration, he is confident that it would be approved within no time. Importantly, Dushyantled Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) had promised in its manifesto to reserve 75% of jobs for the local youth, a sizeable chunk of voters of the state, in the industries located in Haryana. Dushyant’s party is now part of the Manohar Lal Khattar-led coalition government in the state. As per the proposed law, 75% jobs in the new factories/industries or already established industries/institutions would be given to the domiciles of Haryana. The new bill provides for 75% employment to local candidates for jobs having salary of less than Rs 50,000 per month in various privately managed Companies, Societies, Trusts, Limited Liability Partnership Firms, Partnership Firms etc situated in the state of Haryana employing 10 or more persons. The employers will have the option of recruiting only 10% local candidates from one district. The proposed rules would be applicable only on new openings and would not affect the already working employees. However, objections were raised to the proposed law, especially by the industries associations on the grounds that the bill is unconstitutional and against the public interest, as the state had no right to create reservation contrary to 16 (2) of Constitution to secure political goals by creating discrimination. It has also been contended that the bill is an infringement of constitutional rights of the employers because private sector jobs are purely based on skills and analytical blend of mind of the employees who are the citizens of the country having constitutional rights on basis of their education to do jobs in any part of India as provided in the Constitution.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/haryana-governor-yet-to-clear-75-quota-bill-in-private-sector-seeks-clarity/articleshow/80277672.cms||Ajay Sura
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: High court orders probe into allegations of fraud by realtor||GURUGRAM: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the Gurugram police commissioner to conduct a preliminary probe into the allegations of fraud, and land title and licencing violations levelled by the homebuyers of Ireo Grand Hyatt Residences project in Sector 58 and submit a report by February 8. In its order on January 13, the high court also asked the Gurugram police chief and the director general of town and country planning department to attend the proceedings through video conferencing on February 8, the next date of hearing. The court was hearing a criminal petition fi-led by Sanjay Wadhwa, a homebuyer in the project, against the developers. In his petition, Wadhwa has alleged that the zoning and the building plan as well as all other “statutory approvals” were cancelled in December 2015 by the department of town and country planning (DTCP), and hence any construction done after that date is illegal. “The same building and zoning plans were further cancelled in 2016 and 2017, but the developer, Ireo in this case, hid this information from the homebuyers and went on to collect money from them.” According to the petitioner, H-Rera rejected the registration of the project in December 2017, but the developer concealed the information and collected more than Rs 50 crore from the homebuyers in 2017 and 2018. Launched on a 15-acre land by Ireo and the Grand Hyatt group in 2013, this residential project was supposed to be ready for possession by 2017. But even three years after missing the deadline, barely 10% of the project is complete till date, allege homebuyers. Despite repeated attempts, Ireo’s hospitality head Pankaj Dugar could not be contacted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/high-court-orders-probe-into-allegations-of-fraud-by-realtor/articleshow/80276529.cms||Rao Jaswant Singh
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||File reports on action taken against road squatters in Haryana: STP||GURUGRAM: Unauthorised construction and encroachment along all roads, national highways and state highways are now under scrutiny. Officials of the department of town and country planning and executive engineers of the public works department of the state have been directed to prepare lists of such unauthorised construction in their respective areas and submit reports on action taken against them. As per the norms, 30 metres on both sides of scheduled roads are green belts and no construction can be carried in this area, even if the land is privately-owned. The Punjab and Haryana high court, through an order in 2007, had directed the state government to remove the unauthorised construction along 30 metres of scheduled roads. Over the years, however, many unauthorised structures — mainly shops and commercial establishments — have mushroomed along state and national highways, which not only cause congestion but also lead to road accidents and deaths. This also hampers the widening of roads and other development works. Following the HC’s 2007 order, the government had constituted sub-committees under the chairmanship of the senior town planner (STP) to monitor the action taken against unauthorised construction along the scheduled roads. STP Sanjeev Mann recently reviewed action taken against such constructions in south Haryana and found the action taken at the district level to be unsatisfactory and directed all district town planners to take action against the unauthorised construction. “DTPs have been asked to inspect the controlled areas along scheduled roads in their respective jurisdiction and take necessary action,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/file-reports-on-action-taken-against-road-squatters-stp/articleshow/80276551.cms||Bagish Jha
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Land hurdle cleared, two acres more for Civil Hospital revamp||GURUGRAM: The redevelopment of the civil hospital, which was facing a land hurdle, is all set to start as the education department has finally handed over the two acre land, where the Government Senior Secondary Boys School is located, to the health department. According to GMDA officials, they had been asked by the chief minister to facilitate the handover of the land as it had kept the project pending. “The no objection certificate for the handover of the land is ready and it has officially been handed over to the health department. The work should be able to start in the coming months,” said a senior GMDA official. The department of public works and department (PWD) will be executing the project, sources said. The matter for the handover had come up at GMDA’s authority meeting conducted last month and the chief minister had directed the officials to expedite the process. The redevelopment of the civil hospital had hit a hurdle as the education department had refused to transfer the land for the project. The matter had then gone to the chief secretary Keshni Anand Arora for resolution. The health department had developed a proposal for the redevelopment and submitted it to the government, which was approved last year but the transfer of land delayed the project. The revamp of the Civil hospital was necessitated after a PWD report stating that it needed repair. In 2016, even the MCG had inspected the building and issued a similar report. The hospital building, which was developed around 50 years ago, has had six incidents of ceiling collapse in the last three years. The project cost has been estimated to be approximate Rs 268 crore. Though the project is set to start now, the health depart had started shifting out departments from past one year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/land-hurdle-cleared-two-acres-more-for-civil-hospital-revamp/articleshow/80276139.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: DIG begins probe into jailed prisoner’s death||KOCHI: Central Zone prisons DIG Sam Thankayyan has started an investigation into the death of remand prisoner Shafeek, who died at Kottayam Medical College on Wednesday. He was admitted to the hospital after collapsing at Borstal School, the Covid care facility of Kakkanad district jail, on Tuesday. Thankayyan visited the Kakkanad district jail on Thursday and collected statements from other inmates of the prison. The CCTV footage available from the prison premises were also inspected by the Central Zone DIG who has been tasked with investigation into the incident. The family of the deceased has alleged foul play and possible custodial torture behind the death of the inmate, who hails from Kanjirapally. However, according to sources with the prisons department, prima facie the investigation team has not found any lapses from the side of the jail authorities. “The man seemingly developed a seizure and collapsed subsequently. He could’ve sustained a head injury in the fall. The investigation team is waiting for an autopsy report before making a conclusive observation on the incident. However, it seems like the jail authorities rushed the inmate to General Hospital and subsequently to Kottayam Medical College soon after the incident and hence, prima facie, no lapses can be found in their conduct,” said a senior officer with the prisons department. The DIG was unable to record the statement of senior officers at the district jail on Thursday as they were busy with the proceedings relating to the autopsy of the deceased. The source said that the DIG would meet senior officers, including the jail superintendent, on Friday to collect their statements. Meanwhile, autopsy of the deceased is learnt to have been completed at Kottayam on Thursday. Shafeek, 35, was arrested and remanded by Udayamperoor police on Monday. He collapsed at the Borstal School on Tuesday and died at hospital on Wednesday. The case against the person was that he tricked a woman into believing that she was granted a pension of Rs 1.4 lakh and demanded Rs 7,000 as processing fee from her. The woman had given him Rs 3,000 and her ear-ring. According to police, the man was brought to the station around 2.30pm and was presented at court around 5.45pm. He was later remanded in judicial custody.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/kerala-dig-begins-probe-into-jailed-prisoners-death/articleshow/80277692.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Sensex may hit 50k today as US stocks rally on Biden plan||MUMBAI: In a volatile session, the sensex closed 92 points up at 49,584 points as European markets traded higher in early trades while the futures on Dow Jones and S&P 500 indices showed strong opening. The day’s gains came on the back of a Rs 1,077-crore net buying by foreign funds. As the US markets opened higher with both Dow and S&P 500 hitting new life-highs — backed by talks of another stimulus announcement by US President-elect Joe Biden late on Thursday, market players here expect a strong opening on Dalal Street too on Friday. The leading indices in the US rose despite a morethan-expected unemployment claims, a sign of rising number of Covid infections, media reports said. Of the 30 sensex stocks, 15 closed higher. TCS, Reliance and L&T contributed the most to the index’s gains, while selling in Infosys, Axis Bank and HCL Tech limited the rally to some extent. The S&P 500 rose for the seventh time in nine sessions this year as investors count on Biden to unveil during a prime-time address on Thursday evening a stimulus plan that could exceed $1.5 trillion. “We’re really focused on the stimulus measures so we largely ignored the fact that we also had a really big spike in jobless claims,” said Max Gokhman, head of asset allocation at Pacific Life Fund Advisors in Newport Beach, California. “Perhaps it’s back to bad-news-is-good-news situation, where market expects that deteriorating economic data will motivate lawmakers to issue even more stimulus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-may-hit-50k-today-as-us-stocks-rally-on-biden-plan/articleshow/80277709.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Chandigarh||Centre reduces vaccine sites from 8 to 4 for UT||CHANDIGARH: The government of India (GoI) has reduced the Covid-19 vaccine administering sites to four for the city. Earlier, there were eight sites, where the vaccine was to be administered. UT director health services Dr Amandeep Kaur said the sites in the city have been reduced to four from eight following the orders of the government of India. The health department, on January 12, had received 12,000 doses of vaccines to be used to immunise approximately 9,000 health workers. The DHS said, “We have marked two sites at GMCH-32 and one site each at GMSH-16 and GH-45. Vaccination will be administered to 100 persons per site per day and in the first phase, 3,500 health workers will be vaccinated at two sites at GMCH-32 and approximately 5,500 health workers at the other two sites. The four sites have been kept dormant and can be activated any time depending upon the availability of the vaccine.” While clearing the air about scare to get vaccinated, the DHS said this vaccination does not have ill effects, but it will only benefit the person getting vaccinated. She said, “We are not getting any consent form signed to get vaccinated. This vaccine is safe. There are no such orders from the government of India on getting consent form signed by any person.” While elaborating upon the cold chain preparations, the DHS said presently, the vaccine has been stored at the state vaccine store, Sector 24, Chandigarh and it would be made available at the regional, district and bock vaccine stores.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/centre-reduces-vaccine-sites-from-8-to-4-for-ut/articleshow/80277718.cms||Barinderjit Saluja
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||After a biker’s death in Gurugram, safety gaps galore||GURUGRAM: The recent death of a biker after his motorcycle fell into a pit at the under-construction Ambience Mall underpass has raised concerns over the road safety measures deployed at infrastructural project sites in the city. With several road construction and improvement projects going on in the city, major stretches like Shankar Chowk, Basai Road and Subhash Chowk, among others, have been dug up. Besides creating a traffic nightmare, especially during peak office hours, the lack of safety measures at these sites — lack of signage, poor visibility of information pertaining to construction like diversions, haphazard barricading, poor lighting around the construction area and diversions to non-motorable roads, to name a few — pose a serious safety threat to commuters. A visit to six key construction sites by TOI revealed that while the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has attempted to step up safety measures at its sites after two tragedies, the Sohna elevated road collapse and death of a biker at the Ambience Mall underpass, project sites of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) and the public works department (PWD) have many glaring gaps in the safety net. Non-adherence to placing signage — a major requirement for road safety at construction sites — was found to be a common problem at all six sites. The stretch between Umang Bharadwaj Chowk and Basai Chowk, where GMDA is constructing two flyovers, is a nightmare for commuters. With both sides of the road dug up and water-filled potholes flanking the stretch, the stretch witnesses massive snarls daily and also poses danger to motorists, especially those driving in the dark. According to traffic police personnel stationed there, while no major incident has been reported yet, bikes skidding or cyclists tripping on the potholes are a common sight. The situation was even more grave at Basai Chowk. Basic road safety measures like signage, jersey barriers for traffic diversions, barricading with reflective tapes showing directions, and marshalls with baton torches that ought to have been at the site, given that the stretch is accessed by over 40,000 vehicles daily, were found missing. At night, commuting is even more risky as there are no streetlights. Cops at the site said they have requested the contractor to put road safety measures in place. “But little has been done. It is only on us to ensure that no casualty takes place,” said a traffic police officer at Basai Chowk. The contractor in charge of the project, Ram Kumar Contractor, however, claimed that all safety measures are in place and it is the locals who remove the barricades and jersey barriers to find a shorter route for commuting. Similarly, at Atul Kataria Chowk, where the road has been dug up for the construction of an underpass, drivers have strayed too close to the edge in the absence of barricading to prevent slippage. Also, like most of the sites TOI visited, the contractor hasn’t placed signboards, jersey barriers or reflector tapes to help guide the traffic and avoid casualties. The project is being jointly developed by PWD and GMDA. “Driving at this stretch is not only jarring, but also dangerous. The road has remained dug-up for years and I haven’t seen any adequate safety arrangements. Potholes are unevenly covered and barricades and signboards are missing at most places,” said Sombir, a commuter who claimed that he had slipped on the road and narrowly escaped from falling into a pit last monsoon. The project contractor and its safety officer remained unavailable for a comment. Meanwhile, the NHAI project sites are no different. Although there have been some improvements after two major accidents put the pressure on the highways authority to pull up their contractors, a lot is still to be done. The Sohna elevated road site is now properly barricaded with signboards. Also, marshals have been deployed with baton torches to guide the traffic at night. Near Islampur area, however, there’s a need for more barricading and signage. “We have followed all the instructions by NHAI after the collapse in August last year. But, on the Islampur side, people create ruckus and obstruct our work. They remove the barriers so that they can park their vehicles there. We are preparing to install either iron grilles or barricades tied with chains there,” said an official of the contractor, Oriental Structures Engineering. Safety measures at the Ambience Mall underpass site have also been stepped up as well. As NHAI is probing the lapses that could have led to death of the biker, the contractor has barricaded the entire stretch with iron barricades and jersey barriers. The barricades have also been marked with reflector tapes to caution motorists and direct them on the road diversions. Signboards, however, are still missing. Encouragingly, Dwarka Expressway was found to be faring better than the rest in terms of deploying safety measures. Out of the six project sites visited by TOI, only Dwarka Expressway had sufficient signage and barricading, barring a few stretches, including Bajghera. Meanwhile, NHAI has decided to observe ‘road safety month’ from January 18 to February 17. For this, all project contractors have been asked to review their safety measures and fix lapses, if any. “All our sites are regularly inspected and directions are given to the contractor to fix the lapses. Also, we are observing road safety month from January 18 and all the project contractors have been asked to fix the lapses in their sites and also organise events and camps to promote road safety,” said an NHAI official. Road safety experts have called for regular road safety audits to ensure accountability in case of mishaps. “Unless the contractor is some international company, the adherence to safety guidelines is almost negligible. Even basics like signage, barricading of the entire area and traffic diversions to a motorable road are missing. For instance, the situation at Atul Kataria chowk is horrendous, with not a single safety measure in place. In the absence of road safety audits around construction sites, they escape accountability,” said city-based urban planner and road safety expert Sewa Ram. “If there’s an audit, then we can hold people accountable. When that happens, compliance to road safety manuals, which is mandatory for construction sites to follow, will improve,” Ram added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/even-after-a-bikers-death-safety-gaps-galore-what-more-will-it-take-to-prioritise-safety-at-infra-project-sites/articleshow/80276566.cms||Siddharth Tiwari
January 15, 2021||Business||IDFC First Bank may disrupt cards business with 9% interest||MUMBAI: IDFC First Bank is set to shake up the credit card market by charging interest as low as 9% on revolving credit for those with a good track record. The private lender will also not charge interest on cash withdrawals during the 45-day free credit period. This comes at a time when the market leaders in the credit card business are charging interest on revolving balances at the rate of 1.99% to 3.5% per month, which is about 40% annually. IDFC First’s credit card will not have an annual charge and reward points too would not have any expiry. While not all cardholders will be eligible for the best rate of 9%, young customers without the required track record will be charged annual interest at 36%, which is still lower than leading players. The bank is looking at segmenting the market into wealthy global customers, those who are big spenders and have excellent credit records. For millennials and big spenders, the attraction would be relatively higher rewards, which will be available on all transactions except fuel and insurance premium. The initiative is being driven by the bank’s chief operating officer B Madhivanan, who joined in the previous year from ICICI Bank, where he was chief technology officer and head of digital initiatives. Incidentally, IDFC First Bank’s MD & CEO V Vaidynathan too was head of ICICI Bank’s retail business before he moved to do a management buyout of Future Group’s financial service business, which was later merged with IDFC First Bank. According to Madhivanan, the pandemic has redefined payments in the country with a huge shift to digital. “While the credit card market is crowded, we see scope for growth as many potential customers are facing barriers. Our strategy is to come out with a product, which does away with all the barriers, makes life simple and gives cardholders a rewarding experience,” Madhivanan said . The credit card range comprising four variantswill initially be offered to existing customers by invitation. The card will be launched for new-to-bank customers in March.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/idfc-first-bank-may-disrupt-cards-business-with-9-interest/articleshow/80277732.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||‘Gender budgeting going strong in Kerala’||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Gender budgeting, one of the core features of Kerala budget is going strong with each passing year, stated the economic review. In 2020-21, Rs 1,509.33 crore has been provided for women specific schemes and an amount of Rs 2,300.54 cr for composite schemes has been made available for women. A total Rs 3,809.87 crore constitutes the gender budget for 2020-21, which is 18.4% of the total state plan outlay, said the review. “Government’s policies are oriented towards gender equality and empowerment. To support women affected by violence, in private and public spaces, within family, community and at workplace, One Stop Centres (OSCs) are functioning in state. Kerala is one of the first states to have OSCs in all districts,” the document said. Over the past few years, the state witnessed more individual women startups, nano-micro enterprises under IT and industries sector, the special livelihood development package of Kudumbashree and SHGs of other organisations that need to be sustained to ensure women’s participation in economic activities. “Kerala is way ahead of other states in terms of some dimensions of women empowerment. However, there are areas of concern such as wage disparity and concentration of women in low-income jobs and gender-based violence that need to be addressed. Likewise, the participation of women in the decision-making bodies at higher levels (legislative assembly and Parliament) is very low and it needs to be considered seriously,” the report said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/gender-budgeting-going-strong-in-kerala/articleshow/80277645.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Credit card spends top pre-Covid levels||MUMBAI: Festival demand in November drove the value of in-store credit card purchases to 109% of pre-Covid (January 2020) levels. The growth was driven by big-ticket purchases as the number of transactions continued to be at 71% of January 2020 levels. According to data collated by Pine Labs, which deploys card swipe machines in stores, purchase of apparels and spending in restaurants, which suffered the most in the first quarter bounced back in November. However, restaurant spends are still only 66% of pre-Covid levels. Similarly, apparels & footwear grew 112% in November from the pre-Covid average but were still at 81% of pre-Covid levels. The segments, where the transaction value has crossed pre-Covid levels, include mobile phones, consumer durables, computers, hospitals, petrol pumps, gems & jewellery and automobiles. The retail categories, where purchases are yet to reach pre-Covid levels, are apparel & footwear, restaurants, large-format retail, beauty & wellness, hotels, travel & tourism, airports and standalone clinics. Meanwhile, a survey conducted by NPCI in partnership with People Research on India’s Consumer Economy (PRICE) showed that while one of two of India’s richest 20% households use digital payments, as many as one out of four households in the poorest 40% also use it. Additionally, there is a suppressed demand from people who say they desire to use it but need guidance. Also, a smaller group has used e-payments before discontinuing. “If this ‘ready’ demand is enabled, then over half of all Indian households (15.1 crore households) will become digital payments users — 5.5 crore of these will come from the poorest 40%,” the report said. Watch Credit card spends cross pre-Covid levels||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/credit-card-spends-top-pre-covid-levels/articleshow/80277746.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram’s air slips to ‘very poor’, but better than Delhi, other NCR areas||GURUGRAM: The city’s air quality deteriorated to ‘very poor’ on Thursday with the air quality index (AQI) being recorded at 364. For the last 11 days, the AQI was being recorded between 65 (satisfactory) and 276 (poor), as per the Central Pollution Control Board. Among the adjoining areas, only Manesar was in the poor category with AQI reading of 265, while other NCR cities slipped to the severe category. The AQI in Greater Noida was recorded at 410, Noida at 412, Delhi at 429, Ghaziabad at 429 and Faridabad at 447. “Slow winds along with dip in temperature and fog have led to deterioration of the air quality in the city. The air quality is expected to stay the same with some improvement over the weekend due to local factors, including less vehicular activities. The region is witnessing smog in the morning and evening hours. We are monitoring the situation and have already asked the civic bodies to increase the frequency of sweeping of roads,” said Kuldeep Singh, regional officer at HSPCB. In Delhi, the air quality has worsened in the last 48 hours, as the AQI was 293 on Tuesday and 354 on Tuesday. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at Indian Meteorological Department (IMD), and head of the regional weather forecasting centre, said, “The average wind speed recorded on Thursday was less than 5 kmph, which impacted the dispersion of pollutants. The wind direction changed in the afternoon from north-westerly to south-westerly and it trapped pollutants during the transition phase. Besides, low minimum temperature and moisture in the air due to fog slowed down the dispersion of pollutants.” In Gurugram, only two of four monitoring stations — Vikas Sadan and Gwal Pahari captured the AQI. At Vikas Sadan, it was in a ‘severe’ category with AQI of 426 and at Gwal Pahari it was ‘very poor’ with a reading of 370. “This is likely to be first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021. The combination of dense fog formation leading to secondary particulate formation under congenial conditions of high humidity, extremely low ventilation and shallow boundary layer height is a major reason for the predicted smog episode,” said SAFAR. Meanwhile, the city is gripped under a cold spell due to icy cold winds coming from snow-capped Himalayas and it is expected to continue till January 17. The minimum temperature was recorded at 4.5 degrees Celsius, down from Wednesday’s 4.8 degrees Celsius, while the maximum temperature was recorded at 20.8 degrees Celsius, a notch above the normal. Dense fog condition was witnessed in several parts of the city reducing visibility to 100 meters in the morning hours, commuters said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/gurgaons-air-slips-to-very-poor-but-better-than-delhi-other-ncr-areas/articleshow/80275978.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Thomas Isaac faces a tightrope walk in pre-poll Kerala budget||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac – who introduced a revival plan for KIIFB and announced a Rs 25,000 crore development project under the fund as an outof-the-box idea in his first budget in 2016 – is set to wind up his innings with another major announcement that will address the unemployment issue faced by educated youth of the state. Isaac, who has given clear hints during pre-budget consultations about the need for an innovative scheme for providing jobs, is learnt to have finalized one that will be the highlight of his 12th budget. Whether the proposal will see the formation of an Employment Mission, in line with Nava Kerala Mission, or some new special purpose vehicle is something that will be revealed at 9am in the assembly on Friday. A recent study by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy found that unemployment rate in Kerala increased by 9.5 percentage points to 26.5% in May 2020. This is a sharp increase when compared with the 6.4% unemployment rate recorded May 2019. The state, which has a concrete plan to support startup industries, lacks proper schemes to provide jobs to educated youngsters who don’t have ‘enterprise’ mindset. The issue of women unemployment, the rate of which is thrice as that of unemployment among men, will be specifically addressed in the budget. With assembly elections four months away, the challenge before Isaac will be to present a populist budget by not burdening the public with additional tax. With fair price of land and stamp duties hiked last year, any new major tax proposal is unlikely. Since the opposition, UDF, announced Nyay scheme for direct cash transfer to BPL families as the thrust of their manifesto, social welfare pensions are likely to be hiked further. There was hike of Rs 100 in all social welfare pensions as a New Year gift and another hike is on the cards from April. The success of free grocery kit supply for all ration card holders, introduced during Covid-19 crisis, has also induced thoughts about providing more items through ration shops at subsidised rates. A practical plan to replace free ration kits, which will be provided till April, is also likely in the budget. With mounting debt and sharp decline in revenue owing to the pandemic, it remains to be seen how Isaac will find fund for these ambitious projects. A few major infrastructure projects will also find place in the budget, but those will be funded by KIIFB. Though Isaac will present a full budget, there won’t be departmentwise discussions in the assembly which is a pre-requisite for passing the budget. Hence, vote on accounts for first four months of the fiscal for funding day-to-day activities of the government will be presented by Isaac along with the budget. A general discussion of budget will be held in assembly from Jan 18 to 20. The newly-constituted assembly will have the responsibility of passing the new budget before June 30.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/thomas-isaac-faces-a-tightrope-walk-in-pre-poll-kerala-budget/articleshow/80277787.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||At 18 lakh, car sales crash to 10-year low in April-December||NEW DELHI: The auto industry moved in reverse gear during the nine months of FY21 as Covid-induced shutdowns as well as pressures on the economy and jobs saw sales of cars, two- and three-wheelers and commercial vehicles go down to historic lows. According to numbers released by industry body Siam, sales of passenger vehicles — a cumulative of cars, SUVs, MPV/UVs — stood at 17.8 lakh units in April-December, the lowest in a decade since the 18.1 lakh units sold in the same period of FY11. Two-wheelers sales in nine months of this fiscal stood at 107.7 lakh units, lowest since 109.4 lakh units seen in 2013-14. Three-wheelers sales stood at 1.3 lakh units. In 2000-01, the industry sold 1.4 lakh units. In commercial vehicles, the volumes stood at 3.6 lakh units (last lowest at 4.8 lakh units in fiscal year 2010-11), and contraction here clearly points out that the broader economy is still in deep trouble, and lacks confidence. “The industry has to work hard to get to better volumes and better business,” Kenichi Ayukawa, MD of Maruti Suzuki, who is also the president of Siam, said. Ayukawa said that demand has been coming back, which was evident through sales over the past few months, but added that it is too early to call it a turnaround. There has been a shortage of key components such as semiconductors and also the coronavirus situation still persists even though vaccination drive will be beginning soon. “The sales growth that we saw during the third quarter of the current fiscal contains some of the pent-up demand from the first quarter. So, the standalone sales performance of the third quarter may not be a true reflection of the industry’s overall sales,” he said, adding that some more time is required to make a fair assessment of where the industry is headed for. “The industry is facing a shortage of semiconductors, steel and other materials. These may lead to supply and production disruptions. There is also an impact of the price increase of steel, logistics and other raw materials. In such kind of fluctuations, it is very difficult to predict the demand scenario going ahead.” Asked about his expectations from the upcoming Budget, Ayukawa said the industry awaits the introduction of the scrappage policy, which would help weed out older polluting vehicles through incentives. However, he said there is no immediate need for a GST rate cut and this remains a medium- to long-term request. “We can understand the government has major responsibilities and limited resources as of now. So, presently we are not pushing for a GST reduction.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/at-18-lakh-car-sales-crash-to-10-year-low-in-april-december/articleshow/80277792.cms||Pankaj Doval
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Soon, an alternative legislation for farmers in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The economic review 2020 tabled in the legislative assembly on Thursday listed the adverse impact of three acts — Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act 2020 — enacted by the Centre. Referring to Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020, the economic review cited state’s response to point out that if APMC (agricultural produce market committee) mandis are weakened and if private markets do not replace them, the regulatory system in agricultural markets will collapse and the dominance of anarchic and unregulated traders will return to rural India. On the other hand, if the policies of procurement and Minimum Support Price (MSPs) are less favoured and private markets come to dominate agricultural marketing, the instrument of MSPs will be rendered sterile, it added. As regarding The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020, the review noted that globally, contract farming systems are also associated with increase in labour displacement, intensified casualization of labour, increased use of low-paid women workers and child labour and a propagation of monoculture in search of quick profits. As per economic review, the state has proposed to formulate alternative legislations at the state level to protect the interests of the farming community. The assessment of losses in crop husbandry sector in agriculture due to Covid-19 pegs total loss at Rs.1,731.78 crore for the period from March to July 2020, as per economic review. Agricultural labourers suffered loss of about Rs.200.3 crore. The assessment by state planning board showed that domestic prices of most agricultural crops, livestock products, and fish fell sharply after the lockdown began. The estimated loss in the vegetable sector from April 2020 to July 2020 is Rs. 221.93 crore. The total loss estimated for bananas and plantains up to July 2020 is about Rs.269 crore. The losses in cashew sector and tuber crop is estimated as Rs.10 crore and Rs.30 crore, respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/soon-an-alternative-legislation-for-farmers-in-kerala/articleshow/80277800.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Business||Fuel prices flare up but no tax cut signs||NEW DELHI: Petrol price remained on a roll, claiming a new peak at Rs 84.7 a litre in the national capital and 2 paise short of its all-time high of Rs 91.07 in Mumbai on Thursday. Diesel price too rose as retailers continued to pass on the staggered impact of crude’s week-long rally. After the latest hike, diesel cost Rs 74.88 a litre in Delhi and Rs 81.6 in Mumbai. While consumers continued to pay through their nose, there was no sign the Centre or state governments were considering any reduction in the hefty taxes they levy on motor fuels, which amp up the impact of rise in crude price. In Delhi, for example, consumers pay Rs 32.98 as excise duty on each litre of petrol and Rs 31.83 on diesel. VAT amounts to Rs 19.32 on petrol and Rs 10.85 on diesel. The only hope for consumers, it seems, lies in a correction in the global oil market, which saw benchmark Brent easing to $55.64 a barrel, down from $57 days ago. Reports of lockdown following fresh virus surge in parts of China, the world’s second-largest oil consumer, and extended Covid-19 curbs in Europe on fresh scare tempered market sentiment that was buoyed by vaccine rollout and Saudi offer to cut production by an additional million barrels a day. While the market grapples with the challenge of these conflicting signals, consumers in India, which imports over 80% of its oil, keep hoping for relief by way of a reduction in fuel taxes that make up about 60% of the pump prices.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/fuel-prices-flare-up-but-no-tax-cut-signs/articleshow/80277802.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Gurgaon||Vaccine-Day tomorrow: 97,000 doses arrive in Gurugram||GURUGRAM: The city received 85,480 doses of Covishield and another 11,400 of Covaxin, the vaccines against Covid-19, from Kurukshetra on Thursday amid tight security. They are being stored at the Pataudi district vaccine store and will be administered to healthcare workers on Saturday. The Oxford Covid-19 vaccine Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India, and Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be part of India’s Covid vaccination drive. The Covishield vaccines — of 5ml each — were transferred to the city in a refrigerator van with nine cold boxes and then moved to an ice-lined refrigerator at the district vaccine store in Pataudi. Gurugram transferred 40,530 of the Covishield doses to four other districts by vans — 22,620 to Faridabad, 7,120 to Nuh, 5,090 to Palwal and 5,700 to Rewari. The remaining 44,950 doses will be kept for the city. So far, the state has received 2.41 lakh doses of Covishield and another 20,000 of Covaxin, which are of 10ml each. While 4,200 of the Covaxin doses will be for Gurugram, the rest will be distributed in five districts — 2,200 in Sonepat, 3,000 in Palwal, 4,200 in Faridabad, 3,200 in Yamunanagar and 3,200 in Karnal. These districts will choose one or two session sites where the vaccine will be given to health workers. The sites will not keep Covishield as doses cannot be mixed. “We have received both the vaccines, which will be administered to healthcare workers on three days, ie. Monday, Thursday and Saturday. We will decide the plan of action on Friday after holding a meeting with the district task force,” said Gurugram chief medical officer Virender Yadav. In Gurugram, phase one of the vaccination drive will be held over two weeks and cover 36,105 healthcare workers, 600 of whom will be administered the first dose on Saturday. According to the health department, the vaccine will be effective for six to eight months. Of the six session sites in the city, the one in Wazirabad will have a two-way interactive communication with the Prime Minister. The other sites at Bhangrola, Daultabad, Medanta, Chauma and SGT Medical College will hold webcasts of the national Covid-19 vaccine rollout. Meanwhile, Gurugram on Thursday reported 34 new Covid-19 cases, taking its tally to 57,701. The health department said 89 patients also recovered on the day, bringing the total number of recoveries to 56,672. The city has 680 active cases and 618 of the patients are in home isolation. The recovery rate stands at 98% while the positivity rate is 1.5%. On Thursday, one person was sent to an institutional quarantine facility. So far, 7,09,128 people have been put under surveillance in the city. In the past 24 hours, the health authorities collected 2,268 samples for antigen and RT-PCR tests. So far, 7,05,542 samples have been sent for testing, of which 6,45,573 returned negative while the results of 1,153 are awaited. Meanwhile, Haryana on Thursday registered 187 Covid-19 cases and six deaths. With this, the total number of cases in the state has reached 2,65,803 and the toll has climbed to 2,972. While 2,60,565 patients in the state have been discharged after treatment, 2,266 cases are currently active. With this, the recovery rate in the state is a little over 98%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/v-day-tomorrow-97000-doses-arrive-in-gurgaon/articleshow/80276499.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 15, 2021||Business||Biden unveils plan to pump $1.9 trillion into pandemic-hit economy||WILMINGTON: President-elect Joe Biden outlined a $1.9 trillion stimulus package proposal on Thursday, saying bold investment was needed to jump-start the economy and accelerate the distribution of vaccines to bring the coronavirus under control. Biden campaigned last year on a promise to take the pandemic more seriously than President Donald Trump, and the package aims to put that pledge into action with an influx of resources for the Covid-19 response and economic recovery. "A crisis of deep human suffering is in plain sight, and there's no time to waste," Biden said in prime-time remarks from Delaware. "We have to act and we have to act now." The aid package includes $415 billion to bolster the response to the virus and the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines, some $1 trillion in direct relief to households, and roughly $440 billion for small businesses and communities particularly hard hit by the pandemic. Stimulus payment checks would be issued for $1,400 - on top of the $600 checks delivered by the last congressional stimulus legislation. Supplemental unemployment insurance would also increase to $400 a week from $300 a week now and would be extended to September. Biden's plan is meant to kick off his time in office with a large bill that sets his short-term agenda into motion quickly: helping the economy and getting a handle on a virus that has killed more than 385,000 people in the United States as of Thursday. It also provides a sharp contrast with Trump, who spent the last months of his administration seeking to undermine Biden's election victory rather than focusing on additional coronavirus relief. Trump, who leaves office on Wednesday, did support $2,000 payments to Americans, however. Many Republicans in Congress balked at the price tag for such payments. Biden will face similar hurdles with his proposals, which come on the heels of a $900 billion aid package Congress passed in December. But he will be helped by the fact that his fellow Democrats will control both the House and the Senate. Chuck Schumer, who is about to lead a narrow Democratic majority in the US Senate, and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said on Thursday that Biden's package was "the right approach" and pledged to begin working on legislation. The incoming president will seek to pass the legislation even as his predecessor faces an impeachment trial. The Democratic-led House of Representatives voted to impeach Trump on Wednesday, making him the first president in US history to be impeached twice. Ten of his fellow Republicans joined Democrats to charge him with inciting an insurrection in last week's deadly rampage at the Capitol. The impeachment proceedings threaten to hang over the beginning of Biden's term, and Biden has encouraged lawmakers to handle the trial while also moving forward with his agenda. PRECARIOUS MOMENTTransition officials said Biden's plan will be a rescue package that will be followed up with another recovery package in the coming weeks. The plan would extend moratoriums on foreclosures and evictions until September and include funding for rental and utility assistance. The president-elect also called on Congress to increase the minimum wage to $15 an hour, and the package will include assistance to fight hunger. "I know what I just described does not come cheaply, but failure to do so will cost us dearly," Biden said, adding that economists, financial institutions and Wall Street banks supported the need for stimulus. "If we invest now – boldly, smartly, with unwavering focus on American workers and families – we will strengthen our economy, reduce inequality and put our nation's long-term finances on the most sustainable course." The coronavirus relief-related funds will go toward a national vaccine program, testing, investments for workers to do vaccine outreach and contact tracing, and money for states. "The vaccines offer so much hope ... but the vaccine rollout in the United States has been a dismal failure thus far," Biden said, adding that on Friday he would set out his plan to vaccinate 100 million Americans in 100 days after taking office. "This will be one of the most challenging operations efforts we've ever undertaken as a nation. We'll have to move heaven and earth to get more people vaccinated." Pandemic-related shutdowns and restrictions have cost millions of US jobs. The Biden plan - if enacted - would buy more time for the economy to bridge the period until the distribution of vaccines allows for a wider resumption of economic activity. US equity index futures were little changed after Biden's speech, details of which emerged during Thursday's trading session. "It's one piece in the overall puzzle," said Jake Dollarhide, chief executive at Longbow Asset Management in Tulsa, Oklahoma. "It bridges the gap to getting restaurant workers, airline workers and other employees back to work."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/biden-unveils-plan-to-pump-1-9-trillion-into-pandemic-hit-economy/articleshow/80277823.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Noida||Covid vaccine: Noida gets nearly 29,000 doses, Ghaziabad 27,000||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The wait for the Covid vaccine is finally over, with Ghaziabad and Noida receiving consignments of Covishield on Thursday for the first round of vaccinations. A total of 27,410 doses of Covishield arrived in Ghaziabad from Meerut on Thursday afternoon amidst tight security. Officials said the first batch has 2,741 vials of 10 doses each, which are being stored in the main vaccine store at MMG District Hospital under police vigil. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta, along with other administrative and health officials, received the vaccine amid clapping and jubilation. The DM made a swastika mark on the ice box in which the vaccine was transported and broke a coconut in front of the vaccine van before the consignment was shifted to the vaccine store located adjacent to the IDSP unit. Pandey said, “The vaccine has been brought from LLRM College, Meerut. The vaccination will be strictly as per the protocol decided by the Centre. The security of the vaccine during transportation, storage and sessions is our top priority.” On the inaugural day on Saturday, about 400 healthcare workers (HCWs) are expected to be vaccinated at four centres. Afterwards, the number of sessions will be expanded. Each HCW will be given intra-muscular doses at an interval of 28 days. The three centres for the inaugural session are District Women Hospital, Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi, Community Health Centre in Dasna and Santosh Hospital. “Every person getting the vaccine will be provided with a form in which the name of the vaccine brand, his name, address and mobile number will be mentioned. On the first day of the vaccination, he would be given this and asked to bring it on the next date. After the process is completed, he would be given a certificate,” the DM told TOI. A total of 21,537 doctors and medical staff have been identified in Ghaziabad for vaccination in the first phase. Meanwhile, 28,840 doses of the vaccine reached Noida amidst tight security on Thursday noon. The vaccine arrived at GB Nagar CMO Deepak Ohri’s office in Sector 39 and was placed in the district vaccine store there. Covishield will be distributed at six centres on Saturday, the CMO said. A total of 24,453 health workers have been identified for vaccination. “On Saturday, 100 health workers will get vaccinated at each centre,” added Ohri. DM Suhas LY also inspected the storage facility on Thursday. He directed health officials to ensure storage of the vaccine as per stipulated guidelines and address all issues that cropped up during the two dry runs held on January 5 and 11. “Only Covishield has been received. There has been no delivery of Covaxin in GB Nagar,” said district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is in charge of Covid vaccination. The number of HCWs getting vaccinated in the district has now increased to 24,453. Vaccination will be carried out at Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Sharda University, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, Kailash Hospital and Bisrakh and Bhangel community centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/v-day-tomorrow-noida-gets-nearly-29000-doses-ghaziabad-27000/articleshow/80276628.cms||Shalabh
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Covid vaccine: Noida gets nearly 29,000 doses, Ghaziabad 27,000||GHAZIABAD/NOIDA: The wait for the Covid vaccine is finally over, with Ghaziabad and Noida receiving consignments of Covishield on Thursday for the first round of vaccinations. A total of 27,410 doses of Covishield arrived in Ghaziabad from Meerut on Thursday afternoon amidst tight security. Officials said the first batch has 2,741 vials of 10 doses each, which are being stored in the main vaccine store at MMG District Hospital under police vigil. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta, along with other administrative and health officials, received the vaccine amid clapping and jubilation. The DM made a swastika mark on the ice box in which the vaccine was transported and broke a coconut in front of the vaccine van before the consignment was shifted to the vaccine store located adjacent to the IDSP unit. Pandey said, “The vaccine has been brought from LLRM College, Meerut. The vaccination will be strictly as per the protocol decided by the Centre. The security of the vaccine during transportation, storage and sessions is our top priority.” On the inaugural day on Saturday, about 400 healthcare workers (HCWs) are expected to be vaccinated at four centres. Afterwards, the number of sessions will be expanded. Each HCW will be given intra-muscular doses at an interval of 28 days. The three centres for the inaugural session are District Women Hospital, Yashoda Hospital in Kaushambi, Community Health Centre in Dasna and Santosh Hospital. “Every person getting the vaccine will be provided with a form in which the name of the vaccine brand, his name, address and mobile number will be mentioned. On the first day of the vaccination, he would be given this and asked to bring it on the next date. After the process is completed, he would be given a certificate,” the DM told TOI. A total of 21,537 doctors and medical staff have been identified in Ghaziabad for vaccination in the first phase. Meanwhile, 28,840 doses of the vaccine reached Noida amidst tight security on Thursday noon. The vaccine arrived at GB Nagar CMO Deepak Ohri’s office in Sector 39 and was placed in the district vaccine store there. Covishield will be distributed at six centres on Saturday, the CMO said. A total of 24,453 health workers have been identified for vaccination. “On Saturday, 100 health workers will get vaccinated at each centre,” added Ohri. DM Suhas LY also inspected the storage facility on Thursday. He directed health officials to ensure storage of the vaccine as per stipulated guidelines and address all issues that cropped up during the two dry runs held on January 5 and 11. “Only Covishield has been received. There has been no delivery of Covaxin in GB Nagar,” said district immunisation officer Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is in charge of Covid vaccination. The number of HCWs getting vaccinated in the district has now increased to 24,453. Vaccination will be carried out at Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Sharda University, Super Speciality Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute, Kailash Hospital and Bisrakh and Bhangel community centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/v-day-tomorrow-noida-gets-nearly-29000-doses-ghaziabad-27000/articleshow/80277336.cms||Shalabh
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Tourism sector in Kerala suffered a loss of up to Rs 25,000 crore||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Tourism is one of the sectors which has been deeply hit by the pandemic, said the economic review report. During the pandemic, the sector incurred a loss of up to Rs 25,000 crore. As a result, the government had announced a Covid-19 loss assistance scheme to support the stakeholders in the tourism industry for the revival of the sector. The pandemic had brought business of all tourism stakeholders to a standstill affecting the livelihood of entrepreneurs as well as employees in the industry. As per industry feedback, this situation may extend for six more months. Anticipating a 10% growth over 2019, the number of foreign tourists’ arrival estimated for the period from January to September, 2020, was 9,01, 971. However, as per the data from the department, after the onset of the pandemic, the figures for the same period stood at 3,49,575, showing a 61% decline in arrivals. Similarly, assuming a 20% growth in domestic front, the projected number of tourists arrival between January to September, 2020, was 1,58,21,071. However, only 39,31,591 had arrived during the period. The decline in numbers was almost 75%. The total loss the sector had incurred between January and September 2020 was Rs.24,971 crore. While the loss in earnings from decline in foreign tourist arrivals is estimated to be Rs.5,274 crore, in the domestic front it is estimated to be Rs 19,697 crore. The tourism sector had rebounded strongly in 2019 after the 2018 floods and witnessed 8.52% growth in arrival of foreigners and 17.81% growth in domestic tourist arrivals. The domestic and foreign exchange earnings from tourism sector in 2019 was Rs 24,785.62 crore and Rs.10,271.06 crore, respectively. Total earnings, including direct and indirect means, in 2019 was Rs.45,010.69 crore, 24.13% over 2018.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/tourism-sector-in-kerala-suffered-a-loss-of-up-to-rs-25000-crore/articleshow/80277809.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Airport’s suburban rail, Metro corridors may not take off soon||BENGALURU: Work on two suburban rail corridors — KSR Bengaluru City-Yelahanka-Devanahalli (41km) and Kengeri-Cantonment-Whitefield (35km) — seems to have been stalled for Namma Metro. The government reportedly wants to avoid suburban rail corridors clashing with Metro’s Kengeri-Whitefield and KR Puram-Kempegowda International Airport lines. The 148km suburban rail project is being executed by Karnataka Rail Infrastructure Development Enterprises (K-RIDE), a JV between the railway ministry and the state government. BMRCL is said to have pressured the government into doing so since running parallel services could impact its ridership. However, officials are tightlipped over the issue. While Metro’s KR Puram-KIA section is yet to receive the Centre’s approval, suburban rail’s KSR Bengaluru City-Yelahanka-Devanahalli corridor, which got the Union cabinet nod last year, is supposed to be completed in three years. Work is yet to begin. Namma Metro has floated tenders and is yet to finalise bids for the airport corridor. It has set a 2024 deadline and is awaiting the Centre’s nod. On the other hand, the civil tender for suburban rail’s airport corridor has not been floated yet. K-RIDE planned to complete it in three years since the railway has adequate land. This means neither Metro nor suburban rail will connect KIA any time soon. Passengers will have to rely on skeletal services run by South Western Railway to KIA halt station. “BMRCL had raised concerns of both agencies working on similar corridors. It will affect funding and ridership of both agencies, so we decided to focus on the other two corridors in the first phase. Suburban rail ideally caters to people on the outskirts and Metro to those in core city areas. But the Centre has not approved suburban rail’s extension to the outskirts,” said a urban development department official. K-RIDE is taking up two corridors: Byappanahalli-Yeshwantpur-Chikkabanavara (25km) and Heelalige-Yelahanka-Rajanukunte (46km) in the first phase. “But the other two corridors are not scrapped and it will be taken up in the next phase. All will be completed in six years,” said an official. "The Centre has already approved the airport suburban rail corridor but the Metro’s airport corridor is yet to get permission. It will take more than five years to complete the project even if Metro gets the green signal. Citizens want to know as to why the suburban corridor is being stalled. The government can’t take people for granted for Metro when suburban rail could be completed in three years" said Rajkumar Dugar, convener of NGO Citizens for Citizens.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/airports-suburban-rail-metro-corridors-may-not-take-off-soon/articleshow/80274062.cms||Christin Mathew Philip
January 15, 2021||World||Donald Trump's trial could begin on Biden’s Inauguration Day||NEW YORK: President Donald Trump's impeachment trial could begin on Inauguration Day, just as Democrat Joe Biden takes the oath of office in an ever-moreextraordinary end to the defeated president’s tenure in the White House. The timing is not set and depends heavily on when House Speaker Nancy Pelosi decides to transmit the article of impeachment to the Senate. Democrats hoping to avoid interrupting Biden’s inauguration have suggested holding back until the new president has a chance to get his administration going. What is clear is that the trial will be unlike any other in the nation’s history, the first for a president no longer in office. And, politically, it will force a reckoning among some Republicans who have stood by Trump throughout his presidency and largely allowed him to spread false attacks against the integrity of the 2020 election.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/donald-trumps-trial-could-begin-on-bidens-inauguration-day/articleshow/80277835.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Applause, police escort: A veteran’s longest 75km drive||GHAZIABAD: At 59, Prem Singh is as seasoned a driver as anyone. But this was an assignment that could unnerve even a veteran. Singh didn’t have much time to process. He came to know only late Wednesday evening. It sunk in on Thursday morning when the 27,410 doses of Covishield were loaded into his van and the blue beacon of a police car guided him all the way back to Ghaziabad. “A police vehicle escorted the van!” Singh said on Thursday morning after safely bringing his consignment. “The police personnel ensured that the van did not get stuck in traffic. This has happened for the first time in five years,” he added. Singh, a driver with the health department, has been transporting vaccines for the past five years. “I have transported other vaccines before. But this was different. I did not have much time to prepare as I got a call from the immunisation officer on Wednesday evening. It was then that I got to know what I was about to do. I was asked to report at MMG District Hospital at 8am on Thursday,” said the Shahdara resident. Singh reported on time and the vaccine store manager, Ram Babu, and a police team joined him. Soon, they left for Meerut’s LLRM College, about 75 km away, where regional cold storage facility for the Covid-19 vaccines. They reached around 10am. “Others from Saharanpur, Baghpat, Bulandshahr, Shamli and Hapur were also present there. But we were the first to receive the vaccines for Ghaziabad. Within 30 minutes, an ice box was loaded in the van and a lock and seal were put on it. This seldom happens. Most of the time, I put my own lock just to ensure that vaccine boxes don’t get disturbed during the journey,” Singh said. This wasn’t anywhere near his longest vaccine run — Singh has transported vaccines from Lucknow and Karnal (Haryana). But these were the longest 75km he had driven, every kilometre completed easing the nervous tension he felt. When Singh drove into the hospital campus at 2pm, it was another new experience — everyone present was clapping. He had run many important trips for the health department but hadn’t been serenaded like this. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey and chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta received the vaccines. Pandey opened the seal of the cold box. Later, sweets were distributed among staff members. “Now that the work is done, I feel both relieved and happy,” said Singh, who said he will await his turn and take the vaccines he helped bring whenever his turn came.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/applause-police-escort-for-this-veteran-driver-a-75km-journey-unlike-any-other/articleshow/80276630.cms||Aditya Dev
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Remittance via foreign exchange dealers fell by 65%: ER||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: There has been a drastic 65% reduction in the transfer of money to Kerala from overseas through authorized foreign exchange dealers from Jan to May in 2020. Commenting on the trend, state planning board vice-chairman VK Ramachandran said it was an indicator of the impact of Covid-19 on nonresident Keralites. The economic review estimated the average monthly remittances through private receipts to state in 2020-21 will be Rs 8,756 crore. “Some of the emigrants rely on private money exchange dealers for transferring cash. As many of them have lost their jobs and returned to Kerala, there has been a drastic reduction in transfers through exchange dealers. As per the information gathered from authorized foreign exchange dealers, there has been a reduction of 65% in private transfer from Jan-May 2020, almost to the extent of Rs 5,691 crore in absolute terms,” the report said. However, with regard to NRI deposits, there was an increase in the amount deposited by emigrants. According to the report, the detailed received from statelevel bankers committee showed that the total deposits in NRI accounts in commercial banks in Kerala was Rs 1.99 lakh crore in Dec 2019. It increased to Rs 2.11 lakh crore by the month of June 2020. The deposits increased by 0.12 lakh crore from January to June 2020. The report estimated the amount of remittances –transferred to Kerala in 2018-19 through authorized foreign exchange dealers – at Rs 95,623 crore; Rs 1,46,912 crore was transferred through NRI deposits in banks. Thus, simple monthly average of NRI deposits in banks in Kerala was Rs 12,243 crore and private transfers were Rs 7,969 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/remittance-via-foreign-exchange-dealers-fell-by-65-er/articleshow/80277847.cms||---
January 15, 2021||World||Fourth lawmaker tests Covid +ve after Capitol riots||NEW YORK: US Representative Andriano Espaillat on Thursday said he had tested positive for Covid-19, becoming the fourth member of Congress to announce they had contracted the coronavirus following a mob attack on the US Capitol last week. It has now become a partisan issue with Democrats blaming Republicans for not wearing masks while sheltering in secure areas on January 6. But only Democrats have reported testing positive as a result of the emergency so far. Meanwhile, a man who was photographed holding a Confederate battle flag inside the Capitol last week during the riot was arrested on Thursday in Delaware.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/us/fourth-lawmaker-tests-covid-ve-after-capitol-riots/articleshow/80277850.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Manufacturing sector in Kerala sees steady growth||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Over the past four years, there has been a steady increase in the size of state’s manufacturing sector. The share of manufacturing increased from 9.8% in 2014-15 to 12.5% in 2019-20. As per quick estimates of state’s GSVA, the sector grew at 1.5% in 2019-20, said the economic review. The Kerala Micro Small Medium Enterprises Facilitation Act 2019 and the rules made therein is one of the key initiatives under the ease of doing business reforms undertaken by industries department for establishing and operating MSME units. In 2019-20, 13,695 MSMEs started with an investment of Rs 1,338.65 crore and created 46,081 employment opportunities. One of the significant developments is the launching of Kerala e-market portal to help and facilitate MSMEs, PSUs to expand their business in national and international markets. The pandemic and lockdown affected MSMEs adversely as they were plagued by demand and supply issues. The number of units started, investment and employment declined drastically as per the estimates taken in the first eight months of 2020, compared to corresponding months in 2019. To mitigate impact of the pandemic, government introduced Vyavasaya Bhadratha scheme to revive MSMEs. A sector that saw tremendous change is coir. Exports from Kerala State Coir Corporation and Foam Mattings (India) and Coirfed is increasing since 2015-16. In terms of value, exports increased to Rs 1,425.86 lakh in 2019-20 from Rs 1,072.55 lakh in 2016-17. Through the operation of new defibering units, husk utilisation in state rose from 12.5% to 14.8%. In 2019-20, coir yarn production in cooperative sector increased to over 20,000 MT from 7,800 MT in 2015-16. But over the years, there has been a substantial reduction in the size of workforce engaged in traditional industries. This is because of structural problems faced by some industries (such as cashew) and withdrawal of younger generation of educated workers. It is notable that a new set of modern industries are growing. The top industries (with respect to value added) are chemicals, refined petroleum products, rubber and plastic products, electronic products, and pharmaceuticals, medicinal botanical products. BPCL-Kochi Refinery is undergoing major expansion in refining and petrochemical production capabilities and this holds great promise for chemical and allied industries. Workers engaged in the manufacture of electronic components in Kerala rose from 2,930 in 2012-13 to 10,263 by 2016-17. Workers engaged in the manufacture of medical and dental instruments increased from 1,023 only in 2012-13 to 3207 in 2016-17.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/manufacturing-sector-in-kerala-sees-steady-growth/articleshow/80277852.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Kerala: Positive change in education, health sectors||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The education and health sectors in the state have undergone tremendous changes in the past four years, the economic review report prepared by the State Planning Board noted. The schools in the state witnessed a huge infrastructure upgradation and as many as 141 higher secondary schools were made ‘centres of excellence’ using the KIIFB fund of Rs.5 crore each. The report further noted that infrastructural facilities at 395 schools have been upgraded with the allocation of KIIFB fund of Rs.3 crore each. KITE had converted 45,000 classrooms (classes VIII to XII) into hi-tech ones in 4,752 government and aided schools in the state. The initiative of KITE in ensuring smooth conduct of online classes during the Covid-19 pandemic has been exemplary, it stated. When it comes to the health sector, the state has been a model for other states not only in terms of gains in the sector but also in dealing with public health exigencies. The health system rose to the occasion in dealing with the Nipah virus in 2018 and 2019 and the present Covid-19 pandemic. It is well known that the state has made significant gains in health indices such as high life expectancy, infant mortality rate, birth rate, and death rate. In fact, it is the strong public health system in the state that made it possible to deal with the Covid-19 pandemic so effectively, the review report further noted. "The Aardram Mission has also transformed the health infrastructure in the state. A significant step taken by the government in the health insurance sphere was the formation of the state health agency in July 2020. From July 1, 2020, the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi scheme was implemented under assurance mode for the entire Rs.5 lakh coverage. KASP converges all the government sponsored health insurance schemes namely, Rashtriya Swastha Bima Yojana (RSBY), Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (CHIS), and Senior Citizen Health Insurance Scheme (SCHIS). The scheme covers 41.41 lakh families." "The state is also known for the investment that it makes in its people to improve their wellbeing. In this regard, one of the major interventions has been in the field of pensions. The number of social security pensioners in the state is 49.14 lakh. The old-age pension has increased from Rs.600 in 2015 to Rs.1,400 in 2020. The government is taking special efforts for the elderly, persons with disabilities and the transgenders," it was pointed out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/kerala-positive-change-in-education-health-sectors/articleshow/80277859.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Noida||Over 5,000 pending Amrapali flats up for grabs in Noida, Greater Noida||NOIDA: State-run construction company NBCC has put up for sale over 5,000 unsold flats at various Amrapali projects in Noida and Greater Noida to help generate revenue for completing the different pending projects of the real estate group in the twin cities. The sale of 5,229 unsold flats will be conducted by Amrapali Stalled Projects Investments Reconstruction Establishment (ASPIRE), a company floated by NBCC to complete the pending Amrapali projects, under the supervision of the Supreme Court-appointed court receiver. And the sale date is expected to be announced through the website of the court receiver — www.receiveramrapali.in — and nbccindia.com, TOI has learnt. In Noida, the flats put up for sale are from Sapphire I, Sapphire II, Silicon City 1, Silicon City 2, Princely Estate, Crystal Homes (Sector 76), Heart Beat City 1 & 2, Platinum and Titanium, and Zodiac. In Greater Noida, the units put up for sale are from Castle, Leisure Valley Villas, Leisure Valley-Adarsh Awaj Yojna, Leisure Valley-Verona, Leisure Park phases 1&2, Leisure Park-River View, Golf Homes, Kingswood, Centurian Park-O2Valley, Terrace Homes, Tropical Garden, Dream Valley-Villa and Enchante. Amrapali’s various projects have a total of 46, 575 flats, of which some 8,416 units are currently getting registered. At present, NBCC is in the process of constructing 38,159 flats, of which 5,229 units are still unsold. And of the total that NBCC has to deliver, 1,031 units have already been completed. Unused floor area ratio (FAR) of the projects are also set to be put up for sale. NBCC has so far completed and delivered Eden Park (Noida) and Castle (Greater Noida). The entire Amrapali project is slated for completion and delivery by December 2023. “The construction of all Amrapali projects are in progress and we are working simultaneously at many sites. At this stage, we are planning to sell the unsold flats to infuse funds. The buyers are also urged to pay up their dues on time,” an NBCC official said. The commercial units of Amrapali, too, are likely to be put up for sale soon and include shops, nursery schools, nursery homes and milk booths, officials said. NBCC has officially engaged over 15,000 workers and more than 100 engineers from its executing agencies, and 70 of its own engineers are also deployed at the Noida and Greater Noida project sites. The company has also installed 19 anti-pollution guns at different project sites to mitigate dust pollution. The projects are being executed under the supervision of the court receiver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/over-5k-pending-amrapali-flats-up-for-grabs/articleshow/80276231.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 15, 2021||Noida||Loans, rents: Why some parents are pulling kids out of school||NOIDA: Torn between home loans, rents and business losses during the lockdown, many parents have been forced to pull their children out of schools, unable to pay their fee. Some parents who have defaulted on payments have even complained that the schools are not allowing their children to attend online classes and are apprehensive of whether they would be allowed to attend the final exams scheduled a few months from now. Although the UP government has asked schools to roll back fees, they have been taking a “composite fee”, which includes charges for tuitions and a few other activities. A section of parents has expressed inability to pay the reduced amount too. The schools, however, have argued that they need to charge some part of the fee so that they can pay salary to their staff and cover other maintenance charges. “I run a stationery business, which was entirely shut during the lockdown because schools and offices were closed. I am the sole earning member of my family and have dependent parents, a home loan, rent and two school going children to take care of. So, I had no option but to pull my children out of school. I have just engaged them with private tuitions for the year. I can’t imagine sending them back unless my finances stabilise,” said Puneet Sharma (38), a resident of Vijay Nagar. Sharma’s elder daughter goes to a convent school in Ghaziabad and is a student of Class 6. His son is in Class 2. Apart from a government order on reduction of fees, the district inspector of schools (DIOS) in Noida and Ghaziabad had notified schools to accommodate children whose parents have been going through financial instability. Parents, however, claim that the advisory has fallen on deaf ears. “We have been getting complaints every day from parents whose children have either been barred from online classes, not allowed to take the unit tests, removed from their classroom WhatsApp groups or their mid-term report cards withheld. This is sheer harassment. We have filed complaints at the district and state levels on this,” said Shivani Jain, president of the All School Parents’ Association. Nitin Sharma, whose daughter studies in Class 8 of Delhi Public School in Siddharth Vihar, alleged her daughter had been barred from online tests. “I have EMIs to pay and have had a 60% pay cut during the pandemic. I requested the school to take only the tuition fee, but they want to take the full composite fee. I am in no position to pay that fee now. There is a government order. Why does the school not comply? My daughter has been prevented from taking online tests and I wonder if they will allow her to take the final examination as well,” said Sharma. Told about the allegations, principal Krishna Singh said the school is being harassed by a group of parents who want to escape paying the fees using the pandemic as an excuse. “We can have a decent discussion with the parents, but they are ganging up against the school authorities. We have all evidence to prove that their online classes or tests have not been stopped,” she added. Fuzail Khan, legal advisor to ASPA, said most schools have the capacity to support a small section of parents who are facing financial constraints. “From what we have seen, only about 10% of the parents have faced financial problems during the pandemic at private schools. The schools can easily provide relaxation in such cases because affecting a child’s morale or moving them out of online classes is not in the spirit of education. There is also a PIL pending at the Allahabad high court, which would be heard on January 18. The PIL demands a 50% discount of school fee in the state,” Khan said. Ravi Dutt, DIOS of Ghaziabad, said, “There should be transparency between schools and parents. We are hearing such complaints on an individual basis.” Neeraj Kumar Pandey, the DIOS of Noida, said, “Schools have their own constraints. Schools are normalising the curriculum. So, for higher classes, all children will eventually have to go and attend the classroom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/loans-rents-why-some-parents-are-pulling-kids-out-of-school/articleshow/80276243.cms||Sharmila Bhowmick
January 15, 2021||Noida||DND traffic hit as vehicles queue up for RFID tags||NOIDA: Traffic movement over DND flyway remained affected throughout Thursday. While in the morning thick fog reduced visibility, later in the day, long queues of commercial vehicles disrupted traffic movement. Due to the crowding, daily commuters were hassled. Without RFID tags commercial vehicles, including cabs, taxis, trucks and rickshaws are not being allowed to enter the capital from Noida. Caught unaware, hundreds of commercial vehicle drivers had no option but to form a long queue at the toll booth. Though the staff deputed to manage the toll booth by the Delhi civic body was providing the tags, due to the crowding traffic movement on the entire carriageway towards Noida was affected. By 3.30 pm only two lanes were available to allow entry of Noida residents towards Delhi. The bottleneck jeopardised plans of the daily commuters as well as those heading towards the airport. Prashant Yadav, an IT executive, who was heading towards Jaipur with his wife, had to get off the car and request the toll plaza manager for a quick access. “I have a meeting next week in Jaipur and decided to spend the weekend there with my wife. We waited for over 20 minutes but the taxi had barely covered any distance in that much time. We were worried that we would get late,” said the resident of Sector 75. Through the tag, the Delhi government aims to bring down waiting time at the toll plaza and to keep pollution levels in check. Meanwhile, around 50 trucks were parked close to LG Chowk in Greater Noida small batches of trucks were also seen parked in phase II. “We have told the factory owners that without tag we cannot take the trucks to Delhi. They are getting the tags from Delhi and will give it to us to ferry the goods,” said Manveer Singh, who had parked his vehicle near LG Chowk. However, Ganesh Prasad Saha, deputy commissioner of traffic police, said, “We have asked the toll staff to engage only two lanes for commercial vehicles. Initially, there were some bottlenecks on DND but the situation improved in the evening.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dnd-traffic-hit-as-vehicles-queue-up-for-rfid-tags/articleshow/80276248.cms||---
January 15, 2021||World||Pope Francis, former Pope Benedict get Covid-19 vaccine||LONDON: Both Pope Francis and ex Pope Benedict have received the first dose of a vaccine against coronavirus, the Vatican said on Thursday. The 84-year-old pope and the 93-year-old former pope, got their jabs as part of a Vatican vaccination programme that began on Wednesday. Both are vulnerable because of their age. Francis is perhaps more at risk because part of one of his lungs was removed following an illness when he was a young man. Pope Francis said at the weekend that everyone should get a jab. “It is an ethical choice because you are gambling with your health, with your life, but you are also gambling with the lives of others.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/europe/pope-francis-former-pope-benedict-get-covid-19-vaccine/articleshow/80277956.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Ghaziabad: Fake call centre busted, 3 arrested||GHAZIABAD: Ghaziabad police busted a fake call centre and arrested three people, including a brother-sister duo for allegedly duping people on the pretext of providing jobs. Police said that the accused have been identified as Nikhil and Priyanka, both residents of Bulandshahr and the third person is Anup, a native of Deoria. “Nikhil and Priyanka owned the call centre and Anup used to assist them. Anup has the experience of working in the call centre,” police said. On Wednesday evening, police received information that some people are running a call centre and running a job racket. When police raided the place, they found 13 employees along with Nikhil, Priyanka and Anup. Police found no role of the 13 people as they were unaware about the fraudulent practice. Abhay Kumar Mishra, circle officer first, Ghaziabad told TOI that the accused were running the racket since 2017 from a call centre in Vaishali. “They used to collect data online and target those youths who completed their graduation from a reputed college. They have victimized people from Bihar, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and some states in the south,” he said. “First, the accused used to call a victim and asked them about their educational qualification. Accordingly, they used to provide employment opportunities in banks, airlines and hospitals. Once the accused gained the victim's trust they then started demanding money for paperwork, interview calls and joining letters. On an average, they used to take around Rs 3-5 lakh from a victim and after that they switched off their phones,” Mishra added. During interrogation, the accused told police that so far they have duped over 700 people. Police have recovered 20 mobile phones, two fake Aadhar cards, 225 bio data of youths, 13 data sheets and Rs 40,000 in cash. The three have been booked under IPC sections of 420 (punishment for cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/fake-call-centre-busted-3-arrested/articleshow/80276262.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 15, 2021||Ghaziabad||Four of a family found unconscious in Muradnagar, boy dies||GHAZIABAD: Four members of a family were found lying unconscious inside their one-room house in Muradnagar area on Thursday morning. While the 12-year-old boy from the family died after he was taken to a nearby hospital, three others are said to be in a critical condition. Police said it is possible that the family members got suffocated while they were asleep or they had food poisoning. The family had bought dinner from a local eatery on Wednesday. They also had an arrangement to light a fire with coal inside the house during winter. The house did not have proper ventilation. Police said that the house belongs to Rampal (40), who is a daily wage labourer. He used to stay there along with his son Kunal (12), wife Anita and daughter Shagyn (14). The incident came to light on Thursday morning when a milkman knocked the door but did not get any response. He checked with the neighbours and most of them said the family members must be sleeping. But when no one responded to repeated calls, a few neighbours tried to look inside the ground-floor house and found the four lying unconscious. While two people were on a bed, two others were on the floor. Iraz Raja, SP (rural), said that around 7 am, police got information about the incident. “Immediately, a police team reached the spot and took the family members to a nearby hospital, where doctors declared Kunal dead. The others are under treatment and are said to be critical,” he said. “When the police enquired with the neighbours, they said the family had purchased food from a local eatery and had that for dinner. We have taken samples of the food (daal, rice, roti and some vegetables) that we found in the kitchen. We will get those tested,” he added. He said according to preliminary investigation, the family members had been complaining of breathing problems for around 10 days and they were being treated by a local doctor. “We also found a prescription in the house. The room where they were found does not have a single window and once the main door of the house is shut, there is no way that fumes can escape from the room,” said the police officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/four-of-a-family-found-unconscious-boy-dies/articleshow/80276269.cms||Avishek Kumar Dubey
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Iranian film shot during 2019’s floods competes at KIFF||Kolkata: Iranian film-maker Manijeh Hekmat has been in Kolkata and intends to make a film on India someday. She believes that "India is one of few countries where you can place your camera in every corner and you’ll have images and, ultimately, cinema". Her personal film career is long and eventful. In 1995, she began working as a producer. In 2002, she directed her debut feature titled ‘Women’s Prison’ on the situation of Iranian women prisoners. The film was premiered at the Venice Film Festival. In 2007, her second film, ‘Three Women’, was shown in more than 80 international film festivals starting with Berlinale. Her latest, ‘Bandar Band’, is in the international competition at KIFF. It is a road movie with a difference. Most of her film takes place inside a van which acts as a refuge for the three musicians as they navigate their way through flooded terrains to attend a music competition in Tehran. Owing to the devastating floods in 2019, their journey to Tehran reveals more than the just the lives and stories of the protagonists. Roads are washed away. So are lives. Yet, life moves on. Excerpts from an interview with the director: Manijeh Hekmat with her unit during the shooting of 'Bander Band'How did your documentary background help in making this film?As a matter of fact, even before making a documentary film, you are forming your documentary background. Your ideas, your thoughts and your panoramic view of your surroundings, the history and the society you’re living in contribute to the formation of this background. Coming to the intellectual maturity, every filmmaker longs to make documentaries. As is evident in most of my works, there are some docu-style narratives that originated either from my own experiences as an observer or as my deductions through the field researches my team and I are always pursuing. How did you shoot the scenes that depict the journey across the flooded landscape of Iran?Working in the actual situation of peril and emergency is so difficult and terrifying. You should program everything perfectly when you are taking all the cast and the crew members to the flood-stricken regions and working in the water between the ruins. You need to make the mind and the approach of all the people involved identical since you do not have enough time to see, think and take decisions. You must do your job instantly. We achieved a common sense of the theme and the form in the first place. We were always ready to work – especially our DOP and I. While discovering the surprising landscapes, we would be able to start shooting intuitively. Honestly making a film, even in the ordinary situations, leads to making crucial decisions and entering trial and error tests. Due to the harmony and the transparency of the ideas in our team, everyone knew where he was to be when shooting. So, I hope that we have been successful in capturing the scenes. A still from 'Bander Band'What is the source material for your film? Did you come across some real life experience that prompted you to make a film like this? Or is this a complete work of fiction?The main source was not the flood. There were some really small cafes in Tehran in which the girls were able to sing. They had their own applications and their methods to organize some small competitive programs. It attracted me to see how the women with their husbands, how girls with their fathers, travel to Tehran from the remote cities to sing there and compete with each other. It is most unfortunate that all these cafés were closed down after a while. I was working on this story: seeking fame, a small band travels to Tehran from a far, far city to hold a secret concert in a small café. Then after the breaking news of the fatal flood, I immediately thought of moving the story to this actual setting. It was the main thing I longed to depict: a young generation doing its best to make a better world and a brighter future. But taking any possible path, only faces the dead ends, the broken bridges and the blocked roads. During the flood, I managed to create what I had in my mind. How challenging is it to be a female director in Iran now?As a matter of fact, I’m a woman filmmaker, film producer and domestic distributor in Iran. I suppose that in Iranian cinema, being a woman filmmaker is not that challenging. Many Iranian women are active in the different sectors of Iranian cinema. The challenging thing is the censorship. It’s not a gender subject. It only deals with your ideas and your thoughts. Manijeh HekmatWhere did you study filmmaking?When I was 14, I was living in a province with an active branch of Iran’s Free Cinema (which turned to Iranian Young Cinema Society after the revolution). Like so many filmmakers of my age, I started my amateur work in Free Cinema. Then we were making 8 mm films and I was beginning to explore the nature of the moving pictures, still photography and all the visual works. When I was 18, I gradually stepped into the film industry. What is the contribution of your learning abroad and the predecessors of female directors of Iran on your work?I must say that many super intelligent, understanding, wise and thoughtful women have entered Iranian cinema up until now. Their achievements in the international scene is proof of what I say. Undoubtedly, we have some influences on each other. But learning is not a gender thing. We have great filmmakers such as Nasser Taghvai, Bahram Beizai, Amir Naderi and Abbas Kiarostami. We’ve had such masters when learning filmmaking. There were also Sohrab Shahid Saless, Fereydoun Goleh and so many others. We were taught by them. They started the fire to enlighten the way of filmmaking for us. Of course, in order to learn filmmaking, you must read about cinema and watch the films. Interestingly, we, the women filmmaker started our professional career simultaneously. In 1980, I started my career, not as a filmmaker, but as an assistant director and production manager. However, I should admit that I have learnt so much from Rakhshan Banietemad. I have learnt from her all through these years. Just like our other women filmmaker. I believe that we, Iranian women filmmakers, contribute to each other all the time. This contribution enlightens our way of filmmaking. The unit of 'Bander Band' during the shooting Is shooting in the pandemic extra difficult than shooting in general in Iran?It was so strange to see that during the pandemic, more than 100 feature films were made in Iran. All filmmakers were trying to make their films respecting health and safety protocols. On the other hand, like any other places, the theatrical release of the films was faced with innumerable problems. Despite these problems, the filmmaking went on well in Iran. Especially the young generation found the opportunity as well as some small places to start their celluloid dreams. In the pandemic year, almost half of the films were made by the first-time filmmakers. It seems that at last they got the chance to think calmly and make their films eventually. So, we made our films. I also directed my new film. We, working in the independent cinema, do our best to make our works with small budgets and innovative ideas. Of course, there were some filmmakers, backed by the officials, who made their films benefitting from the big budgets and extraordinary equipment. But I’m so happy for the young generation that found an opportunity to grow more and more. Have you been to Kolkata/India? Has Indian cinema influenced you creatively?I was in Mumbai Film Festival with my film, ‘Women’s Prison’, and in International Film Festival of India – Goa with my film, ‘The Old Road’. I have also visited Kolkata. I believe that India is one of few countries where you can place your camera in every corner and you’ll have images and, ultimately, cinema. The unbelievable pallet of vivid colors and appealing manners, the beliefs and the faiths, is a totally different story. I have always loved to make a film in India,. It hasn't happened yet though. I know the Indian cinema very well – especially the realistic cinema which has been influential in world cinema – most notably in the growth of independent and groundbreaking films. It can inspire the filmmakers all around the world. A still from 'Bander Band'If you win the award at KIFF, what do you plan to do with the prize money?Indian film festivals always look fantastic to me. I love to be in these festivals and make friends with the directors and the organizers of the events as usual. I would be so happy to win the award since I have grown in the independent sector of Iranian cinema, making my films with minimum budgets. I have done my best not to be corrupted either by the governmental budgets, or by the suspicious investments which have found their way in Iranian cinema recently. Being independent is so difficult. If I win the award, I’ll complete my next projects and try to give gifts to all the people, who in these dire situations, have been active in the production and the distribution of ‘Bandar Band’. If I win, I’ll focus on what I should do. Are cinemas open in Iran now?They reopened just three days back. But people do not dare to go to cinema. Unfortunately, online release of the films did not help us at all due to the piracy. I hope that these bad days end soon and all of us would be able to gather once again to watch the films.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/iranian-film-shot-during-2019s-floods-competes-at-kiff/articleshow/80277819.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 15, 2021||Business||China tech giant Xiaomi dives 11% in Hong Kong after US blacklisting||HONG KONG: Shares in Chinese technology giant Xiaomi collapsed more than 11 per cent in Hong Kong trade on Friday after the US put it on a blacklist. The aim is to ban Americans from investing in it as the Trump administration ramps up its battle with Beijing. The company, one of the world's biggest smartphone makers and considered China's answer to Apple, was one of 11 firms targeted by US officials who said they posed a threat to national security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/china-tech-giant-xiaomi-dives-11-in-hong-kong-after-us-blacklisting/articleshow/80278006.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Portable lab at IGI to detect UK variant early||NEW DELHI: For early detection of new mutant variants of Covid-19 found in the UK and other parts of the world, SpiceHealth — the healthcare arm of SpiceJet — on Thursday launched a portable testing laboratory at Indira Gandhi International Airport in collaboration with CSIR-Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB). All positive samples collected from international passengers will now be sent here for sequencing to provide early results about possible variants, which have increased transmissibility. Sequencing at the airport is expected to minimise the time for necessary action, said an official. It may now even be possible to identify new variants within 48 hours of a person arriving in India and testing positive, the official added. If these samples are shipped to regional sequencing labs, the results come in approximately one week or more. “Sequencing at the airport could save as much as five days of potential transmission,” said an airport official. “As our country is preparing for the world’s largest vaccination drive, we cannot afford any form of new distraction,” said Avani Singh, CEO of SpiceHealth. CSIR-IGIB is a constituent member of Indian SARSCoV-2 Genomics Consortium recently announced by the Union health ministry. “Affordable and widespread point of genome sequencing is one of the most important new trends in next-age diagnostics. Here, we plan to use it to help in better monitoring and managing the pandemic,” said Dr Anurag Agrawal, director of CSIR-IGIB. The laboratory was inaugurated by Dr V K Paul, member (health) of NITI Aayog and chairman of National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19, in the presence of Dr Agrawal, Ajay Singh, CMD of SpiceJet; and Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/covid-19-portable-lab-at-igi-to-detect-uk-variant-early/articleshow/80278044.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Bengaluru||Wrong sex, missing surname: Travellers get refund in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: Two Bengalureans who approached a consumer court with separate complaints against two travel firms have won refund and compensation. In the first case, a woman sued a travel agency for getting a Singaporean visa issued to her with her sex printed as male, which spoilt her plans. The second complaint was against a ticketing website for not letting a man enter his family members’ surname, resulting in cancellation of tickets. Bharathi T of Sringar in Bengaluru was excited about the trip she had planned to Singapore, Malyasia and Thailand in mid-2017. She contacted Soonangi Travel & Tours Private Limited in Jai Bharath Nagar and paid a total of Rs 96,000 towards the trip expenses and visa procedures. Her Singapore visa arrived a few days later; it mentioned her sex as male. She immediately informed the agency representatives about the error and was promised the issue would be rectified before her scheduled travel date. But till the last minute, Soonangi Travel representatives failed to get Bharathi an amended visa, resulting in the 45-year-old having to drop her travel plans. She demanded a refund from the agency, which only agreed to repay Rs 32,000. The infuriated Bengalurean sent a legal notice to the agency and approached the Bangalore 2nd additional urban district consumer disputes redressal forum on January 5, 2018 with a complaint against it. At the end of proceedings that lasted over 34 months, the judges heavily criticised the travel agency for upsetting the complainant’s travel plans. The court pointed out the attempt to offer the complainant Rs 32,000 instead of a full refund itself showed something was amiss. It was clear that the first leg of the journey was to Singapore and Bharathi couldn’t take the trip as her visa showed her sex as male, which the travel agency didn’t bother to rectify despite being contacted by the complainant, the judges said. In their verdict pronounced on November 25, 2020, the judges ordered that Soonangi pay the customer a full refund of Rs 96,000 with interest, apart from Rs 10,000 as compensation and Rs 5,000 towards her litigation expenses. The same court heard a complaint filed by BK Ravi Shankar, 52, an insurance company manager, against Make My Trip India Private Limited, in which he stated the ticketing portal didn’t allow him to enter full names of four of his family members. As a result, Shankar was forced to cancel all the return tickets from Bengaluru to Port Blair — which he had booked by spending nearly Rs 1.3 lakh — for January 2017. As per the rules, the firm refunded Rs 18,041, but allegedly withheld Rs 38,643, which Shankar claimed it was legally bound to repay. After three years and six months of proceedings, the consumer court ruled in favour of the complainant on December 14, 2020 and ordered Make My Trip to refund him Rs 28,423 and pay him Rs 3,000 towards litigation expenses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/wrong-sex-missing-surname-travellers-get-refund-in-bengaluru/articleshow/80278025.cms||Petlee Peter
January 15, 2021||World||Pigeon survives US to Oz journey. But now on death row||NEW DELHI: A racing pigeon has survived a 12,875-km journey across the Pacific Ocean crossing from the US to find a new home in Australia. Now authorities consider the bird a quarantine risk and plan to kill it. Kevin Celli-Bird said on Thursday he discovered the bird that arrived in his Melbourne home on December 26 had disappeared from a race in the US state of Oregon on October 29. Experts suspect the pigeon hitched a ride on a ship to cross the Pacific. The bird’s feat has attracted the attention of the strict Australian Quarantine and Inspection Service. Celli-Bird said officials called him on Thursday. “They said they’re concerned about bird diseases,” he said, adding that they were considering contracting a professional bird catcher. The agriculture department said the pigeon “could compromise food security and wild bird populations”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/pigeon-survives-us-to-oz-journey-but-now-on-death-row/articleshow/80278056.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Restrictions for UK returnees extended in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The order directing all the travellers from the UK to go through mandatory RT-PCR test on arrival and a 14-day quarantine has been extended up to January 31 by Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA). Through the order, which was in force on a trial-basis till January 14, DDMA had issued directions that all the travellers coming from the UK should take a self-paid RT-PCR test on arrival. Those found positive were to be isolated in an institutional facility and those found negative were kept in compulsory institutional quarantine for seven days, followed by seven days of home quarantine. Strict surveillance is being kept on those in home quarantine after completion of institutional quarantine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/restrictions-for-uk-returnees-extended-in-delhi/articleshow/80278064.cms||---
January 15, 2021||World||At least 34 killed as earthquake rocks Indonesia||JAKARTA: A powerful earthquake rocked Indonesia's Sulawesi island early Friday, killing at least 34 people, levelling a hospital and severely damaging other buildings, authorities said. Hundreds more were injured when the 6.2-magnitude quake struck in the early hours, triggering panic among the terrified residents of the island, which was hit by a huge quake and tsunami two and a half years ago that killed thousands. "The latest information we have is that 26 people are dead... in Mamuju city," said Ali Rahman, head of the local disaster mitigation agency, adding "that number could grow". 1/10Strong earthquake in Indonesia's Sulawesi kills at least 34, injures hundreds Previous NextShow Captions<p>Rescuers remove rubble as they search for survivors at the Mitra Manakarra hospital in Mamuju city on Friday where as many as 20 patients and staff are trapped beneath the rubble after the hospital was flattened when a 6.2-magnitude earthquake rocked Indonesia's Sulawesi island. (AFP photo)</p><p>Residents inspect earthquake-damaged houses in Mamuju, West Sulawesi, Indonesia. (AP photo)</p><p>Rescuers search for survivors at the Mitra Manakarra hospital in Mamuju city on Friday. (AFP photo)</p><p>People look at the damaged governor of West Sulawesi province's office following an earthquake in Mamuju. (Reuters photo)</p><p>Rescuers looking for survivors trapped in a collapsed building in Mamuju, after a 6.2-magnitude earthquake rocked Sulawesi island. (AFP photo)</p><p>Residents inspect earthquake-damaged buildings in Mamuju. A strong inland and shallow earthquake hit eastern Indonesia early Friday causing people to panic in parts of the country's Sulawesi island and run to higher ground. (AP photo)</p><p>Members of a search and rescue agency team dig through rubble after an earthquake, in Mamuju. (Reuters photo)</p><p>Rescuers looking for survivors trapped in a collapsed building in Mamuju. (AFP photo)</p><p>Rescuers looking for survivors trapped in a collapsed building in Mamuju, after a 6.2-magnitude earthquake rocked Sulawesi island. (AFP photo)</p><p>Members of a search and rescue agency team dig through rubble after an earthquake, in Mamuju (Reuters photo)</p>"Many of the dead are buried under rubble," he said. Separately, the national disaster agency said at least eight people had died in an area south of Mamuju, a city of some 110,000 in West Sulawesi province, bringing the total death toll to 34. Rescuers were searching for more than a dozen patients and staff trapped beneath the rubble of the levelled Mamuju hospital. "The hospital is flattened -- it collapsed," said Arianto from the rescue agency in Mamuju city, who goes by one name. "There are patients and hospital employees trapped under the rubble and we're now trying to reach them," he added, without giving a specific figure. Rescuers were also trying to reach a family of eight trapped under the rubble of their destroyed home, he added. The country's search-and-rescue agency said at least one hotel had partially collapsed after the quake struck at 2:18 am local time Friday (1818 GMT Thursday), while the regional governor's office also suffered extensive damage. A Mamuju resident said damage across the city was severe. "Roads are cracked and many buildings collapsed," said 28-year-old Hendra, who also goes by one name. "The quake was very strong... I woke up and ran away with my wife." Images from the scene showed residents fleeing the seaside city in cars and motorbikes as they drove past corrugated metal roofs and other building debris scattered on the roadside. The meteorological agency warned residents that the area could be hit by strong aftershocks and to avoid the beachfront in case of a tsunami. "The aftershocks could be as strong, or stronger, than this morning's quake," said Dwikorita Karnawati, chief of the meteorological agency. "There is potential for a tsunami from subsequent aftershocks... Don't wait for a tsunami first because they can happen very quickly," she added. The local airport in Mamuju had also been damaged, authorities said. The quake's epicentre was 36 kilometres (22 miles) south of Mamuju and it had a relatively shallow depth of 18 kilometres, the United States Geological Survey said. Images supplied by the search-and-rescue agency showed rescue workers checking on two sisters who were trapped under rubble. It was not clear where they were trapped. Indonesia experiences frequent seismic and volcanic activity due to its position on the Pacific "Ring of Fire", where tectonic plates collide. In 2018, a 7.5-magnitude quake and a subsequent tsunami in Palu on Sulawesi left more than 4,300 people dead or missing. On December 26, 2004, a 9.1-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Sumatra and triggered a tsunami that killed 220,000 throughout the region, including around 170,000 in Indonesia.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/at-least-34-killed-as-earthquake-rocks-indonesia/articleshow/80278066.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Delhi||Spas to reopen in Delhi with Covid safeguards||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Thursday allowed spas to open in the national capital and operate with proper safeguards since the services offered are similar to salons that were permitted in the city much earlier. The court, while granting the relief, directed the spa owners to conduct Covid-19 tests of their staff every two weeks so to ensure there was no surge in infection. Justice Pratibha M Singh allowed two petitions filed by Association of Wellness Ayurveda and Spa and by several individual spa owners. The petitioners had complained that they have been hit financially by the ongoing pandemic and subsequent refusal of the government to allow normalisation of operations. Delhi government was not permitting spas to operate, even though salons, restaurants and every other business were allowed, the petitions had contended before the court. A detailed order of the court is awaited. The court’s nod came after the Centre submitted it had no objection to the opening of spas if they abided by the guidelines and the employees and clients of spas maintain requisite physical distancing of six feet in the premises, avoid overcrowding, use masks, maintain hand hygiene, and sanitise the equipment regularly. Earlier, the court had pointed out that if salons were working, then so could spas, asking the AAP government to relook its decision prohibiting their opening. On its part, Delhi overnment through advocate Anjum Javed had argued that employees in spas would not be able to maintain the six feet distance from the customers and clients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/spas-to-reopen-in-delhi-with-covid-safeguards/articleshow/80278140.cms||---
January 15, 2021||Kolkata||Cop focus on rallies, illegal parking as they brace for Sealdah flyover shutdown from Friday night||Kolkata: The Sealdah traffic guard has pleaded with Lalbazar not to allow any rally and procession to Esplanade even as it braces for the shutdown of the Sealdah flyover from Friday midnight in order to allow underground tunnelling of the East-West Metro. Cops said that unlike the last two times, when similar shutdowns were sought, they will not be allowing hawkers and traders under the flyover on all three days till completion of work on Tuesday morning. “We have worked out a plan with KMDA. The specific point, where the TBM will be operational, will be kept out of bounds for hawkers. They can open shop once the TBM passes by,” said an officer. While cops will keep both the MG Road and Beliaghata Main Road arms operational, they have plans to divert south-bound vehicles towards Moulali from Rajabazar Crossing on Saturday and from Maniktala crossing on Monday if there is pressure of vehicles during office hours. They will also put extra effort on Amherst Street-Nirmal Chandra Street and MG Road that are expected to witness slower vehicular movement than normal. As an added measure, cops also want two-wheelers to be diverted through Convent Road. “We have planned for each day. Sunday should be comparatively easy and Saturday, too, will not be a big challenge. It is Monday that we are worried about. But we will be deploying personnel from four different guards to ensure there is smooth flow of traffic. Men from Jorabagan, headquarters, Park Circus , Ultadanga and Beliaghata guards have been explained in detail about each one’s role. In all, around 60 cops will be engaged with the diversions,” said a source. Beliaghata Main Road and Narkeldanga Main Road may remain comparatively less congested. CR Avenue remained snarl-free last year and cops will be hoping for a repeat. The police have begun putting up signboards. Directional arrows, too, have been put up to guide motorists. “We will place adequate signages to help motorists. They have been painted in bright colours,” said Santosh Pandey, joint commissioner (traffic). Additional traffic policemen will be posted at every intersection from 8.30 am. Police will launch special drives to ensure that there is no illegal parking across central Kolkata to allow vehicles to use maximum road width. They will concentrate on Amherst Street, B B Ganguly Street, College Street, NC Street, S N Banerjee Road, Creek Row and M G Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/cop-focus-on-rallies-illegal-parking-as-they-brace-for-sealdah-flyover-shutdown-from-friday-night/articleshow/80274746.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
