January 16, 2021||Bengaluru||Kichchu Haisodu rituals take place on Sankranti||The annual Sankranti celebrations were underway in Mysuru and Mandya, with the traditional practice of Kichchu Haisodu. The tradition, which receives strong criticism from anuimal rights activists, sees owners of cattle and horses, run across burning stacks of hay with their animals in tow. This practice is meant to ward off evil influences and bring good luck and prosperity. The Siddalingapura village saw its residents partake in this ritual. Darshan's annual ritualSandalwood star Darshan ran across the burning haystack with his favourite horse like he does every year in his farmhouse in Mysuru, as he celebrated the harvest festival. Rakshitha and Prem's special SankrantiEver since he lost his mother, filmmaker Prem has taken it upon himself to immortalise her memories by working on his farm, which he has christened Ammana Thota, in Mandya. His family and close associates celebrated the festival with the Kichchu Haisodu rituals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/kichchu-haisodu-rituals-take-place-on-sankranti/articleshow/80291168.cms||---
January 16, 2021||World||UK imposes travel ban amid worries of new Brazil variant||LONDON: The British government banned travel from South America and Portugal to ensure a new variant of Covid-19 found in Brazil doesn't derail the UK's vaccination program, although there are no signs the variant has reached the country, Britain's top transportation official said. UK transport secretary Grant Shapps said the entry ban, which took effect on Friday morning, was extended to passengers arriving from Portugal because many people who come to Europe from South America travel through Portugal. "We don't have cases at the moment, but this is a precautionary approach," Shapps told the BBC. "We want to make sure that we do everything possible so that vaccine rollout can continue and make sure that it's not disturbed by other variants of this virus." The announcement comes just a few weeks after many countries banned travel from the UK following the discovery in England of another, more contagious variant of the virus that has been blamed for a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and deaths. Scientists have said there is no indication the UK variant reacts any differently to coronavirus vaccines. Portuguese foreign minister Augusto Santos Silva called the UK's decision "without logic" and said he would seek clarification from his British counterpart. "Suspending flights from Portugal with the argument of the connections between Portugal and Brazil is, with all due respect, completely absurd," he said in an interview published online by the newspaper Diario de Noticias. The UK is ramping up its mass vaccination program as the government seeks to protect the country's oldest and most vulnerable residents before easing a third national lockdown. According to government figures on Friday, a little more than 3.2 million people, or around 5% of the British population, have received a first dose of a two-shot vaccine. Britain plans to give the first dose to more than 15 million people, including those over 70, frontline healthcare workers and others who are particularly vulnerable to the virus, by the middle of February. "We're so close now that we want to make sure we do absolutely everything possible to give us the best chance of beating this virus, which is why it's important that we do act quickly on these things," Shapps said. While the first stage of the vaccination program aims to protect around 85% of those deemed most likely to die from Covid-19, the country is expected to continue recording high mortality rates over the coming weeks because of the lag time between infections and deaths. The government reported 55,761 more confirmed cases on Friday and the deaths of another 1,280 people within 28 days of testing positive for the virus. The daily update brought the UK's death toll in the pandemic to 87,295, the highest number in Europe and the fifth-highest in the world. Many of the newly diagnosed are likely to have become infected during the holiday period, before the current national lockdown in England came into force on January 5. The hope is that the lockdown will result in infection rates falling over the next week or two, particularly in areas that were locked down before the holiday. They include London and the southeast of England, where the new variant of the virus was first identified.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/uk-imposes-travel-ban-amid-worries-of-new-brazil-variant/articleshow/80292411.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||UK parliamentarians wrong on Kashmir: Ex-J&K deputy CM||JAMMU: Former J&K deputy chief minister Kavinder Gupta, who is a BJP member, on Friday rejected claims by UK legislators about human rights violations in the Union Territory. In a statement, Gupta claimed the discussion in the House of Commons was based on unsubstantiated accusations by Pakistan. Blaming the ‘enemy’ country for misinformation, he claimed Pakistan is struggling to foment unrest in the country by hook or crook. Rather than raising concern about atrocities in Kashmir, the UK’s parliamentarians should ask Pakistan to vacate Pakistan-occupied Kashmir, a region that was legally acceded to India but captured forcefully by the neighbouring country. “Ignoring authentic information available in public domain on the UT of Jammu and Kashmir and relying on malicious propaganda spread by Pakistan is not at all justifiable and needs to be condemned at all levels,” he claimed. Making it clear that Jammu and Kashmir would always remain an integral part of India, he said the return of Pakistan-occupied Kashmir should from the clutches of Pakistan needs to be discussed and people living in that part of Kashmir need to be helped to live a life of dignity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/uk-parliamentarians-wrong-on-kashmir-ex-jk-deputy-cm/articleshow/80292599.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 16, 2021||India||221 terrorists killed, 47 arrested in J&K last year: Army||JAMMU: Security forces killed 221 terrorists in J&K anti-terror operations in 2020 besides apprehending 47, according to the Indian Army. In 2019, 152 terrorists were slain and 43 arrested. The data, released on the occasion of Army Day on Friday, also revealed that 11 terrorists had surrendered in 2020 and three in 2019. The Army also claimed to have foiled 10 infiltration bids in 2020 and an equal number in 2019. The infiltration cases were recorded at 32 in 2020 and 141 in 2019. According to the data, 274 ultras were active in J&K in 2020 and 421 in 2019, while the number of terrorists at various launching pads in 2020 varied between 294 and 336 compared to 520-556 in 2019. In 2020, ceasefire violations were higher compared to 2019 — Pakistan breached the truce along the Line of Control and the international border as many as 5,246 times. In 2019, this figure was 3,824. Since the nullification of Articles 370 and 35A paved the way for the reorganization of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh, Pakistan has repeatedly targeted the frontier districts of Rajouri (Sunderbani and Nowshera sectors) and Poonch (Qasba, Krishna Ghati, Balakote, Mankote, Mendhar and Kirni sectors) by firing indiscriminately and shelling mortars on Indian forward posts and civilian areas. The ceasefire violations along the international border were mainly focused on Hiranagar in Kathua district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/221-terrorists-killed-47-arrested-in-jk-last-year-army/articleshow/80292641.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 16, 2021||India||4,000 deployed in Ladakh to be among 1st set of Army personnel to get Covid shots||NEW DELHI: Around 4,000 soldiers, military doctors and nurses deployed in Ladakh, where India and Chinese troops are ranged against each other in the continuing troop confrontation in the eastern sector, will be among the first in the armed forces to get the Covid-19 vaccine shots. Over 12,000 vaccine doses have been dispatched to Ladakh, as part of the nationwide vaccination campaign to be launched against the pandemic on Saturday. "More soldiers, including the ones on the frontlines in the friction points in eastern Ladakh, will be vaccinated as the campaign picks up over time. The armed forces had put strict protocols in place last year to spread of Covid-19 in their ranks," said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/soldiers-doctors-in-ladakh-to-be-the-first-to-get-covid-vaccine-shots/articleshow/80292772.cms||Rajat Pandit
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Following safety measures, tourists & Delhiites join city’s heritage walks||In the last couple of months, the number of visitors went up at the monuments, and the reason behind that is Delhi’s heritage walks. After a hiatus of six months, organisers are not only conducting walks at the heritage sites across the capital, but Taj Mahal, too. And some groups are even taking their participants to Rajasthan. Most of the organisers have capped the number of participants to ensure that social distancing is followed. We recently spoke to participants and organisers to understand what has changed for walks in the new normal. After a hiatus of six months, organisers are conducting walks at heritage sites across the capitalNew normal tours at heritage sitesHeritage walk organisers say that the safety of visitors is of prime importance to them. They make sure that all social distancing norms are being followed and nobody violates the rule of compulsory mask-wearing. Heritage walk organisers make sure that all social distancing norms are being followedAs there is online booking available, tickets for these walks get sold out a week before. Talking about precautions, Nidhi Bansal, Group CEO, India City Walks and India Heritage Walks, says, “We also ensure that the guests do not have any symptoms of COVID-19 before joining the walk. We’ve introduced the new normal tours keeping in mind the concerns people have these days. We are touring in open and less-crowded spaces with limited batch size. The ‘virtual explorer’ showcase is available for people to know the place before the visit.” All heritage walks are organised while making sure that nobody violates the rule of compulsory mask-wearingEnjoy storytelling, poetry and baithaksOrganisers say that they are conducting private storytelling sessions, too. Ramit Mitra, founder, Delhi By Foot, says, “Rather than going to old Delhi or Nizamuddin, people prefer going to Mehrauli or Humayun’s Tomb or Tughlaqabad Fort as these are more spacious areas. We have redesigned our walks for coronavirus and safety is paramount. Very few people are interested in going to a crowded place, but they still want to be out, so we organise baithaks, poetry and storytelling sessions.” Organisers are also conducting private storytelling sessionsBaolis have also become quite popular for walks. Historian Sohail Hashmi’s Delhi Heritage Walks has been conducting walks at Purana Qila, Jama Masjid, Feroz Shah Kotla, Bijay Mandal with historians moderating sessions. Arshiya, a government official, says, “I used to think that what’s the point of going for a heritage walk. But in the last few months, when I used to visit monuments, I saw several groups and got interested in going for one. It is worth it and I learned a lot about historical sites.” Many heritage walks also have historians moderating sessionsFood walks are non-existent at presentThe major concern of visitors is to avoid any crowded space. And that’s why food walks, which used to be a favourite activity for Delhiites and tourists alike, is currently the least preferred one. Satyendra Singh, who recently went for a walk at Mehrauli, and is a regular participant at walks, says, “Food walks, walks in spice markets are something that the walk organisers are not promoting at present. Earlier, there used to be long discussions about food and then we used to go for food tasting too, but it involves removing masks, so due to safety concerns, it is avoided.” While food walks are on pause at the moment, the ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) officials say that they are expecting a further increase in footfalls at heritage sites in the coming weeks. Watch Delhiites join city’s heritage walks||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/following-safety-measures-tourists-delhiites-join-citys-heritage-walks/articleshow/80289371.cms||Niharika Lal
January 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||All set for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in Andhra today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The stage is set for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine in the state. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the vaccination drive at government general hospital in Vijayawada at around 11:30 am on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually launches the pan-India roll-out. Andhra Pradesh has received 4.97 lakh vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to the about 3.88 lakh healthcare workers identified for the first phase of vaccination. The health department has identified 332 session sites for the commencement of the drive, which would be gradually increased to cover all health facilities in the state. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each of these session sites. It may take about 15 days to cover all first phase beneficiaries. The vials were transported to the vaccination session sites on Friday. About 38,000 healthcare workers in East Godavari will receive the jab, the highest for any district in the state. A state-level control room has been set up for real-time monitoring of the vaccine vehicular movement, vaccine administration, storage hubs and other logistics. The health department has also set up AEFI (adverse event following immunization) treatment facilities, which is a prerequisite as part of the vaccine roll-out. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, will receive the vaccine during the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-in-andhra-today/articleshow/80293406.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 16, 2021||Amaravati||All set for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in Andhra today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The stage is set for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine in the state. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the vaccination drive at government general hospital in Vijayawada at around 11:30 am on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually launches the pan-India roll-out. Andhra Pradesh has received 4.97 lakh vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to the about 3.88 lakh healthcare workers identified for the first phase of vaccination. The health department has identified 332 session sites for the commencement of the drive, which would be gradually increased to cover all health facilities in the state. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each of these session sites. It may take about 15 days to cover all first phase beneficiaries. The vials were transported to the vaccination session sites on Friday. About 38,000 healthcare workers in East Godavari will receive the jab, the highest for any district in the state. A state-level control room has been set up for real-time monitoring of the vaccine vehicular movement, vaccine administration, storage hubs and other logistics. The health department has also set up AEFI (adverse event following immunization) treatment facilities, which is a prerequisite as part of the vaccine roll-out. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, will receive the vaccine during the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-in-andhra-today/articleshow/80296218.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||All set for Covid-19 vaccine roll-out in Andhra today||VISAKHAPATNAM: The stage is set for the roll-out of Covid-19 vaccine in the state. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy will launch the vaccination drive at government general hospital in Vijayawada at around 11:30 am on Saturday after Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually launches the pan-India roll-out. Andhra Pradesh has received 4.97 lakh vaccine doses of Covishield and Covaxin from the Centre, which would be sufficient to cater to the about 3.88 lakh healthcare workers identified for the first phase of vaccination. The health department has identified 332 session sites for the commencement of the drive, which would be gradually increased to cover all health facilities in the state. Around 100 beneficiaries will be vaccinated at each of these session sites. It may take about 15 days to cover all first phase beneficiaries. The vials were transported to the vaccination session sites on Friday. About 38,000 healthcare workers in East Godavari will receive the jab, the highest for any district in the state. A state-level control room has been set up for real-time monitoring of the vaccine vehicular movement, vaccine administration, storage hubs and other logistics. The health department has also set up AEFI (adverse event following immunization) treatment facilities, which is a prerequisite as part of the vaccine roll-out. The vaccination drive has been planned in a phased manner, identifying priority groups. Healthcare workers, will receive the vaccine during the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/all-set-for-covid-19-vaccine-roll-out-in-andhra-today/articleshow/80296219.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 16, 2021||India||Centre insists on clause by clause talks with unions||NEW DELHI/BATHINDA: The Centre on Friday told farm unions opposed to the new farm laws that the talks would need to take up a clause-by-clause discussion to zero in on areas where changes could be made, rather than dwelling on the blanket demand that the three legislations be scrapped. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar told the unions it was incorrect to say the Centre had not budged on the demands put forward by them, pointing to the proposed amendments that had been sent to them. On the other hand, the unions kept insisting on repeal of all the three laws without discussing specific objections, he claimed. The discussion was cordial and though there was no breakthrough, the two sides will meet again on January 19. Both heard each other out with the government saying it would be part of the Supreme Court-initiated process though it would be best to find solutions to mutual satisfaction. Union representatives expressed their desire to arrive at solutions through “direct dialogue” with the Centre. Though the Centre had previously sought a clause-by-clause discussion, Tomar was much more insistent on Friday, indicating the talks could not progress unless this was done, said an official source. The unions sought to take up their demand for a legal guarantee for MSP, and though there was some discussion on it, the government said the priorities set out by the farm representatives listed ‘repeal of laws’ at the very top. The farmers said the Supreme Court had authenticated their concerns by staying implementation of the laws and hence the government must accept that the laws are not right and should agree to repeal them. Tomar responded, saying since the court had in effect suspended the laws, a condition set by the unions had been met and the laws should now be discussed threadbare. Farmer leaders Darshan Pal and Jagmohan Singh said Consumer Affairs Minister Piyush Goyal had come prepared for the Essential Commodities Act. He touched upon many of its salient features, including the state of FCI. "However, we raised objections on having no stock limit for value chain and processors but limits only for farmers. The ministers announced that they would redefine the Act, but we asked them to keep intact the previous 1955 Act," Pal said. BKU (Ugrahan) President Joginder Singh Ugrahan said, "We raised questions over NIA sending notices to transporters, who are supporting the farmers’ struggle and harassment of people who are financially supporting families whose bread-winners have died during protests. We stated that by using the central agency, the government wanted to scare away those supporting the struggle." Tomar suggested that the next meeting be preceded by a discussion between the Centre and a smaller group with the details then shared with the 40-odd unions which are attending talks with Tomar and Goyal. There was no agreement on this and some farm leaders kept calling for repeal of the laws, saying there was nothing else to talk about. Since the farm unions do not want to join the Supreme Court-driven process by appearing before a committee it has set up, they did listen to what government had to say on certain issues including its point on one of the least contentious farm laws - Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act - where it sought to know the real problem areas, if any. “The unions said the ongoing movement has nothing to do with Sikhs for Justice (a banned US-based pro-Khalistan group) and therefore, there should be no projection from the government's side that they are involved (in the farmers’ protests),” said Kavitha Kuruganti of Mahila Kisan Adhikar Manch after attending the talks. Besides bringing up their core demands - repeal of laws and legal guarantee to MSP - on the table during the meeting, the farm representatives also raised an issue of alleged police repression on people associated with the ongoing protests and urged the government side to look at the matter. In what could be a step towards taking confidence-building measure, Tomar is learnt to have promised to look at this issue through a proper mechanism. Tomar, at one point asked when exactly the protests will be called off and what was the point in discussing MSP when the repeal agenda was the key demand. The union leaders said both (repeal of laws and legal guarantee to MSP) were “equally important” demands, and the next meeting's agenda would be fixed on both these points, and not just one or the other. Tomar then suggested the farmer leaders to make an informal group among themselves, if they wish, and come up with a written proposal and legal points in the next meeting to find a “way forward” through point-wise discussion. He told the union leaders that each state in the country has different circumstances and a lot of farmers across the country support these new farm laws. “Talks with farmers unions today (Friday) were not decisive...We are, however, positive to reach a solution through talks. The government is concerned about the farmers protesting in cold conditions,” said Tomar after the meeting. On the issue of Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, there was a discussion on particular provisions as well as the general direction of the amendments. Goyal is learnt to have defended certain amendments. Though he elaborated on how this Act will benefit the agriculture sector and farmers, he agreed that some changes can be made in that Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/centre-insists-on-clause-by-clause-talks-with-unions/articleshow/80294266.cms||Vishwa Mohan
January 16, 2021||World||Have agreed on way to solve India boundary issue: Nepal||NEW DELHI: Nepal and India discussed the contentious boundary issue during Friday’s joint commission meeting and have settled on a mechanism to solve the knotty problem, Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali said. Speaking to a select audience at the Indian Council for World Affairs, Gyawali said he and foreign minister S Jaishankar took up the boundary issue. “However, there are issues that need to be sorted first, away from the public,” he added. Gyawali said Nepal’s step of changing its map last year was linked to India’s decision to issue a new political map in November 2019. The maps were released following the re-organisation of J&K into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh and did not alter the international boundaries, India has said. “We want to see a 21st century Nepal-India relationship, which is forward looking and founded on equality, mutual respect, justice and understanding of each other's concerns and sensitivities. For that, we should essentially attend to the issues that we have inherited from the past and address them appropriately,” Gyawali said. He added that an Eminent Persons Group (EPG) had been set up to review the entire spectrum of bilateral ties, including the 1950 treaty of friendship. “We have agreed to revise and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” he said. Given the ups and downs of bilateral ties, Gyawali said both countries “should be mindful equally that healthy relations require continuous nurturing, creative thinking, promptness and readiness to understand each other in changing dynamics”. Questioned about China, he said, "Nepal has always maintained a good relationship with both our neighbours. We never compare our relations with our friends. We've ensured that our soil won't be misused for the illegitimate interests of any neighbouring country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/south-asia/have-agreed-on-way-to-solve-india-boundary-issue-nepal/articleshow/80294691.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||Have agreed on way to solve India boundary issue: Nepal||NEW DELHI: Nepal and India discussed the contentious boundary issue during Friday’s joint commission meeting and have settled on a mechanism to solve the knotty problem, Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali said. Speaking to a select audience at the Indian Council for World Affairs, Gyawali said he and foreign minister S Jaishankar took up the boundary issue. “However, there are issues that need to be sorted first, away from the public,” he added. Gyawali said Nepal’s step of changing its map last year was linked to India’s decision to issue a new political map in November 2019. The maps were released following the re-organisation of J&K into two Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh and did not alter the international boundaries, India has said. “We want to see a 21st century Nepal-India relationship, which is forward looking and founded on equality, mutual respect, justice and understanding of each other's concerns and sensitivities. For that, we should essentially attend to the issues that we have inherited from the past and address them appropriately,” Gyawali said. He added that an Eminent Persons Group (EPG) had been set up to review the entire spectrum of bilateral ties, including the 1950 treaty of friendship. “We have agreed to revise and update the treaty to better reflect the current reality and to further consolidate and expand our friendship. We need to do it sooner than later,” he said. Given the ups and downs of bilateral ties, Gyawali said both countries “should be mindful equally that healthy relations require continuous nurturing, creative thinking, promptness and readiness to understand each other in changing dynamics”. Questioned about China, he said, "Nepal has always maintained a good relationship with both our neighbours. We never compare our relations with our friends. We've ensured that our soil won't be misused for the illegitimate interests of any neighbouring country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/have-agreed-on-way-to-solve-india-boundary-issue-nepal/articleshow/80294574.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||Compensation if Covaxin causes serious adverse effect||MUMBAI: Beneficiaries who receive Covaxin, a Bharat Biotech product, will be paid a compensation if they suffer a serious adverse event that is proven to be causally related to the vaccine. The compensation was one of the points highlighted on top of the consent form shared with vaccination centres on Friday. Vaccination sites at the six city central government hospitals will give Covaxin. The form stated that the beneficiaries would be provided care in government-designated and authorised centres or hospitals if they suffered serious after-effects. The issue of liability has been a bone of contention between vaccine-makers and the government, with the former having made demands that it be indemnified against mishaps. The vaccine purchase order of the government said the companies shall be liable for all adversities. Officials in Maharashtra said only the turnout on Saturday would tell whether a three-page consent form will allay concerns. The state is among 11 to accept the vaccine, which is still undergoing Phase 3 trials and has no large efficacy data. Unlike those getting Covishield, beneficiaries of Covaxin have to sign a consent form as it has has been approved for restricted use in emergency situations and is supposed to be given in clinical trial mode. The recipients will also be handed over a fact-sheet and an adverse effect reporting form where they would have to note down any symptoms such as fever, pain and redness suffered within the first seven days. The consent form starts with the company saying that the vaccine has demonstrated the ability to produce antibodies against Covid-19 in phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials. "However, the clinical efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be established and is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trial," it said. For those listed to get this vaccine, though, it was Covaxin or no vaccine. "What if we don’t want to take an unproven vaccine? We will have to go without any vaccine at all and continue to work in Covid wards," a senior physician said. A doctor from Solapur added that beneficiaries should have been given a choice to take Covishield or come back later when Covaxin’s efficacy data would be published. Maharashtra officials made it clear that there was no backup vaccine waiting for those having second thoughts about Covaxin. "We have been told the vaccine is safe and hope everyone will read the fact-sheet and take an informed decision," said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission. "Each centre will have only one type of vaccine so there is no scope of giving Covishield at those centres earmarked for Covaxin," he added. At Mumbai's JJ Hospital, which was also one of the trial sites for Covaxin and is now among the six vaccination sites in the city, authorities got trial co-investigator Dr Dinesh Dhodi to address concerns on Friday. "We haven’t seen any serious effects in Phase 3 so far," he said. Dr Jagannath Dixit, nodal officer from Government Medical College Aurangabad, said that beneficiaries would be given enough time to read the Covaxin fact-sheet and decide. Dr Anant Bhan, a bio-ethics researcher, said it was sad that healthcare workers have been put in such a situation. "Good consent requires time. Let’s say for good quality consent, one needs to spend an average of 30-45 minutes. For 100 vaccine recipients that should take 3,000 minutes in total. Will there be separate dedicated staff?" he said. Watch Covid-19: Compensation to beneficiaries if Covaxin causes serious adverse effects||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/compensation-if-covaxin-causes-serious-adverse-effect/articleshow/80294755.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 16, 2021||India||Arnab Goswami & ex-BARC CEO chats go viral||MUMBAI: Screenshots of purported WhatsApp conversations between Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami and the arrested ex-CEO of TV ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta – which form part of Mumbai police’s 3,600-page supplementary chargesheet in the TRP scam – made their way into the public domain on Friday and created a big stir on social media. Among other things, they are suggestive of a bid by top BARC executives to manipulate ratings in favour of Republic TV and the Hindi channel Republic Bharat. The screenshots also show the executives making suggestions to Republic TV on strategies to boost ratings. Read AlsoTRP scam: Ex-CEO of BARC Partho Dasgupta hospitalisedFormer CEO of ratings agency BARC, Partho Dasgupta, who was arrested in the alleged fake TRP case, has been admitted in the ICU. Dasgupta, a diabetic, was rushed to the hospital from the Taloja Central Prison in Navi Mumbaiin the early hours of Saturday after his blood sugar levels went up on FridayGoswami in return appears to have kept Dasgupta informed about government affairs, including the workings of the information & broadcasting ministry, cabinet reshuffle, appointment of secretaries, and more. These are a few snapshots of the damning leaked WhatsApp chats between BARC CEO & #ArnabGoswami. They show many con… https://t.co/EOQLc8ezvo— Prashant Bhushan (@pbhushan1) 1610697675000The chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail. They suggest Dasgupta and Ramgarhia shared confidential information with Republic that they had access to by virtue of their positions. For example, the chats reveal Dasgupta guiding Goswami on programming and distribution and asking Ramgarhia to inform Khanchandani where to increase the channel’s distribution. “Ask Vikas to keep Romil in loop too, they know each other very well,” Dasgupta told Goswami. On the distribution front, Dasgupta once told Goswami, “Just check, because of TMC pressure, have cable operators been forced not to air your channel in Bengal.” In another chat, he told Goswami in relation to ratings trends, “Clearly you are gaining in All India numbers, but 1 million plus numbers Times is gaining. Have asked for a deep dive on that.” The chats show Dasgupta also shared granular data with Goswami while at the same time writing that BARC “doesn’t share this level of data with anyone else,” in response to which Goswami voiced his “appreciation”. Dasgupta also asked Ramgarhia to “keep an eye” on viewership figures. “Ideally prune Chennai and make the gap small,” he said while referring to the gap between two channels (Republic and Times Now). Ramgarhia replied, “Chennai gap at 2+ (demographic) is low. 22+AB if we bridge the gap, Republic will fall to (number) two. Will check numbers and see what needs to be done.” One chat between Dasgupta and Ramgarhia shows how policy was altered to help Republic TV. On May 17, 2017, Ramgarhia messaged Dasgupta, “Also changed the policy on the website stating 2-4 weeks – releasing data from Republic from 6 May onwards. So covered.” BARC India’s earlier policy was to put out news channel’s viewership after four weeks, which was changed to release Republic’s data. He also asked Ramgarhia to inform Khanchadani about a drop in reach. “Tell Vikas they have no traction in Delhi, Bombay and Calcutta,” Dasgupta wrote in one of his messages. “Start messaging Vikas, if they lose Chennai, they will lose India since in the other markets, they are not doing well. They are super dependent on Chennai.” In addition, he regularly shared queries from TRAI and other media pertaining to Republic TV and viewership with Goswami, seeking his inputs. At the time when the News Broadcasters Association (NBA) was on a warpath with Republic TV, Dasgupta was helping Goswami with legal strategy and media management. The chats also show that before his exit from BARC, Dasgupta asked Goswami if he could help him get an “influential position” in the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/arnab-goswami-ex-barc-ceo-chats-go-viral/articleshow/80294896.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Business||TaMo’s Tesla tweet electrifies industry||NEW DELHI/ MUMBAI/ CHENNAI: A tweet quoting a 1960s Bollywood number featuring Shammi Kapoor and Mumtaz had all of Motown buzzing about whether there’s some “kissa” brewing between Tata Motors and Tesla, which is entering India. There was already chatter of an “electrifying” development over the past few days with market participants suggesting that the rise in Tata Motors shares was also the result of talk of a deal with Tesla. Adding spice to this speculation was a cheeky – though now deleted – tweet from the official handle of Tata Motors Electric Mobility. “Aajkal tere mere pyaar ke charche har akhbaar mein, Sab ko malum hai aur sab ko khabar ho gayi! #WelcomeTesla #TeslaIndia (which translates to 'The media is abuzz with our romance; its out in the public now'),” it tweeted a little after noon on Friday, while tagging Tesla and its founder ElonMusk. As market players took notice, the tweet was deleted. When contacted, a Tata Motors spokesperson said, “We have not taken any decision regarding a strategic partner for our PV business and categorically deny all rumours suggesting the same." Shares of Tata Motors have been shooting up over the Tesla speculation and also on the rapidly improving position of the company’s market share and sales. On Friday, the company’s shares opened at Rs 246, marginally higher than its Thursday close, rallied over 7% to Rs 265 and closed at Rs 260, up 6% on the day. In the last three months, the stock has more than doubled from its October 15, 2020 close at Rs 127. The stock has been rallying, according to market players, on expectations of a scrappage policy that will favour auto manufacturers and the closure of the Brexit deal which is expected to favour its international operations. Besides, the rumours surrounding a venture with EV major Tesla Tata Motors, have been driving the stock up. The company’s standalone sales performance has also been strong, propped by models such as Tiago mini, Nexon compact SUV, Altroz hatch and Harrier SUV. It is also set to re-introduce the Safari SUV, and also a mini car with strong SUV styling. Tata Safari 2021 preview | Ready to rumble again | Pratap Bose interviewAnd this is not all. Tata Motors has also bet heavily on the EV market and currently has two green products – the Tigor entry sedan and the Nexon EV. The company has set an ambitious tone in electrics, saying that it plans to price the green cars at “not more than 15-20% premium” to conventional petrol/diesel vehicles, while giving out a battery range at least in excess of 200km on a single charge. Also, the company plans to bank on the group’s strength across various technologies to spruce up its electric business, something which may also be an attraction for Tesla which has no exposure at all to India so far. Tata Motors has joined hands with other group companies such as Tata Power (for charging infra), Tata AutoComp (battery packs for EVs) and Tata Chemicals (lithium-ion battery cells) to make a strong eco-system for electrics. Tesla on the other hand has been eyeing the India market for long, something evident from Musk’s tweets over the past few years. However, it seems to have firmed up a plan only now as it registered a subsidiary in Bangalore after which Musk – who recently became the richest man on the planet -- also tweeted, “As promised.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/tamos-tesla-tweet-electrifies-industry/articleshow/80295030.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||President gives Rs 5 lakh for construction of Ram Temple||NEW DELHI: President Ram Nath Kovind on Friday donated Rs 5,01,000 for construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya on a day when various temple-related bodies, including RSS and its subsidiary organisations, launched a countrywide campaign seeking funds for the mandir. Kovind made the donation to a delegation of Shree Ram Jambhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which visited him at 11am on Friday. Trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri, VHP working president Alok Kumar, construction committee chairperson Nripendra Misra and Delhi region RSS chief Kulbhushan Ahuja were part of the delegation. “Since President is the first citizen of the country, we called on him to seek his blessings for construction of the temple,” said Alok Kumar. The VHP functionary said temple construction is a religious and spiritual affair. The President was accompanied by his entire family when he made the offering to the delegation. Kovind’s gesture of offering donation is similar to first President Rajendra Prasad, who had joined hands with the then home minister Sardar Patel and others to support restoration of Somnath Temple in Gujarat. However, the difference is that current PM Narendra Modi is also for temple and performed the ground-breaking rituals on August 4 this year to mark the reconstruction of Ram Mandir at Ayodhya. The first PM Jawaharlal Nehru, however, had differences with Prasad and Patel about restoration of Somnath Temple as some accounts say he termed the decision as “Hindu revivalism”. In his Pilgrimage To Freedom, KM Munshi wrote that after a cabinet meeting in early 1951, Nehru called him and said, “I do not like your trying to restore Somnath. It is Hindu revivalism.” Munshi was then food and agriculture minister. Vice-President M Venkaiah Naidu, several governors, chief ministers of BJP-governed states also made contributions for the temple construction. After the SC verdict clearing the way for the construction of Ram Mandir, leaders of the temple campaign had said that the construction cost will be borne by the people of the country for which a campaign will be launched, which will also ensure participation of the entire nation. The biggest contribution so far has come from an ex-MLA from Rae Bareli, Surendra Singh, who on Friday donated Rs 1,11,11111 (Rs one crore, eleven lakh, eleven thousand, one hundred eleven). Trust spokesperson and senior VHP functionary Champat Rai went to Rae Bareli to collect the cheque from the former MLA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/president-gives-rs-5-lakh-for-construction-of-ram-temple/articleshow/80295059.cms||Akhilesh Singh
January 16, 2021||India||EC shields officials, says clearance must to initiate disciplinary action||NEW DELHI: Keen to protect chief electoral officers (CEOs) of states and Union territories from “motivated harassment” stemming from political vendetta for having acted in a free, fair, impartial and fearless manner during polls, the Election Commission said on Friday that any disciplinary action against the officials would require clearance. An EC order said states and UTs should “invariably” obtain its approval before initiating any disciplinary action against CEOs and senior officers during their tenure and also up to one year after they have completed their terms. The EC has drawn on the Supreme Court order of September 21, 2000, upholding that neither can any action be initiated by a state government against officers on poll duty nor can the government refuse to act on the EC’s advice to act against errant officials, and a subsequent DoPT order in line with this position. The EC, in a communication to the cabinet secretary, state chief secretaries, personnel secretary and state CEOs also directed that state and UT governments shall not reduce facilities like vehicle, security, and other amenities provided to the office of CEO for proper discharge of his/her duties. Although the EC did not specify it was issuing the direction by virtue of its powers under Article 324 (power of direction and control of elections), it did state that “the commission is sanguine in the expectation that all concerned shall strictly adhere to this regimen in letter as well as in spirit”. “Yes, there have been instances of victimisation of CEOs in the past. The EC’s initiative for their protection is timely and appropriate advice,” former CEC N Gopalaswami told TOI. Appreciating the move, ex-CEC S N A Zaidi said it would give stability of tenure to CEOs and enable them to discharge their duties in a free and fair manner. The EC direction comes in the wake of instances of “victimisation” of CEOs, including one in 2019 where Andhra Pradesh CM N Chandrababu Naidu had barged into state CEO G K Dwivedi’s office during the Lok Sabha polls reportedly abused and pushed him for ordering transfers of senior IAS and IPS officers. Dwivedi maintained a stoic silence and stood his ground without getting provoked. He was later rewarded by the EC on National Voters’ Day. The EC recalled how CEOs were targeted “many a times” by slapping disciplinary cases on flimsy grounds for earlier tenures in a state government after completion of their EC term. “These officers are not only demotivated but also their morale is greatly reduced, which severely affects their efforts to ensure free and fair polls,” the EC said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ec-shields-officials-says-clearance-must-to-initiate-disciplinary-action/articleshow/80295206.cms||Bharti Jain
January 16, 2021||Business||Chinese investments worth Rs 12,000 crore await nod||NEW DELHI: The Centre is in no rush to approve investments from neighbouring countries, despite a rising backlog of proposals worth over Rs 12,000 crore from China. “There are hardly any fresh investments, most of it is incremental,” said a government official. A number of startups, ranging from Paytm to Zomato and Udaan, have investors with Chinese parentage and fresh flows face scrutiny. The tense border standoff with China had prompted the Centre to clamp down on investments from neighbouring countries by insisting on approvals even if the sector was on the so-called automatic route. The mood within the government is against any hurry in putting in place the guidelines to define what constitutes “significant beneficial ownership” or issue other clarifications. Officials said any review would be dependent on how relations pan out in the next few months. China is obviously getting restless and has flagged the issue of screening all FDI proposals even at the World Trade Organization (WTO). The government has hit back at Beijing in multiple ways, including a ban on several mobile apps, clamping on popular ones such as TikTok, and customs checks of goods being imported from across the border. Read AlsoChina raises India’s FDI checks at WTOChina on Wednesday expressed its “deep concern” over the recent foreign direct investment (FDI) policy changes initiated by the government, alleging that it curbs takeovers and acquisitions of Indian companies. In April, India had decided to review every FDI proposal from a neighbouring country, aThe FDI check, however, pre-dates the tension on the Ladakh border and came in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, which was first spotted in Wuhan. Several other countries have imposed checks on Chinese investments. In April, the government had made changes in the FDI policy to scan all investments from neighbouring countries with an eye on Chinese inflows that had begun to dominate a raft of sectors, particularly those linked to the technology sector. Officials said the proposals that are pending approvals cut across sectors from power to telecom to electronics and the financial sector. However, there is a section within the government, which is of the view that the Centre must adopt tough measures against China against the backdrop of the border standoff but must ensure that critical investments are not disturbed. Read AlsoIndia to become 5th largest economy in 2025, 3rd by 2030India, which appears to have been pushed back to being the world's sixth biggest economy in 2020, will again overtake the UK to become the fifth largest in 2025 and race to the third spot by 2030, a think tank said on Saturday.As a result, the move to put checks on Chinese investments via the overseas portfolio route has not materialised, with the finance ministry seen to be against the plan. In fact, it was not particularly keen on FDI curbs either, but the home ministry had its way, given repeated concerns expressed by several agencies.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/chinese-investments-worth-rs-12000-crore-await-nod/articleshow/80295210.cms||Surojit Gupta
January 16, 2021||India||Got no Harvard offer, was phishing victim: TV editor||NEW DELHI: Nidhi Razdan, who seven months ago announced on social media that she was leaving NDTV to join Harvard University as associate professor of journalism, said on Friday that she had been the “victim of a sophisticated and coordinated phishing attack", and that she had “not in fact” been offered any such position. Joshua Benton, the director of Nieman Journalism Lab at Harvard University, responded to Razdan’s statement saying, “Wow — this is awful. For the record, @Harvard has no school of journalism, no department of journalism, and no professors of journalism.” Ashoka University said in a tweet: “In a few Tweets/ Posts we have introduced @Nidhi as Associate Professor Harvard. Pending further cross-verification we are withdrawing these links.” In her statement, Razdan said she had filed a complaint with the police and provided them with all the relevant documentary evidence. She wrote that the attackers ‘used clever forgeries and misrepresentations to obtain access to my personal data and communications and may have also gained access to my devices and my email/social media accounts.” Her post soon became a talking point on Twitter with Harvard and NDTV being the top trends on the microblogging platform; there were over 90k tweets on Harvard. Razdan had announced her resignation from NDTV as an editor and anchor on June 13, 2020 on Twitter. “Some personal and professional news: after 21 years at NDTV, I am changing direction and moving on. Later this year, I start as an Associate Professor teaching journalism as part of Harvard University’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences,” she wrote from her verified handle @Nidhi. On Friday, Razdan said she had been asked to join the university in September 2020, which was postponed to January 2021 because of the ongoing pandemic. “Along with these delays, I began noticing a number of administrative anomalies... As a result, I reached out to senior authorities at Harvard University for clarity,” she said. That is when she discovered that Harvard not made her any offer, she indicated. Benton said Harvard just has the Nieman Foundation where journalists from around the world come for a year of study. The university also has a Shorenstein Center for media, politics and public policy, but no journalism-specific faculty, he added. Razdan said that the attackers ‘used clever forgeries to obtain access to my personal data and may have also gained access to my devices and my email/ social media accounts’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/got-no-harvard-offer-was-phishing-victim-tv-editor/articleshow/80295257.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||Mollified, Satabdi cancels Delhi trip||KOLKATA/BOLPUR: Actor and TMC MP Satabdi Roy, whose Facebook post about feeling let down by some colleagues is the latest in a long chain of dissent to hit Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee’s party, on Friday did a U-turn on visiting Delhi for her much-speculated meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. The decision came following a meeting with fellow MP Abhishek Banerjee. “I told Abhishek about my grievances. I am not going to Delhi tomorrow. I joined TMC because Mamata Banerjee wanted me in the party. This is the time to stay together and put up a fight,” Satabdi said, setting at rest speculation about her joining BJP. The Bengal BJP brass, however, believes the last hasn’t been heard of Satabdi’s dissent. “What we saw today may not be the final settlement. BJP is not enthused or disappointed with such a development. I can only say that there are more things in the waiting,” said BJP state general secretary Sayatan Basu. In a Facebook post on Thursday, Satabdi had said she was “unable to reach out to her voters” despite her efforts to connect with them. She claimed some people in TMC didn’t inform her about party programmes in Birbhum. She gave a date and time — January 16, 2pm — to make up her mind about her future in Trinamool. On Friday, TMC veteran and MP Saugata Roy and Rajya Sabha member Derek O’Brien called Satabdi while party spokesperson Kunal Ghosh visited her residence. Satabdi had sounded adamant about visiting Delhi before the party intervened.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/mollified-satabdi-cancels-delhi-trip/articleshow/80295267.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Business||Sensex swings nearly 900 pts on global cues||Mumbai: Friday witnessed one of the most volatile sessions on Dalal Street in recent months. As traders and investors were getting used to the market’s way of breaking higher grounds to scale life-highs on a regular interval, across-the-board selling pulled the index down by 549 points or 1.1% to 49,035 points at Friday’s close with 26 of its 30 constituents ending in the red. Weak global cues led to the day’s selloff, market players said. In intraday trade, the index was down nearly 900 points from its day’s high of 49,657 points. The strong selling also led to a spike in India VIX, a measure of market volatility and fear, which shot up over 7% during the day and closed with a 4% gain at 24 points. On the NSE, the Nifty closed at 14,434 points, down 162 points, or 1.1% from Thursday’s close. According to Geojit Financial Services head of research Vinod Nair, the market opened flat with a negative bias and weak start of European market led to further selling with all sectors in the red zone. “The $1.9-trillion ‘American Rescue Plan’ failed to uplift the sentiment in Western markets. Investors can resort to profit-booking as the near future trend of the market will depend on Budget expectations, Q3 results and foreign inflows,” Nair wrote in a post-market note. The day’s session also left investors poorer by Rs 2.2 lakh crore with BSE’s market capitalisation now at Rs 195.1 lakh crore. The regional equity research head of J P Morgan noted that US President-elect Joe Biden’s stimulus plan may prompt foreign funds to take money out of Asia. This too is weighing on market sentiment since this could mean muted or negative foreign fund flow into India, one of the main drivers for domestic market’s record-breaking run for the last three months. In the last three months of 2020, foreign funds had net pumped in about $23 billion into Indian stocks, and another $2 billion so far this year, CDSL data showed. On Friday, HDFC, Infosys and Reliance led the slide in the sensex, while Bharti Airtel and ITC cushioned the fall to a limited extent, BSE data showed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sensex-swings-nearly-900-pts-on-global-cues/articleshow/80295238.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Wastage of vax hinges on turnout of beneficiaries||Pune: Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services, said on Friday wastage of some Covid-19 vaccine doses may be unavoidable despite best efforts if less than the stipulated number of beneficiaries turned up at vaccination centres. Stressing that all efforts were in place to preclude the possibility of the wastage of the Covid vaccines, Dr Patil told TOI, “If a centre has to cover 100 beneficiaries per day, it would require 10 vials of Covishield (there are 10 doses in each vial). If the number of beneficiaries turning up at a centre is 91, nine dosages could go waste because there isn’t an open vial policy.” Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services for Pune region, said, “When there are 10 beneficiaries, one Covishield vial has to be used. So, if up to 55 beneficiaries come at a session site, then five doses from the sixth vial could go waste.” Dr Patil said the upper limit or allowable programmatic wastage of vaccines was 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wastage-of-vax-hinges-on-turnout-of-beneficiaries/articleshow/80293869.cms||Neha Madaan
January 16, 2021||Patna||Charging facility for electric vehicles opens at two railway stations in Patna||PATNA: East Central Railway (ECR) GM L C Trivedi on Friday inaugurated the charging stations at Patna Junction and Patliputra Junction (PJ) to cater to the needs of all types of electric vehicles parked in the circulating areas. This facility aims at maintaining green initiatives by the railways to check pollution in the city. Talking to this newspaper on Friday, Trivedi said Patna Junction and Patliputra Junction have become the only places in the country where charging facilities for electric vehicles are available. Initially this facility is being provided to those who park their electric vehicles in the circulating areas of the two major stations in the city, he said. Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM) Sunil Kumar said this facility will be provided at Danapur, Rajendra Nagar Terminal and Patna Sahib stations by March to fulfil the needs of electric vehicles, mostly e-rickshaws and electric two and four-wheelers. The charging stations will be a great relief to those who have been finding it difficult to get charged their electric vehicle battery at reasonable price in time, he said. According to Danapur senior divisional commercial manager (DCM) Adhar Raj, railways will charge nominal Rs30 to 40 per electric vehicle to charge at least four units. Normally, four units fully charge an electric vehicle which can cover a distance of 120km. As compared to petrol vehicles, e-charging is economically and energy friendly. Railways is charging Rs50 per vehicle as the parking charge in the circulating area of Patna Junction and thus e-charging of four units will cost not more than Rs30 to 40 per vehicle, he said, adding e-charging station points are located at the main entrance and Karbigahiya side of Patna Junction. Besides, railways has decided to launch e-manzil secure facility at Patna Junction by the end of this month. Under the plan, passengers can easily book their prepaid taxi or cab at the booking point from Patna Junction to reach home comfortably. To ensure foolproof safety to woman passengers in particular, e-manzil centre will keep a close watch on the movement of GPS fitted cabs. In case of the vehicle deviating from the prescribed route, an alarm bell will automatically ring and alert e-manzil centre staff, who will swing into action to ensure safe arrival of the passengers at home, Raj said, adding passengers can pay fare only after reaching home safely. Railways is likely to start ‘hot battery swap’ facility at the e-charging points. Under this scheme, e-rickshaw or electric vehicle owners can swap their exhausted battery at the e-charging centres and get new battery on lease also, the senior DCM said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/charging-facility-for-electric-vehicles-opens-at-two-railway-stations-in-patna/articleshow/80292756.cms||Kumod Verma
January 16, 2021||Patna||Donation collection drive starts for Ayodhya temple||PATNA: The VHP-RSS in coordination with the BJP launched a massive one-and-a half-month-long donation collection drive in the state on Friday for construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. A host of leaders of the BJP, minister and state functionaries launched the drive in different parts of the state. Rajya Sabha MP Sushil Kumar Modi and revenue and land reforms minister Ram Surat Kumar started off the drive in Patna and Muzaffarpur, respectively. Speaking on the occasion, SuMo said that donation coupons of Rs 10, Rs 100 and Rs 1,000 have been made available to the members of the teams assigned to collect donations from people for the purpose. Donation over Rs 2,000 will be accepted through receipts. Each collection team has five members. The cash received as donation is to be deposited in the bank account of Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Khetra Trust within 48 hours. The former deputy CM said that around 5.25 lakh villages, 13 crore Hindu families and 55 crore people in the country will be contacted by the donation collection teams during the drive. He exuded confidence that the Ram Lala temple being constructed in an area of around 47,400 square feet will be ready for the devotees by 2024. According to kshetriya pracharak of RSS (Bihar and Jharkhand) Ram Dutt Chakradhar, the 42-day donation collection drive, which was launched on Friday, would continue across the country till February 27. He also said that donations can be accepted through four mediums in the form of coupons worth Rs 10, Rs.100 and Rs,1000. Besides, cash till 20,000 will be accepted by the delegations but beyond Rs.20,000 donations will have to be made through cheque. Notably, unlike other states, there is no report of any protest by members of the minority community against the donation collection drive for religious purposes in the state so far.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/donation-collection-drive-starts-for-ayodhya-temple/articleshow/80292190.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Patna||Katihar, Saran ready for vaccination drive||KATIHAR/CHHAPRA: Altogether 1,827 vials of Covishield reached Katihar and have been stored at the sadar hospital. The vaccines will be dispatched to the nine centres at Katihar Sadar hospital, Katihar Medical College and Hospital, Barsoi, Manihari, Kadwa, Korha, Kurshela, Falka and Devkhaura. Katihar ADM Vijay Kumar said one medical officer, nursing staff, police and a magistrate have been deputed at each vaccination centre in the district. “We have also set up an observation room at each centre. Once the vaccine is administered to the recipient, he or she will be kept under medical supervision for half an hour. In case of any complication, the recipient will be sent to Sadar hospital or Katihar Medical College and Hospital for treatment,” he said. District immunisation officer DN Jha said the vaccine should be administered to the beneficiaries within four hours of opening the vial. Meanwhile, the vaccination programme against Covid-19 would be launched at nine places in Saran district on Saturday. A mock drill was organized at these places on Thursday in the presence of civil surgeon Dr M Jha and district immunization officer Dr Ajai Kumar Sharma. Jha said the district had received 21,410 vials of Covishield and the dry run had been conducted at Sadar hospital, PHCs at Dighwara, Garkha, Mashrakh, Sonepur, Ekma Maker and Amrit Hospital at Chhapra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/katihar-saran-ready-for-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80292792.cms||H K Verma
January 16, 2021||Patna||IndiGo official’s murder: No headway yet, kin seeks CBI probe||PATNA: Police teams have been sent outside the state to conduct raids in connection with the murder of IndiGo’s Patna airport manager Rupesh Kumar Singh. However, the police have so far failed to achieve any breakthrough in the case. Singh (42) was shot dead in front of an apartment on Shankar Path in Punaichak locality of the city on January 12. Singh had a strong political and bureaucratic connections. A special task force has been constituted to crack the murder case which has created pressure on police as well as the state government. “Police teams have been sent outside the state. However, their location can’t be disclosed at present for the sake of investigation,” said a police officer. So far, raids were conducted in Siwan, Gopalganj, Saran and Patna only in connection with the case. Meanwhile, Rupesh’s elder brother Nandeshwar Singh has demanded a CBI inquiry into the case, news agency ANI tweeted on Friday. Singh said CM had given ultimatum of 48 hours for arresting culprits, but police have failed in doing so. Hence, the case must be handed over to CBI for inquiry, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/indigo-officials-murder-no-headway-yet-kin-seeks-cbi-probe/articleshow/80292743.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||28 ‘posh areas’ of Rajkot under Disturbed Area Act||Rajkot: Gujarat government has imposed Disturbed Area Act in 28 areas falling under Gandhighram police station, mostly residential societies, in Rajkot city and declared these as ‘disturbed areas’. The Act prohibits the sale of property between different religious communities without prior approval of the district collector. The 28 areas are part of ward 2 of the Rajkot Municipal Corporation (RMC). The act will be in force for the next five years till January 12, 2026. This is for the first time that the Gujarat Prohibition of Transfer of Immovable Property and Provision for Protection of Tenants from Eviction from Premises in Disturbed Areas Act, commonly known as the Disturbed Area Act, has been imposed in any locality or area of Rajkot city. The notification issued by the state revenue department on January 13 stated “Gujarat government is of the opinion that public order in the said areas was disturbed for a substantial period by reason of riots of violence of mob”. The imposition of the Act means that “All transfers of immovable properties situated in the disturbed areas made during the aforesaid specified period shall be null and void and no immovable property situated in the said disturbed areas shall during the aforesaid specified period be transferred except with the previous sanction of the collector, Rajkot district”, the notification read. Sources said the Act was imposed by the district administration, following representation by various sections of people and based on police opinion. The areas where the Act has been imposed are posh areas and is known to be a stronghold of BJP and the RSS supporters, sources added. The Act which was amended in 2019 has provision for imprisonment between three to five years along with a fine of Rs 1 lakh or 10% of the value of the property, whichever is higher, in case of violation. This Act has been in force in some communally sensitive areas of the state, including in Ahmedabad and Vadodara.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/28-posh-areas-of-rajkot-under-disturbed-area-act/articleshow/80291757.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Curtains down on 26th KIFF with awards||Kolkata: Among the nine films that competed in the 26th Kolkata International Film Festival’s (KIFF) international competition, Manijeh Hekmat’s ‘Bander Band’ was declared the recipient of the Golden Royal Bengal Tiger award for the best film on Friday. This award was announced at a star-studded ceremony that began with a sreekhol performance by Hare Krishna Halder and his team at the Ektara Mancha. The 26th KIFF chairperson, Raj Chakraborty, said, “I hope KIFF will pave the way for viewers to return to cinemas.” He was present at the closing ceremony, held at Nandan, along with the chairman of KMC’s Board of Administrators, Firhad Hakim, and other celebrities and organizers, including Goutam Ghose, Srijit Mukherji, Sudeshna Roy, Nusrat Jahan and Shaheb Chattopadhyay. ‘Bander Band’ traces the journey of three musicians as they navigate their way through flooded terrains to attend a music competition in Tehran. “I have grown in the independent sector of Iranian cinema, making my films with minimum budgets. I have done my best not to be corrupted either by the governmental budgets, or by the suspicious investments which have found their way in Iranian cinema recently,” Hekmat told, adding that she will use the prize money of Rs 51 lakh for her next projects. ‘Shambala’ director Artykpai Sulundukov bagged the best director award that includes a cash prize of Rs 21 lakh. Ukrainian director Taras Dron received a special mention for ‘Blindfold’. “It is very important to know that my film is not only interesting in my own country, but people far in the east are interested in our problems, our story. The special mention at KIFF is amazing. I received new power for making my next film,” he told TOI. Rezwab Shahriar Sumit, whose debut film ‘Nonajoler Kabbo (The Salt In Our Waters)’ won the Best Film in the Asian Select: NETPAC category, described the win as a “proud moment” for the film’s entire cast and crew. "This is a proud moment for the entire cast and crew of ‘The Salt in Our Waters (Nonajoler Kabbo)’. KIFF is very close to the heart of Bangladesh's film community. So, I am sure everyone will be elated to hear this news. This win will inspire hundreds of aspiring Bangladeshi filmmakers whose entire year was shrouded in darkness and uncertainty due to the pandemic. My message to them is this - Hang on tight. Use this down time to develop your projects properly. Stay true to your characters and to your own voice. Darkness will recede and your light will shine," he told TOI after the closing ceremony from Dhaka. In the Indian language category, Rahul Riji Nair’s ‘False Eye’ won the Best Film and ‘God on the Balcony’s maker Biswajit Bora won the Hiralal Sen award for Best Director. Ujjawal Pal’s ‘Dusk’ won the best short film while Amar Maiham’s ‘Highways of Life’ got the award for best documentary. All award winners attended the event virtually.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/curtains-down-on-26th-kiff-with-awards/articleshow/80292413.cms||Priyanka Dasgupta
January 16, 2021||Surat||Wife gets bail in man’s abetment to suicide case||SURAT: A court in Surat granted 34-year-old Heena Khanna bail in connection with a case lodged against her and her boyfriend in Adajan police station on charges of allegedly abetting suicide of her husband Paras Khanna. The deceased automobile reseller had jumped to death on December 14, 2020, from an under construction building in Pal. Heena was arrested on January 10, after a complaint was lodged by her mother-in-law alleging that the former’s extra marital affair with the building’s watchman, Ankit Prasad, led her son to commit suicide. The deceased even tried to jump off ONGC bridge in November but was caught. Khanna got married to Heena around 12 years ago after a brief love affair. The couple has no child and they went to stay in Stuti Icon around eight months ago. “Heena has never been accepted by Khanna family and the complaint was lodged merely to harass her. Her husband was under depression due to financial crisis and was a chain smoker. There was no other accusation against the accused except the love affair,”‘ Heena’s advocate, Sagar Shukla, argued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/wife-gets-bail-in-mans-abetment-to-suicide-case/articleshow/80291567.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Patna||Man shot dead at Gulbi Ghat in Patna||PATNA: Unidentified criminals shot dead one Mohammad Alauddin alias Bikau (38) at Gulbi Ghat under Sultanganj police station area of Patna City around 2pm on Friday. The deceased operated ambulance service from PMCH. Patna City SDPO Amit Sharan said the murder might be a fallout of old rivalry as at least three criminal cases were lodged against Alauddin at Pirbahore police station. He had reached the ghat to attend the cremation of his friend Rahul’s mother. Sharan said eyewitnesses told police that two criminals reached near Allauddin and fired two shots from behind. “One bullet hit Alauddin in his head. He was rushed to PMCH where doctors declared him dead. The criminals managed to escape and no one dared to intercept them. Allauddin was standing at an elevated place nearby on the bank of the Ganga when he was shot at a very close range,” he said. Alauddin used to live on the PMCH premises. Alauddin owned a few ambulances which he operated from PMCH. Pirbahore police station SHO Rizwan Ahmed Khan said at least three criminal cases of loot attempt, extortion and scuffle were registered against Alauddin. Earlier, he had also been sent to jail. “But he had started social work,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-shot-dead-at-gulbi-ghat-in-city/articleshow/80293333.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 16, 2021||Patna||Court pulls up Kishanganj police in rape-murder case||PATNA: A special POCSO Act court at Kishanganj has pulled up police for investigation into a brutal rape-cum-murder of an 11-year-old girl as they failed to identify and arrest the accused but filed chargesheet to complete the legal process. The girl, studying in Class V, was found murdered in an open field at a village under Kochadhaman police station area of Kishanganj on July 9, 2018. As per postmortem report submitted in the court on January 11, the girl’s nose was chopped off with a sharp-edged object and she was strangled after being raped. The court observed that there were injuries on her private parts mentioned in the postmortem report, establishing that she was sexually assaulted before being killed. The order came in public domain two days back. While pulling up the police for its unscientific investigation, the special court of ADJ-1 Ajit Kumar Singh observed that it was fit enough for awarding compensation keeping in the view the sufferings of the victim. The brutal treatment meted out to her further compounded with the failure to trace the culprit by which justice could have been assured to certain extent. The court thus ordered compensation of Rs6 lakh to be paid to the father of the slain girl, treating him as the victim.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/court-pulls-up-kishanganj-police-in-rape-murder-case/articleshow/80292353.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 16, 2021||Patna||Tejashwi lashes out at CM over deteriorating law & order in state||PATNA: Lashing out at CM Nitish Kumar for the deteriorating law and order situation in the state, leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Friday said it was not a “good news” for the people of the state that the CM was asking about the loyalty of journalists. Tejashwi’s comments came soon after CM asked reporters about their loyalty in response to a volley of questions by journalists about the murder of IndiGo airlines station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh in the state capital and the worsening law and order situation in the state. The media persons confronted the CM during the inauguration of Atal Path in the state capital. Tejashwi alleged that the CM has virtually surrendered before the criminals. “He (CM) has said nobody can check crime, there were crimes during Harappan civilization, too, just compare it. He is asking from media persons whether they know who the criminals are and why they were committing crimes,” he tweeted. In another tweet, Tejashwi said, “Issued in the public interest. Please go out of your house carefully. The law and order situation has deteriorated under the incapable government of Bihar. Criminals can rob, kidnap and shoot anyone. Rapists are on the loose.” Tejashwi’s elder brother and former health minister Tej Pratap also slammed the state government for the poor law and order situation in the state. Tej Pratap said the CM is losing calm on issues concerning people because he has lost the plot.Tej Pratap tweeted, “Earlier the administrative machinery was deep-rooted in corrupt practices. Now, 'sahib' (read CM's) intellect is getting polluted. He is losing calm at the slightest provocation.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/tejashwi-lashes-out-at-cm-over-deteriorating-law-order-in-state/articleshow/80292089.cms||Ramashankar
January 16, 2021||Vadodara||3 held for over dozen robberies||Vadodara/Anand: Anand local crime branch (LCB) and special operations group (SOG) nabbed three accused who were involved in at least dozen robberies in various parts of Central Gujarat as well as South India. The cops have arrested the trio who had targeted a bungalow owned by owner of C M Smith & Sons Limited in Nadiad town of Kheda district and recovered gold and silver ornaments amounting to Rs 45.95 lakh from them.Based on a tip off that the cops had received, the trio were detained from near Ganesh Chowkdi in Anand town when they were on a two-wheeler with Rs one lakh cash in a bag. “The trio were earlier not giving any satisfactory answers. Later, they confessed to their involvement in Nadiad robbery,” said Anand district superintendent of police Ajit Rajian. The trio includes Navghan Talpada and Vishnu Talpada, both resident of Ode village of Anand’s Umreth taluka and one Kiran Talpada, a resident of Nadiad. During interrogation, the trio confessed that they had kept a watch of the closed bungalow, located behind Mahagujarat hospital in Nadiad, a fortnight before Diwali festivities last year. Later, they had carried out the burglary by breaking the grill of the bungalow and decamped with gold ornaments worth Rs 35.81 lakh, silver ornaments worth Rs 8.25 lakh and gold bars worth Rs 8.25 lakh. One of the accused – Navghan Talpada – confessed that he had sold the ornaments and the gold bars to a jeweller named Mahesh Panchal in Ode village.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/3-held-for-over-dozen-robberies/articleshow/80291340.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Patna||20-yr-old kidnapped for ransom rescued, 3 held||PATNA: In a swift action, the police recovered a 20-year-old youth kidnapped for Rs20 lakh ransom from his rented accommodation at Janakpuri Colony on Gola Road under Rupaspur police station area in the state capital at around 11pm on Thursday. The victim was identified as Abhishek Kumar, a student of BA part-II in a city college. At least three criminals barged into his flat where Abhishek lived with his two other friends and took him hostage at gunpoint. They kidnapped him in his own car. Abhishek was recovered safely from near a garage at Rajapul Bhatta under S K Puri police station area in Patna around 4.30am on Friday. Police arrested Atish Kumar Singh (30), Akash Kumar (27) and Navin Kumar (34) for kidnapping Abhishek. Police said the kidnappers had made a ransom call of Rs20 lakh to his elder brother Jyoti Kumar, who lives in Sheikhpura. The trio had tied Abhishek’s mouth with a piece of cloth and kept him inside an SUV when the police surrounded them. A loaded pistol, five cellphones and three vehicles used in the kidnapping, including Atish’s SUV and the one used by Abhishek, were seized. The kidnappers had abandoned Abhishek’s car in Danapur railway station parking. Rupaspur police station SHO (incharge) Ranjan Kumar said the kidnappers had first approached the apartment guard with photograph of Abhishek’s car stating that they want to trace its owner as he had dashed against their car. “The guard, without applying much brain, took them to the flat where Abhishek lived. Then the kidnappers pulled out a pistol and took Abhishek hostage at gunpoint soon after he opened the door. They took away the cellphones of Abhishek’s two roommates and guard. However, before leaving, they returned the guard’s cellphone and locked the trio inside the flat,” he said. He said the roommates informed Abhishek’s brother by using the guard’s cellphone after which he informed the police about kidnapping. “Atish had shifted to Kolkata after selling all properties in Patna. Akash hails from Motihari and Navin is from Biharsharif in Nalanda district. They are being interrogated,” he said. When asked, City SP (West) Ashok Mishra said Jyoti informed the police around 12.30am. “Jyoti is engaged in construction work with several builders in Patna and some other districts. The kidnappers had information that he was earning good money and targeted his younger brother for ransom,” he said. The SP said Jyoti told the police had he makes maps for builders but police were gathering more details about his profession. Mishra said further investigation is going on as how many more persons were involved in the kidnapping and how the entire plot was hatched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/20-yr-old-kidnapped-for-ransom-rescued-3-held/articleshow/80292073.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 16, 2021||Patna||Many varsities in Bihar don’t have regular VCs||PATNA: Appointment of vice-chancellors (VCs) and pro-VCs in the universities of Bihar has become a routine affair for the chancellor’s secretariat. As many as 13 VCs and pro-VCs were appointed by the chancellor four months back and the posts of as many as eight VCs and pro-VCs of different universities have been advertised once again. Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University, Purnea University and Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, are also running without regular VCs and these posts are also likely to be advertised shortly. Only a couple of days back, the chancellor’s secretariat had invited applications for the appointment of VCs of Munger, Patliputra and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian universities and the pro-VCs of Munger, Nalanda Open and Veer Kunwar Singh universities. The last date for online submission of applications for these posts is February 15. Earlier, the post of Nalanda Open University’s VC was advertised by the chancellor’s secretariat last week, inviting eligible candidates to submit online applications till February 7. The post of Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU)’s VC was re-advertised recently. The post of AKU’s VC fell vacant on September 20 following the superannuation of Dr A K Agrawal and it was advertised subsequently. But, for some unknown reasons, this advertisement was cancelled and a fresh advertisement was issued recently. Even candidates who had applied in response to the earlier advertisement have been asked to submit their online applications once again. The last date for submission of applications is March 1. Pro-VC S M Karim is presently officiating as its VC, but his tenure is also likely to end shortly, Raj Bhavan sources said. It is interesting to note that about six universities in the state are having officiating VCs to administer their functioning and all these acting heads of universities have been restrained by the chancellor from taking any policy decision or initiating any work involving financial transactions. Federation of University Teachers’ Associations of Bihar working president K B Sinha expressed his concern over the state of uncertainty prevailing in the governance of various universities in absence of full-time regular VCs and urged the chancellor to streamline the process of appointment of VCs and pro-VCs in different universities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/many-varsities-in-bihar-dont-have-regular-vcs/articleshow/80292769.cms||B K Mishra
January 16, 2021||Patna||‘Create jobs to improve state’s growth initiatives’||PATNA: The 15th Finance Commission chairman, N K Singh, on Friday said there is an enigma that why Biharis flourish but Bihar languishes. “One way in which we can solve this enigma is by improving Bihar’s growth initiatives, especially by creating jobs for gainful employment,” he said. Singh was addressing a webinar on ‘Portraits of Power — A conversation with N K Singh’, organized by the International Growth Centre (IGC) and the Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI). The panel was moderated by Dr Ashmita Gupta (ADRI). Others on the panel were Harivansh Narayan Singh (Deputy Chairman, Rajya Sabha) and BJP’s Rajya Sabha member Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo).Speaking on the occasion, SuMo said, “It is important to look at the history of Bihar’s growth. Bihar’s development resumed after a gap of 45 years. When the Nitish Kumar formed the government, it was difficult to decide the priorities for development because everything seemed important — be it law and order, agriculture or industry.” Harivansh said, “Reflecting on Singh’s conversation with Dr Manmohan Singh, he mentions that ‘a prosperous India needed a prosperous Bihar’. Thus, it is definitely important that we need to think more about the backward states for inclusive growth.” N K Singh said: It was said that India will be known for the IT sector and service sector and China, on the other hand, for the manufacturing sector. I do not agree with this distinction. I think the big factor for manufacturing to take off is to more abiding reforms. The philosophy of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ does not mean a protectionist Bharat, but it is to harness its own competitive advantage to help create more and more industrial activities. Thereby, India is deemed to ride the three engines of the service sector, manufacturing and agricultural sector.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/create-jobs-to-improve-states-growth-initiatives/articleshow/80292242.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Allahabad||600 healthcare workers to get first vaccine jab today||Prayagraj: The first dose of Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to 600 healthcare professionals at six locations of Prayagraj district on Saturday. Chief medical officer ( Prayagraj) Dr. Prabhakar Rai told TOI that Covid-19 vaccine will be administered to a total of 600 healthcare professionals at six sites at two community health centres including Phulpur and Soraon, three government hospitals including Motilal Nehru Medical College, Motilal Nehru Divisional Hospital (Colvin), District Women Hospital ( Duffrin) and one private hospital – Kamla Nehru Hospital. He further added the vaccination will be done between 10am and 5pm and SMSs have already been sent to the listed beneficiaries on their mobiles. CMO also claimed a six members team including medical and para medical staff and security personnel has been deputed at each site and vaccine has been delivered to two rural based vaccination centres – Soraon and Phulpur a day before the vaccination day. The dose of vaccine has been sent to community health centre under tight police security arrangements. Vaccine doses will be sent to all four -city based vaccination sites on Saturday. Nodal officer and deputy chief medical officer Dr Rahul Singh said that 100 healthcare professionals will be vaccinated against Covid-19 at each location. He added that six nodal officers — one deputy or additional chief medical officer rank health official — have been assigned for each site to monitor the vaccination drive. He also said that every site has the facility of a deep freezer and ILR to store the vaccine. “A two-way communication channel along with a CCTV camera set has been activated at every site and officials in Lucknow will be monitoring the vaccination drive,” he added. He said that this was the first time when the vaccination drive will be telecast live. The teams have also been allotted an ice pack, a vaccine carrier and, small and large ice boxes to maintain the cold chain. Details of beneficiaries who would be given Covid-19 vaccine dose has been uploaded on portal and health officials sitting in Lucknow and Delhi will get the status once the details were updated after vaccination. “Duties of police and administrative officials have also been assigned to transport the vaccine from the storage site to the vaccination centre,” Dr. Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/600-healthcare-workers-to-get-first-vaccine-jab-today/articleshow/80290282.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Pfizer drags Aurobindo to US court over arthritis drug||Hyderabad: Barely a couple of months after it sued Aurobindo Pharma for patent infringement of its multi-billion dollar cancer drug Ibrance, global pharma giant Pfizer has dragged the Hyderabad-based company to a court in the US yet again, this time over blockbuster arthritis drug Xeljanz. Pfizer has filed a petition against Aurobindo in the US District Court for the District of Delaware on January 11 alleging the infringement of two patents of its Xeljanz (Tofacitinib), that is used for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ulcerative colitis. Pfizer has contended that if Aurobindo manufactures, sells or imports its generic Tofacitinib tablets of 5mg and 10mg strengths before its patents – US no 6,965,027 and RE41,783 -- expire in 2023 and 2025, respectively, it will be infringing on these patents. The US-based pharma biggie has, in its plea, urged the court to restrain Aurobindo from making generic versions of Xeljanz or award compensation if the Hyderabad-based generic drugs maker is successful in launching generic versions of this drug before its patents expire. The legal move comes after Aurobindo Pharma informed Pfizer in late November, 2020, that it has filed an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA) with the US drugs watchdog US Food & Drug Administration (USFDA) to seek approval for making and selling generic versions of Xeljanz before the expiry of the patents. Aurobindo claimed that two patents were invalid and it would not be infringing upon these patents by manufacturing or selling its generic versions of the drug in US market||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pfizer-drags-aurobindo-to-us-court-over-arthritis-drug/articleshow/80293342.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 16, 2021||Patna||Rlys cancels two trains for track maintenance||PATNA: Railways has cancelled two special passenger trains, short terminated two others and diverted the routes of at least 12 trains originating from different places under the jurisdiction of the East Central Railway (ECR) due to track maintenance and non-interlocking (NI) works to be carried out between Balia and Fefna stations under the Varanasi division of the North Eastern Railway from January 17 to 30. ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said Kolkata-Gazipur City passenger special (03121/03122) will remain cancelled from January 17 to 25. The Sealdah-Balia passenger special (03105/03106) will be short terminated at Chhapra from January 16 to 30. The railways has diverted the route of Jayanagar-Amritsar Humsafar passenger special (04651/04652) via Chhapra-Bhatni-Mau while Darbhanga-Ahmedabad passenger special (09165/09166) will also run on Chhapra-Bhatni-Mau route. The Amritsar-Jayanagar passenger special (04650) will use Mau-Bhatni-Chhapra route. Railways has also decided to run at least six passenger special trains with controlled speed during the period of NI work, including Lokmanya Tilak Mumbai-Jayanagar passenger special (01061).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/rlys-cancels-two-trains-for-track-maintenance/articleshow/80292139.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Business||Sebi bats for more ESG disclosures||Mumbai: In a bid to push companies to act proactively on their sustainability initiatives, Sebi chairman Ajay Tyagi on Friday told business leaders that the regulator’s proposal will bring greater transparency through disclosure of material ESG (environmental, social, governance) -related information. Under the proposed Business Responsibility and Sustainability Reporting (BRSR), the top 1,000 listed companies need to disclose their ESG initiatives. Friday’s meeting with Sebi chief was another initiative by the regulator to get the views from India Inc on the discussion paper ahead of the finalisation of the rules under this policy. The proposed policy, once implemented, would lead to “greater transparency through disclosure of material ESG-related information that would allow market participants to identify and assess sustainability-related risks and opportunities,” Tyagi said during the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/sebi-bats-for-more-esg-disclosures/articleshow/80295240.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Passenger hides gold paste, held||Hyderabad: Customs officials at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) nabbed a passenger, who arrived from Dubai as he was in possession of gold paste. The accused concealed the paste in specially stitched pockets in his jeans trouser. The seized gold was weighing 395.07 gms and its valued at Rs 19.9 lakh.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/passenger-hides-gold-paste-held/articleshow/80293319.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Vials delivered to five KMC sites, Kolkata ready to inoculate civic health officials & staff||KOLKATA: Senior health department officials and senior doctors at Kolkata Municipal Corporation (KMC) are expected to receive the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the Mayor’s Health Clinic near KMC board of administrators’ chairman Firhad Hakim’s Chetla residence on Saturday. But it isn’t just doctors who will be among the first lot of beneficiaries at the five KMC health clinics identified for the inoculation drive. Even group D staffers at the department have been called to clinics at Hatibaghan, Maniktala, Garia and Tangra for the jab. The centres received their share of vaccines on Friday. On the eve of the vaccination drive, Arup Dhali, a doctor, personally oversaw the preparations at the KMC clinic at Atabagan in Garia that has been designated a vaccination site. Dhali is one of the recipients listed to get the vaccine on Saturday. “The past 10 months have been fraught with tension and uncertainty over this virus and its unpredictable nature. We have lost colleagues, family members and friends. I am extremely excited to get the vaccine that should give me some protection as I carry on with my job. I am hoping everyone will get an opportunity to be inoculated,” he said. Preparations were also underway at the other health clinics in Hatibagan, Maniktala, Tangra and Chetla. At the Chetla site, senior health department officials from KMC carried out last-minute checks of the vaccination room, where beneficiaries will receive the Covishield shot, and the observation room, where all those who are inoculated will have to wait. They will be monitored by a health official for any adverse reaction to the vaccine. Should anyone display any signs of discomfiture, he or she will be immediately hospitalized. A van carrying the vaccines from the store on Ballygunge Circular Road did the rounds of all the five clinics on Friday and handed out around 100 doses to each. “We have personally called up all the beneficiaries listed for inoculation on Saturday. We are as excited as them to start this drive against the pandemic,” said a KMC healthcare worker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vials-delivered-to-5-kmc-sites-city-ready-to-inoculate-civic-health-officials-staff/articleshow/80292156.cms||Saikat Ray
January 16, 2021||Patna||Raped Muzaffarpur girl’s charred body exhumed, six held||PATNA: Police on Friday recovered the decomposed and charred remains of a 16-year-old minor girl from a remote riverine belt of Gandak river. The minor girl was allegedly raped and burned alive at her residence at a village near Sahebganj in Muzaffarpur on January 3 and the villagers reportedly forcibly got the girl’s body cremated soon after the incident without informing the police. Police have arrested six persons, including four accused named in the case, between Thursday night and Friday early morning. The police came to know about the incident only after the minor’s father returned from Jalandhar and lodged an FIR with the Sahebganj police on January 11, alleging that four youths of the village had raped his daughter and then burned her alive. Saraiya SDPO Rajesh Kumar Sharma said the four arrested include prime accused Gulshan Kumar (18) who had developed a relationship with the minor and started blackmailing after clicking a nude photograph of her. He said other arrested youths are Chanchal Kumar (18), Abhinav Kumar (18) and Raj Kumar alias Raja Babu (20), all of whom are Gulshan’s friend who were involved in the blackmailing. “Besides, police also arrested Chanchal’s father Alok Singh and Raj’s father Hriday Singh for their connivance in disposing of minor’s body after the incident by pressurising her grandparents,” he said. Sharma said it was after arresting of these six persons that police came to know that they had not cremated the body but had buried it in remote a riverine area. “They had wrapped it in a bedsheet and had transported it using a tractor. Body’s burial place was located on the confession of the six arrested persons,” he said. He said the body was exhumed and sent for post mortem by a medical board and added that the tractor used for transporting body was also seized by police on Friday. He said at least half a dozen more are yet to be arrested in the case. SDPO Sharma said Gulshan, after arresting, confessed before the police of clicking a nude photograph of minor on December 5 using which he started blackmailing her. “He also shared the picture with the rest three of his arrested friends. The picture later got leaked among other village youths,” Sharma said. He said the trio had also got involved into blackmailing the minor besides Gulshan. “This blackmailing, coercing and leaking of the picture finally led to a situation that the girl perhaps thought it better to kill herself. She finally immolated herself inside her bedroom on January 3,” the SDPO said quoting findings of the police in course of the investigation.He said police are trying to recover the phones of the arrested youth, who had thrown them away. “Police are also trying to track those youths to whom minor’s photograph was leaked,” he said. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/raped-muz-girls-charred-body-exhumed-six-held/articleshow/80292106.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 16, 2021||Patna||Venuvana, Eco Park at Rajgir to attract more tourists: Bihar CM||BIHARSHARIF: Chief minister Nitish Kumar opened the refurbished and expanded Venuvana and Eco Park at Ghora Katora in Rajgir for people on Friday. He said the new facilities and natural beauty of the park will attract more domestic and overseas visitors to Rajgir. “Venuvana is a known destination of Buddhists. Buddha used to meditate here with his disciples as the place is calm and quiet. The new amusement park, weather resistant cafeteria made of bamboo, amphitheatre and an open theatre in addition with a fragrance park with a variety of seasonal flowers will be a place for recreation and education for everyone, especially the youth and children. Now, 1000 visitors can be accommodated here at a time. Rajgir is a wonderful place and it gives you a different feeling here,” Nitish said. The expanded Venuvana Park is spread over an area of 21.68 acres and has been developed at an estimated cost of Rs27.5 crore. The Eco Park is spread over an area of 4 acres with an amusement park, a watchtower to have a panoramic view of 200ft tall statue of the Buddha installed in the middle of the lake. He said a mini airport will be built in Rajgir and a helicopter service for tourists will also be operated soon. He said the work on Nature Safari Park is in full swing and may be opened for visitors in a one and a half months. After that zoo safari will be opened for the visitors. Nitish said the idea of Nature Safari, Zoo Safari and the overall development of Rajgir was mooted in 2009 when he spent a week here. The CM also reviewed the progress of Ganga Water Lift Project to supply safe drinking water from the river to Gaya and Rajgir. The CM was accompanied by deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad, minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/venuvana-eco-park-at-rajgir-to-attract-more-tourists-nitish/articleshow/80291611.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar: ‘Getting vaccinated first a matter of pride for me’||Thirty-five-year-old Ram Babu, a sanitation worker at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, will be the first person in Bihar to get Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. TOI’s Sheezan Nezami talks to him to know his feelings: Are you nervous or excited?There is no question of being nervous. I am happy and proud that I will set an example for others. There is no fear at all. After facing such a deadly epidemic, all of us, especially those working in hospitals, are no more frightened. In fact, I will suggest everyone to get vaccinated and eradicate Covid-19. Were you picked by the hospital?As per registration, my name was on the initial list. When I was informed that I will be vaccinated first, it was a surprise for me. What have you planned for the D-Day?I will first offer prayers and then go to the hospital for vaccination. What about your family members? Are they okay with this decision?There are four people in my family – my wife and three children. They are happy that I will be vaccinated first. Many say politicians are unwilling to get vaccinated first. What do you think?We all are human being. The one who gets the first shot will set an example for entire society. I consider myself lucky enough to guide others. Has anyone in your family tested positive for Covid-19?Only my wife had tested positive long back. She is fine now.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/getting-vaccinated-first-a-matter-of-pride-for-me/articleshow/80292799.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Business||Piramal wins bid for DHFL, set to expand retail lending||MUMBAI: Piramal Group has received 94% votes from lenders, placing the conglomerate on course to become the new owner of bankrupt housing finance company DHFL. The US-based Oaktree Capital, which made an aggressive pitch for the company is understood to have received supporting votes from 45% of the lenders. The troubled housing finance company, which owes Rs 87,000 crore to financial creditors, was an attractive target for Piramal Enterprises as it can help the group achieve its ambitions in retail lending. Voting for the bids ended at 8pm on Friday. As first reported by TOI in its edition on January 15, public sector banks, which have the bulk of the exposure, had voted in favour of the bid by Piramal. Oaktree had earlier said that it would seek legal recourse if its bid was not considered. In terms of the bid submitted before the December 14 deadline, the total amount promised by Oaktree was Rs 35,700 crore, while Piramal had bid Rs 35,250 crore. Lenders said that bids cannot be compared simply based on the total amount offered by the bidder. This is because a large part of the bid amount is paid by issuing debentures and the present value of these instruments is determined by their tenure, rate of interest and credit rating. Lenders can vote for more than one proposal under the insolvency resolution process. The advantage of voting for more than one proposal is that they will continue to get a share of spoils in terms of the resolution plan. If they dissent by not voting for a plan and that bid wins, the dissenting lender will get only the liquidation value. However, in a situation where there are two very close contestants, creditors tend to discuss among themselves on bidding to avoid a tie as such a situation would mean that a very small creditor can swing the decision. DHFL promoter Kapil Wadhawan was ousted by the RBI and his company was admitted to the National Company Law Tribunal after it turned out that it diverted funds by using software to create fictitious home loan accounts. Oaktree Capital, which specialises in alternate investments, had first come to the aid of DHFL in 2019 by purchasing wholesale loans worth Rs 1,375 crore to Bombay Dyeing and another developer. Subsequently in the insolvency process, the company had been an aggressive bidder for DHFL. Industrialist Ajay Piramal, who made his wealth in the pharma industry, exited the business to focus on real estate and finance. This is Piramal’s third attempt to expand in the space through acquisitions. He had first made a failed bid for IL&FS Financial Services long before the group imploded. He subsequently acquired a 20% stake in Shriram Capital and 9.9% in Shriram Transport Finance, which he exited in 2019.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/piramal-wins-bid-for-dhfl-set-to-expand-retail-lending/articleshow/80295232.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Hosps focus on net link, power back-up ahead of vax drive||Kolkata: At state-run medical colleges and private superspecialty hospitals where complicated surgeries are routine, an injection has caught the imagination of everyone. The buzz was unmistakable on the eve of the Covid-19 vaccination drive as hospitals and select ward clinics conducted last-minute checks before inoculation begins on Saturday. On Friday, meetings were held with monitoring teams and emergency medical teams — senior doctors from different specialities — to ensure proper and prompt action in case of an emergency. A separate team looked into internet connectivity and power back-up to ensure a glitch-free process. “Throughout the day, we had a series of meetings to ensure everything goes well,” said Sandeep Ghosh, medical superintendent of Calcutta National Medical College & Hospital. A team of doctors also had a detailed conversation with a section of beneficiaries who received calls from the authorities and will be among the first to be vaccinated. “Some of them had a lot of questions and doubts, which we cleared,” said an official of SSKM Hospital. Although the drive is set to begin at noon, officials have been asked to be present at the venue by 8am. Some venues, like SSKM Hospital, also went for last-minute changes. Acting on a central government guideline, they scaled down their vaccination drive from four booths to one for Saturday. “We had to review the situation and asked some people to stay away from the drive on Saturday,” said a senior doctor. Four private hospitals in Kolkata also geared up to join the vaccination programme and will inoculate 100 healthcare workers each on Saturday. The staff of AMRI, Apollo Gleneagles, Peerless Hospital and RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences underwent training on Friday. While the drive will be held at AMRI’s Dhakuria unit, Peerless Hospital has earmarked a floor in its nursing college and two parallel sites for vaccination have been readied for the job the RTIICS campus. “ We submitted a list of 100 from among our own healthcare workers and are waiting for the process to roll,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/hosps-focus-on-net-link-power-back-up-ahead-of-vax-drive/articleshow/80292143.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 16, 2021||Varanasi||Work should be done with a sense of service: CM||Gorakhpur: “No work should be done just for trade or business. Instead, there should be a sense of social service and welfare behind it. The same sentiment is behind the establishment of Guru Gorakshnath Hospital, and we all should strengthen this emotion,” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath while inaugurating the colour doppler ultrasound and X-ray machine installed at the hospital by the Rotary Club on Friday. “The first hi-tech ICU of Gorakhpur was also established at Guru Gorakshnath temple and we have a very old relationship with the Rotary Club. This season is considered as a healthy season but since the month of April, diseases start knocking. To cope with it mobile ICU van helps a lot in providing treatment facilities in nearby health centres. About years ago Rotary Club donated mobile ICU van to the hospital,” he said. President of Rotary Club, Arvind Vikram Chowdhary delivered the vote of thanks and said, “The ultrasound machine has the facility of 4-D fibrosis scan elastography which detects fatty liver and cirrhosis in primary stage and also through the machine information could be attained about fetal heartbeat, kidney, lever etc. The machine also detects the contraction in lungs and it takes only one minute in taking X-Ray while other machines take 15-20 minutes in X-ray.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/work-should-be-done-with-a-sense-of-service-cm/articleshow/80291522.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ajmer||Hundreds file papers amid festivities in Ajmer||Ajmer: After nine months of lull due to Covid-19, the city on Friday buzzed with drums and rallies on the occasion of filing nominations for the elections to Ajmer Municipal Corporation. The Covid guidelines were breached as hundreds of supporters gathered with the candidates to file nominations.This time, there are 80 seats rather than 60 like last time. Both BJP and Congress tried to face dissidents from their parties. While BJP released the list of candidates at the last moment but in Congress confusion was visible even after filing the nominations. On Saturday, the nominations will be checked. The candidates can withdraw their names till January 19. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/hundreds-file-papers-amid-festivities-in-ajmer/articleshow/80293327.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar’s Covid recovery rate nears 98%||PATNA: Altogether 346 new Covid-19 cases were registered in the state on Friday. With this, the state’s Covid tally has jumped to 2,58,289. Two fresh deaths in the last 24 hours, on the other hand, took the state’s Covid toll to 1,449. However, with 2,52,858 recuperating from the virus so far, there were 3,980 active cases in the state on Friday. With 371 more people recovering from the virus in the last 24 hours, the state’s recovery rate has now increased to 97.90%. According to the state health department, Munger and Banka recorded one death each on Friday. Official figures apart, seven Covid patients died at AIIMS-Patna on Friday, including a 55-year-old woman from Begusarai, a 55-year-old man from Sahobigha in Jehanabad, a 59-year-old man from Sitamarhi, a 65-year-old man from Babuganj in Buxar, a 66-year-old man from Balbahadurpur in Darbhanga, a 72-year-old man from Motihari and a 72-year-old man from Bagmali in Hajipur. AIIMS-P nodal incharge for Covid-19 Dr Sanjeev Kumar said eight patients were admitted to the hospital and six discharged on Friday. Altogether 125 patients were undergoing treatment for Covid at the AIIMS-P and 10 at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Friday. Of the 346 new cases recorded in the state in the last 24 hours, Patna accounted for 149. The district’s tally has now risen to 51,285. However, with 49,197 people beating the virus in the district so far and 401 succumbing to it, there were 1,687 active cases in Patna on Friday. Among other districts, Darbhanga recorded 33 cases, Begusarai 20, Saran 14, Muzaffarpur 12 and Aurangabad 10 on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihars-covid-recovery-rate-nears-98/articleshow/80292776.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Broker held with Rs51L ganja was ‘main supplier’||Mumbai: Sakinaka police, probing the arrest of a 39-year-old real estate broker for storing 345kg ganja worth Rs 51.8 lakh at his Sakinaka SRA flat, have learnt that he is the main supplier in the city. The drugs are sold in sachets in slum pockets. The accused destroyed his SIM card and was going to flee to Andhra Pradesh when caught in Andheri. Ashok Mehtre is in police custody and police are gathering information on the source of the drugs brought here. Mehtre went into hiding on learning of the raid. “Mehtre was tracked with the help of technical help after he destroyed his SIM card. We scanned CCTV footage before he was located. The drugs were brought in an auto-rickshaw and were to be sold in sachets in slum pockets,” said sub-inspector Hanuman Dhavan. The raid was carried out after he left his flat and went into hiding. Zonal DCP Mahesh Reddy supervised a team of senior inspector Balwant Deshmukh, inspector Budhan Sawant, assistant inspector Liladhar Patil, sub-inspector Umesh Dagade and Dhavan that arrested Mehtre near Cigarette Factory on Sahar Road in Andheri (E). tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/broker-held-with-rs51l-ganja-was-main-supplier/articleshow/80292403.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Covaxin will be given with promise of compensation for adverse effects||MUMBAI: Beneficiaries who would receive the Bharat Biotech product Covaxin would be paid a compensation if they suffered a serious adverse event that is proven to be causally related to the vaccine. This was one of the points highlighted on top of the consent forms that was on Friday shared with vaccination centres that would administer Covaxin. Six centres in Maharashtra, including JJ Hospital in Mumbai, will give Covaxin.  The form also stated that the beneficiaries will be provided standard of care in government designated and authorized centres/hospitals if they suffer serious after-effects. The issue of liability has been a bone of contention between vaccine makers and the government with the former having made demands that they be indemnified against mishaps. The government’s vaccine purchase order, however, has said that the companies shall be liable for all adversities. State officials said that only the turnout on Saturday will tell whether a three-page consent form will allay the concerns. Maharashtra is among the 11 states to accept the vaccine that is still undergoing phase III trials and has no large efficacy data.  Beneficiaries of Covaxin will have to sign a consent form, unlike those getting Covishield, as the former has been approved for restricted use in emergency situations and is supposed to be given in clinical trial mode. The recipients will also be handed over a factsheet and an adverse effect reporting form where they would have to note down any symptoms such as fever, pain, redness, etc suffered within the first seven days. The consent form starts with the company saying that the vaccine has demonstrated the ability to produce antibodies against Covid-19 in phase 1 and phase 2 clinical trials. “However, the clinical efficacy of Covaxin is yet to be established and is still being studied in phase 3 clinical trial,” it stated.  For those listed to get this vaccine though, it’s Covaxin or no vaccine. “What if we don't want to take an unproven vaccine? We will have to go without any vaccine at all and continue to work in Covid wards,” said a senior physician from one of the medical colleges. A doctor from Solapur added that beneficiaries should have been given a choice to take Covishield or come back later when Covaxin’s efficacy data would be published.  State officials made it clear that there was no backup vaccine waiting for those having second thoughts about Covaxin. "We have been told the vaccine is safe and hope everyone will read the factsheet and take an informed decision," said N Ramaswami, commissioner, National Health Mission. “Each centre will have only one type of vaccine so there is no scope of giving Covishield in those centres earmarked for Covaxin,” he added.  At Byculla’s JJ Hospital, which was also one of the trial sites for Covaxin and is now among the six vaccination sites, authorities got trial coinvestigator Dr Dinesh Dhodi to address concerns on Friday. “We haven’t seen any serious effects in phase III so far,” he said. Dr Jeetendra Dixit, nodal officer from Government Medical College Aurangabad, said that beneficiaries would be given enough time to read the Covaxin fact sheet and decide.  Dr Anant Bhan, a bio-ethics researcher said it was sad that healthcare workers have been put in such a situation. “Good consent requires time. Let's say for good quality consent, one needs to spend an average of 30-45 minutes. For 100 vaccine recipients that should take 3000 minutes in total. Will there be separate dedicated staff?” he said. The All India Drug Action Network also wrote to Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General, on Friday seeking more clarity on 'clinical trial mode' since there was no such terminology in the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covaxin-will-be-given-with-promise-of-compensation-for-adverse-effects/articleshow/80294750.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 16, 2021||Goa||Melauli locals: Too early to celebrate, denotify land||Panaji: Melauli locals reacted cautiously to the news of chief minister Pramod Sawant announcing the scrapping of the IIT-Goa project in their village. They said justice, though delayed, was served to them, but it’s too early to celebrate, as theyre eager for the cases filed against them to be revoked. “We want a notification to be issued stating that the land in Shel-Melauli is no longer marked for the IIT project,” said Shubham Shivolkar, co-convenor of the Melauli Panchkroshi Gram Bachav Andolan. tnn “We also want the cases withdrawn so we know our records have been cleared.” He said until the time these two demands are met, the villagers will continue to stage their protest inside the forest patch in Melauli. Shivolkar, however, said that due to the opposition to the IIT project, villagers from across Sattari have come together and are fired up to get their land rights issues settled. “Since our protest started, we have been holding meetings over the past three months in various villages in Sattari, and have created awareness about the need to get the land rights issue settled,” he said. “We have brought many villages on board. Now that the momentum has built up, we want to continue our agitation to have the land rights issue settled once and for all.” He said all the 18-odd villages that have extended support to the protest against the IIT are already prepared to take the fight to its logical conclusion. “When CM Sawant came to Melauli to explain the IIT project details to us, he had promised that the villagers of Meluli and those from surrounding villages would be helped in getting the benefit of central government schemes to repair and upgrade their houses,” Shivolkar said. “Due to the properties not being in our name, we received no benefits all these years. IIT or no IIT, Sawant has been elected CM of the entire state, and we urge him to help us get our land rights and benefits on par with villages elsewhere in the country.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-too-early-to-celebrate-denotify-land/articleshow/80294533.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||First non-stop Chicago-Hyd flight lands at RGIA||Hyderabad: The first ever non-stop flight from Chicago to Hyderabad, landed at the city’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA), in the wee hours of Friday. The Air India flight – AI 108 – touched down at the Shamshabad facility with 237 passengers (230 adults and seven infants) along with 16 airline crew. Later, at 12.50 pm, the same aircraft -- a Boeing 777LR- took off for Chicago with 226 passengers and 16 aircraft crew. This flight, expected to arrive at its destination around 6.05 pm (local time) with be operational every Friday. The incoming flight from Chicago will operate every Wednesday – arrival 1.40 am. “This new non-stop route connecting Hyderabad and Chicago has been on our connectivity wish list for quite some time. We are delighted that it is our very own national carrier that has commenced this service,” said Pradeep Panicker, CEO, GMR Hyderabad International Airport Ltd. Upbeat to inaugurate the non-stop connection with one of India’s “fastest growing cities and a center of innovation,” Jamie L Rhee, commissioner of the Chicago Department of Aviation said: “The connection will generate an estimated $22 million per year in economic impact for Chicago, in addition to serving Chicago’s large South Asian population, the second-largest in the US.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/first-non-stop-chicago-hyd-flight-lands-at-rgia/articleshow/80293365.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Meerut||Health dept readies for Covid-19 vaccination at 7 places in Meerut||Meerut: The Meerut health department is getting ready for Covid-19 vaccination. With the vaccine having arrived here on Tuesday, the health department has identified seven spots where vaccination exercise will start from Saturday. As many as 19,223 private and government healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the first phase. “On Saturday, as many as 700 people will be vaccinated at seven centres. Pregnant women will not be vaccinated, as of now, according to the directives of the state government. Each booth will have one doctor and one ambulance,” said Dr Akhilesh Mohan, Meerut's chief medical officer. The vaccination drive will be held at the seven booths from 9am to 5pm. Medical staff and paramedical practitioners will be stationed at each booth to spread awareness. “All the booths have CCTV cameras installed and their monitoring will be conducted right through. A 24x7 control room has also been set up with number '0121266 2244',” said Dr Pooja Sharma, Meerut's additional chief medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/health-dept-readies-for-covid-19vaccination-at-7-places-in-meerut/articleshow/80291326.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 16, 2021||Ajmer||289kg opium poppy seized in Ajmer||Roopangarh police on Friday seized 289kg of opium poppy from 15 bags of a truck and arrested two persons at Panner Road. According to police, during checking at Panner cross road they stopped a truck with Punjab registration number. They found 15 bags of opium poppy hidden amid sacks of some chemical powder.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/289kg-opium-poppy-seized-in-ajmer/articleshow/80293349.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Met predicts drop in temperature today||Kolkata: The chill got sharper in Kolkata on Friday as the minimum temperature dropped to 14.5°C. While the Met officials predicted a further drop in temperature on Saturday, the mercury may start sliding up from Monday. Kolkata recorded a maximum temperature of 24.2°C on Friday. “With the northwesterly gaining strength, the temperature has dropped. It may drop further, though marginally, till Sunday. We expect the northwesterly to lose strength on Monday that will lead to a gradual rise in temperature,” said Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC) director GK Das. A combination of western disturbance and high-pressure had choked the flow of northwesterly and led to a change in wind direction. Moisture-laden southeasterly wind had been flowing into Gangetic Bengal and Kolkata that led to a temperature rise. “The high-pressure zone had created a clockwise flow of wind that carried in warmth from the south. With the chilly wind blocked and no clouds in the region, the mercury had climbed. Now there is no obstruction in the path of the northwesterly,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/met-predicts-drop-in-temperature-today/articleshow/80292414.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Let AAP run municipal corporations for a year, says Atishi||NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party MLA Atishi on Friday said BJP should immediately resign from the three municipal corporations and allow AAP to run the civic bodies for the remaining one year so that it could transform them. “Despite knowing that the corporations owe more than Rs 6,000 crore to Delhi government, the Arvind Kejriwal government on Thursday released Rs 938 crore because we do not want the corporation employees to suffer any more,” said the MLA, alleging that the corporations were neck-deep in corruption. “The Covid pandemic also had an impact on the revenue of Delhi government and it is still battling less tax collection. But the AAP government curtailed the budget of various departments and arranged this money to pay the salaries of civic employees,” Atishi said. Claiming that the corporations had become completely bankrupt because of BJP’s rampant corruption, she alleged, “The BJP councillors have increased their assets 10 times during their tenures.” Kuldeep Kumar, another AAP legislator, said the Dalit community and sanitation workers had thanked Kejriwal for standing by them and stressed that the special package was released because the chief minister did not want the poor sanitation workers to suffer any more. “Dalits and people from the Valmiki community have made up their mind to throw BJP out of the corporations and elect AAP,” claimed party MLA Rakhi Bidlan. Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor claimed the funds were not even one-third of Delhi government’s dues to the corporations for the financial year 2020-21.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/let-aap-run-corpns-for-a-year-says-atishi/articleshow/80293451.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Display photos of corrupt officials at secretariat: MLA to Rajasthan CM||JAIPUR: Congress MLA Bharat Singh Kundanpur has again written to chief minister Ashok Gehlot and demanded dismissal of corrupt officials to achieve the objective of zero tolerance to corruption. He also suggested to display photos of such officials at the secretariat and in their hometown as such stern action might act as a deterrent and mere suspension was no punishment. Singh's letter comes close on the heels of the state ACB arresting two state administrative service officers after they were caught red-handed for accepting Rs 5 lakh illegal gratification for approval for some work from Dausa district. The Sangod MLA in a sarcastic way said the kite of corruption is flying high but neither Indian nor foreign manja was able to cut it. Mentioning the recent arrest of former Baran district collector Indrajit Rao who is now in jail on corruption charges, Singh pointed out that the officers have no fear of law and are fearlessly indulging in corruption. The reason being that such officers were reinstated after a brief period of suspension. He said that IPS officer Satyaveer Singh, who was caught by the ACB in Kota and was jailed, is now the IG of Udaipur. The BJP government had given him promotion from SP to DIG. How can you expect such an officer to act against corrupt officials? he asked. He said that many corrupt officials were protected by the government by withholding prosecution sanction. He said that now vaccine for Corona is available but there is no vaccine for corruption which is very disappointing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/display-photos-of-corrupt-officials-at-secretariat-mla/articleshow/80293372.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Driver tries to steal diesel, arrested||Hyderabad: A lorry driver who allegedly tried to steal diesel from a tanker, was nabbed by Nacharam police on Thursday. Based on a tip off, the local police nabbed the accused red- handed while he was stealing and diverting the diesel. The accused was caught by police in coordination with Civil Supplies department officials. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/driver-tries-to-steal-diesel-arrested/articleshow/80293394.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Congress protests against Centre’s farm laws & rising fuel prices||JAIPUR: The Congress state unit protested the Centre’s controversial farm laws and the hike in fuel prices as part of a nationwide call given by the party central leadership on Friday. Congress workers and leaders, led by state unit president Govind Singh Dotasra, staged a dharna in the Civil Lines area and tried to march to the Raj Bhavan but were stopped by the police. The Congress observed the day as ‘Kisan Adhikar Diwas’ in support of the rights of farmers who have been protesting near the national capital. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot, who did not take part in the dharna, tweeted the party will fight until the Centre repealed the three laws. “Observance of Kisan Adhikar Diwas today by the Congress party is to stand in solidarity with protesting farmers who are opposing black farm laws. The Congress is with farmers at every step in this struggle and we will fight until the laws are taken back by the NDA government," Gehlot said in a tweet. Former deputy chief minister Sachin Pilot, who participated in the dharna, said the Centre that first attacked the country’s middle class and youth was now targeting the farmers. “The government at the Centre is stubborn and farmers’ voices are being ignored. The Centre wants to tire out protesting farmers but we all stand in support of them,” he said. Pilot said that the insurance companies earned Rs 20,000-cr in profits in two years but the farmers were struggling for survival. At least 24 political parties were united with the farmers against the three laws and if a solution were not found now, the agitation would have to be intensified. “If these laws continue, the future generations will not forgive us,” said Pilot. PCC chief Dotasra said that BJP promised to double farmers' income, give jobs to unemployed, reduce inflation, ensure women security and social harmony but failed to deliver once in power. "People had not voted Modi ji...to listen to his 'Mann Ki Baat'," Dotasra said referring to PM Narendra Modi's radio address. Dotasra said that the BJP-led NDA government brought the farm laws for the benefit of a few industrialists who give donations to the saffron party during elections. “This conspiracy has been going on since 2014 and people know that crude oil prices increased under the BJP government,” Dotasra said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cong-protests-against-centres-farm-laws-rising-fuel-prices/articleshow/80293393.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Asha workers say no to vaccine, ask senior officers to get inoculated first||Ludhiana: With the Covid-19 vaccination process starting from Saturday, Asha workers of the district have decided not to get the first shot and want the process to start from senior officers. The district administration, meanwhile, said it would not force anybody to come for vaccination.Rajvir Kaur, Ludhiana president of Asha Workers’ Union, said 450 of them from the district have boycotted the vaccination drive. She said, “We took this decision at a recent meeting. During training, doctors told us that there could be side-effects of vaccines. They should begin from the higher level instead of starting the exercise from the ground level.”“We heard that one person, who got the vaccine, had died in Bhopal. We want that senior officers, including the deputy commissioner, civil surgeon, senior medical officers (SMOs), should get the shot first. We are not even permanent employees. The government didn’t deem it fit to give us a permanent job, but we are working as we get incentives. We remain on duty 24 hours a day and take care of pregnant women. We take them to hospitals and bring them back and even look after their babies after delivery,” she added.Reacting to the vaccination boycott, deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “It is a voluntary exercise and nobody will be forced to take the vaccine. Vaccination will be started from doctors and medical professionals.” Meanwhile, a doctor from the panel, which has been set up to clear doubts of residents regarding the vaccine, indicated that this was expected. “Similar thing happened in July too, when there were rumours, stopping people from getting treatment and tests for Covid-19. Whenever a new vaccine comes, there is a debate and this happened in the United States as well. These vaccines have come after trials, and there will be an impact when doctors will get themselves vaccinated,” said Dr Bishav Mohan, a senior cardiologist at DMCH and member of the panel. “We, a group of four senior-most doctors, will get vaccinated and hope that things will change after that.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/asha-workers-say-no-to-vaccine-ask-senior-officers-to-get-inoculated-first/articleshow/80291362.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Dungarpur ASI held for bribery||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) Rajsamand unit arrested an assistant sub-inspector posted at Kotwali police station of Dungarpur on Friday after he was caught taking a bribe of Rs 5,000 from the complainant. The cop had called the complainant at a juice stall near Gapsagar and took the money from him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dungarpur-asi-held-for-bribery/articleshow/80293417.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Bhopal||Excise dept steps up raids at hooch dens||Bhopal: Raids against the hooch sellers continued unabated and the excise department seized illegal liquor from several places in Bhopal on Friday. Around 5400 kg mahua and 210 litre hand furnace liquor was seized during these raids. Excise controller Sajendra Mori said, raids were conducted at Kajlakheri, Jhiri, Rasuliya and Pathar and teams seized illegal liquor in large quantities and also confiscated the equipment used to make the liquor. In all,19 cases were filed under Section 34 (1) (a) and (f) of the Excise Act, 1915. Officials said, the raids will continue in the state capital and other adjacent areas. “These raids will not stop as of now. We are searching every possible corner of Bhopal where such unauthorised liquor is being manufactured,” said an official without quoting his name. Sources said, some of the liquor contractors have also given leads about such illicit hooch dens. “We have regularly provided details of the places where such illegal liquor is being brewed,” said a liquor contractor, requesting anonymity. Haripura, Arjun Nagar, Naronha Saankal, Tanda, Kokta, Kanhasaiyya , Sukhi Sewania, Amoni Bhadbhada, Kheria Tapra and Balampur were raided on Thursday, from where the raid teams had seized around 8400 kg of Mahua Lahan and 320 litre hand furnace liquor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/excise-dept-steps-up-raids-at-hooch-dens/articleshow/80292422.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||FM essays plans to stem unemployment of educated||Thiruvananthapuram: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac has proposed a slew of measures aimed at creating a conducive ecosystem to help resolve the high rate of unemployment among educated youth, especially women, in the state. This would be possible by leveraging the changes taking place across the world in work culture following the challenges posed by Covid-19 pandemic, he said. Isaac in his budget speech said the government expected to create at least 20 lakh job opportunities, in next five years, for educated youth, especially women, who have the potential to become part of the workforce, by exploring the work-from-home and work-near-home concepts catching up in the post-Covid era. If local bodies at block or municipality level make available at least a 5,000sq ft building facility, government would convert it into work station facilities and Rs 20 crore was earmarked for this. The minister said the government would make necessary arrangements so that employers can get in touch with the potential employees though a digital platform. Support would be arranged for jobless youth to acquire/sharpen their skills that would make them competent in the job market. Job registration would start in February. The major highlight of the proposal is that state government would bear the employer’s contribution to the provident fund. Health insurance would be provided for employees. “It is estimated that in Kerala, 5 lakh women professionals have taken career breaks, and are staying at home. Another 40 lakh educated women who are outside the labour force and are staying at home, will be willing to work from home or a nearer location. There are 16 lakh educated youngsters registered with the employment exchange. Hence the total comes to 60 lakh,” the minister said. He said the government wants to empower the potential workforce and students by ensuring at least one laptop with internet facility in each household. While K-FON project would ensure internet facility, the hardware needs could be ensured by offering loans through KSFE, KFC and Kerala bank. Students from economically weaker sections would get 50% subsidy and others 25% for laptop purchase. Those availing loan to purchase a laptop would need to repay it in equal instalments in two years. In case of job loss in between, there would be a moratorium on repayment till she/he acquires another job. Kerala Development Innovation Strategy Council (K-DISC) will be restructured as a registered society with the chief minister as its chairperson. The making of the digital platform and the advanced preparation for training and deliberation with companies will be completed in 2021-22, he said. While the national-level unemployment in the age group of 15 to 59 was 5.8% in 2018-19, it was 10.4% in Kerala. The main reason attributed is the unemployment of women in Kerala. While the male unemployment rate in Kerala is 5.8%, the female unemployment rate is 19.1%. On realizing the difficulties in getting a job, women stop seeking jobs and go out of the labour force. It is shameful to note that while the labour participation rate of men is 73.5%, that of women is only 28.5%, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/fm-essays-plans-to-stem-unemployment-of-educated/articleshow/80292423.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Bhopal||Shivraj calls on Nadda, seeks funds for infra devpt from FM||Bhopal:CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Friday called on BJP national president Jagat Prakash Nadda to discuss political and organisational developments in the state. Chouhan also met finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman and sought payment of Rs660 crore due for infrastructure development. Chouhan’s meeting with the BJP top brass was held in the late afternoon; details of the discussions could not be disclosed. Sources said, the chief minister also met newly-appointed joint general secretary (organisation), Shiv Prakash, and discussed political developments in the state. After recent appointments in the state working committee and cabinet, Chouhan is learnt to have discussed party’s plan on elevation of leaders in the boards and corporations besides other state related issues, said sources. “Met BJP president Naddaji today in New Delhi. Apprised him about the new law against forceful conversions (love jihad), ‘FIR Apke Dwar’, smart city schemes and police action against mafias and goons,” tweeted Chouhan. After his meeting with the finance minister, the chief minister said, “On the basis of performance in infrastructure development and to complete works by March 31, 2021, we have sought payments of Rs330 crore from Rs1,600 crore approved by the Centre. I am thankful that the finance minister has sanctioned Rs660 crore.” “We also urged the minister to allow borrowing 1% additional loan for welfare schemes and to provide relief to poor and farmers in the time of crisis. The government assured to consider our request,” Chouhan further said. The chief minister also urged to do away with CIBIL ratings for street vendors and interest-free loan up to Rs10,000 for rural path vendors. The CM also met railway minister Piyush Goyal before returning to the state late in the evening as the chief minister is scheduled to participate in the national vaccination drive in the state on January 16.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/shivraj-calls-on-nadda-seeks-funds-for-infra-devpt-from-fm/articleshow/80292419.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||ED questions ex-minister Eknath Khadse on land acquired by family||MUMBAI: Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded statements of NCP leader and former revenue minister Eknath Khadse for over five hours on Friday in a case related to a land deal in Pune. ED is investigating if there was money-laundering involved . While leaving the ED office at Ballard Pier in South Mumbai, Khadse said, “ED called me for an inquiry and I replied to all questions. Whatever documents and information they need, I will provide them. Whenever they call me again, I will make myself available to them.” Earlier, ED had summoned Khadse on December 30, 2020, but he expressed inability as he had Covid-19 symptoms and had been advised rest for 14 days. ED accepted his request. Khadse, accompanied by his daughter, visited the office around 11am and left around 5.30pm. Khadse was a senior cabinet minister in the BJP-led government in Maharashtra but he lost his ministry in 2016 after allegations that he misused his position to facilitate purchase of land earmarked for acquisition by government, by his wife and son-inlaw near Pune. The previous government had told the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to investigate the allegation. Subsequently, ED too initiated an investigation. Khadse had recently left BJP and joined NCP in the presence of party chief Sharad Pawar. Khadse earlier maintained that ACB and income-tax department had found no irregularities in the transactions. Source said ED has yet to conclude its investigation. He said that the entire transaction pertains to his wife and son-inlaw. “It’s a private land deal. The land continues to be owned by a private person, and it was purchased by my wife and son-in-law by following due process of law. It will be wrong to say it was an illegal deal,” he had said earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ed-records-khadse-statement-on-pune-land-deal/articleshow/80292407.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Man nabbed for rape, sending obscene video||KALYAN: A 26-year-old man was arrested for allegedly raping a 22-year-old girl on the pretext of marriage, and for sending her obscene video to friends. Sunder Gupta, from Rambaug, knew the girl for two years, Khadakpada police said. They said recently, when she asked him to get married, he demanded sexual favours. When she refused, he sent a video of hers to friends. Senior inspector Ashok Pawar said a probe was on. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/man-nabbed-for-rape-sending-obscene-video/articleshow/80295161.cms||Pradeep Gupta
January 16, 2021||Goa||CM bows to public pressure, scraps IIT project at Melauli||PANAJI: In an embarrassment to the state government, chief minister Pramod Sawant on Friday acceded to the demand of Melauli locals to shift the prestigious IIT project from the village and withdraw the FIRs registered against the protesters after “following the process”. “The decision to shift the IIT project was taken keeping in mind peoples’ sentiments and the request of health minister Vishwajit Rane, who is also the local MLA, and local representatives,” Sawant said. But the chief minister said, “the government is committed to setting up IIT in Goa at some other site,” and a decision on the new site would be “taken at the right time”. This is the third occasion where stiff opposition from locals has forced the government to move the project. Now, it is likely to take a minimum of six months to finalise another site. The government’s move to cancel the project at Melauli is the culmination of six-month-long agitation by residents, which intensified over the past couple of weeks. On January 6, villagers clashed with police during the land demarcation, forcing them to lathicharge the locals and use tear gas to disperse them. At least 20 people, including women constables, were injured. Even as he cancelled the project, Sawant said the people of Melauli were “misguided”. He said IIT was non-polluting and an educational institute. He said he tried to convince the people, but that “some people” worked against the interests of the state. Sawant said neither he nor Rane had any “personal interest” in the project. Rane, who had initially endorsed the project at Melauli, himself changed tack after widespread protests. “If I had the capacity to take this project ahead, it would have been different, but when the people want it shifted, I am helpless, and that is the reason I have come to you to shift the project,” he told Sawant. Rane said he too tried his “level best” to convince the people about it, but since they didn’t buy his arguments, he didn’t have any solution. The health minister also said that if Goa is to be developed, projects like IIT are needed. “If IIT had come up in our constituency, there would have been eco-tourism in Sattari,” he said. On Friday, elected representatives from Sattari and Usgao submitted a memorandum to the chief minister to shift the IIT project from the village. The government had earlier identified sites at Canacona and Sanguem for the institute. Power minister and Curchorem MLA Nilesh Cabral said this week that his constituents “welcome” the project. IIT-Goa currently functions from the Goa Engineering College campus in Farmagudi, Ponda. The government may now look for sites at Sanguem or Quepem to set up the institute.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cm-bows-to-public-pressure-scraps-iit-project-at-melauli/articleshow/80294580.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BMC must recover Rs 35cr from Taj Lands End: Cong||Mumbai: After slamming Shiv Sena for giving Colaba’s Taj Mahal Palace Hotel a waiver of nearly Rs.10 crore for blocking a public road outside the hotel and barricading parts of the footpath citing security, Congress has now told BMC to recover Rs 35 crore as property tax from Taj Lands End hotel in Bandra (W). In a letter to civic chief Iqbal Chahal, Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is Opposition leader in BMC, said the hotel was listed among BMC’s top 50 property tax defaulters. “BMC must recover the entire amount and if they hotel fails to pay it, its property must be attached, following procedure. BMC is not trying to recover the tax from top defaulters,” Raja said. A Taj Lands End spokesperson said with the change to capital value-based tax in 2010, there was a hike in taxes. “Since the amended rules were not in accordance with law they were challenged in Bombay HC by many property owners, including Taj Lands End. HC, in an interim order in January 2014, permitted payment of 100% of the original tax and 25% of the incremental tax, which was revised to 50% of incremental tax by an interim order in February 2014. Taj Lands End continued to pay civic taxes in accordance with HC orders. Subsequently, HC in 2019 struck down some rules, and property tax bills raised by BMC were quashed, with a direction to redetermine taxes by following procedure laid down under law,” the spokesperson said. “While the issue is pending final determination, SC has directed that in the meantime, the relationship between parties shall continue to be governed as per an earlier HC interim order, which permitted property owners to pay 100% of original tax and 50% of incremental tax. Taj Lands End has always paid municipal taxes as per orders of courts, and will continue to do so. The issue is sub judice, and as a responsible corporate house, we will abide by court orders,” the spokesperson said. BMC officials said the hotel had paid 50% that was due till March 2020 as per HC orders. The official said the matter was pending in SC but the hotel was listed among defaulters since bills were raised. BMC filed an SLP in SC against an HC order. Chaitanya Marpakwar||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-must-recover-rs-35cr-from-taj-lands-end-cong/articleshow/80292398.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Kochi||Detailed DPR for TVM, Koz light metro in the works||Kochi/T’puram: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said that as per the revised central government criteria a revised detailed project report (DPR) is being prepared for the Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode light metros. Similarly, DPRs of Sabarimala airport and air strips in Idukki, Wayanad and Kasaragod districts are also under preparation. “An amount of Rs 9 crore is earmarked,” he said. After keeping in cold storage for nearly three years, the reworked detailed project report for Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode light metro project received the nod from Kerala Rapid Transit Limited in November last year. However, with the meagre allocation in the budget, there is no chance for any further work on the project getting initiated in the coming fiscal. Parallel projects to construct flyovers at Sreekaryam and Pattom along the light metro route are progressing with KIIFB assistance. The Silver Line Semi High Speed Rail Project worth Rs 60,000 crore will be implemented through Kerala Rail Development Corporation (KRDC), a joint venture of the centre and state governments. In 2021-22, the land acquisition activities will be started after completing necessary environmental assessment and clearance. The KRDC will undertake construction of railway lines such as Thalassery-Mysore and Nilambur-Nanjangud. “The central government is not ready to heed to our request of constructing Sabari rail line at railway’s cost in spite of the national significance of Sabarimala. In this backdrop, the state government has decided to bear half the cost. More than about Rs 2,000 crore required for this will be allocated from KIIFB,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/detailed-dpr-for-tvm-koz-light-metro-in-the-works/articleshow/80292431.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Man detained for posing as CIA cop, fake ID card recovered||Ludhiana: The Ludhiana police have detained a man for posing as a CIA cop and recovered an identity card and a stamp of ‘District In-charge Crime Investigation Agency’ from his possession. Investigation is on to know his accomplices. The accused has been identified as Karnail Singh, 55, of Bhagwan Dass Colony in Salem Tabri. He is a wood trader. Deputy commissioner of police (detective) Simratpal Singh Dhindsa said the police had received a complaint against the accused, and they booked him after a probe. During the investigation, the police found that the ID card recovered from him has CIA written on it and it also has a logo, which was registered with the competent authority. “The Ludhiana police will write to the Trade Marks registry to get the registration cancelled of the altered CIA logo, which he used and is quite similar to the original one,” added DCP Dhindsa. Assistant commissioner of police (detective) Mandeep Singh said the accused had filed an RTI application with a department using fake CIA letterhead and stamp, claiming to be in charge of Ludhiana CIA. Thereafter, the matter came to light and the police detained him on Friday. He added that during preliminary investigation, it was found that the accused used to dupe people on the pretext of getting their works pending with the police department done. The police are also checking if the accused has extorted money from anyone. The ACP said the case has been transferred to the Salem Tabri police station that would find out if he had accomplices and how and why he started the impersonation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-detained-for-posing-as-cia-cop-fake-id-card-recovered/articleshow/80291379.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||UP Diwas celebrationsto take off from Jan 24||Lucknow: UP Diwas celebrations this year will take place in Awadh Shilpgram from January 24 to 26. Celebrations will also be held in Noida. On Friday, additional chief secretary (MSME) Navneet Sehgal reviewed preparations for the functions. He said various departments would put up 250 stalls at Awadh Shilpgram of which 75 will be of ODOP products. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath will distribute tool kits, loans and awards during the event. “Different programmes will be held each day. On the first day, tool kits and loans will be given to beneficiaries of the Vishwakarma Samman Scheme and other similar schemes. On the second day and the third day, award ceremonies will be held. The Khadi Gramudyog department will distribute solar powered charkhas, machines for making dona pattal and power looms and those who have done goodwork in khadi will be felicitated,” Sehgal said, adding that a khadi fashion show will also be held during the event. The labour department will give out cheques for medical assistance while the youth welfare department will distribute youth awards. The social welfare department will give out scholarships to students.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-diwas-celebrationsto-take-off-from-jan-24/articleshow/80294310.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Swachhata walk held in Sec’bad||Hyderabad: As a part of the Swachhata Pakhwada programme held from January 1-15, the officials of Ministry of External Affairs in Hyderabad organised a Swachhata Walk to the Clock Tower Park, Secunderabad on Friday. Masks and sanitizers were distributed to participants at RPO building. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/swachhata-walk-held-in-secbad/articleshow/80293442.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Anti-riot units to helppolice tackle unruly mob||LUCKNOW: Other than internal security, the crowd management and tackling of riots are the two issues which require deft handling by police. This was stated by Lucknow Police commissioner DK Thakur at a programme to mark the completion of one year of the commissionerate syatem in the city on Friday. The programme was held at the Reserve Police Lines ,Mahanagar Other initiatives will include community policing to ensure communal harmony. Later, joint commissioner of police, law and order, Naveen Arora, who also had a stint in the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), elaborated about the plan and said that for better crowd management and to handle the situation arising out of mob fury a specialised anti-riot unit would be set up. Arora said that a blueprint has been chalked out about the specialised unit that would have two components. “While every police zone will have its own anti-riot unit, it would also be ensured that the zone where riots have erupted would get immediate help from units deployed in other zones,” he said. He added that “cops, who will be part of the anti-riot unit, have already been selected in the three police zones.” “We will first acclimatise them and make them understand the correct use of anti-riot gas guns, anti-riot guns, how to safeguard oneself using body protectors and effective use of riot-vehicles. Special training will be provided to cops to pacify the mob in a peaceful manner. But if people would not listen to their pleas, members of the anti-riot team would use water cannons to disperse them. Lathicharge would be the next line of deterrence,” he said and added that “use of tear gas shells would be the last resort.” The officer further said that currently these operations are performed by PAC units or the RAF is brought in critical situations.  The police will be required to hold frequent peace meetings with the consent of community leaders. Besides, efforts will be made to strengthen the intelligence network in the city and the intelligence data will be shared by neighbouring districts. ‘Namaste Lucknow’ will also be strenghthened this year, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/anti-riot-units-to-helppolice-tackle-unruly-mob/articleshow/80294191.cms||Pathikrit Chakraborty
January 16, 2021||Varanasi||People will take selfies at places they hesitated to visit, says Yogi||Gorakhpur: Unveiling a statue of Lord Shiva virtually at Moksh Dham (cremation ground) in Gorakhpur, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday said death is the reality of life and those who understand it attain ‘Moksha’ (salvation). “One should not hide the fact that death is the reality of life. Development of Moksh Dham has brought this fact in front of us. About 12-15 years ago, the place was unclean and people used to hesitate to visit the place,” Yogi said while unveiling the statue from Gorakhnath Temple. He added that with the installation of Lord Shiva’s statue, people would take selfies at the spot. “The work is an example of public service and participation,” he said. The statue has been installed by GIDA’s India Glycols Ltd at Moksh Dham in Sahjanwa area. BJP MP Ravi Kishan, MLA Sheetal Pandey and other leaders were present on the occasion. IGL chairman and managing director, Umashankar Bhartiya, also connected virtually from Gorakhnath temple. Local MP Ravi Kishan said a ‘New India’ and ‘New Uttar Pradesh’ was taking shape under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath. “Life keeps on changing but we should not forget social service,” he added. Proposing the vote of thanks, IGL head SK Shukla said, “IGL is coming forward for social service and providing necessary facilities to schools and people in nearby villages. We are planning a hi-tech library on the request of MP.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/people-will-take-selfies-at-places-they-hesitated-to-visit-says-yogi/articleshow/80291534.cms||Arjumand Bano
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Nadda in Lucknow next week amid talk of cabinet reshuffle||Lucknow: BJP national president JP Nadda is likely to camp in Lucknow on January 20 and 21 amid talks of a reshuffle in the state cabinet following announcement of Vidhan Parishad candidature of PM Modi's trusted bureaucrat AK Sharma. The BJP leadership and ministers in the state are mum on the changes to be effected after Sharma, within four days of resigning from the IAS, joined the party in Lucknow and, within 24 hours, was also officially declared as party’s candidate for the forthcoming council elections. However, since it is being seen as a foregone conclusion in the BJP circles that Sharma’s next destination would be a key position in the government, even senior ministers are feeling unsafe. So, with Nadda planning a visit to Lucknow, the next week could be crucial for the Yogi government as a ministerial reshuffle appears imminent for accommodating Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/nadda-in-lucknow-next-week-amid-talk-of-cabinet-reshuffle/articleshow/80293951.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 16, 2021||Varanasi||Ram Temple mass donation drive begins in Varanasi||Varanasi: The mass fundraising drive for the construction of Ram Mandir in Ayodhya kickstarted in Varanasi, with members of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad paying obeisance to Lord Vishwanath on Friday. The members reached out to people and sought their participation in the construction of the Ram Temple. “We took the blessings of Baba Vishwanath for fund collection,” said a VHP office-bearer Anandji. They were accompanied by members of sanj samaj. General secretary, Akhil Bharatiya Sant Samiti, Swami Jitendrananad Saraswati said Ram Temple would be built with the voluntary contribution of all bhakts. The nationwide fund collection campaign will continue till February-end. VHP workers would go on a door-to-door mass contact programme to collect funds.  VHP has claimed that around 5.25 lakh villages and 13 crore families with 65 crore Hindus will be approached to contribute for temple construction. By a rough estimate, there would be about 10 lakh teams across the country with each team having five people. Many would be staying out for collection for a minimum of 14 days and a maximum of one month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/ram-temple-mass-donation-drive-begins-in-varanasi/articleshow/80291558.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Kerala farmers reach Shahjahanpur, SOP on January 26 parade soon||JAIPUR: While a large batch of farmers from Kerala reached Alwar’s Shahjahanpur on Friday to support the farmers’ agitation, Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, addressing the farmers, said the guidelines for the farmers’ parade on January 26 will be issued by Sanyunkt Kisan Morcha soon and also appealed to them to mobilise people to join the parade. “Starting from Friday till January 24, ask everybody through phone calls, Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp messages and by meeting in person whether they are joining (the farmers’ parade) on January 26 or not,” said Yadav, who reached Shahjahanpur after visiting Haryana and other parts of the country as a part of Desh Jagruti Pakhwada. Appealing to the farmers to be cautious about rumours, Yadav said, “the BJP wants to weaken the farmers’ movement in south Haryana by raising the SYL (Satluj Yamuna Link Canal) issue, but farmers are familiar with these moves. They (farmers) will eventually win the battle.” Film actress Sonia Mann also reached Shahjahanpur from Tikri border on Friday to support the farmers’ movement. She said more actors from Punjab and Bollywood will arrive here in the coming days to support the farmers’ agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/kerala-farmers-reach-shahjahanpur-sop-on-jan-26-parade-soon/articleshow/80293423.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Don’t pay heed to rumours on vax, call helplines: Health Min||Lucknow: Urging people not to pay attention to rumours about coronavirus vaccine, state health and family welfare minister Jai Pratap Singh on Friday said all preparations for the immunization programme are in place and beneficiaries should come forward and take the jab. Over 10.75 lakh doses of vaccine have been received and stocked in Uttar Pradesh for the launch of immunisation programme. “Though vaccination is purely voluntary, it is advisable in the interest of people which will also benefit the society indirectly. I request beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. I would also urge everyone not to pay attention to rumours,” Singh said. “People may call up state helpline number 104 and national helpline number 1075 for any problems related to vaccine,” the minister said. Health officials said majority of the people would not experience anything more than a prick and mild swelling, a miniscule number could face side-effects. Officials added that the health system was prepared to attend to any adverse event. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said of the total vaccine received in the state, 10.55 lakh were of Covishield, manufactured by the Serum Institute of India, while the remaining are Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin. “The stock is in place in all the 75 districts. On the first day, 317 sessions, catering to 100 people each, will be covered. In this way, 31,700 people will be administered the vaccine on the first day,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/dont-pay-heed-to-rumours-on-vax-call-helplines-health-min/articleshow/80294267.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 16, 2021||Goa||Lights, camera, limited action: A cautious Iffi begins today||Panaji: Kannada film star Sudeep and Union minister Prakash Javadekar will open the 51st edition of the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) on Saturday before a limited physical audience. Amidst the pandemic, the five decade-old festival will be different from any of its earlier editions. From seating capacity for physical screenings nearly halved to staggered timings to masterclasses going online, Iffi will be a cautious affair this year. “We have requested the directorate of film festivals (DFF) to keep a longer gap between film screenings so there is additional time to carry out proper sanitisation of the theatres,” said Amit Satija, CEO, Entertainment Society of Goa (ESG), the logistics partner of DFF in organizing the festival in Goa. “Due to the pandemic, we had to reduce screenings. This year we are not having open-air screenings,” he said. “We are not having activities at the promenade, which used to attract a lot of crowds. Without a mask, no entry will be permitted. There will be frequent sanitisation. Seating capacity, too, will be reduced keeping in mind Covid-19 protocol,” said Satija. While physical film screenings have been limited to 119, the delegate numbers were limited by the organisers this year to a quarter of the usual to 2,500. Of these, around 1,500 have confirmed their registrations on the eve of the festival. “Four auditoriums at the ESG complex (Inox), two at Maquinez palace and one in Kala Academy will be used for physical screenings,” said chief minister Pramod Sawant. “The opening ceremony will be held at Shyama Prasad Mukherjee stadium. All pandemic protocols will be followed as per MHA guidelines. There will be e-ticketing and e-catalogues this year. Sixty countries have participated. Close to 119 screenings will take place in physical format, of which 85 will be premiere movies, national and international.” The organisers, though, have not provided any fixed number of attendees at the opening ceremony, while stating that the number is a downsized one. “There will be physical screenings held for films in the sections of Indian Panorama (which open with ‘Saand Ki Aankh’), international competition, homage, retrospective, tribute to 100 years of Satyajit Ray, special section on Goa, country focus on Bangladesh, world panorama, debut director, festival kaleidoscope, father of Indian cinema Dada Saheb Phalke, and lifetime achievement,” said Satija, adding that separate registrations have opened for those who want to view films in the physical format and those who want to watch movies through the online platform. Danish filmmaker Thomas Vinterberg’s ‘Another Round’ — Denmark’s official entry to the Oscars — will be the opening film, and the historical drama ‘Wife of a Spy’ by Kiyoshi Kurosawa will close the festival. GFX FESTIVAL HIGHLIGHTS Delegates – 2500 registered Separate registration for physical film viewing and online viewing Special section on 100 years of Satyajit Ray Section on Father of Indian Cinema Dada Saheb Phalke Country Focus – Bangladesh Masterclasses to be available through online platform, with a registration fee for the entire festival duration of Rs 500 + GST Triple Oscar winner Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro to be awarded Lifetime Achievement Award Tribute sections for cine stars lost during 2020 including SP Balasubramanium, Saroj Khan, Sushant Singh Rajput, Chadwick Boseman 50 best contemporary films to be shown under World Panorama, most from Germany and France Festival Kaleidoscope will showcase 12 films which have captured the imagination of audience at different world film festivals during the year||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/lights-camera-limited-action-a-cautious-iffi-begins-today/articleshow/80294339.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||SP MP’s ‘stone-pelter’ remark attempt to create rift, says BJP||Lucknow: A day after Samajwadi Party MP from Moradabad, ST Hasan, kicked up a row allegedly claiming that BJP could get Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) functionaries pelted with stones during the fund-raising campaign for Ram Temple, the BJP shot back saying that the SP leadership was trying to create communal rift in the society. The BJP accused the SP of hatching conspiracy to gain political mileage in the run up to upcoming panchayat polls and assembly elections. Talking to TOI, UP BJP vice-president Vijay Bahadur Pathak said that SP was pursuing politics of polarisation to meet its political agenda. “Statements issued by SP leaders show that the party is fast losing political ground. Everyone knows ST Hasan and the kinds of statements that he usually issues,” he said. Pathak demanded that Hasan’s statement should be subjected to investigation to assess if SP was hatching a conspiracy to create communal tension when Ram Bhakts fan out to collect funds for Ram Temple in Ayodhya. On Thursday, Hasan had alleged that the BJP might try to gain political mileage by orchestrating violence while getting stones pelted on people seeking funds for Ram Temple. The crowdfunding drive, which started on Friday will continue till February 27 (Magh Poornima). VHP has hammered out a plan of deputing at least 1 lakh functionaries in each of the states to collect funds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/sp-mps-stone-pelter-remark-attempt-to-create-rift-says-bjp/articleshow/80294404.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Rajnath unveils driverless Metro car for Mumbai||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh unveiled a state-of-the-art driverless Metro car for Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), which will be deployed on corridors in Mumbai. The car was unveiled at a function at BEML’s Bangalore complex. Singh said, “I’m proud of the good work the team of engineers and technicians are doing at BEML. I would also like to congratulate but bow before each and every member of BEML and wish that the wonderful work that is being done by the company should be made known to the nation. They are the real warriors of ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’, taking India ahead.” Sources said the rake is expected to arrive in the last week of January and trials are scheduled in March. Indigenously-designed Metro cars will operate on 25kv AC traction power and equipped with CCTV surveillance and can carry bicycles in coaches. The rakes, of stainless steel body, can carry 2,280 passengers in a six-cars Metro train-set. BEML bagged an order of 576 cars for MMRDA’s MRS1 project, the largest order ever, amid stiff completion with international players and the supply is scheduled progressively till January 2024. BEML opened its depot office recently at Charkop, MMRDA, Mumbai, for commissioning, testing and round-the-clock servicing for the driverless cars.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/rajnath-unveils-driverless-metro-car-for-mumbai/articleshow/80292399.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Bizmen ask railway minister to resume Shatabdi trains||Ludhiana: Peeved at non-resumption of all trains to and from Ludhiana, the city-based businessmen have now written to railway minister Piyush Goyal to resume the services of Shatabdi Express, which used to run twice a day between Ludhiana and Delhi.In a letter to the minister, the businessmen have stated that with only one superfast train—Vande Bharat Express— available for Delhi, they are facing huge problems, as its timings do not suit everyone. Moreover, Shatabdi trains were the most preferred mode for travelling to Delhi for the Ludhiana businessmen, as the train to Delhi would leave in the morning and return in the evening, which was convenient for them.Meanwhile, according to sources in the railways, the Shatabdi trains remain cancelled, as they originate and terminate at Amritsar railway station, where rail blockade had been resorted to by the agitating farmers. Some more trains plying on the route also remain cancelled. Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “Non-resumption of all trains to Delhi from Ludhiana is causing huge problems to the commuters, especially businessmen. Hundreds of businessmen from the city used to go to Delhi by Shatabdi Express for business meets in the morning and come back the same day by evening in a hassle-free manner. Timings of the currently plying Vande Bharat Express do not suit us, as it leaves late in the evening and returns the next day.”Moreover, as farmers’ agitation is going on at the borders of Delhi, going by road to the national capital these days is very time consuming, he pointed out.General secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, Atul Saggar, said, “Shatabdi pair of trains are a lifeline for Ludhiana’s industry, especially the garment industry since our biggest markets are located in Delhi. As we have only a few hours’ work in Delhi, we prefer Shatabdi Express. It is not only convenient and fast, but also economical. Both trains should be resumed at the earliest. If they can’t run these trains up to Amritsar, why not short-terminate them at Ludhiana, from where most passengers board?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/bizmen-ask-railway-minister-to-resume-shatabdi-trains/articleshow/80291385.cms||Mohit Behl
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Broker held with Rs 51 lakh ganja was ‘main supplier’||MUMBAI: Sakinaka police, probing the arrest of a 39-year-old real estate broker for storing 345kg ganja worth Rs 51.8 lakh at his Sakinaka SRA flat, learnt he was the main supplier here. The drugs are sold in sachets in slum pockets. Ashok Mehtre destroyed his SIM card and was to flee to AP when caught. Police are gathering information on the source of drugs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/broker-held-with-rs-51l-ganja-was-main-supplier/articleshow/80295176.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||UP: ED files disproportionate assets case against Gayatri Prajapati||LUCKNOW: The enforcement directorate’s Lucknow unit on Friday registered a case of disproportionate assets against former minister Gayatri Prajapati. The case was registered two weeks after the ED found over 100 registry papers of properties, including four villas in Mumbai, belonging to Prajapati family. The total value of these properties was estimated to be around Rs 32 crore. Sources in the ED said that attachment proceedings will be initiated soon. The ED had first conducted a search operation on the residential premises of Prajapati and offices of his sons Anil and Anurag. Besides, residences of their driver Raja Ram in Amethi and Lucknow and of accountant Umesh Khandelwal in Kanpur were also searched in connection with the allegation of money laundering. During the searches ED sleuths found allotment letters of four villas in Mumbai’s Malad area, valued at Rs 2.5 crore each along with 44 ‘benami’ properties, totalling over Rs 17 crore. These properties were registered in the name of daily-wage workers and labourers. Moreover, papers of 23 ‘benami’ properties ranging between Rs 3 and 36 lakhs were also recovered during the search operation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ed-files-da-case-against-prajapati/articleshow/80294327.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Vaccine portal crashes, hits selection process||Lucknow: The centralised portal for Covid-19 vaccine drive crashed on Friday afternoon due to some technical fault in Delhi. As a result, authorities in Lucknow were not able to send bulk SMSes to 1,200 beneficiaries selected for immunisation on Day 1 on Saturday. The crash also impacted the random selection process which was to be done by a special software. The process was then carried out manually. After selection, each beneficiary was contacted on phone and informed about time and place where she/she will get the vaccine shot. Chief medical officer Dr Sanjay Bhatnagar said, “Due to technical issues in the central portal, we had to manually select 1,200 health workers from the list provided by hospitals and medical education institutes where the vaccine drive will be held on Saturday.” “These health workers were then informed individually by phone from Integrated Command and Control Centre. The list of workers was also sent to their respective institutes so that they can be informed again,” he added. Some officers said that if the system does not get restored on Saturday, there could be problem in authentication of identification documents which is required to be done before vaccinating a person. While officers claimed that all those selected for Day 1 vaccination had been intimated by Friday evening, a few beneficiaries whom TOI contacted around 8pm said they were yet to receive any information. Ramesh, a sanitary worker at KGMU, whose name was in the list, said he did not get any call from administration about vaccination. Similarly, Ashok Kumar, a grade IV employee, said he too had not received any communication.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vaccine-portal-crashes-hits-selection-process/articleshow/80294208.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: 15k jabs at Covid on vaccine-day||BHOPAL/INDORE: Today, we fight back. The first ‘shots’ at the Covid pandemic will be fired at 150 hospitals and health centres across Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, aiming to shield 15,000 frontline warriors. In Indore, three sweepers will be the first to get the Covid vaccines. In Bhopal, 47-year-old Gopal Sharan, a sweeper at Berasia Hospital, will get shot #001. At JP Hospital in Bhopal, health worker Hardev Yadav is No. 1 and Chirayu Medical College will begin by injecting the first dose to director Ajay Goenka. “This is our final onslaught on the Covid pandemic,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared on Friday. “I am ready for vaccination and everyone should go for it. While working at the hospital, I have seen people suffering from Covid-19. I’ve seen heart-rending scenes. Then, there was no way out. Now, there is. My family is happy that I am getting the vaccine,” said Sharan. The vaccination drive is starting at a time when cases are on the wane — Friday was the fifth consecutive day when fewer than 500 new cases were reported. The positivity rate plummeted to 1.8% on Friday, and the number of active cases dipped below 7000. With the pressure easing, health workers can give more attention to the vac campaign. MGM medical college has set up a post-vaccination selfie point to promote awareness, dean Prof Dr Sanjay Dixit said. There were a few hitches in Indore, however, as beneficiaries hadn’t got the messages regarding time and venue till late Friday. Health authorities began calling up beneficiaries and asked them to report at their designated vac centre with ID cards. “Due to a technical error, we called the beneficiaries and informed them about the timing. They will get the messages but to avoid any confusion, we also informed them personally,” COVID-19 Nodal officer Dr Amit Malakar said Bhopal: Health workers, doctors among 1200 to get the jab todayAll is set for the vaccination drive to start in the state capital on Saturday. Health worker at J P hospital, Hardev Yadav, will be the first person to get the vaccine dose at J P hospital. Around the same time, director of Chirayu medical college, Ajay Goenka, will be vaccinated at his medical college, which is an exclusive Covid care hospital as of now. Divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyavat, district collector, Avinash Lavania and a team of senior doctors visited the 12 vaccination centres to take stock of the preparations for vaccination drive. Vaccines were also transported to the vaccination centre from JP hospital cold storage in the morning. In addition to government hospitals, vaccination will also take place at AIIMS, railway hospitals and some private hospitals. CMHO, Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, said that all the health workers have already been registered for vaccination. They will receive SMS on their turn for vaccination. A control room has been set up at the Smart City office. Vaccination will start at all the centres simultaneously and 1,200 persons will be vaccinated in a day. At every centre, 100 persons will be vaccinated in each of the four sessions. Hardev Yadav, a class IV health worker at J P hospital, will be the first to get vaccinated at J P hospital. Dr Tiwari said that Yadav has been appealing to people coming to JP hospital on the mike to wear masks, maintain cleanliness in the hospital and protect themselves against Coronavirus Director of the Chirayu Hospital, Dr Ajay Goenka will be vaccinated first at his hospital. Other doctors and health workers of the hospital will also be vaccinated during the day. There are 52 cold chain points in Bhopal district. However, only 9 will be used on the first day of vaccination. Vaccines have already arrived at all the vaccination centres. The 12 centres at Bhopal , where vaccination will start at 9.00 am simultaneously on Saturday, are located in AIIMS, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC), Chirayu Medical College, Sultania Hospital, J P Hospital, Civil Hospital, Berasia, Jawaharlal Nehru Gas Relief Hospital, Community Health Centre, Phanda and Khushilal Ayurvedic College, Hamidia Hospital and Chirayu Hospital. The vaccination process will be completed in five phases- examining SMS and identity cards, examining other documents, after registration on the Corona site, hand will be washed before vaccination and the person will be kept under observation for 30 minutes before allowed to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/indore/health-workers-docs-among-1200-to-get-the-jab-today/articleshow/80296334.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
January 16, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: 15k jabs at Covid on vaccine-day||BHOPAL/INDORE: Today, we fight back. The first ‘shots’ at the Covid pandemic will be fired at 150 hospitals and health centres across Madhya Pradesh on Saturday, aiming to shield 15,000 frontline warriors. In Indore, three sweepers will be the first to get the Covid vaccines. In Bhopal, 47-year-old Gopal Sharan, a sweeper at Berasia Hospital, will get shot #001. At JP Hospital in Bhopal, health worker Hardev Yadav is No. 1 and Chirayu Medical College will begin by injecting the first dose to director Ajay Goenka. “This is our final onslaught on the Covid pandemic,” chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan declared on Friday. “I am ready for vaccination and everyone should go for it. While working at the hospital, I have seen people suffering from Covid-19. I’ve seen heart-rending scenes. Then, there was no way out. Now, there is. My family is happy that I am getting the vaccine,” said Sharan. The vaccination drive is starting at a time when cases are on the wane — Friday was the fifth consecutive day when fewer than 500 new cases were reported. The positivity rate plummeted to 1.8% on Friday, and the number of active cases dipped below 7000. With the pressure easing, health workers can give more attention to the vac campaign. MGM medical college has set up a post-vaccination selfie point to promote awareness, dean Prof Dr Sanjay Dixit said. There were a few hitches in Indore, however, as beneficiaries hadn’t got the messages regarding time and venue till late Friday. Health authorities began calling up beneficiaries and asked them to report at their designated vac centre with ID cards. “Due to a technical error, we called the beneficiaries and informed them about the timing. They will get the messages but to avoid any confusion, we also informed them personally,” COVID-19 Nodal officer Dr Amit Malakar said Bhopal: Health workers, doctors among 1200 to get the jab todayAll is set for the vaccination drive to start in the state capital on Saturday. Health worker at J P hospital, Hardev Yadav, will be the first person to get the vaccine dose at J P hospital. Around the same time, director of Chirayu medical college, Ajay Goenka, will be vaccinated at his medical college, which is an exclusive Covid care hospital as of now. Divisional commissioner, Kavindra Kiyavat, district collector, Avinash Lavania and a team of senior doctors visited the 12 vaccination centres to take stock of the preparations for vaccination drive. Vaccines were also transported to the vaccination centre from JP hospital cold storage in the morning. In addition to government hospitals, vaccination will also take place at AIIMS, railway hospitals and some private hospitals. CMHO, Bhopal, Dr Prabhakar Tiwari, said that all the health workers have already been registered for vaccination. They will receive SMS on their turn for vaccination. A control room has been set up at the Smart City office. Vaccination will start at all the centres simultaneously and 1,200 persons will be vaccinated in a day. At every centre, 100 persons will be vaccinated in each of the four sessions. Hardev Yadav, a class IV health worker at J P hospital, will be the first to get vaccinated at J P hospital. Dr Tiwari said that Yadav has been appealing to people coming to JP hospital on the mike to wear masks, maintain cleanliness in the hospital and protect themselves against Coronavirus Director of the Chirayu Hospital, Dr Ajay Goenka will be vaccinated first at his hospital. Other doctors and health workers of the hospital will also be vaccinated during the day. There are 52 cold chain points in Bhopal district. However, only 9 will be used on the first day of vaccination. Vaccines have already arrived at all the vaccination centres. The 12 centres at Bhopal , where vaccination will start at 9.00 am simultaneously on Saturday, are located in AIIMS, Gandhi Medical College, Bhopal Memorial Hospital & Research Centre (BMHRC), Chirayu Medical College, Sultania Hospital, J P Hospital, Civil Hospital, Berasia, Jawaharlal Nehru Gas Relief Hospital, Community Health Centre, Phanda and Khushilal Ayurvedic College, Hamidia Hospital and Chirayu Hospital. The vaccination process will be completed in five phases- examining SMS and identity cards, examining other documents, after registration on the Corona site, hand will be washed before vaccination and the person will be kept under observation for 30 minutes before allowed to go.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/health-workers-docs-among-1200-to-get-the-jab-today/articleshow/80292432.cms||Ashutosh Shukla
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Vax D-Day: Shot in the arm in battle against Covid||LUCKNOW: Head of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee Medical University, who is also the director of RML Institute, Dr AK Singh, and principal of Era’s Lucknow Medical College (ELMC) Dr MMA Faridi will be the first two persons in their respective institutions to get the first shot of the much-awaited Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. Talking to TOI on the eve of vaccine rollout, Dr AK Singh (64) said he considered himself to be privileged to figure among the selected healthcare workers who would get the first jab. Overall, 1,200 health professionals and workers will be vaccinated at 12 centres of the city on the first day of the campaign. TimesViewThe historic day has arrived when people in the city will start getting vaccines against Covid-19. It will add to the preventive measures and break the transmission chain, thereby protecting a large section of population.However, beneficiaries will have to keep in mind that even after getting the first shot, they will have to follow the safety protocols strictly till the second dose is administered. Only then, they will be fully secured. Also, vaccination does not mean dropping the guard against the virus. Experts say that vaccination will protect the recipient, but she/he can still act as a carrier of the virus and transmit it to others who have not received a vaccine.“I feel like a double warrior. First as a doctor in the frontline of battle against the virus and then for being in the frontline of inoculation process,” he said. Denying any nervousness, Dr Singh, who is a plastic surgeon, said: “Different bodies react differently to one medication. So, it is to be seen how my body reacts after vaccination. But if we don’t go ahead with medical advancements, how will common people benefit?” Principal, ELMC, Dr MMA Faridi said he had been given the opportunity to set an example for others to follow. “Vaccination is a safe process. In fact, it is the greatest gift to people in the 21st century through which lives are saved from diseases at minimum cost. I decided to take the first shot of the vaccine to send out a message that it was safe and everyone should welcome it.” Hukam Singh Negi, a 52-year-old diabetic who works in the administrative block of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) as a head assistant clerk, will be one of the first to get vaccinated at the institute. “I have no fear. In fact, my family and I are excited about Saturday. I have had Covid-19 in September so I for one know how important the vaccine is,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/privileged-to-be-part-of-historic-day-say-docs-selected-to-take-jab-on-day-1/articleshow/80294223.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||This ‘swarm’ of robots can answer distress calls||LUCKNOW: Can you imagine a ‘swarm’ of robots performing rescue operations during disasters, like landslides and earthquakes, and other similar activities requiring skill and precision? You may have seen such visuals in sci-fi movies but it may soon become a reality. Abhishek Kaushal, an MTech (Mechatronics) student at the Centre for Advanced Studies (CAS) – a constituent institute of Dr APJ Kalam Abdul Kalam Technical University – is developing an advanced ‘swarm robotics system’ in which multiple robots and drones can work like a swarms of bees. The research work, titled ‘Development of swarm robotic system and its application’ won him a gold medal for the best thesis which will be awarded to him during the 18th convocation of AKTU to be held on Saturday. “I have made four robots and carrying out research on ‘Swarm robotics’, a technology in which multiple robots collectively solve problems by forming advantageous structures and behaviors similar to the ones observed in natural systems, such as swarm of bees, birds or fish,” says Kaushal, a research scholar at CAS. “My research work is focused on developing swarm robotics for search and exploration in case of a natural disaster. As they are small, robots and drones can go under rubble or confined spaces to locate people and give their exact location so that they can be rescued,” he adds. Swarm robotic technology has been adopted by developed countries and is used for mapping timberlands in New Jersey, USA. “The technology can be used for disaster management, resource exploration, surveillance services and others where small robots are required,” he says.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/this-swarm-of-robots-can-answer-distress-calls/articleshow/80294169.cms||Mohita Tewari
January 16, 2021||Kanpur||Top officials review steps to control bird flu outbreak in zoo||Kanpur: A team of senior officials visited the Kanpur zoo on Friday to review the preventive measures and steps taken to handle the outbreak of bird flu or ‘avian influenza’ in the zoo. Discussions were also held to chalk out a plan to keep the bird flu in check and guidelines were issued to deal with the situation. The team was headed by divisional commissioner Raj Shekhar, who took a round of the zoo and held a detailed review meeting with the concerned officers. The commissioner also appealed to the people of Kanpur city to stay alert and inform the sudden death of any bird to the district administration or nearby police station for immediate action and initiation of preventive measures. The commissioner observed that the first case of bird flu was reported in Kanpur Zoo on January 9. He noted that nine birds died on January 9 and 10. But after that no death of any bird took place in the zoo premises. Zoo authorities are taking all necessary steps and precautionary measures as advised by the Central Zoo Authority (CZA) and the directions of the animal husbandry department for effectively handling the avian influenza. The measures include closing down of the zoo premises for visitors, declaring it a containment zone, taking samples of water and bird excreta on regular basis, sanitisation of the premises, medical examination of the staff dealing directly with birds, PPE kits, cleaning and disinfecting the water bodies inside the zoo, separate isolation area and cages for birds showing symptoms and under treatment. The commissioner instructed that samples of the water and also the excreta of the birds should be sent once in every 15 days to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal for testing. Based on the report, necessary action will be taken. Now, samples are also being sent to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI), Bareilly for testing of the avian influenza. The commissioner also directed the zoo authorities, health department, veterinary department and the district administration to organise a health check-up and protocol awareness camp on Saturday for all the staff of zoo involved in the direct handling of birds. Outside the one km radius of the zoo (till 9 kms) the observation zone is monitored by the district administration and the animal husbandry team. They check the poultry shops in that area and collect random samples and send them for testing. Till now more than 340 samples have been collected and sent for testing . Barriers have been set up at the district entry points for checking transportation of poultry breeds and products for effective control of the situation. The commissioner directed the animal husbandry department to depute one staff of the department also along with the police staff at each entry point for effective checking. Daily reporting to be ensured from these checking points. Director zoo Sunil Chaudhary, conservator of forests KK Singh, CDO Mahendra, additional director, animal husbandry SP Verma, ADM City Atul Kumar, CVO RP Mishra, DFO, Arvind Yadav and other officers were present in the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/top-officials-review-steps-to-control-bird-flu-outbreak-in-zoo/articleshow/80291588.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Rs 4 lakh burgled from potato chips firm godown||Ludhiana: Some unidentified burglars targeted the godown of a potato chips company in Alamgir village of Dehlon in the wee hours of Friday and decamped with Rs 4 lakh in cash.The matter came to light when the godown’s caretaker, Aman, reached there in the morning. The Dehlon police have registered a case against unidentified persons.Munish Kumar, the supplier of the company from Chandigarh, said Aman informed him about the theft on Friday morning, after which he reached Ludhiana.SHO of Dehlon police station inspector Sukhdev Singh said according to the complainant, the cash was kept in an almirah locker in the basement of the godown. Some unidentified persons scaled the boundary wall, broke open the locker and escaped with the cash, he said. The police officer said there was no security guard in the godown and no CCTV is installed there. Besides Aman, about 40 people work for the company, who visit there every day. The police believe that it is the handiwork of someone, who knew that the cash is kept in the basement of the godown. The SHO said a case has been registered under IPC sections 457 (trespassing) and 380 (theft). Further probe is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/rs-4-lakh-burgled-from-potato-chips-firm-godown/articleshow/80291388.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Girls dominate AKTU medal tally, bag 39 out of 65||Lucknow: Girls comprise 25% of the total students graduating from Dr APJ Kalam Technical University (AKTU) this year, but have clinched 60% of the medals, including top positions in five government-aided technical institutes. All the medal winners will be awarded during AKTU’s 18th annual convocation on Saturday. In all, 65 medals will be awarded — chancellor’s gold medal given to a student for all round achievement, 15 medals for toppers securing top three positions in the five government-aided institutes and 49 for private college students who have bagged top three positions in various streams across the state. While names of 49 medal winners of private colleges were announced earlier, the varsity on Friday released the list of 15 awardees of five government-aided institutes. Girls have dominated both in private and government institutes. Overall, they have bagged 39 medals (60%) of the total 65 up for grabs. These include the most coveted Chancellor's Gold Medal which has gone to Shrishti Singh, BTech (electronics and engineering) student of Ajay Kumar Garg Engineering College, Ghaziabad. Among 15 medalists of five government-aided institutes, nine are girls. The toppers who have won gold medals are Ayushi Jaiswal of Government College of Architecture (Lucknow), Rashmi Maurya of Kamla Nehru Institute of Technology (Sultanpur), Tejasvi Mishra of Institute of Engineering ( Lucknow), Fiza Fatima of Uttar Pradesh Textile Technology Institute (Kanpur) and Shalini Yadav of Bundelkhand Institute of Engineering and Technology (Jhansi). As many as 50,000 degrees will also be awarded in the convocation, which will be held in both online and offline modes. Only medal winners have been invited to attend the function here in Lucknow, while others will attend off-line. Over 750 technical colleges and institutes in the state are affiliated to AKTU.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/girls-dominate-aktu-medal-tally-bag-39-out-of-65/articleshow/80294134.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Bhopal||Farm laws should be withdrawn unconditionally, says Kamal Nath||Bhopal: State Congress on Friday observed state-wide chakka-jam protest in support of farmers and demanded “unconditional withdrawal of the Centre’s three farm laws”. As part of the AICC’s call for protest across the nation, more than 500 places in Madhya Pradesh saw the protest at district headquarters and block levels. Former chief minister Kamal Nath led the protest in Chourai in Chhindwara district and Digvijaya Singh in chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s Budhni constituency. Senior Congress leader drove a tractor and led the protest in Chourai, while Digvijaya Singh sat blocking the highway in Batsana, Budhni. PCC vice-president Chandraprabhash Sekhar said that former ministers and MLAs led the protest for farmers in other districts including Bhopal, Jabalpur, Indore, Sagar, Gwalior, Dhar, Damoh, Tikamgarh and Chhattarpur. He said that thousands of farmers hit the roads and protested with Congress leaders throughout the state. In Chhindwara, Kamal Nath was joined by his son and MP Nakul Nath in the tractor protest. Addressing a large gathering of Congress workers and farmers, former Union minister Kamal Nath said, “Most farmers do not get minimum support price (MSP) in Madhya Pradesh and if the Centre’s laws are enforced then the possibility of their getting MSP will end.” Nath said that distraught farmers are protesting for nearly two months. Farmers have left their home and work, demonstrating for their rights while many of them have died in the tremendous cold. “But the Centre is adamant and will not budge,” Kamal Nath said. “The Union government should unconditionally withdraw the three agricultural laws in the interest of farmers. And till farmers get justice, the Congress party will stand in their support,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/farm-laws-should-be-withdrawn-unconditionally-says-kamal-nath/articleshow/80292428.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||New laws offer better options to farmers: Ravi Shankar Prasad||NEW DELHI: On a day the government held another round of talks with farm unions, law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad once again made a strong advocacy of the three farm laws and said the reforms were in the interest of farmers as it gave them multiple options to sell their produce. While posting his views on his social media platforms, Prasad shared a recent video of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to farmers on the three laws. “The Narendra Modi government is offering better options to farmers through new farm reforms. Farmers will have an option to sell produce wherever they want. Farmers will be more empowered as these laws are in their interest,” Prasad said. The minister’s remarks indicate the Centre’s firm stand on the three laws even as farm unions are protesting against them and seeking their repeal. On Tuesday, the Supreme Court had put on hold the three farm laws and had set up a four-member committee to have “a clearer picture”. “Bihar farmers are producing strawberries. In Bulandshahr and nearby areas, farmers are growing more carrots than wheat and rice. They have options to sell the produce in markets of their choice thanks to the new laws,” a senior government functionary said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-laws-offer-better-options-to-farmers-ravi-shankar-prasad/articleshow/80295273.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Varanasi||IIT-BHU to establish coal research centre||Varanasi: The Indian Institute of Technology, BHU, with the support of the Northern Coalfields Limited under an MoU with them, is going to establish a new research centre - Coal Quality Management and Utilization Research Centre at the oldest Mining Engineering Department in the country which came into existence in 1923. The centre will be first of its kind in India with academic-industry MoU, equipped with the state of the art facility for conducting research on clean coal technology to enhance the quality of coal, and also cater the facility for determining the quality and grade of coal for adjoining stakeholders and traders. The IIT (BHU) director Prof Pramod Kumar Jain said that the need for clean coal with sustainable mining and lowering of carbon footprint of mining was identified as a global and national research theme and keeping the same in mind, the Coal Quality Management and Utilization Centre was envisioned. He said that this scientific effort and collective endeavours of IIT(BHU) and NCL would enable to realize the vision of an affordable, efficient and compact reliable clean coal supply to coal consumers at one place and reduction of carbon emission as per Paris Agreement at another place. According to him, the objective of the Centre was academically to create knowledge and develop human resources through doctoral research, post graduate dissertations and B Tech projects and professionally to cater to the needs of the industry for cleaner coal availability. The IIT-BHU, through MOU with NCL, has already started joint PhD programs where laboratory facility, field data will be used to make coal mining technology and environment more technologically viable and economically feasible with environment friendly mining.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/iit-bhu-to-establish-coal-research-centre/articleshow/80291582.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Seven DSPs to look after security of religious sites||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh police has posted seven officers of the rank of deputy SP to oversee security of religious places in the state. The places where the postings have been made are- Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya, Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi and the Mathura’s Krishna Janmabhoomi. The postings were done late on Thursday night after approval from UP DGP HC Awasthy, said an order issued by ADG (administration) PC Meena. The postings cannot be changed until approval from UP DGP. The order stated that deputy superintendents of police Anil Rai, Pradeep Singh Chandel and Ratneshwar Singh, all posted in Varanasi, will now be the DSP (security) at the Kashi Vishwanath temple. Kailash Chandra Pandey, Om Prakash Arya and Ram Mohan Sharma will oversee security at the Krishna Janmabhoomi in Mathura, while Jai Prakash Singh will be the DSP (security) for the Ramjanmabhoomi in Ayodhya, stated the order. A senior police officer said that posts were always there, but remained vacant till now. “The DGP has simply made the postings which were vacant. No new posts have been created,” said the officer. A senior officer said that these are routine postings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/seven-dsps-to-look-after-security-of-religious-sites/articleshow/80294338.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Govt identifies 5 areas along e-waysfor development of industrial parks||Lucknow: Lucknow: In pursuance of industry department’s order to identify land along expressways for a land bank, which can be used for development of industrial parks, the state government has identified five areas in the first phase. Officials said the system would help in transportation of goods between any two points in the state within 10-12 hours. A government spokesperson said land banks would initially be created along Agra-Lucknow Expressway and Purvanchal Expressway. While the first has been functional for a few years now, the Purvanchal Expressway is expected to become operational for light vehicles by March-end. “UP is a landlocked state and transportation has been a major challenge. To improve investment potential for UP by providing good infrastructure, the government is not only working on connecting various parts of the state but is also preparing ground for development of industrial parks along expressways,” the official said. Directives to this effect were issued in 2020 and by September, district magistrates and divisional commissioners had identified 8,380 hectare land in 15 districts. Later, ‘Invest UP’ carried out a potential analysis of the land to ascertain which would be most suitable for development. A senior official in the industries department said UP State Industrial Development Authority (UPSIDA) would develop some industrial plots while others would be developed in collaboration with private companies. “A proper policy will be drafted in this regard. Having industrial units along expressways will be highly beneficial as it will improve transport facilities for these units. Land is being carefully identified to ensure that best facilities can be provided. We will announce more units in the coming days as UPSIDA is expected to develop at least two parks by itself along each expressway,” a senior official said. INFO On Development Expressway Areas identified in phase-I · Hargaon village in Firozabad along Agra-Lucknow Expressway · Buhana village at connecting point of Agra-Lucknow Expressway and Yamuna Expressway · Pohara village in Chitrakoot along Bundelkhand Expressway · Bara village in Barabanki along Purvanchal Expressway · Mohabbatpur in Mainpuri Upcoming expressways: · Purvanchal Expressway · Bundelkhand Expressway · Gorakhpur Link Expressway · Ganga Expressway · Ballia Link Expressway||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-identifies-5-areas-along-e-waysfor-development-of-industrial-parks/articleshow/80294299.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Piped water for 1L schools in UP soon||Lucknow: Over 1 lakh primary schools and 63,000 anganwadi centres in the state are set to get piped drinking water under the Jal Jeevan Mission, a 100-day campaign announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in August 2019. Under the mission, all government schools and anganwadi centres in UP are to be connected with tap drinking water supply within 100 days of its launch in the state so as to prevent typhoid, jaundice and other water-borne diseases among children and staff. The initiative done under the State Water and Sanitation Mission (SWSM) by the department of Namami Gange and the rural water supply has nominated UP Project Corporation Limited as the implementing agency that will bring piped drinking water to school and anganwadi centres. As per a letter issued by executive director SWSM Surendra Ram, the basic education department made available a list of over 1.2 lakh schools, of which only 19,408 schools have piped drinking water supply, while remaining 1,02,631 needs to be connected with tap water supply. Likewise, the department of child development and nutrition submitted details of 1,89,204 anganwadi centres running in the state. While 36,194 centres are run in department buildings, 27,278 are operating from community or panchayat buildings which have piped water connections. As many as 63,472 centres operating on their own will be connected with tap water supply under the Jal Jeevan Mission. Each connection will be done on an expense of Rs 46,150. “Government primary schools at present are equipped with handpumps for drinking water. But over a lakh schools need piped drinking water supply. We have received funds. Work in schools will begin soon,” said director general, school education, Vijay Kiran Anand. The initiative includes connection of water supply to all the handpumps in the schools, running water facility in all toilets and multiple hand washing units. UP is among the first states to begin work on Centre’s Jal Jeevaan Mission by appointing the implementation support agency.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/piped-water-for-1l-schools-in-up-soon/articleshow/80294275.cms||Isha Jain
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Govt to build, renovate roads up to houses of freedom fighters||Lucknow: In an attempt to reach out to the families of freedom fighters, the UP government has decided to construct and renovate roads up to their house. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting presided over by deputy chief minister Keshav Maurya, who holds the charge of PWD. The PWD also decided to name roads constructed up to the house of civil service toppers as ‘Swami Vivekanand Seva Path’. Maurya said PWD would also install sign boards carrying photographs of the freedom fighters on the identified roads. The deputy CM asked the PWD officials to get the list of freedom fighters from all districts compiled as soon as possible. Maurya said construction of roads up to the house of martyrs of Chauri Chaura incident be expedited. He also pitched for making a separate budgetary allocation for APJ Abdul Kalam Gaurav Path (in the name of meritorious students), Major Dhyan Chand Vijay Path (for sportspersons) and Jai Hind Veer Path (for martyrs). “People qualifying under these schemes should not be left out,” Maurya told the officials. He asked the officials to coordinate with other departments to ensure timely completion of the roads under the various schemes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/govt-to-build-renovate-roads-up-to-houses-of-freedom-fighters/articleshow/80294318.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Kanpur||Man sets in-laws house afire, seven injured||Kanpur: A man poured petrol on the house of his in-laws and set it on fire after his wife refused to return to his home. The incident was reported on Friday morning from Rattupurwa under the limits of Juhi police station in the city. The accused, who was trying to flee, was arrested in the evening. Seven people including the accused man’s wife and six members of his in-laws’ family suffered serious burn injuries and were admitted to Ursala Horseman Hospital. Condition of few persons was stated to be critical. The accused has been identified as Mukesh Kumar (28), a driver and a native of Bilgram area of Hardoi district. The victims have been identified as Manisha (23), wife of the accused, his father-in-law Hira Lal, latter’s wife Shiv Kumari, their daughters Vandana, Uma and Radha, besides son Manish. Police said the man was upset after his wife refused to return with him to his home in Itauli village in Bilgram area of Hardoi district after the delivery of their child. “Mukesh was trying to flee when we arrested him near Jhakarkati bus station. He has been booked for attempt to murder, assault, criminal intimidation and violation of the Domestic Violence Act,” said SP South Deepak Bhuker.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/man-sets-in-laws-house-afire-seven-injured/articleshow/80291617.cms||Faiz Rahman Siddiqui
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Exams of classes 9, 11 to be held in offline mode||Lucknow: Unaided Private Schools Association (UPSA) has asked the government to allow physical studies of standard VI to VIII from January 20 on the lines of classes IX to XII. The association has also decided that its member schools in the city will hold annual exams of classes IX and XI in March on their campuses as it used to take place in the pre-Covid era. Schools will hold exams of classes X and XII as per the guidelines issued by the respective affiliating secondary education boards. If the government allows on-campus classes for standard VI to VIII, their annual examinations will also be held as earlier. The classes and tests of nursery and standard I to V will continue in the online mode. This was informed by UPSA president Anil Agarwal at a press conference on Friday. He said that the association is hopeful that the government will grant permission to hold on-campus classes for students of VI to VII from January 20 onwards. “If we get a permission, all examinations from Class VI to XII will be held in on-campus mode,” he added. He said it has also been decided that students, who missed previous exams due to some reasons, will get a second chance.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/exams-of-classes-9-11-to-be-held-in-offline-mode/articleshow/80294236.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||UP becomes first state to launch digital e-stamp||LUCKNOW: UP has become the first state in the country to issue digital e-stamp, helping banks and corporates to cut down the time wasted in stamp duty process and promote paperless service. Initially, IndusInd Bank, Union Bank, HDFC Bank and Punjab & Sindh Bank have started the service in collaboration with Stockholding Corporation and UP stamp and registration department. Assistant inspector general of department of stamps, Ram Akbal Singh said, “Currently, an individual has to visit stamp vendors, treasury department and others to buy stamp, which consumes time as well as money. Now, digital e-stamps can be issued instantly.” He said, “Banks can issue digital e-stamps to individuals who have applied for certain loans. Stamp duty over loan ranges between 0.5-2.5%, or a maximum of Rs 5 lakh. Once the loan is approved by a bank, one does not need to visit any vendor for stamp. Instead, banks can deduct the amount directly and get digital e-stamp copy from Stockholding Corporation. Currently, four banks have started the process and every nationalized bank will follow it soon.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/up-becomes-first-state-to-launch-digital-e-stamp/articleshow/80294342.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Mayors say corpns yet to get any money from Delhi govt||New Delhi: A day after deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia announced release of Rs 938 crore for civic employees’ dues, the mayors of the north and east corporations claimed that the civic bodies hadn’t received any fund till Friday. Delhi government should also release the third instalment of their tax share that was due in the first week of January, they demanded. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that over 24 hours had passed since the announcement but the amount hadn’t been released. No sanction note was prepared by Delhi government for the release till Friday, Nirmal Jain, mayor of East Delhi Municipal Corporation, claimed in a joint press conference. “Deputy CM Manish Sisodia announced on Thursday that that they are releasing Rs 938 crore to the municipal corporations only for disbursement of salary. Hence, Delhi government must clarify what would be the share among the three corporations,” said Jai Prakash. Funds are withheld to suppress the corporations and derail their functioning just to gain mileage in the forthcoming municipal elections, alleged Jain. The mayors also demanded urgent release of the third instalment of the grants-in-aid so that more of the salaries can be disbursed as civic employees are still on strike for their arrears and salaries. Jai Prakash alleged Delhi government was showing step motherly attitude towards the corporations though municipal employees did a brilliant job of collecting garbage and biomedical waste during the pandemic. The corporations also helped the government in performing duties like distribution of ration, conducting surveys and creating containment zones, he added. “Delhi government is not relaxing any such condition but is deducting instalments of loans with interest to the tune of 60% of our allocations while extending loans to Delhi Jal Board,” he claimed. Delhi government, the mayors alleged, does not respect the citizens’ mandate but wants to derail the civic system. “They don’t understand the gravity of the strike of municipal employees for their overdue salaries and arrears. Time and again, we have alerted the government about collapse of services,” Jai Prakash said. The government doesn’t understand the impact on two lakh families that are suffering due to its stepmotherly behaviour, Jain added. The mayors asked Delhi government to behave constitutionally and release the corporations’ due funds. The government didn’t respond to the charges.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/mayors-say-corpns-yet-to-get-any-money-from-delhi-govt/articleshow/80293527.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Akhilesh leads candidates’ filing nomination papers||Lucknow: Samajwadi Party national president Akhilesh Yadav led the motorcade of the two party candidates filing their nominations for the council elections at the Central Hall on Friday. He drove down to the Assembly building around 11.30 am along with Ahmed Hasan and Rajendra Chaudhary, both former ministers and party veterans, and stayed there till the filing of their nomination papers. Earlier, Akhilesh also chaired sessions at the party headquarters for two days on January 14-15 and sounded confident of ensuring victory for both the candidates, despite the party having numbers to ensure a win for just one. In the selection of candidates also, the Samajwadi Party president chose one Muslim and one OBC to consolidate the party’s position in his traditional support groups. Party insiders said that a substantial number of legislators of other parties were in touch with the party chief and this is what made him confident of the victory of both the candidates. As of now, with 47 MLAs, the SP will easily sail through one seat. For the second candidate, it already has 15 MLAs spare and the political management in the party would have to poach rival camps to cross the victory margin. In the Rajya Sabha elections too, the SP had fielded two candidates but one lost. However, the move exposed an undeclared alliance between the BJP and the BSP after the BSP candidate won with the support of the BJP. The Samajwadi Party chief, said party sources, is trying to do an encore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/akhilesh-leads-candidates-filing-nomination-papers/articleshow/80294381.cms||Subhash Mishra
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Vulture census done, details by next week||Lucknow: The vulture census was conducted in the state on Friday. Forest divisions will compile the data. The compiled data will be forwarded to the Institute of Wildlife Science (IWS), Lucknow University, by the state biodiversity board. “The compiled data for each division is expected by next week. It will be analysed to gather maximum information on vultures,” said Prof Amita Kannaujia, coordinator, IWS. On Friday, vultures were spotted in Unnao, Barabanki, Moradabad, Bareilly, Chitrakoot, Pilibhit, Gonda, Etawah, Shahjahanpur, Noida and other districts. The census workers collected data on species spotted, locations, number of vultures seen, chicks and eggs, number and location of nests and also the vulture species that the staff could not identify. This was the first statewide census done in the morning and evening shift to locate the breeding, mating, nesting and roosting sites of vultures besides counting their numbers and collecting other details about the population. The next census will be done in May.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/vulture-census-done-details-by-next-week/articleshow/80294316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Maya to go solo in UP & U’khand assembly polls||BSP supremo Mayawati on Friday, announced her decision to go solo in both Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand assembly elections in her annual birthday address to party workers, with an impassioned plea to ensure BSP’s victory in 2022 assembly elections, which would be their biggest birthday gift. Her birthday celebrations were subdued with Mayawati deciding to forgo cake cutting and other festivity in solidarity with protesting farmers and in adherence to Covid pandemic protocols, reports Neha Lalchandani.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/maya-to-go-solo-in-up-ukhand-assembly-polls/articleshow/80294425.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||State to get 37 new stadiums||Lucknow: To strengthen the sports ecosystem and encourage youngsters, the state government is working on the construction of 35 stadiums while two more are in the pipeline. Out of these, 18 are being constructed by the Yuva Kalyan and Prantiya Raksha Dal Department under Khelo India initiative. A government spokesperson said out of those being constructed under directions of chief minister Yogi Adityanath, one each is being constructed in Ayodhya, Hardoi, Kanpur Dehat, Gorakhpur, Kaushambi, Agra, Banda, Pratapgarh, Bijnor, Hathras, Prayagraj, Kushinagar, Gonda, Banda, Badaun and Mirzapur. Two stadiums each are been constructed in Unnao and Hamirpur. Those coming up under Khelo India are being constructed in Sonebhdra, Meerut, Lucknow, Maharajganj, Farukkhabad, Etah, Muradabad, Mainpuri, Basti, Kanpur Nagar, Mirzapur, Barabanki, Kannauj, Pilibhit, and Aligarh. Three of them are being built in Pratapgarh. Other than these, multipurpose halls and sports grounds will also be built across the state. These halls will be equipped for all kinds of indoor games like badminton, volleyball, wrestling, kabbadi and weightlifting. Tracks and playgrounds will also be constructed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/state-to-get-37-new-stadiums/articleshow/80294303.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||‘Modi Man’ picked for UP legislative council||LUCKNOW: A day after he was drafted into the BJP, PM Narendra Modi’s trusted bureaucrat Arvind Kumar Sharma was named candidate for the legislative council elections scheduled later this month, lending credence to speculation that the former Gujarat cadre IAS officer is tipped to play a crucial role in the state government in the coming days. Besides Sharma, BJP announced names of its UP unit chief Swatantra Dev Singh, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma and party’s state vice-president, Laxman Acharya, for the legislative council. The trio’s candidature for a second consecutive term shows BJP’s continuing strategy to strike a caste balance. While Swatantra Dev happens to be an OBC, Sharma is a Brahmin and Laxman Acharya a Dalit. Highly placed sources said, BJP’s central election committee firmed up its decision on Sharma, a native of Mau district and a Bhumihar by caste, immediately after he formally joined the saffron brigade in Lucknow on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/modi-man-picked-for-up-legislative-council/articleshow/80294438.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||President, Yogi Adityanath among 1st to donate for Ram temple||NEW DELHI / LUCKNOW: UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath donated Rs 2 lakh for construction of the proposed Ram temple in Ayodhya on the inaugural day of the funds-raising drive of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP), which kicked off its campaign by meeting President Ram Nath Kovind, who donated Rs Rs 5,00,100. Various temple-related bodies, including RSS and its subsidiary organisations, launched a massive countrywide campaign seeking funds for the construction. Kovind made the donation to a delegation of Shree Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which visited him at 11 am on Friday. Trust treasurer Govind Dev Giri, VHP working president Alok Kumar, construction committee chairperson Nripendra Misra and Delhi region RSS chief Kulbhushan Ahuja were part of the delegation. “Since President is the first citizen of the country, we called on him to seek his blessings for construction of the temple,” said Alok Kumar. The VHP functionary said temple construction is a religious and spiritual affair. The President was accompanied by his entire family when he made the offering to the delegation. The CM handed over a cheque of Rs 2 lakh to a VHP delegation led by Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust general secretary Champat Rai, who later met governor Anandi Ben Patel and informed her about the campaign. The VHP delegation included working president Alok Kumar, chairman of temple construction committee, Nripendra Mishra and RSS leader Kulbhushan Ahuja. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat too announced that Sangh would contribute its bit in the funds collection drive even as peethadheeshwar of Juna Akhara Awdheshanand Giri reached out to Dalit community in Lalganj Sewa Basti in Nagpur. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu, several state governors, chief ministers of BJPgoverned states also made contributions for the temple construction. After the SC verdict clearing the way for the construction of Ram Mandir, leaders of the temple campaign had said that the construction cost will be borne by the people of the country for which a campaign will be launched, which will also ensure participation of the entire nation. The biggest contribution so far has come from an ex-MLA from Rae Bareli, Surendra Singh, who on Friday donated Rs 1,11,11111(Rs one crore, eleven lakh, eleven thousand, one hundred eleven). Trust spokesperson and senior VHP functionary Champat Rai went to Rae Bareli to collect the cheque from the former MLA. VHP national spokesperson, Vinod Bansal told TOI the organisation met various dignitaries in the capitals of various states. In Uttarakhand, a delegation of VHP led by national secretary Ashok Tewari met governor Devi Rani Maurya, who donated Rs 1,21,000 for the cause.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/prez-yogi-among-1st-to-donate-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80294475.cms||Pankaj Shah
January 16, 2021||Kanpur||Kanpur Metro: UPMRC begins work of receiving sub-stn||Kanpur: Taking a step further towards bringing Kanpur Metro on tracks, Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) commenced the construction work of receiving sub-station (RSS) on Friday. The power required to operate Metro trains and stations is provided through the Receiving Sub-Station. Managing director UPMRC Kumar Keshav performed bhoomi pujan to mark the beginning of the construction of the RSS which will be built at the premises of Shak-Bhaji Research Centre on GT Road. On the occasion, Kumar Keshav said, “Receiving sub-station is an important unit for Metro operations as the entire Metro system gets electric power from RSS. I am glad to inaugurate the construction work of RSS as we have taken a step towards our goal of providing a world-class Metro system to Kanpur city in the stipulated time frame.” For the smooth operations of Kanpur Metro services, UPMRC will acquire a supply 220kV from Uttar Pradesh Power Transmission Corporation Limited (UPPTCL) grid located in Bithoor, which will be converted into 33kV supply through RSS. Thereafter, it will be converted into 415 volts AC through the various systems that will be installed inside the Metro stations and used for the operations of lighting, lifts, escalators and air-conditioning systems at the Metro stations. For train operations the 33 kV supply will be converted into 750 volts DC at mainline. A total of two RSSs are to be built for the proposed two Metro corridors (first - IIT to Naubasta and second - CSA University to Barra-8) under the Kanpur Metro project. The work of first RSS has started at Shak-Bhaji Research Centre while the second one will be built at Phoolbagh. The contract for construction and installation of RSS has been awarded to the consortium of Sterling & Wilson Private Limited and GSC-JV group. UPMRC has aimed to complete the work of the first RSS by September 2021 and work of electrical systems by October 2021 to ensure operations on the mainline of Priority Corridor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/kanpur-metro-upmrc-begins-work-of-receiving-sub-stn/articleshow/80291603.cms||Abhinav Malhotra
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||Eggs, cooked chicken safe to eat: Govt||Lucknow: Even as bird flu cases in UP have so far only been reported from Kanpur, the state government will be starting an awareness programme to tell people that consuming chickens and eggs is safe, as long as they have been cooked properly. In a detailed advisory to districts about dos and don’ts with regard to bird flu, chief secretary RK Tiwari has said that central government issued protocols must be followed. “Create confidence among people that it is safe to consume chicken. Bird flu does not spread from properly cooked chicken and eggs so one can continue consuming chicken and chicken products as long as they have been cooked properly. Also, address any misinformation about bird flu that might have been spread,” the directions state. Roles have been assigned for various departments, including animal husbandry, home, forest and health. Tiwari has said regular patrolling should be carried out at water bodies and bird sanctuaries, especially in those areas where migratory birds have come. Directions are to be issued that if a dead bird is spotted, the control room should be informed immediately and nobody should try and pick up with the bird without proper protection. Protocols on dealing with dead birds have been issued to gram panchayats. The revenue department has been asked to identify land where, if necessary, culling of birds can take place. People living around these areas should be sensitized about the operation and the police kept informed so that there are no law and order problems when culling needs to be carried out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/eggs-cooked-chicken-safe-to-eat-govt/articleshow/80294289.cms||Neha Lalchandani
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||18 kids sexually abused by Banda JE examined by Delhi AIIMS panel||Lucknow: At least 18 children sexually exploited by suspended junior engineer Ram Bhawan, 40, were examined in Chitrakoot by a panel of eight specialists from All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Delhi. Suspected paedophile Bhawan, who was with the state irrigation department, was arrested by CBI on November 17 for abusing kids and peddling videos and photographs on the Dark Web. He is currently in judicial custody. ` The six-member AIIMS team was allotted a primary health centre in Karwi, Chitrakoot, to examine the children, said CBI. The children, including girls in the age-group of 6-14, were medically examined and psychological tests were performed on some. Sources said, their faces were masked with a white ‘gamcha’ and the examination continued for four hours. CBI had first sought space at a government hospital, but when permission was denied, the chief medical officer settled for a primary health centre. A source privy to the probe said, the accused was examined at AIIMS last week and experts will corroborate evidence after collating medical reports of the abused children.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/18-kids-sexually-abused-by-banda-je-examined-by-delhi-aiims-panel/articleshow/80294368.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Garbage dump reappears at Buddha Nullah||Ludhiana: Garbage dump near Buddha Nullah, where the foundation stone for its rejuvenation project was laid a few days back, has surfaced again. The city residents have been demanding a permanent solution to this problem since long, as garbage remains littered on both sides of the drain.The residents said since the authorities are talking of making the drain free of solid waste, the first thing to be done should be removal of garbage dump from here. It was only for two-three days around the stone-laying ceremony that garbage dumped was not allowed here. The filth and stink are back again, they said.Earlier, there used to be garbage dump on either side of the bridge over Buddha Nullah, but following protests by the residents, both dumps were shifted to one side of the drain. Incidentally, on one side of the drain, there is a hospital, while there is a hostel for medical students at the other end. They suffer due to the stink all around and owing to the garbage dump, stray cattle gathered there also trouble the commuters.A resident of Haibowal, Kumar Gaurav, said, "On both sides of the drain, garbage is being dumped and authorities are silent on the issue. The garbage sometimes also falls into the drain." He said when the foundation stone was to be laid, for two days the garbage collectors did not lift garbage from the households, because the dump was closed.Another resident from Shakti Nagar, Tarun Gupta, complained, "We have been hearing about shifting of this dump to static compactor site at Hambran Road for almost two years, but nothing has happened so far."When contacted, MC medical officer Vipul Malhotra said, "The static compactor dump site at Hambran Road is complete and we are waiting for electricity connection only. As soon as power connection is there, we will start compactor site and this dump from Haibowal will be shifted there."Panel to monitor rejuvenation projectThe local bodies department has formed a monitoring committee to look after the ongoing works related to the Buddha Nullah rejuvenation project. The committee has the municipal commissioner as its chairman, a representative of Ludhiana DC, a superintending engineer of the Punjab Pollution Control Board, a superintending engineer from the operation and maintenance cell of MC, a superintending engineer of the Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Board, two industry representatives and a representative from the task force of Buddha Nullah.Special drive against plastics, thermocolThe municipal corporation is all set to kick off a special drive against plastic carry bags and thermocol items from next week. Officials claimed that plastic items are a major contributor to the solid waste generated in the city, so it is crucial to put a check on the same.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/garbage-dump-reappears-at-buddha-nullah/articleshow/80291456.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||Goa takes 1st shot at Covid today, 700 to get vaccine||Panaji: The state is set to participate in the nationwide launch of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. Goa will have vaccinations at seven hospitals, including two private ones, after PM Narendra Modi’s address to the nation at 10.30am. Each centre will vaccinate 100 healthcare workers, starting with sanitation workers, and then doctors and nurses. A health official said that vaccine shots have been dispatched to sites from the storage facility of the directorate of health services, Panaji. Goa has received 23,500 doses of Covid vaccines. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, after a visit to GMC, the state’s main vaccination site, said he was highly impressed with the preparation to kickstart the drive. Before entering the centre, the vaccine recipient will be checked for symptoms at the entrance by the vaccinator, and then allowed to enter the waiting area. The team has set up a separate adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) management room, Rane said. GMC, on its Twitter handle, declared that recipients will be registered on the Co-Win portal before registration. Every day, 100 people will be vaccinated and kept under observation for half an hour to check for any adverse effect. The health official said that it would take an average of five minutes to vaccinate every beneficiary, and they intend to finish the vaccination by 5pm, but will continue beyond that if they are not able to complete vaccinating all 100 beneficiaries on the list by the scheduled time. Besides GMC, the other centres at which vaccination will take place are the North Goa district hospital, Mapusa, Hospicio, Margao, sub-district hospital, Ponda, sub-district hospital Chicalim, Manipal hospital, Dona Paula and Healthway hospital, Old Goa. The list was prepared on directions of the Union ministry of health & family welfare.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/goa-takes-1st-shot-at-covid-today-700-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80294402.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal salutes soldiers valour on Army Day||Bhopal: Army Day was marked in Bhopal on Friday. The day is celebrated to honour the country’s soldiers who set the greatest example of selfless service and brotherhood, and above all, love for the country. Keeping with the same traditions and paying respects to bravehearts who laid their lives for the nation in the line of duty, various events were organised at Bhopal also. In a solemn ceremony, Lt General Atulya Solankey, Sena Medal, General Officer Commanding, Sudarshan Chakra Corps laid wreath at Sudarshan Chakra Corps War Memorial. After the event, he also addressed the gathering present there. He emphasised on maintaining the highest standards of ethos and values for which Indian Army is known for and respected by the country. The ethos of the Army which is ingrained in all soldiers encompasses an unwavering will to succeed, accepting their responsibility and an unbridled ability to give their lives for the cause. The General officer also exhorted all ranks to train hard and be ready at all times to undertake swift and decisive operations in modern day battlefield. Army Day marks the day when Field Marshal Kodandera M Cariappa, then a Lieutenant General, took over as the first Commander-in-Chief of the Indian Army from General Sir Francis Butcher, the last British Commander-in-Chief of India on January, 15, 1949.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/bhopal-salutes-soldiers-valour-on-army-day/articleshow/80292448.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||CoBRA commando from Ludhiana killed by shot from own rifle||Raipur (Chhattisgarh): A 40-year-old CoBRA commando from Ludhiana died of a self-inflicted gunshot while out on an operation in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh on Friday, leaving his comrades in shock.The police suspect it is suicide, but are checking if the bullet was fired by accident. Suicide by CoBRA personnel, a bunch of well-trained and highly motivated troops, is quite rare.The victim, head constable Harjeet Singh of CoBRA 206 battalion, had set out on an anti-Maoist operation on Thursday in the forests of Sukma district, said Bastar range IG P Sundarraj. The commandos had set out from Tamelwada camp on Thursday night and made their way to Chintagufa forests, where they planned to pursue intelligence inputs about movement of Maoists in nearby regions.In the wee hours of Friday, when the troops were taking a short rest in the jungle, a gunshot rang out. The soldiers took cover and began looking for the source of the gunfire when they realised that Singh had collapsed and was bleeding heavily. A round had been fired from his AK47, piercing his neck and killing him on the spot, sources said.According to the police, his colleagues said there was nothing odd in Singh’s behavior to raise a red flag. He behaved normally during the operation. It seemed a personal issue might have been bothering him, but he did not share it with his colleagues. “It isn’t clear if it was misfire or intentional,” an officer said. An investigation is on to find out if it was suicide. His colleagues are being interviewed to know his state of mind.His body was brought back to camp and shifted to a hospital for autopsy. Singh’s family has been informed and his mortal remains will be flown to Ludhiana, his native place.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/cobra-commando-from-ludhiana-killed-by-shot-from-own-rifle/articleshow/80291428.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kozhikode||Employment schemes of Rs 100cr for NRK returnees||Kozhikode: After witnessing the biggest-ever return of expats in the history of the state following Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has come up with an integrated expatriate employment scheme with an outlay of Rs 100 crore to enable NRK returnees find new jobs, besides increasing pension and allocation for welfare schemes. An amount of Rs 9 crore was allocated for Pravasi Welfare Fund. The expat welfare fund pension has been increased to Rs 3,500 while the pension of returnees has been increased to Rs 3,000. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac said that priority will be given to expat returnees in the four schemes announced in the budget — digital employment scheme for the educated, loan-based entrepreneurial development programme, service-providing societies and marketing network — to enable them find jobs. “Skill development training will be provided to the returnees to help them go abroad again. For this integrated expatriate employment scheme, Rs100 crore is earmarked. Another Rs 30 crore is allocated for relief activities,” he said. Migration expert Prof Irudaya Rajan welcomed the employment scheme for returnees stating that it is probably the first attempt by a state government to address the issue of expat returnees. “The government has shown the right intent by announcing the employment scheme and reskilling initiative for the returnees to help them go back or find employment again. It will come as a relief to a large number of expats who have returned to the state amid the Covid crisis,” he added. The government will convene the third Loka Kerala Sabha in the end of 2021 after completing the first phase of the expatriates rehabilitation project. The government has also drawn up a district-level stock-taking exercise through online meet of expatriates to be held in all panchayats and municipalities. “The list and needs of both returnees and those who intend to return will be compiled and converted into action plans at the district level,” Isaac said in the budget speech. Also, the government assured that those who invested in pravasi dividend scheme will be given 10% interest as promised, even though KIIFB has slashed the interest rates for its bonds in which the funds from the scheme will be invested. The minister said that pravasi chitty will be activated in the post-Covid period and that 30,230 persons have joined the chitty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/employment-schemes-of-rs-100cr-for-nrk-returnees/articleshow/80292465.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Patwaris protest delay in pay hike||The Rajasthan Patwar Sangh, comprising patwaris of all districts, decided not to work in the vacant posts of 4,564 Patwar mandals from Friday, which were managed by the existing number of patwaris (7,700) as an additional or extra task. They took this decision protesting the delay in the increase of their pay scale. “Our first demand is that our grade pay should be increased to 3,600 (i.e. from Rs 20,800 to Rs 33,000 for L-5 patwaris). The second demand is that on completion of services for 7, 14, 21, 28 and 32 years, the patwaris should be upgraded to the next pay scale,” said Rajendra Nimmiwal, president of Rajasthan Patwar Sangh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/patwaris-protest-delay-in-pay-hike/articleshow/80293530.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: 15,144 in fray for polls to 90 civic bodies in 20 districts||JAIPUR: On the final day of filing nominations for the elections to 90 urban local bodies in 20 districts on Friday, 10,958 candidates filed 13,411 nomination papers, taking the total number of candidates for the polls to 15,144. The elections to the civic bodies will be held on January 28 and the counting of votes will be held on January 31. The state election commission on Friday released a list of 37 general observers for the elections to be held in 90 urban local bodies in 20 districts. Both IAS and RAS officers have been appointed observers for the elections. Of the 90 urban local bodies in 20 districts (Ajmer, Banswara, Bikaner, Bhilwara, Bundi, Pratapgarh, Chittorgarh, Churu, Dungarpur, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Jhunjhunu, Nagaur, Pali, Rajsamand, Sikar, Tonk and Udaipur), there are 80 municipalities, 9 municipal councils and 1 municipal corporation. Meanwhile, notification for elections to 10 gram panchayats in Ajmer and Jaipur was was issued on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/15144-in-fray-for-polls-to-90-civic-bodies-in-20-districts/articleshow/80293503.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||19-year-old stabbed over flying kite dispute||Ludhiana: A group of miscreants have stabbed a 19-year-old, on Thursday, following a dispute over kite-flying on Lohri. The man is admitted to the Christian Medical College (CMC) hospital and his condition is stated to be critical.The victim has been identified as Surjit Kumar, a resident of Model Colony of Jagirpur. He runs an automobile workshop on Jagirpur Road. On the complaint of Surjit’s father Ram Surat, the Maharban police have booked Honey, Kaku Mota, Jatin, Ghuggi, Vishal, Lucky, Bagga and their six unidentified accomplices.Father Ram Surat stated that his son Surjit Kumar was flying kites with his friends on Lohri. Meanwhile, he indulged in a dispute with the accused over flying kites. Later on, they were pacified and the matter was resolved. However, on Thursday, the accused intercepted his son in Gujjar Colony and assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons, sticks and iron rods. He came to know about the incident from his younger son Sunil Kumar. When he reached the spot, he found that the accused were brutally assaulting his son. He added, one of the accused has stabbed his son with a sharp-edged weapon and they all escaped with his accomplices. Thereafter, he rushed his son to hospital and also informed the police. Investigating officer from Meharban police station, assistant sub-inspector Karanjit Singh said a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC. The accused, who live in the nearby localities, will soon be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/19-year-old-stabbed-over-flying-kite-dispute/articleshow/80291466.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Labourer, 31, booked for rape bid on 5-year-old stepdaughter||Ludhiana: The police booked a 31-year-old labourer for rape bid on his 5-year-old stepdaughter in the city on Friday.The minor’s mother said in her police complaint, “I have two children, a 5-year-old daughter and a 3-year-old son, from my first marriage, which was solemnized in 2014. My husband died about two years ago and about one-and-a-half years ago, I married the accused.”On Thursday night, she, along with both her children, was sleeping on a bed and the accused on a mattress kept on the floor. “As I was feeling unwell and getting up frequently, I asked my husband to sleep with the kids and I lied down on the mattress. Around 1.30am, I suddenly woke up. When I turned on the mobile torch, I saw my husband trying to rape my daughter. As I raised the alarm, he escaped from there.” Investigating officer ASI Sukhwinder Singh said a case has been registered under sections 376 (rape), 511 (punishment for attempting to commit an offence), 376 A, B (punishment for rape on woman under twelve years of age) of the IPC and under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The accused would be arrested soon, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/labourer-31-booked-for-rape-bid-on-5-year-old-stepdaughter/articleshow/80291494.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Transporters threaten to go on strike||The transporters in Rajasthan have threatened to go on a protest similar to the one being done by the farmers due to the increasing price of fuel. The Union members joined the protest held by Congress leaders who agitated in front of the Governor’s residence on Friday. The transporters alleged that due to the high cost of fuel, they are sustaining heavy losses.Gopal Singh Rathore, state president of Jaipur Truck Transport Operator Chamber, said, “The central government has been increasing petrol and diesel prices at its whims and fancies without any consideration towards our plight. In neighbouring countries like Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bangladesh and even Pakistan which are less developed than India, the fuel prices are lesser than us. As it is during the lockdown, the transport business suffered tremendously and now cause of such high diesel price, we are sustaining huge losses.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/transporters-threaten-to-go-on-strike/articleshow/80293547.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Covid claims 3 lives, infects 35||Ludhiana: Three residents of Ludhiana died of Covid-19 and 35 tested positive on Friday.As per the local media bulletin, the district casualties included a 71-year-old man of Karima village, who had coronary artery disease; a 34-year-old man of Tajpur Road with hypertension, diabetes and chronic liver disease and a 76-year-old man of Focal Point, who had hypertension, diabetes and chronic kidney disease.The day also saw a patient from outside the district succumbing to the virus and six outsiders testing positive here.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said the district toll tally has increased to 980 and that of outsiders to 465.So far, 5,68,874 persons have been tested.Of the 35 new cases, 18 were from flu corner (influenza-like illness patients), three contacts of positive patient, nine from OPD, four through tracing process and one severe acute respiratory infection case.The local health department officials said the district case count was 25,239 and that of outsiders 3,810.To date, 23,946 patients have recovered, which constitutes 94.87% of the total cases.There are 310 active cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/covid-claims-3-lives-infects-35/articleshow/80291488.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Lucknow||It’s call of duty: Night of vigil for warriors securing weapon against corona pandemic||Lucknow: It was a night of vigil before launch of the vaccination drive for sub-inspector Pawan Kumar Singh, a Covid warrior at ground zero. “I suffered immense pain and don’t wish anybody else to undergo trauma,” he said, while instructing his team to fortify entry points at the Covid vaccine storage depot in Aishbagh. In August last year, Singh, 35, was diagnosed with Covid-19 while on duty at a containment zone.  He was advised home quarantine and missed the second birthday of his daughter. If this wasn’t enough, on 10th day of home isolation, his mother died at his native village in Moradabad. “My father told me that Ma had succumbed to brain haemorrhage. I desperately wanted to see her face one last time, but could not break my quarantine,” he recalled. Now deployed at Aishbagh cold storage depot, where vaccines of five districts, including Lucknow are stored, Singh is ensuring that nothing goes wrong. “Protecting each vaccine vial means saving a life and a family,” he said, before walking towards the drivers of vaccine vans to discuss plans to transport vials to cold chain units before consignments reach centres on Saturday morning for mass vaccination. Around 19 police personnel under Singh’s supervision are guarding the depot round-the-clock, besides escorting vaccine vans to centres. One of them, Ramji Yadav, 25, said, "I always wanted to join the army, but today I feel like a soldier on line of control.” TOI also spoke to 15 policemen deployed at the community health centre near City Station, a cold chain unit in the city. “It may appear we are performing an ordinary job, but actually we are here to guard the future of humanity by securing the weapon against pandemic,” said Awadhesh Kumar Dwivedi, 54, a constable. Another constable, Pramod Gautam, 59, who will retire in June, said, “I will now tell my grandchildren that I too contributed in the battle against Covid-19 and helped save my people."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/its-call-of-duty-night-of-vigil-for-warriors-securing-weapon-against-corona-pandemic/articleshow/80294258.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Man booked for desecrating gurdwara in Doraha||Ludhiana: The Khanna police on Thursday night booked a person under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), after he tried to damage the glass enclosure of Guru Granth Sahib and the donation box at a gurdwara in the district. The accused has been identified as Iqbal Singh of Zaildar Mohalla in Doraha.In a police complaint, 34-year-old Balraj Singh of Shree Guru Gobind Singh Nagar in Sahnewal, who works as the Ragi (priest) at Gurdwara Damdama Sahib in Doraha area, said around 5.30pm on Thursday, a person aged around 32 years entered the gurdwara and hit the glass enclosure of the sacred book.The accused also tried to break open the lock of the small room (Sachkhand) where the sacred book is kept at night, he said. As he, along with some others present, there tried to stop the accused, he threatened him with life and went away.But, within minutes, Iqbal Singh again returned. This time Balraj Singh and others caught hold of the accused, as he tried to desecrate the gurdwara and again showed disrespect to the sacred book. Thereafter, the police was informed.The complainant claimed that the accused did all this as part of some conspiracy to disturb peace in Punjab and to engineer riots.Iqbal Singh has been booked at Doraha police station under IPC sections 295-A (deliberate acts intended to outrage religious feelings), 504 (causing insult with intent to provoke breach of peace), 427 (mischief causing damage to the amount of fifty rupees), 511 (attempt to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life), and 506 (criminal intimidation), and under the UAPA provisions.Payal DSP Hardeep Singh said they added the UAPA sections to the FIR as some people insisted that these provisions have been invoked in other similar incidents. They have launched a probe into the matter, he added.Police officials said the accused seems to be mentally disturbed, as he told cops that he did not want that the sacred book should be kept in glass enclosures. The accused is not educated and unmarried.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-booked-for-desecrating-gurdwara-in-doraha/articleshow/80291509.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Man dies, girl injured after falling off 3rd floor||Ludhiana: An elderly man died, while a 4-year-old girl had a miraculous escape when the duo fell off the third floor of a building in Amritsari Colony of Kanganwal area on Friday morning.The deceased has been identified as Sham Narayan, 62, a labourer from Uttar Pradesh and the girl as Amrita. Sham Narayan and the toddler, along with her parents, lived in the same accommodation for labourers.According to eyewitnesses, the girl fell on the balcony of the second floor, while the elderly man fell on the road and died on the spot. The girl sustained minor injuries and was discharged from the hospital after first aid. Shivji, father of Amrita, said Sham Narayan lived alone in the labour quarters and would often play with the children living in the building. He was quite attached to Amrita and would daily take her out or play with her. On Friday morning also, Sham Narayan took Amrita to the rooftop. Some other children were also playing there and flying kites.The eyewitnesses said Sham Narayan had taken Amrita in his lap and was watching the kites in the sky when he suddenly lost balance and fell off the roof along with Amrita, he said.“On seeing this, the other children raised an alarm, after which we took them to a nearby hospital. Amrita is fine but Sham Narayan died,” added Shivji.SHO at Sahnewal police station sub-inspector Balwinder Singh said Sham Narayan was living in Ludhiana alone and his family was in his hometown. The police have contacted the kin of Sham Narayan and they are on their way to Ludhiana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/man-dies-girl-injured-after-falling-off-3rd-floor/articleshow/80291505.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Authorities seek report over ‘love jihad’, Rajasthan girl busts claim||JAIPUR: An alleged case of love jihad cropped up under Naya Shahar police station area of Bikaner district almost a month after a girl (an adult) got married to a boy from another community. Senior officials from the chief minister’s office and police headquarters have sought a report on the matter on Friday. Reacting to an appeal by the parents who have claimed that this is a case of Love Jihad and religious conversion, the girl has countered the claims and uploaded a video stating that she got married with her consent. The couple got married on December 10. “Later on January 4, she lodged a complaint of rape against a man who was in a live-in relationship with her mother. We have arrested the accused Sumeru Ram. Some people with vested interest are giving the marriage a communal angle,” said a senior police officer. The woman is an adult and in her statements, she has maintained that she was never pressurised for marriage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/authorities-seek-report-over-love-jihad-girl-busts-claim/articleshow/80293556.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Chill back in air, temperature may dip over next few days, says Met||MUMBAI: After a week of warm days, the city’s minimum temperature finally dipped on Friday bringing some respite for Mumbaikars. India Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum temperature of 19.5 degrees Celsius. While still 1.7 degrees Celsius above normal, it was considerably lower than the previous days. On January 11, Santacruz had recorded a minimum of 23 degrees Celsius, the highest January minimum temperature in at least a decade. On Friday, Colaba recorded a minimum of 21 degrees Celsius, 1.6 degrees Celsius above normal. While the maximum temperature at Santacruz had touched 35.3 degrees Celsius on Tuesday, it fell to 30.1 degrees Celsius on Friday. Colaba’s maximum temperature was 29 degrees Celsius. “The fall in temperature is associated with westerly winds over parts of north Konkan. A gradual drop in temperatures is expected over northern parts of Maharashtra. There are also winds blowing from northern parts of the country that are under the cold wave,” said an IMD official. Temperatures are expected to gradually dip over the next few days. According to SAFAR, the AQI on Friday was 190. An AQI between 101 and 200 is considered moderate and does not pose health risk to general public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chill-back-in-air-temp-may-dip-over-next-few-days-met/articleshow/80294874.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Dashboard footage helps nab accused in hit-and-run case||NEW DELHI: In a first-of-its-kind case, footage from a dashboard camera led the police to a man who had knocked a scooter with his speeding car in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden on Tuesday. The scooter rider had succumbed to his wounds two days later. The accident was caught in the dashcam of a car that was moving right behind the scooter and the offending vehicle, with the help of which police managed to nab the accused on Thursday. The incident had taken place on January 12, when an unidentified car hit a scooter under Rajouri Garden flyover. According to the police, a team that reached the spot found a scooter in a damaged condition. At the spot, it was learned that the injured driver had been rushed to a nearby hospital. Police reached the hospital and the injured was identified as Sachin Pal, a resident of Vikas Nagar, who was unfit for statement. As his condition deteriorated, Pal was referred to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital. On Thursday, police were informed that Pal had succumbed to his wounds. A case of rash driving and causing death due to negligence was registered and efforts were made to establish whether Pal’s scooter was hit by an unidentified speeding vehicle or it slipped, causing his death. During investigation, after examining several people, police came across an eyewitness who told police that a camera mounted on the dashboard of his car that was moving right behind the scooter had captured the fatal accident. Deputy commissioner of police (west) Deepak Purohit said that with the help of the footage, they got the actual time of the accident and the colour and make of the offending vehicle was established. “After that, our teams scanned at least 20 more CCTV cameras for footage on that stretch and identified the registration number of the vehicle, which was traced to Charanjit Singh, a 29-year-old resident of Vishnu Garden. Following a raid, Singh was arrested and the offending vehicle has been seized,” Purohit said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/dashboard-footage-helps-nab-accused-in-hit-and-run-case/articleshow/80293558.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Poor resources, lack of modern tech derailing solid waste management: Study||Ludhiana: Inadequate resources, insufficient land for disposal of waste, lack of integrated solid waste management plan, little public unawareness, shortage of staff, no incorporation of modern technology and poor enforcement of rules and regulations are some of the key problems identified in a study on the implementation analysis of solid waste management (SWM) in Ludhiana. The study—conducted by Ishfaq Showket Mir, Puneet Pal Singh Cheema and Sukhwinder Pal Singh of the department of civil engineering at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDE), Ludhiana—also mentioned that providing monetary incentives for recyclable items, developing a strong policy, incorporating technological innovations, support from political leadership, encouraging waste reduction, and composting and recycling techniques can go a long way in effective waste management in the city.It mentioned that several allied areas that directly affect the solid waste management are under-researched in Ludhiana. These areas include financing of waste management and mobilising revenue from local sources, urban housing development and land use, compositional analysis of changing waste mix in the city, bio-medical waste and liquid waste disposal and appropriate logistics and modern technologies for solid waste management.The study suggested that there is a need for a research directed towards addressing the issues of urban development and allied areas for a detailed understanding of these issues and find ways for improving environmental sanitation and sustainable development.The researchers stated that the figures on the quantity of municipal solid waste collected from the city between September 2019 and December 2019 were among the data used for the future projection of the quantity of waste generation.According to the residents, a major amount of solid waste generated in their homes comprised waste food, followed by paper cardboard and plastic materials. The respondents were also asked to indicate their method of storing the solid waste before disposal. The majority of respondents said they go for open container storage, while in high-income households, the preferred method was closed container storage.The results revealed that facilities to the municipal staff, their commitment and awareness level, political commitment, and residents’ and business establishments’ contribution majorly influence the successful implementation of the solid waste management programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/poor-resources-lack-of-modern-tech-derailing-solid-waste-management-study/articleshow/80291517.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 16, 2021||Kochi||Epidemic cover a relief for duck farmers||Alappuzha: The state budget promising an epidemic insurance scheme for duck farmers is a big relief to hundreds of duck farmers, who are facing a huge financial loss due to epidemics like bird flu. Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac on Friday announced that an epidemic insurance for the duck farmers in the state. Though announced in the previous budget, this time Rs 7 crore has been allotted to set up a duck hatchery. The budget also promised various projects for Kuttanad. It announced Rs 10 crore for a public campaign for cleaning lakes. The budget also set aside Rs160 crore from KIIFB for protecting outerbunds of paddy fields. The coir sector is allocated Rs 112 crore for 2021-22. The finance minister expects to add 10,000 jobs and raise coir production to 50,000 tonne. The budget announced setting up of an extensive coir cluster in 10 acres at Industrial Growth Centre, Pallippuram. Besides, ten mechanized cooperative production factories will be started in 2021-22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/epidemic-cover-a-relief-for-duck-farmers/articleshow/80292521.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||TSRTC gets national honour||Hyderabad: TSRTC, Hyderabad was selected as second Best State Transport Unit (STU) at national level in KMPL improvement for the year October 2019 to September 2020 in Category-I of STUs having more than 4,001 buses in operation. A cash award of Rs 3 lakh was given. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/tsrtc-gets-national-honour/articleshow/80293559.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Employees take out march over salary arrears||New Delhi: Scores of employees of North and East Delhi Municipal Corporations took out a protest march from Civic Centre to Delhi Secretariat on Friday, to press their demand for payment of pending salaries and pensions. Teachers, nurses, engineers and all other employees came together in large numbers and later handed over a memorandum at the CM’s office. AP Khan, convener of MCD Employees Union, said that besides continuing the ‘no salary, no work’ strike, protesting members have also decided to “boycott” duty for Covid-19 vaccination roll-out, which is starting January 16. “Our strike will continue in future. The Friday’s protest march aimed to build pressure on the administration considering salaries of so many people, including those who have retired recently, have not been paid for the last many months. And, then they asked us to go on Covid duty. We have decided to boycott vaccination duty,” Khan said. Agitating associations said that they want a permanent solution to the problem. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/employees-take-out-march-over-salary-arrears/articleshow/80293569.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||HC: Small amount as monthly maintenance is economic abuse||Mumbai: Observing that transferring “small amounts” for monthly expenses amounts to economic abuse under the Domestic Violence Act, a magistrate court has ordered the general manager of a corporate giant, earning a monthly salary of Rs 8 lakh, to pay an interim monthly maintenance of Rs 1.25 lakh to his estranged wife and two sons. “The affidavit of the respondent (husband) shows that even after paying EMIs he has the capacity to pay about Rs 1.25 lakh per month to the applicant for her maintenance and for the maintenance of the children. In the circumstances, there is no reason for the respondent to not pay said amount to the applicant,” the court said. The woman said she got married in 2002, but he soon began to have affairs and tortured her for money. The woman alleged he forced her to have abortions and began to live separately three years ago, leaving her to beg and borrow money from neighbours and relatives.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hc-small-amount-as-monthly-maintenance-is-economic-abuse/articleshow/80294879.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ludhiana||Vaccines to be administered to healthcare workers in 5 places today||Ludhiana: As the vaccination process is to start from Saturday, the vaccines will be administered to health workers at five places in the district. On Thursday, consignment of vaccine, having 36,500 doses, had reached Ludhiana and was stored at civil surgeon’s office before being sent to vaccination sites.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed that on the first day, vaccines will be administered to health care workers at five places. He added that vaccination will start at around 11.30am.Health department officials said vaccines will be injected to healthcare workers at five special vaccine sites — civil hospital in Ludhiana, sub-divisional hospitals in Khanna and Jagraon and at two private hospitals, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH).Health department officials further said five teams will carry out vaccination at these five special sites from 11.30am to around 5pm. They added that they expect that five health care workers will be vaccinated on the first day.“The vaccination sites might be increased after day one and are expected to increase in the coming days. Initially they had decided to set up around 150 such sites but due to certain reasons, they decreased such sites for inaugural day to just five,” said a health department source. “In the private set up, 20 sites are made at DMCH, 16 at CMCH, eight at Deep Hospital, six each at Mohandai Oswal Hospital and Fortis Hospital. In government sector, six vaccination sites were made at civil hospital Ludhiana, four at Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) Vardhman, two each at sub-divisional hospitals at Khanna and Jagraon, equal number at civil hospitals at Raikot and Samrala. Two sites each were made at CHC Payal, CHC Pakhowal, CHC Sahnewal whereas one site each was made at CHC Sidhwan Bet and CHC Manupur.” He added that in future all such sites may be used for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/vaccines-to-be-administered-to-healthcare-workers-in-5-places-today/articleshow/80291523.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Will appoint a marriage registrar for Christians, Maharashtra govt tells Bombay high court||MUMBAI: State government on Friday told Bombay high court it was in the process of appointing a marriage registrar for Christians in Mumbai. This information was given to a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar while hearing a petition by Vasai resident Allen Cusher (35) on inconvenience to Christians after the marriage registrar in Mantralaya retired in February 2020. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said after approval to the appointment of a desk officer, general administration department, it will be published. Regarding marriage registrars for other districts, she said an advertisement will be issued on GAD’s website. Also, the petitioner’s suggestions, including a separate certificate by the marriage registrar, has been sent to the inspector-general of registration and controller of stamps “A church certificate is not considered valid even if stamped by the marriage registrar,” said advocate Ashley Cusher, for the petitioner. The judges will take an update on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-govt-says-it-is-appointing-marriage-registrar/articleshow/80292409.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BJP slams BMC for trimming garden budget||MUMBAI: BJP on Friday slammed BMC for cutting gardens department and garden infrastructure cell (GIC) funds by 25%, and not using a large chunk of it. Pankaj Yadhav (BJP) raised the issue at the gardens and markets committee meeting. Vinod Mishra (BJP) said the party had formed a shadow committee of BMC committees and corporators were now taking up issues in civic committees and panels. “It is unfair that BMC cut the budget for open spaces when people want to use them the most. Because parks and gardens in the city are being neglected. This is one civic facility citizens use everyday, and it is free,” Mishra said. BMC cut its budget for developing parks and gardens by 25% this financial year and of the remaining amount, 85% is lying unused, which will lapse in March. Activists and Opposition parties alleged that with one of the steepest cuts, parks and gardens won’t see any new development this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-slams-bmc-for-trimming-garden-budget/articleshow/80294890.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Delhi||State-of-the-art simulator to help Metro staff troubleshoot||NEW DELHI: Delhi Metro’s train operators can now practice troubleshooting and diagnosis of all that can go wrong with a train in an almost real-life experience thanks to the new state-of-the-art simulator facilities. Managing Director of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) Mangu Singh on Friday inaugurated a new four-storey ‘simulator building’ in the sprawling premises of Delhi Metro Rail Academy (DMRA). Singh also inaugurated a new foot-over-bridge (FOB) in front of Shastri Park Metro depot, which will allow pedestrians to safely cross the busy East Approach Road — the road leading from ISBT, Kashmere Gate towards Shahdara across Yamuna) —from both the sides. “With this new facility, DMRA will further raise the bar in quality of training in the field of mass rapid transit system. Apart from infrastructural and technological makeover, the academy has also reviewed its training curriculum with emphasis on standardisation, content relevance and cross training advancements,” he said. “The new simulator building is equipped with state-of-the art simulator facilities pertaining to train driving, rolling stock maintenance, electrical, signalling, etc. besides modern computer based training labs and other offices,” said Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications). Dayal said that staff trained on a simulator gains real life experiences and knowledge retention with no-risk quantifiable training at reduced costs and time. “The troubleshooting simulators simulate all the faults that may appear in a Metro train and are used to train DMRC staff in quick and effective diagnosis of train faults,” he said. “The simulators will also allow them to practice the replacement of critical components in a 3D virtual environment,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/state-of-the-art-simulator-to-help-metro-staff-troubleshoot/articleshow/80293581.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers gherao BJP functionary holding meeting in Bhawanigarh||Patiala: A senior BJP functionary and his party workers, who were holding a meeting in Bhawanigarh block of Sangrur district on Friday, were gheraoed by farmers and not allowed to leave for around three hours despite the intervention of police. Farmers also warned of more protests if BJP leaders continue to hold meetings with party workers in Sangrur district. Farmers claimed they gheraoed BJP’s Dinesh Kumar, who is general secretary (organisation) Punjab, to seek an assurance of not holding any such meeting in future in Sangrur district. BJP Sangrur district president Randeep Singh Deol also reached the spot and claimed that they were supporting the farmers. He said Dinesh was there to meet an ailing party worker but later decided to hold a meeting with local party workers. “Farmers reached after getting information about the meeting and urged us to listen to them. BJP is a democratic political party and it is our democratic right to hold a meeting as MC elections are ahead. If we have to fight elections, then holding meeting is a necessity,” Dinesh claimed. BKU (Ekta Ugraha) Bhawanigarh block leader Harjinder Singh Gharachon said, “We gheraoed the BJP leader who held a meeting with his workers. BJP leaders are trying to provoke farmers by holding meetings and supporting the agricultural laws enacted by the central government. We held a peaceful protest against the BJP leader.” Bhawanigarh DSP Sukhraj Singh said, “The BJP leaders told farmers that they were not here to hold any meeting but to meet a party worker in the district. No case is registered against anyone as no protester indulged in violence. Moreover, there is no complaint from BJP leaders or workers.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-gherao-bjp-functionary-holding-meeting-in-bhawanigarh/articleshow/80293573.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hubballi||11 dead as minibus hits tipper near Karnataka's Dharwad||DHARWAD: A school reunion trip to Goa ended in tragedy when 11 persons died and six were injured after their minibus collided with a sand-laden tipper on Pune-Bengaluru national highway bypass at Itigatti Cross on the outskirts of Dharwad on Friday. Dharwad superintendent of police P Krishnakant told TOI that former students of Davanagere’s Saint Paul Convent School were heading to Goa for a three-day holiday. Nine among the dead were women and included a professor at a Davanagere medical college. The bus met with an accident about 1km from a friend’s house in Gandhinagar, Dharwad, where the women were scheduled to have breakfast. Their batchmate Savita had arrived in Dharwad on Thursday to join the team on Goa trip. Police took 4 hours to extricate 11 bodies; traffic hit on highwayPolice said the minibus left Davanagere around 5am and the accident occurred around 7.30am. The vehicle was mangled due to the impact of the collision and police took nearly four hours to extricate the bodies and rescue the survivors. The accident disrupted traffic for three hours. The deceased have been identified as Dr Preeti Ravikumar, 46; Paramjyoti Shashidhar Hunchur, 47; Varshita Veeresh Biradar, 46; Manjula Natesh, 47; Rajeshwari Shivakumar Bandennavar, 46; Dr Veena Prakash Mattihalli, 47; Ksheera Sureshbabu Poral, 21; Hemalata alias Manasi Kallappa, 48; Rajini, 47; minibus driver Raju Gurannavar, 37; and cleaner Mallikarjun Udagatti, 27, of Ranebennur. Dr Preeti was a professor in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology, JJM Medical College, Davanagere. The injured are Asha Jagadish Bethur, 47; Veda Manjunath, 46; Usharani Ramesh, 46; Poornima Sureshbabu, 46; Praveena Prakash, 46; and tipper driver Basavaraj Irappa Kadarolli of Ugarkhod in Kittur taluk of Belagavi district. The injured were rushed to a private hospital in Hubballi. Three of the injured were in a critical condition, one patient was airlifted to a private hospital in Bengaluru. Another patient was shifted to a private hospital in Belagavi on her family member’s request. Group used to go on annual trips: Doc’s kinA family member of Dr Preeti said the group of former students used to go on annual trips and they zeroed in on Goa this year. On learning about the accident, inconsolable family members of the deceased rushed to Dharwad District Civil Hospital in Dharwad and Hubballi’s KIMS hospital, where the bodies were kept for postmortem. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister BS Yediyurappa expressed grief over the accident and wished speedy recovery of the injured persons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hubballi/11-dead-as-minibus-hits-tipper-near-dharwad/articleshow/80295444.cms||GURURAJ JAMKHANDI
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||U’khand cabinet approves major tourism promotion campaign; Amitabh Bachchan to host a reality show on U’khand tourism||Dehradun: With the ruling party on verge of completing four years in office, the Uttarakhand cabinet which met on late Friday evening has decided to run a reality show — 100 Days in Heaven — aimed to promote tourism in the Himalayan state. The show would be hosted by Bollywood actor Amitabh Bachchan. The show would be telecast on three news channels and would run for a period of a year. “The show would be prepared and presented by a private firm — Messers Jumping Tomato Marketing Private Limited — for which the state government would be paying the private firm Rs 12.81 crore,” said urban development minister and state government spokesperson Madan Kaushik. The state cabinet also gave approval to a proposal for the policy for the release of prisoners serving life imprisonment. The minister said that prisoners with good conduct, serving life imprisonment, are released on January 26 and August 15. A policy has been approved by the government in this regard. During the meet, the cabinet gave nod to the proposal which suggests preparing architectural design for works at Badrinath without floating tender. Notably, 2% of the project cost would be given to the private firm. In other key decisions, the state government has withdrawn the clause of mandatory one-year experience in a 30-bed hospital for recruitment of government nurses. At present, the process is underway to recruit 1,200 nurses in the state. The cabinet has also increased the payment of weavers and tailors of Uttarakhand Khadi Gram Udyog by 50%. The last raise was given to them in 2012.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ukhand-cabinet-approves-major-tourism-promotion-campaign-amitabh-bachchan-to-host-a-reality-show-on-ukhand-tourism/articleshow/80291551.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Minor among 3 charred in fire at building housing scrap shop||NEW DELHI: Two men in their twenties and an eight-year-old child were charred to death when a fire broke out in a building housing a scrap shop and an adjoining storage room in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar late on Thursday night. The 3-4 hutments built atop the building were gutted, causing the roof to collapse. Police are searching for the missing owner of the scrap shop. While the dead boy and one man are yet to be identified, the charred body of 20-year-old Rohit alias Kalu, a resident of nearby Kamla Nehru Camp, was found in a drain behind the godown. The unfortunate youth is believed to have come to the site on hearing of the fire but got trapped while attempting to save some people trapped in the building. The fire was reported around 10.50pm on Thursday. Atul Garg, director, Delhi Fire Services, said seven fire tenders were immediately rushed to the blaze spot. “Fire personnel found that the fire had broken out in a scrap metal shop and the adjoining godown. They were informed that a man and a child were trapped inside the building. Firemen entered the building and brought out both the man and the boy. They were taken to a nearby hospital, where both were declared brought dead,” said Garg. The fire officer said that above the scrap godown built in a 100 square yard area, there were 3-4 hutments. These also completely burnt down and caused the roof of the building to cave in. A Delhi Police team also reached the spot to carry out rescue operations. Deepak Purohit, DCP (West), said they had identified the owner of the scrap shop to be Tony Mehto, a 50-year-old man. The shanties that were built on the top of the shop were owned by one Monu, who worked at the scrap shop. “One of the deceased and the child are yet to be identified. We are making efforts to find out how they were. Rohit’s body was found in a drain behind the building. It looks like Rohit came to the spot when the fire started, helped in fire-fighting, but ended up getting trapped and was burnt to death,” said Purohit. The DCP said police were ascertaining the cause of fire. “A possibility of a short circuit hasn’t been ruled out,” he said. “A case under IPC sections 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 304 (punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) has been registered at Kirti Nagar police station. The search for scrap dealer Tony Mehto, who is absconding, is under way.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/minor-among-3-charred-in-fire-at-building-housing-scrap-shop/articleshow/80293590.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Average salary offer at SPJIMR close to last year’s||MUMBAI: Despite the pandemic, the average pay packet offered during campus placements at Bhavan’s SP Jain Institute of Management and Research (SPJIMR) is around Rs 25 lakh per annum (LPA) this year, almost similar to last year. An e-commerce firm has offered 12 students the highest annual package of Rs 44 LPA this year. Last year, three students were picked by the same firm, for the highest offer of Rs 51 LPA. Additionally, one in four students from the outgoing batch has bagged a package of Rs 30 lakh and above. Abbasali Gabula, associate director - external relations said, “What looked like a particularly difficult season harking back to the times of the global financial crisis has ended on a high. Despite the extremely challenging environment, we have maintained compensation at the levels achieved last year. This was a result of more effort, preparation and speedy adjustment to the online mode. The response indicates that corporate India is well on its way to getting back to business in full swing.” The placement process went online this year due to the pandemic. This was the first time the final placement process was conducted online, building on the experiences of participants using online platforms for the autumn internships. Students, faculty and businesses have not met physically since the lockdown in March last year. While the number of firms visiting the campus increased to 131 this year, from 122 in 2020, over 50% were first-time recruiters. Maximum offers were made by firms from the consulting sector. The domain became the top recruiter with over 36% of the batch getting placed. Last year, 28% of the batch was hired from this sector. Boston Consulting Group, Accenture Strategy, Bain & Co. and Infosys were some of the leading recruiters from the sector. A total of 18% students were recruited in the FMCG sector. Despite the challenges of the pandemic, around 50% of the batch bagged pre-placement opportunities through the autumn internship with leading corporates like Amazon, Colgate Palmolive, Hindustan Unilever, Procter & Gamble and Tata Administrative Services among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/avg-salary-offer-at-sp-jain-b-school-close-to-last-yrs/articleshow/80294892.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Covid-19 vaccination drive to start today, 34 centres shortlisted in U’khand||Dehradun: The health department will start a state-wide drive to administer Covid-19 vaccine from Saturday. The vaccination process will kickstart at 34 centres across Uttarakhand, including AIIMS Rishikesh and two private medical institutions. Dr Saroj Naithani, nodal officer of Covid-19 vaccination program and director of National Health Mission (NHM), said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi will directly interact via videocon with the Covid-19 vaccine beneficiaries at Government Doon Medical College and Hospital (GDMCH) and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. “We are starting the vaccination drive at five centers in Dehradun, four centres each in Udham Singh Nagar and Haridwar, three centres in Nainital, and two each in all nine hill districts. Around 3,400 healthcare workers will be administered Covid-19 vaccine on day one, 100 at each health centre,” said Dr Naithani. Notably, Uttarakhand received 1,13,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine in the first phase on Wednesday. According to the health department data, 87,588 health care workers will be vaccinated in the first phase of the drive. The vaccine doses have already reached all the 13 districts. The vaccine is currently kept in cold chains. The required doses will be shared with the vaccination centres on Saturday morning. Dr Amita Upreti, director general (health), also issued guidelines to each district to adhere to the Centre's guidelines for vaccine administration and ensure that each listed beneficiary takes the vaccine. “We are not just vaccinating the staffers but also trying to counsel them and dispel the myths, if any,” said Dr Upreti. Meanwhile, 141 fresh cases of Covid-19 reported in the state on Friday took the state tally to 94,465. Also, six more coronavirus-related deaths pushed the toll of the virus to 1,602. The total recoveries in the state on Friday were 234. Till Saturday, more than 89,000 people had recovered from Covid-19 in the state. “The sample positivity rate in Uttarakhand is 4.8% and the death rate is 1.7%,” said Abhsiehk Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-vaccination-drive-to-start-today-34-centres-shortlisted-in-ukhand/articleshow/80291568.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||New burglary trick: Drive in, steal & speed away with booty||Nagpur: The city police have come across a few cases of thieves possessing cars to move around in the city in search of targets. Using a car helped the thieves to hoodwink cops and avoid suspicion. Using a car helped thieves to easily sneak away with valuables without attracting attention from cops on patrolling duty or at nakabandi points. In the latest case, a murder accused and hardened burglar, identified as Sanjog Hole, was arrested on January 13. The Tehsil police station team under senior inspector Jayesh Bhandarkar has seized a car and two bikes from Hole apart other valuables, in all worth more than Rs8.96 lakh, after detecting 12 offences. “Using a car makes it easier for thieves to get past nakabandi and gives them easy access to housing complexes or colonies,” said Bhandarkar. Bhandarkar’s team led by sub-inspector Swapnil Wagh and comprising head constables Laxman Shende, Shailesh Dabhole and Pramod Shaniware and others laid a trap for Hole after his car was spotted near Itwari. Hole was subsequently nabbed near Gandhi Gate. Earlier this week, crime branch team under senior inspector Kishor Parvate had arrested notorious burglar Naresh Malinge from Chhattisgarh for his alleged role behind at least 16 cases of burglaries and thefts in the last couple of months. Malinge too had admitted to buying and selling off cars as and when required. Senior inspector Parvate said Malinge was planning to purchase another car when crime branch managed to nab him. Malinge had Rs3.85 lakh with him which were recovered by the crime branch. During the lockdown last year, Mankapur police had arrested a couple, Gaauri Godmare and Shailesh Dumbhare, who were behind a spate of burglaries and thefts in north Nagpur. They used to travel in their own car to localities where they used to commit thefts. Senior inspector Krushna Shinde of Mankapur police station said the couple used to park their car close to the place they would target. “The couple would keep various tools used in burglaries in the car and decamp with the valuables at top speed,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/new-burglary-trick-drive-in-steal-speed-away-with-booty/articleshow/80292619.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 16, 2021||Surat||Class X girl ends life||Surat: A 15-year-old Class X student committed suicide in the city’s Dindoli area on Thursday. Police said deceased Khushi Patel was a resident of Alok Residency. Sources said that she consumed some poisonous substance at her residence. She was first taken to a private hospital and was then referred to the New Civil Hospital, where she succumbed. Her father Prakash Patel, a native of Mehsana, runs a photocopy shop. “Preliminary probe suggests that Khushi’s mother had reportedly complained and told her school teacher about her homework, which Khushi did not like and took this extreme step,” said police sources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/class-x-girl-ends-life/articleshow/80291641.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Former Union minister Kamal Morarka passes away||MUMBAI: Former Union minister in the Chandra Shekhar government and businessman Kamal Morarka died in Mumbai on Friday evening after a brief illness. He was 74. A Rajya Sabha member from Rajasthan, Morarka was president of Samajwadi Janata Party (Rashtriya) since 2012. Born in a Marwari family on June 18, 1946, in Rajasthan, Morarka was the chairman of Morarka Organic. He ws also chairman of the tabloid Afternoon Despatch and Courier before it stopped printing in 2019. Attached to his roots, his M R Morarka Foundation held the annual Shekhawati Festival in Nawalgarh for several years. Morarka also took keen interest in sports and served as vice-president of the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) and the Rajasthan Cricket Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/former-union-min-morarka-passes-away/articleshow/80294895.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||EC issues fresh list: 78L voters in U’khand||Dehradun: After the summary revision of the voter list, the Election Commission of India has issued a fresh list on Friday. According to the list, there are 78.15 lakh voters in Uttarakhand. Out of which, 40.74 lakh voters are male, 37.40 lakh are female and 233 are included under ‘others’ category. Before the revision, there were 77.38 lakh voters in Uttarakhand, which comprised 40.36 lakh male voters, 37.01 lakh female voters, and 211 others. Sowjanya Jawalkar, CEO, Election Commission, said those who have turned 18 years of age on January 1, this year, have been included in the list.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/ec-issues-fresh-list-78l-voters-in-ukhand/articleshow/80291577.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Govt transfers 10 IPS officers, six district police chiefs changed||Dehradun: In a major reshuffle in the police department, the state government on Friday reshuffled the portfolios of more than a dozen IPS officers in the state. This includes the change of six district police chiefs. Sunil Kumar Meena, senior superintendent of police, Nainital, has been transferred to police headquarters in Dehradun as SSP Personnel and Priti Priyadarshani, SP Pithoragarh, will replace him as the new SSP Nainital. IPS officer Sukhbir Singh, currently posted as commandant of 46th PAC battalion, has been transferred to Pithoragarh as new district police chief. Ramchandra Rajguru has been sent to 46th PAC battalion as the new commandant. SP Uttarkashi Pankaj Bhatt will be the new SP Almora, while Manikant Mishra, who was currently serving as SP Bageshwar, has been made new SP Uttarkashi. Also, Amit Shrivastav has been made new SP Bageshwar. Besides, SP Rudraprayag Navneet Singh has been transferred and made the new commandant of State Disaster Response Force (SDRF).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/govt-transfers-10-ips-officers-six-district-police-chiefs-changed/articleshow/80291581.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Modi govt wants to harm FCI to help corporates’||Patiala: Former cabinet minister Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday accused the BJP at the Centre of weakening the Food Corporation of India (FCI) so as to help the corporates. He alleged that the Shanta Kumar Committee report was used to ‘legitimise’ the ‘conspiracy’. Speaking to media persons, Sidhu said, “For them, the biggest game is food security and agriculture. The centrifugal force of the system is the FCI, it is the engine. But FCI is being hit as part of a conspiracy to help two corporate houses. We must realise that FCI is not a profit-making body but a lifeline for the poor for its public distribution system (PDS).” “But after BJP took over in 2014, FCI’s debt went up from Rs 91,000 crore (since its inception in 1965) to Rs 4 lakh crore in over five years. During the UPA, whatever allocations were made to the FCI, it could spend even more. But the present regime slashed its financial allocations by 50%. What is worse is that FCI is being made to raise loans from the National Small Savings Fund (NSSF) out of the poor man’s savings. The rate of interest for such lending is much higher,” said the Amritsar (East) MLA. The Modi government wants to tamper with the the FCI management as wellm he alleged. “Adani group has silos in many states with 8.5 lakh MT capacity and the Centre wants to have a 30-year contract with the corporate house. Even if they keep 5% of grains in their silos, they will get payment for 100%. Besides, they will be given raises in keeping with inflation. This amounts to maximum support price even as farmers are not given proper minimum support price,” claimed Sidhu. “It is a case of iron hands with velvet gloves and to make this plan legitimate, Shanta Kumar Committee was made to submit its report in a haste. The very first recommendation was that all of Adani’s silos be turned into purchase centres. There will be no place for arhtiyas (commission agents). The panel recommended a system like the one in Madhya Pradesh to favour the Adanis,” he alleged. “We need buffer stock to transform agriculture, because we all have to eat daily. Adani has the buffer stock. The Modi government also wants to put an end to the bonus on the MSP to farmers, which tantamounts to blackmail. Besides, silos will come up on the government land with the FCI. I had also opposed the GST regime back then. All this will lead to breakdown of the federal system,” said Sidhu. “What is the reason behind all this? The corporate houses fund their elections. They also control 70% of the media now,” he alleged. “67% of Indian poor get PDS wheat and paddy from FCI, which will reduce to 40%. Without any survey, the government wants to reduce the number of poor people getting PDS distributed food grains,” he said. The Centre’s decision to give cash subsidies instead of food is a step towards helping corporate houses, who will sell the produce to the poor at existing market prices, he added. “When the poor get money and go to the market to buy food grains, they will ultimately have to buy from the same corporates who will control food grains and even storage,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/modi-govt-wants-to-harm-fci-to-help-corporates/articleshow/80293589.cms||Vibhor Mohan
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Fire at 5-storey building in Rohini, 6 rescued||New Delhi: Six people, including a woman, were rescued from a five-storey building in Rohini where a fire broke out early on Friday. A senior Delhi Fire Service (DFS) officer said they received a call about the fire around 5.30am. “Initially, two fire tenders were sent to the spot. Later, seeing the intensity of the fire, two more were dispatched. The fire broke out on the ground and first floors of the five-storey building,” said DFS chief Atul Garg. Out of the six people rescued from the terrace of the building, the woman, Renu Gupta, sustained minor burn injuries on both her hands. She was taken to Ambedkar Hospital for treatment and discharged later. An officer involved in the firefighting operation also sustained minor burn injuries. Paras Kumar, station officer of Rohini Sector 14, said, “The building is constructed on a 32 square yard plot. The skylift fire tender could not enter the lane as the only entrance to the building was blocked. The flames kept rising as goods stacked on the ground floor provided it fuel. We asked the residents to rush to the terrace. Simultaneously, fire officers climbed on the adjacent building and rescued them one by one.” DCP (Rohini) PK Mishra said the fire may have started due to a leakage in the IGL gas pipeline. “The police control room got a call about a second fire at 8.55am inside a house in Sector 7, Rohini, where many people were feared trapped. The fire was stated to have been caused due to a short circuit. However, when officers reached the spot, they could find any fire incident,” he added. “The caller informed us that there was sparking in the electricity meter. However, no one was injured and there was no loss of property,” said Mishra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/fire-at-5-storey-building-in-rohini-6-rescued/articleshow/80293593.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BMC staffer at airport suspended for issuing fake letters||Mumbai: BMC on Friday suspended sub-engineer Dinesh Gawande, posted at international airport, for issuing fake letters on private hospital letterheads to international passengers landing here, for exemption from institutional quarantine. BMC also filed an FIR against Gawande at Sahar police station. He was to scrutinise passengers arriving from UK, Europe, Middle East and South Africa. Officials said Gawande charged two passengers Rs10,000 for letters from a private hospital. Gawande is with the town planning department but was posted at the airport on Covid-19 duty. “We were tipped off that he may indulge in such activity. We had a suspicion and when we checked him we found letterheads of two private hospitals with him, and some money. He has been suspended pending a probe and an FIR was filed,” additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu said. “We want to give a stern message that such irregularity will not be tolerated,” Velrasu said. BMC had last December issued guidelines for passengers arriving from Europe and Middle East. Passengers have to undergo seven-days compulsory institutional quarantine at designated hotels. It had said all passengers will only be tested on the seventh day, while it had earlier said passengers can be tested between the fifth and seventh days. All passengers in institutional quarantine will have to be in seven days’ home quarantine if their test reports are negative on the seventh day and they are allowed to go home. Officials said an FIR was filed under IPC and Disaster Management Act sections. They said an employee with a duty-free shop had taken two passengers to Gawande. “The employee gave Rs10,000 to Gawande for exemption from institutional quarantine as they were in need of urgent medical care. On medical grounds, we are given exemption from institutional quarantine like cancer patients and other seriously ill patients,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-staffer-at-airport-suspended-for-issuing-fake-letters/articleshow/80292404.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi court asks AAP’s Somnath Bharti to appear on Monday||NEW DELHI: A Delhi court has issued a production warrant for appearance of AAP MLA Somnath Bharti after noting that the case in Delhi was at the stage of judgment but he was in judicial custody in a UP jail. Additional chief metropolitan magistrate Ravindra Kumar Pandey said, “Issue production warrant for appearance of accused Somnath Bharti, who is stated to be in judicial custody in FIR number 14/2021 police station Jagdishpur, district Amethi, UP under section 505/153 IPC.” While section 505 IPC deals with “public mischief”, section 153 is “wantonly giving provocation with intent to cause riot”. “The warrant will be sent and served by DCP concerned to the jail superintendent where the accused is currently running in custody through a special messenger, considering the fact that next hearing is on January 18… and matter is at the stage of consideration /judgment.” The court order is in connection to a case against Bharti where he allegedly assaulted and used criminal force against the chief security officer, R S Rawat, and other security guards at AIIMS in 2016. The case was registered based on Rawat’s complaint, who said Bharti, at 9.45am on September 9, 2016, “provoked the mob to damage the fence of government property (AIIMS)”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/court-asks-aaps-bharti-to-appear-on-monday/articleshow/80293601.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Pongal buzzkill too for Tasmac, sale still down||CHENNAI: The Covid-19 pandemic, which has impacted all sectors, has hit Tasmac revenue too. Gone are the days when the festival season was a money spinner for the state liquor monopoly. While the sale of liquor during Christmas and New Year’s Eve in 2020 went for a toss, the trend has continued for Pongal as well. Tasmac outlets on Thursday sold liquor worth around Rs 270 crore, just Rs 20 crore more than the sale recorded on Pongal day in 2020. The spike in sale is insignificant as the MRP of alcoholic beverages was increased twice last year ranging from 20% to 25% for ordinary, medium and premium varieties. Moreover, Friday being a dry day, it would have added to the demand. Had the sale been at the level of Pongal day in 2020, the income would have jumped by at least Rs 60 crore this year. On Thursday, Trichy region topped in sale with Rs 56.3 crore, followed by Madurai and Chennai zones with Rs 55.3 crore and Rs 54.5 crore. The sale on Wednesday, celebrated as Bhogi day, was Rs 148 crore, more than Rs 30 crore less than the sale recorded on the same day last year. The collective sale on Bhogi and Pongal days was Rs 418 crore this year against the Rs 430 crore generated in 2020. According to official sources in Tasmac, the downward trend in sale has continued from Christmas and New Year’s eve. “It (sale) may recover only when there is a complete revival of the economy,” an official said. The sale on December 25, 2020, plunged by 50% over the previous year, with Tasmac being able to sell barely half of the expected 2.25 lakh cases of Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) on the occasion. Just about a week later, on December 31, Tasmac outlets across the state were able to register sales of just Rs 160 crore, a drop of nearly Rs 20 crore when compared to the sale recorded on the same day in 2019. The lone exception was Diwali in November 2020, when a spike in the demand for alcohol garnered a revenue of nearly Rs 465 crore for Tasmac from across the state over a two-day period.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pongal-buzzkill-too-for-tasmac-sale-still-down/articleshow/80292647.cms||Yogesh Kabirdoss
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Starting Jan 23: Indian Safari at Gorewada||Nagpur: Finally, the 15-year-long wait is over. The Gorewada International Zoo, the signature project of the city conceptualized in 2005, will see the light of the day with the opening of the Indian Safari on January 23.The Indian Safari is the first phase of the project. It will be launched virtually by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray from Mumbai while forest minister Sanjay Rathod will be physically present.In the second phase, FDCM plans to construct night safari (45 hectares), African safari (90 hectares), bio-park (30 hectares), bird park (7 hectares), among other attractions.The master plan of the Indian Safari was prepared by Nagpur-based Ashfaque Ahmed Consultancy Services Private Limited, and works were carried out by Laxmi Engineering Services, Kolhapur. “Yes, the stage is set for opening. I’m going to meet the chief minister on Monday to convince him to come for the inauguration on January 23,” said Rathod.The Indian Safari consists of 7 leopards, 2 tigers, and 4 sloth bear safaris in 25 hectares each, and a composite herbivore safari in 40 hectares, with a buffer area totalling 115 hectares. The herbivore safari has 4 deer and 14 nilgai. The FDCM has spent over Rs40 crore on developing these safaris.These animals were released from captivity at Gorewada Rescue Centre into the spacious safari cages between November 17 and 21. As per CZA guidelines, the animals were allowed to acclimatize for a month and now the stage is set for its opening. Every safari has big water ponds with connected pipelines to refill them. Hence, water will be available for animals all round the year.On how the safaris will be managed, N Vasudevan, managing director of Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra (FDCM), which is executing the project, said, “FDCM will run the show and we have procured three BharatBenz buses each having capacity of 30 tourists. The windows are large with good visibility.”Vasudevan said Rs300 per tourist will be charged on weekdays and on weekends it will be Rs400. As an inaugural offer, FDCM plans to charge Rs250 on weekdays and Rs300 on weekends.“Owing to Covid-19 restrictions, only 20 tourists will be allowed in each bus. The safari will be operational throughout the day. These buses will depart at 10-minute intervals and will operate between 10am and 5pm,” Vasudevan added.HOW IT FARES* Safari in 30-seater buses* Due to Covid-19, 20 tourists only allowed in each bus* Per person: Rs300 weekdays* Per person: Rs400 on weekends* Inaugural offer: Rs250 on weekdays & Rs300 on weekends||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/starting-jan-23-indian-safari-at-gorewada/articleshow/80291599.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Two tame 26 bulls, share Avaniyapuram prize||Madurai: The action-packed jallikattu event at Avaniyapuram saw two young tamers share the prize for the best tamer on Thursday. Thirunavukarasu from Muthupatti and Vijayan from Avaniyapuram tamed 26 bulls each at the event that started at 8am and concluded after eight rounds, each lasting one hour, at 4pm. The bull owned by G R Karthick of Villapuram was adjudged the best out of 523 that were released from the vadivasal. Officials had screened 824 bulls that were brought for the event, of which 24 were rejected. The rest could not be released at the event due to time constraints. Fifty tamers were allowed to enter the arena and were changed every hour to give equal opportunity to 398 tamers. The 108 ambulance services personnel said that 32 people including tamers, bull owners and spectators were injured. Most of them got first aid for minor injuries while nine were referred to Government Rajaji Hospital. All of them were out of danger. Among the injured, a 17-year-old local youth stabbed two brothers when a clash arose among bull owners over releasing their animal first from the vadivasal. The injured, identified as P Deivendran and P Arun Kumar from Perumalpatti, brought their bull near the vadivasal when a clash erupted with another group. Two young farmers were arrested at the event for staging a black flag protest in front of the vadivasal even as the game was in progress. Disguising as jallikattu tamers, Vinoth Kumar, 27, a mechanical engineer from Sivaganga, and Palpandi, 25, a BCom graduate from Avaniyapuram, raised slogans in support of the farmers protesting in Delhi. The duo belonged to Veerakula Amaran Iyakkam, a Tamil chauvinistic outfit. They were booked under two IPC sections and Epidemic Diseases Act, arrested and released on bail. District collector T Anbalagan administered the pledge to ensure safety of the bulls and for fair play in the presence of minister Sellur K Raju, officials from the city police, Madurai Corporation, health, animal husbandry and other departments. As many as 1,500 city police personnel were deployed for the three-tier security arrangements at the venue.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/two-tame-26-bulls-share-avaniyapuram-prize/articleshow/80292675.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||400 people to get vaccinated against Covid-19 at 4 centres||Coimbatore: The vaccination drive against Covid-19 will begin in the district on Saturday around 11.30am. After the Prime Minister’s speech scheduled for 10.30am, the drive will be inaugurated by chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami through video conferencing. The number of centres where the vaccine will be administered has been further reduced from five to four, and beneficiaries from 500 to 400. Hundred doses were dispatched to each of the four centres by Friday evening. Officials though, struggled with glitches in the CoWIN app.The four centres are Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, Pollachi GH, Mettupalayam GH and Nalattipalayam PHC. “While the GHs will see only government employees get vaccinated, some private health workers will get vaccinated in Nalattipalayam PHC,” said deputy director of public health Dr G Ramesh Kumar.To avoid any controversy on the first day, the health department ensured that each of the 400 beneficiaries had given their consent for vaccination. “In fact, ensuring only people who consented got on tomorrow’s list was what delayed our entry of data in the app,” said Kumar.Health department officials were also struggling to select the people for Saturday, because the app was not opening on Friday evening.In the four selected centres, officials ensured that booths were disinfected. Waiting areas and observation rooms were set up earlier in the week. The district recorded 67 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the total number of cases to 53,475. With 51 people getting discharged, the number of active cases stood at 625. The district recorded no deaths.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/400-people-to-get-vaccinated-against-covid-19-at-4-centres/articleshow/80293605.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Private parties too can be tried under PC Act||CHENNAI: A person who isn’t a public servant, but conspired with government officials to cause loss to the exchequer, can also be tried under the Prevention of Corruption Act, a special court has ruled recently. It dismissed a petition filed by a member of the Virugambakkam Carpenter and Blacksmith workers co-operative, who was booked by the DVAC (Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption) pertaining to a work undertaken by the society between November 2010 and March 2011. According to C Amal Doss’ petition, he was included as an accused in a FIR registered by the DVAC without adequate material against him and claimed that the complaint was politically motivated. He further contended that he was only a member of the society and not a public servant, and hence provisions of the Act does not apply to him. In response, the prosecution contended that the petitioner conspired with four other public servants to defraud the government. All four and Amal Doss were named as accused. The main accused in the case, the prosecution stated, had placed orders with the Virugambakkam Carpentry Blacksmith Co-operative society for painting of 166 steel racks and 29 wooden almirahs at Rs 3.9 lakh cost. One other accused then put up a note stating the petitioner had completed the work in a good manner when the work hadn’t even begun. Since the 2011 legislative election was around the corner, code of conduct was imposed and the proposal sent to the finance department for approval was passed on to the election commission. “The money was not disbursed, but in pursuance of their criminal conspiracy, the petitioner wilfully and with an intent to defraud the government prepared a forged bill as if he had completed the work. So he was also included as an accused,” the prosecution submitted. Special judge J Omprakash, of the special court for cases under the Prevention of Corruption Act, Chennai, after perusing submissions by either sides, pointed out that the main allegation against the petitioner is that he conspired with the public servants to have pecuniary advantage for himself and others. “As per section 3 (b) of the PC Act, if any person conspired to commit offence under the Act, he can also be tried by the special court concerned,” the court pointed out and dismissed the petition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/pvt-parties-too-can-be-tried-under-pc-act/articleshow/80292679.cms||Srikkanth D
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Army Day observed||Udhagamandalam: The Madras Regimental Centre (MRC) in Wellington celebrated the Army Day on Friday. Officiating commandant of MRC Col N K Dhas and senior Army officers laid wreaths at the war memorial on behalf of service personnel and veterans to pay homage to martyrs.Army Day is celebrated on January 15 every year in recognition of Lt Gen (later Field Marshal) K M Cariappa taking over as the first Commander-in Chief of the Indian Army from Francis Butcher, the last British commander, in 1948.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/army-day-observed/articleshow/80293599.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||VHP’s donation drive for Ram temple in U’khand starts with CM’s donation; target to reach one crore people in state||Dehradun: The volunteers of Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) have set a target to approach one crore people in Uttarakhand to seek donations for the construction of Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The pan-India drive started from Uttarakhand with chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat giving his contribution for the construction of the temple. Governow Baby Rani Maurya also made a donation of Rs 1.5 lakh. While the VHP will continue to seek donations across the country till February 27, the drive will culminate in Uttarakhand on February 5. While sharing a cheque of his donation with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue Jagdish Kumar, chief minister Trivendra Rawat urged each resident of the state and of the country to come forward for the donations for Ram Temple. “Help and cooperation is the basic mantra of life. I request everyone to donate for the sacred Ram Temple,” added the CM. “Construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya symbolised the aspirations and faith of Indians,” governor Maurya said. Vijay Shankar Tiwari, spokesperson of VHP, told TOI that the organisation will approach only Hindu families to collect donations for the Ram Temple. “Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Mandir Nidhi Samarpan Abhiyan started in Uttarakhand from Friday and the first donation was offered by the CM. We have set a target to reach out to around one crore devotees of Lord Ram. We are only approaching Hindu families but people from other communities can also donate voluntarily. We have no objection,” he added. Not just the VHP and the RSS, even the members of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will be a party to this 20-day drive in the state which aims to collect donations for the construction of the Ram Temple in Ayodhya.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/vhps-donation-drive-for-ram-temple-in-ukhand-starts-with-cms-donation-target-to-reach-one-crore-people-in-state/articleshow/80291600.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Civic body to lay 247km-long concrete roads in the Hyderabad||HYDERABAD: To overcome the problem of road erosion and potholes, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) is laying 247 kilometre-long Vacuum Dewatered Cement Concrete (VDCC) roads in the city. Unlike the regular gravel roads, layers of concrete floors are laid to build a VDCC road. However, the ride on these roads is not as smooth as it would be on regular roads laid with gravel or bitumen. For instance, after laying the VDCC road, there is no water logging even after a heavy downpour on Road No.4, Ameenpur but the drive is quite rough. The same is the case with Road No.3 Banjara Hills and Road No.46 Jubilee Hills. “These roads are mainly being laid on stretches where there is frequent water logging. Even the best quality bitumen is damaged if the water is stagnant on the road,,” said P Chinna Reddy, GHMC executive engineer of Chandanagar circle. As of date, 80 kms of VDCC roads have been laid. After assessing the longevity of the stretch, GHMC decided to extend the project to other parts of the city. According to GHMC records, only by-lanes and connecting roads are being converted into VDCC stretches. “The ride is not smooth on this road. When the road was under construction there was traffic congestion too. We were informed by our apartment association that the road will stop water logging. Whether the road is useful or not can only be said after downpour,” said Vishnu Vardhan, a private employee, who uses the Ameenpur VDCC Road near Sridevi theatre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/civic-body-to-lay-247km-long-concrete-roads-in-the-city/articleshow/80293598.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Schools to reopen for Std V-VIII students from Jan 27||Nagpur: In view of the good response to reopening of high school and junior colleges, state education department has decided to allow students of Std V — VIII back on campus as well. School education minister Varsha Gaikwad told TOI that from January 27 all eligible students will be permitted to attend physical classes while following applicable safety guidelines.“We reopened Std IX-XII in the first phase and the attendance numbers have been rising sharply. In view of this, we sought permission from the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) to reopen Std V-VIII, and today permission has been granted,” said Gaikwad. An official order for this will be issued soon. “The official order shall include all details about safety guidelines to be followed. Teachers will have to undergo RT-PCR tests and school buildings will have to be sanitized as well,” said Gaikwad.This phase-wise reopening was expected, as subtle hints had been dropped by sources in the education department. The overwhelming response of Std IX-XII students had buoyed the confidence of officials. From just around 3 lakh students back on campus on reopening day in November, the attendance figure is now nearing 20 lakh. Education officials in Nagpur said it’s a welcome decision but did not wish to speak ‘on record’ till a GR is issued. A senior education official said, “We have always been advocating reopening of schools. People fail to understand that majority of students do not have access to online teaching. It’s only the well-off, urban families, who have a problem with reopening, because they can access everything from their home. I am extremely happy that the government has thought about the silent majority of students and not the minority, who just happen to be vocal.”Attendance will not be mandatory even after schools reopen, and parents can opt to keep their children out. Every parent has the right to continue with online teaching, and cannot be forced to send their child for physical classes.INFORMATION GFXTimelineNov 23: Day 1 of reopening for Std IX-XII. Except for Nagpur district, schools in Vidarbha reopenedDec 14: Schools in rural Nagpur reopenJan 4: Schools in Nagpur city reopenJan 27: Proposed date for reopening Std V-VIIISafety guidelines & reopening normsReopening of school is not mandatoryStudents can attend only after parents given written consentParents have right to refuse consent and continue with online classesRT-PCR test mandatory for teachers, not studentsATTENDANCE NUMBERSNumber of schools (Std V-VIII): 1,06,491Students in Std V: 19,98,966Students in Std VI: 19,74,024Students in Std VII: 19,50,828Students in Std VIII: 19,23,192(Source: State education department; Data updated for 2019-20 academic session)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/schools-to-reopen-for-std-v-viii-students-from-jan-27/articleshow/80291613.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Coonoor records highest January rain in 86 years||Coimbatore: Coonoor has joined the list of weather stations creating rainfall history. The hill station has so far recorded 323mm rain this month, which is the highest rainfall in January in 86 years. It was in the pre-Independent era, in 1934, when the hill station recorded 312.8mm rainfall. The event in 1934 also occurred due to a depression in the Bay of Bengal that moved into the Arabian Sea in a weakened state. Weather experts said the record for this month is yet to be set as the town may continue to receive rain on and off until January 17.Indian meteorological department (IMD) data shows that Coonoor recorded 323mm rain as of Thursday. This breaks the historic record set in 1934. IMD records showed that a depression had formed in the southwest part of the Bay of Bengal, near Sri Lanka on January 22 that year. It moved in the westerly direction. On January 24, some port officers along the Coromandel coast found that the depression weakened and a low-pressure wave had moved into the southeast Arabian Sea. “From January 22 to 26, specifically on January 27, Coonoor recorded 152mm in 24 hours,” said Pradeep John, who runs the popular Tamil Nadu Weatherman blog.With light and scanty rain expected until Sunday, weather experts said the final record this year is yet to be set. “The trough in the southeast Arabian Sea that is extending till southern Tamil Nadu is in the process of weakening, but is yet to go away. That will take another 48 hours,” said Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist at Skymet Weather Services. “By Saturday, the sky will start clearing and by Sunday, rainfall will become scantier and stop eventually.”Coimbatore, which recorded more than 184.5mm rainfall as on Friday, is continuing to break the earlier record of 33.4mm, recorded in January 1985. “The reason the western districts, delta region and southern Tamil Nadu are receiving rain is the strong pull effect of the easterly winds from the Arabian Sea, occurring because of the weather system,” said John.While long-term crop farmers who grow banana, sugarcane, coconut and betel leaves are cheering, vegetable farmers, especially those growing onions, tomatoes and other short-term crops like millets, are nervous. “If there is too much water in soil, roots will be damaged, which will spoil fruits,” said state secretary of the Tamil Nadu Farmers Association P Kandasamy. “Especially root vegetables and turmeric, which have to absorb nutrients from the soil to grow well, will get affected if it keeps raining.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/coonoor-records-highest-january-rain-in-86-years/articleshow/80293600.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Motorists rue state of RK Puram flyover||Hyderabad: Despite spending crores of rupees, some main roads are still in a bad shape. A visit to Miyapur bus depot road, Jubilee Hills Road No.36 (near Sri Peddamma Temple arch), Bio-Diversity junction road, and RK Puram flyover revealed that people are facing severe hardships. Motorists are urging authorities to pay immediate attention to these roads.“Hundreds of people use the RK Puram flyover that connects ECIL and Trimulgherry. The road on the flyover is full of potholes,” said Robin Zaccheus, an RTI activist. Under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP), GHMC handed over 401 stretches covering 709 km in the city to private agencies to maintain for five years at a cost of Rs 1,827 crore. As per the contract, the private agencies are responsible for maintaining sanitation on the stretches too, but the sanitation works are being executed by GHMC. GHMC officials said that due to pending civic works, there is a delay in road restoration of the CRMP stretches. “Pertaining to RK Puram Flyover, we wanted to widen it to reduce congestion. The agency will restore the road irrespective of the widening of the flyover,” said Anil Raj, GHMC executive engineer, Malkajgiri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/motorists-rue-state-of-rk-puram-flyover/articleshow/80293608.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Brakes on Punjab Cong’s march against farm laws||Chandigarh: To protest against the Centre’s farm laws, a large number of Congress workers led by the party’s state president Sunil Jakhar, ministers and party MPs took out a march from the Congress Bhawan towards Punjab Raj Bhawan on Friday but were stopped by police with heavy barricading. Addressing the protesters, Jakhar alleged that the Centre was behaving in an “absolutely arrogant manner” and did not have any respect for democratic practices and public opinion. “It is the arrogance of this government that is preventing it from repealing the laws which have been outrightly rejected by the farming community across the country,” he said, while warning against the prolonged stalemate on the issue. He claimed that constitutional institutions had been set up and strengthened by the Congress after a long struggle and now the BJP was trying to undermine them all as it did not value or have any respect for them. “The way the central government was responsible for pushing our soldiers into a death trap in the Galwan heights... this government is pushing our farmers to death,” he said. The Congress leaders said it was not just the farmers, but every section of the society was feeling agitated over the three controversial agricultural laws which may eventually end up compromising the country’s food security.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/brakes-on-punjab-congs-march-against-farm-laws/articleshow/80293604.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Bhatti lashes out at KCR on vacancies||Hyderabad: The Congress on Friday said there were thousands of vacant posts of teachers in the government schools and students would not get quality classroom teaching if teaching faculty were not recruited on war-footing before educational institutions reopen. Bhatti Vikramarka, Congress floor leader in the Assembly, said that K Chandrasekhar Rao-led TRS government was neither filling up the 2.5 lakh vacancies nor was it implementing its election promise of giving Rs 3,116 unemployment allowance per month. However, a senior official in the state government said there were vacancies sector but not 2.5 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bhatti-lashes-out-at-kcr-on-vacancies/articleshow/80293612.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Elephant Pongal celebrated in Kozhikamuthi||Coimbatore: As many as 20 elephants in the Kozhikamuthi elephant camp of the Anaimalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) were adorned with garlands on Friday to celebrate the Pongal festival.The forest department decided to curtail elephant Pongal celebrations this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, sources said.. Only 100 people were allowed to visit the elephant camp.The visitors were screened at the Sethumadai forest check post. “We checked their temperature and gave them hand sanitizers. Fifty-six-year-old kumki Kaleem led the elephant Pongal,” said E Prasanth, assistant conservator of forests.The visitors were not allowed near the elephants, which were given sweet pongal, sugarcane and coconuts. “The main attraction was Chinna Thambi, the crop raider, who was captured in 2019. However, Arisi Raja was kept in the Varakaliyar elephant camp,” the official said.Additional principal chief conservator of forests I Anwardeen visited the venue. The department honoured mahouts and residents of the tribal settlements in ATR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/elephant-pongal-celebrated-in-kozhikamuthi/articleshow/80293607.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 347 industries, in the dock for pollution, get NGT reprieve||CHENNAI: Based on findings of a panel it had appointed and the state pollution control board, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) during a recent hearing offered reprieve to 347 manufacturing units functioning at the Kakkalur Industrial Estate located on the outskirts of Tiruvallur. Residents, as early as in 2016, had complained that the units were releasing untreated industrial waste into the Thaneerkulam Lake in the area, which is a drinking water source for locals. The NGT subsequently directed the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to take independent action against each of the industrial units based on their violation, including imposition of environmental compensation if pollution control norms were not followed. Though a sewage pumping station in the vicinity was dysfunctional, temporary arrangements had been made to ensure that waste was disposed of properly, members of a NGT-appointed panel found during an inspection last month. During the hearing on January 7, a joint secretary of the TNPCB further submitted that the industrial estate is expected to have a permanent sewage treatment plant functional by January 2022. According to the NGT order, when the tribunal insisted on an immediate solution as the issue has been in discussion since 2016, the TNPCB added that each of the units had individual treatment plants and untreated sewage was not being released into the stream. Counsel appearing for the SIDCO submitted that the corporation would come up with a concrete proposal about how waste disposal can be dealt with in a scientific manner till the common sewage and effluent treatment plants become operational. The pollution control board and SIDCO have been asked to produce status reports on progress in a month. The next hearing in the matter is scheduled for February 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/347-industries-in-the-dock-for-pollution-get-ngt-reprieve/articleshow/80292718.cms||Ram Sundaram
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: How gang duped 40,000 people via malware app of marketing scheme||NEW DELHI: Twelve people, including two Chinese women and a Tibetan, were arrested by Cyber Cell of Delhi Police for duping people of crores by making them install apps of their marketing scheme, which had malware. These app users were then exploited to create social media influencers. DCP (Cyber Cell) Anyesh Roy said around 40,000 victims were cheated in the last two months. “Almost Rs 4.75 crore was blocked in various bank accounts and Rs 25 lakh in cash was recovered from the Chinese nationals,” he added. The arrested Chinese women, Chaohong Deng Daoyong (27) and Wu Jiazhi (54), belong to the Sichuan province. More arrests are likely. The targets were enticed to download the apps via a link circulated through WhatsApp messages. The victims were offered daily commission of up to Rs 3,000 for spending 30 minutes on the app for allegedly promoting internet celebrities on Facebook, YouTube and Instagram. “Since the messages asking the recipients to download newworld.apk through a short encrypted URL were coming from ISD numbers, which could be virtual numbers, they were identified as suspicious. The malware forensic lab was then asked to examine the URL, app and other linked aspects,” said Roy. The app’s functioning claimed to add Rs 6 in the user’s account if the task given on Facebook, YouTube, etc was completed. To earn more money, the app provided for VIP accounts. But to use this, the user had to pay. The money was found routed to various Indian bank accounts. “The malware analysis revealed that several dangerous permissions were being obtained by the app, such as downloading and installing new software packages, taking pictures and videos, reading, modifying, deleting SD card contents, etc. It also accessed the user’s contact book and sent messages to them,” said the DCP. The malicious app was also able to discreetly download QQ browser, which was banned by Union ministry of electronics and IT in June 2020. Further, the website and the app were hosted and connected to IP addresses assigned to Chinese companies. Police had received a complaint from a woman alleging that she was cheated of Rs 50,000 by using the app. She had got the link to download it from a colleague. Subsequently, an FIR was registered under various sections of IT Act and IPC. An inquiry revealed that the defrauded money was being routed to bank accounts registered in the name of various private companies. The addresses of these companies and the profile of their Indian directors raised suspicion. In some of the companies, while Chinese nationals were the main directors, the Indian directors were found working as accountants, office boys, drivers, etc. The money trail showed that the defrauded money was being laundered through multiple shell companies and crypto-wallets. The key operatives behind these shell companies were identified through field and technical surveillance and they were arrested on January 13 in raids conducted at several locations across Delhi-NCR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/how-gang-duped-40000-people-via-malware-app-of-marketing-scheme/articleshow/80293622.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Agra||Covid sample positivity rate drops to 2.2% in Agra district||Agra: Ahead of the commencement of Covid-19 vaccination on Saturday, the Covid-19 sample positivity rate in Agra district dropped to 2.26%. Over 97% of patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra, out of the 10,416 cases reported in the district.The number of active Covid cases also reduced from 113 on Thursday to 106 on Friday. Moreover, at least eight new Covid positive cases surfaced in Agra till Monday evening, taking the district tally to 10,416.The patients included staffers of SN Medical College and a staffer of Agra Municipal Corporation. Four of them were found positive in random testing conducted by the health department. Also, 15 Covid patients were discharged on Friday. Chief medical officer RC Pandey said, “The current sample positivity rate has reduced to 2.26%. So far, 10,139 [97.34%] people have been cured of the infection. People who came in contact with Covid patients are being screened. Random testing is being conducted in different parts of the city." Meanwhile, the health department officials on Friday remained busy in making final preparations for the commencement of the inoculation programme from Saturday onwards. The CMO said, “On the inaugural day, a total of 600 doctors and healthcare workers will be administered with the first dose of Covishield, the vaccine produced by Serum Institute of India. The vaccination process will take place at six designated centres in the district."Doctors and health staffers have been assigned duties at these designated centres, the CMO added. The entire vaccination process will be carried out under CCTV surveillance. Those administered the jab will be kept under doctors' observation for at least 30 minutes.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-sample-positivity-rate-drops-to-2-2-in-agra-district/articleshow/80290045.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Fire dept to create awareness on Thee app||Coimbatore: Since its launch in November 2020, the fire and rescue services department’s mobile application ‘Thee’ has not received even a single emergency call through the app. Hence, the department is planning to conduct a drive to create awareness among the public about the app. The mobile application is available on Google Play Store. In case of a fire accident, natural calamity, chemical or gas leaks or rescuing of animals, the user can press the ‘Help’ button in the app. The call will reach the nearest fire service station and firefighters will be dispatched to the incident location.Director general of police and director, Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services department, Dr Sylendra Babu said, "Staff from the fire services control room will follow the fire tenders’ location and response time after receiving the call. The control room staff would follow the updates till the fire is put out." He said our aim is to create awareness among the school and college students about the application. "Once the school and colleges are opened, our team will conduct awareness programmes. Through the students, the application details would reach all their families," he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/fire-dept-to-create-awareness-on-thee-app/articleshow/80293610.cms||A Subburaj
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||2 killed in accident||Coimbatore: Two youths were killed in a bike accident near Kottur on Thursday. The deceased were identified as T Maheshwaran, 22, of Pongaliyur and C Ajith Kumar, 21, of Thondamuthur. G Gopal, 21, of Pongaliyur suffered head injuries. While Maheswaran and Gopal were passing through Kottur – Aliyar road on a bike, a bike from the opposite direction crashed into their vehicle. Maheswaran died on the spot. Gopal and Kumar, who was on the other bike, were sent to CMCH. Kumar died without responding to the treatment on Friday. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-killed-in-accident/articleshow/80293614.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Cong members march towards Raj Bhawan to oppose farm laws||Opposition members march to Raj BhavanDehradun: With an eye on the 2022 assembly polls, the Uttarakhand Congress held a major protest on Friday to oppose the three farm laws and express solidarity with the protesting farmers. Led by state chief Pritam Singh and state in-charge Devender Yadav, the Congress members in big numbers marched towards the Governor House. They were, however, stopped after a tussle with the police team at Hathibarkala barricading. The protest, organised on the call of All India Congress Committee, was hailed as Kisan Adhikar Diwas. The protest led to a traffic holdover at Rajpur Road and other nearby areas. As per the decided schedule, the members gathered at party headquarters and started a march towards the Raj Bhawan (Governor’s House) at 11 am. After being stopped at Hathibarkala, the Congress members were taken into preventive custody. Subsequently, they were taken to Dehradun police lines in police vehicles. Addressing the party members, Singh said, “The new farm laws are aimed at ruining the farmers and the agri sector of the country. Congress will continue to oppose the three farm laws till it is withdrawn by the Centre.” Singh claimed that the party stands firm with the farmers. Congress vice-president Suryakant Dhasmana claimed that the protest by farmers has failed to make any impact on the Union government. “The farmer agitation clearly shows that they were not consulted when the law was being framed. If their opinion was sought, such a situation would have never arisen. Farmers from not only Punjab and Haryana but the entire nation have opposed the farm laws,” added Dhasmana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cong-members-march-towards-raj-bhawan-to-oppose-farm-laws/articleshow/80291614.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Manuu to reopen campus in phased manner from Jan 27||Hyderabad: Maulana Azad National Urdu University (Manuu) has decided to reopen the university in a phased manner from January 27. In the first phase, second year and above research scholars of the School of Sciences and School of Technology will be allowed to return to campus. The university has mandated all the research scholars to report at the university health centre and obtain fitness certificate/health report subject to which they will be accommodated in the hostels. “The research scholars will be quarantined for a period of 14 days compulsorily in separate rooms at Mohammad Ali Jauhar Hostel (boys hostel-4) and Qurratulain Hyder Hostel (old girls hostel), developed as quarantine centers,” read a press release issued by the university, adding that students will be allowed to visit their respective departments for laboratory work only after completing the quarantine period. Students returning to the campus have to bring their own masks, sanitizers and a thermometer. They will also have to get other personal hygiene items for the quarantine period. In case, if any student displays any symptoms of Covid-19, then the student may be asked to leave the campus immediately to get clinically accessed. Students permitted to return in the first phase have to report at the university between January 27 and February 2, 2021 so that other students may be allowed to join the university in the next phase of re-opening. Research scholars not put up in hostels and willing to resume laboratory work will have to sign an undertaking.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/manuu-to-reopen-campus-in-phased-manner-from-jan-27/articleshow/80293615.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Subdued fest mood in city||Coimbatore: There was a 50% drop in the number of dairy farmers, who brought their animals to the Madeshwaran temple near the Aavin office on Thadagam Road on the occasion of the Mattu Pongal on Friday, compared to the last year.The temple management had prohibited bringing animals to the temple, but allowed people to visit the place. “Several people brought their livestock to the temple in the afternoon. As they had travelled several kilometres to visit the temple, they were allowed inside. We followed all Covid-19 guidelines,” an official said.Dairy farmers celebrated the festival at farms by decorating cattle and sheds, and offering prayers. Unlike previous years, livestock exhibition and traditional games were not conducted in the city. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/subdued-fest-mood-in-city/articleshow/80293616.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Rahul says it is his duty to protect Tamil language and culture||Madurai: Congress leader and MP Rahul Gandhi, who was the special guest at the Avaniyapuram jallikattu event in Madurai district on Thursday, said he would stand for protecting Tamil culture and language. He said he was happy to see the way the traditional bull taming game was being conducted by ensuring safety of both bulls and the tamers.Addressing the spectators, Rahul said Tamil culture, history and heritage were needed for the future of India and should be respected by all. ``The people of Tamil Nadu have shown me tremendous love and affection and it is my duty to protect their culture and heritage,’’ he said.“I have come here specifically to give a message to those who think that they can run roughshod over Tamil people and push aside their culture,” he said. Tamil spirit cannot be suppressed. They are the essence and soul of the country, he said.Rahul’s visit comes three months before the assembly elections, scheduled in the state. He said the people of Tamil Nadu helped him to know in which direction the country should go. “I will be coming back here,” he said.He watched the event with other leaders including DMK youth wing secretary Udhayanidhi Stalin. Rahul was seen well masked, while Udhayanidhi Stalin was found flouting this important rule.Many bull tamers took photographs with Rahul who also extended his hand and wished some of them, much to their delight.It has been announced that two motorcycles would be given on behalf of Rahul Gandhi for the best bull tamer and the owner of the best bull.Later, the Congress leader sat down to a vegetarian meal with fellow villagers in Thenpalanji in Madurai. He was welcomed warmly by the villagers and he posed for photographs with an elderly woman from the village and later served a meal in the local government school building.Earlier, Rahul arrived in Madurai in a special flight from New Delhi, He was received by Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri, Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy and Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore.Speaking to reporters before his departure from Madurai airport, Rahul said that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had not stood by the common people during the Covid-19 crisis. He said the Centre was trying to destroy farmers.He said the Centre would be forced to withdraw the three farm laws. “I stand with the farmers and fully support them because the country will become weak when farmers become weak,” he said.Rahul said, “They are not neglecting the farmers. They are trying to destroy the farmers to help two or three of their friends”. Rahul said he was very proud of the farmers, and that he would continue to support them.He said the Prime Minister should explain what the Chinese troops had been doing inside the Indian territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/rahul-says-it-is-his-duty-to-protect-tamil-language-and-culture/articleshow/80292705.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Coimbatore||Rain replenishes Siruvani Dam||Coimbatore: After incessant rain in and around the district, water level in the Siruvani Dam remained at 38.15 feet for the third consecutive day on Friday, despite drawing 80 MLD for distribution. The catchment area of the reservoir recorded 8mm rainfall on Friday. In September, water level was maintained at 44.61 feet against the reservoir’s full capacity 49.53 feet after the Kerala government passed an order to reduce the maximum storage capacity by five feet.The Tamil Nadu water and drainage (TWAD) board has been drawing 80 MLD to supply to corporation areas and villages, said an official. “It will reduce the water level by 4cm. Due to the continuous rainfall in the catchment areas, water level did not reduce for the third consecutive day. Two days ago, the catchment area had recorded 44mm rain and on the other days, five to eight.”TWAD had been drawing 100 MLD from the reservoir, the official said. “We decided to reduce it by 20 MLD to save enough water for the summer season. If everything goes right, there would not be water shortage till the next monsoon,” he added. Meanwhile, the city corporation is supplying drinking water once in six days to most of the areas. Water is supplied once in eight to nine days in areas like Kavundampalayam and Vadavalli, a corporation official said. “We are getting about 240 MLD drinking water from reservoirs including Siruvani, Pillur and Aliyar. We will be able to supply water without any difficulties, just like the previous year, thanks to the abundance rainfall.”In 2019, the corporation had increased the gap between water supply days after water level in Siruvani dropped significantly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/rain-replenishes-siruvani-dam/articleshow/80293618.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 16, 2021||Patna||Buddhist monks pray for world peace at Bodh Gaya||GAYA: Prayers for world peace marked the beginning of the nine-day 32nd Nyingma Monlam Chenmo Puja, an annual event of the Nyingma lineage Buddhists. The event, organized by Nyingma Monlam Chenmo International Foundation under the sacred Bodhi Tree on the Mahabodhi Mahavihara campus, Bodh Gaya, would conclude on January 23. Around 100 monks of Nyingma lineage and the Tibetan Buddhists are participating in the event. Normally, around 10,000 monks and the devotees attended the event. But owing to the Covid-19 guideline restrictions, the number of participants has been restricted this year. During the tourist season in Bodh Gaya (from November to February), annual events like Kagyu Monlam Chenmo, Tripitaka chanting ceremony, water land puja and others are organized every year on the Mahabodhi Mahavihara campus. But these events have been postponed this year due to the pandemic. “Due to this, the stakeholders of tourism industry have been badly affected and they are facing acute financial crisis,” Bodh Gaya Travel Association president Suresh Singh said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/buddhist-monks-pray-for-world-peace-at-bodh-gaya/articleshow/80291636.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: School asked to refund fee, pay compensation||HYDERABAD: A district consumer forum here has directed FIITJEE to refund Rs 59, 500 and a compensation of Rs 25,000 to a consumer for failing to return the enrolment fee of his daughter, who did not even attend a single class at the institute. Sridhar B, the complainant submitted that after going through advertisements about FIITJEE, Saifabad, he wanted to admit his daughter, Shruti, for the intermediate course at the institute and approached the management to enquire about the course. He said that the college conducted an examination/talent test on the same day for his daughter by collecting Rs 100 and declared that she is eligible for the admission and asked to deposit a fee of a little over Rs 2.35 lakh for an academic year. He said that he hesitated to enrol Shruti in the college as he may get transferred and communicated the same with the principal, who in turn, assured to refund the entire amount in case of his transfer. Sridhar said he paid Rs 59,500 enrolment fee and gave three post-dated cheques for the remaining fee balance. Four days after paying the fee, he said that he heard from reliable sources that he had to relocate immediately. On the same day, he approached the college and informed about the withdrawal of admission and requested a refund. Claiming that the college failed to respond to the issue, he filed this complaint. The opposite party, in its written version, submitted that the complainant requested a refund alleging relocation of job which cannot be a ground for a refund of the fee as per the various terms and conditions of enrolment. They further contended that the seat, which was filled up by the complainant’s daughter, is now left open given the withdrawal in the middle of the academic year and the same cannot be filled up with any other student, causing loss to the institution. During the trial, the bench noticed notice that the complainant’s daughter had not even attended a single class with the opposite party institution and requested withdrawal of admission on April 16, 2018, which is well in advance for the commencement of the academic year. “In such a case the question of discontinuation of the course in the middle of the academic year does not arise,” the bench said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/school-asked-to-refund-fee-pay-compensation/articleshow/80293629.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Traders rue slump in biz due to closure of highways||NEW DELHI: With the highway shut down by farmers sitting on protest at the Singhu border for over a month and a half now, there’s resentment brewing among businessmen whose daily activities are being affected. On Friday, TOI visited the Kundli Industrial Area in Singhu village, which has units for jeans, steel, plastic and other items, and spoke to factory executives about the slowdown in operations since the closure of the main road there. Sachin, a supervisor at a steel factory, said, “Our major problem is our workers reporting late for work due to the road closure and the diversions they have to take. Our factories have already been hit by the Covid restriction and now there is hardly any movement of trucks on the highway. It is not that we feel the farmers are doing anything wrong, but their agitation has created a genuine problem for us.” Apart from the factories, the numerous hardware shops in Dahiya Market are suffering very low sales. “It is easy for the cars to take a detour through the village, but big trucks can’t enter the bylanes. In any case, the lanes are obstructed by people parking their vehicles there,” noted Hari Chand, 70, a hardware seller. “The traffic congestion also prevents trucks carrying our raw materials from reaching here. They only manage to arrive intermittently. Because of this, the regular customers, the Delhi factory owners, have stopped coming.” Chand pointed out that he has little income but constant costs, including a rent of Rs 35,000 for his 40-year-old shop and Rs 15,000 as salaries to three employees every month. “I also have to pay the electricity bill,” he said. "The sales are down, but we keep quiet since we don’t see a solution ahead.” Varun Tayal, 38, runs his business next to Chand’s shop. He travels 22km from Sonipat each day to sell switchboards, cables, pipes and other items. “I pay a rent of Rs 50,000 for my shop and there are employee wages too. My labourers from UP also need money to survive, but when the shop itself is not doing well, there is little I can do,” sighed Tayal. Also in dire straits are the eateries on the highways, where business is not as rosy as it was 50 days ago. The eatery owners grumbled about their helplessness, saying they aren’t opposed to the agitation of the farmers, but don’t know what to do to survive. “Some of the protestors use our eatery areas to sleep, but we don’t turn them away because we know they are protesting for their rights,” said a restaurant owner, who did not wish to be named. “Once in a while, people visiting the Singhu border protest site use our toilets and stop to eat something. That’s all the business we have. The highway shutting down has hit our operations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/traders-rue-slump-in-biz-due-to-closure-of-highways/articleshow/80293633.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||40-year-old widow found murdered in Aarey Colony flat, boyfriend held||MUMBAI: A 40-year-old widow was found murdered at her home in Aarey Colony on Friday morning. Police arrested her boyfriend, Suraj Kumar Maurya (25) for the crime. Shehnaz Gambhir lived in Prajapurpada with relatives. She had three daughters with her late husband. “We learnt that Maurya had a relationship with her. He was questioned but denied any knowledge about her death,” an officer said. A probe showed that Maurya and Gambhir were together on Thursday night and had been drinking. “They had no other visitors. They had a fight and in the morning, Gambhir’s body was found. We suspect Maurya hit her with a pipe and are still looking for the murder weapon,” said an officer. Investigations showed that Gambhir was nagging Maurya for marriage but he was not keen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/40-year-old-widow-found-murdered-in-aarey-colony-flat-boyfriend-held/articleshow/80294909.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||75 Covid-19 cases each in south, central TN||Madurai/Trichy: A total of 75 fresh Covid-19 cases each were reported in the southern and central districts on Friday which also saw no deaths, according to the day’s health department bulletin. Meanwhile, fresh cases crossed the 75,000 mark in the central region to 75,068.  On Thursday, the ten southern districts had recorded 77 fresh cases with only Kanyakumari (18) and Madurai (16) recording more than 10 fresh cases. On Friday, Madurai with 14 fresh cases recorded the highest while Dindigul and Kanyakumari had 10 cases each. Ramanathapuram (3) recorded the lowest, followed by Sivaganga (4), Tenkasi (4), Theni (7), Tirunelveli (7), Tuticorin (7) and Virudhunagar (9). Among the 752 active cases in the region, Kanyakumari (160) had the highest, followed by Madurai (140). Ramanathapuram (29), Tenkasi (34), Sivagangai (45) and Theni (49) maintained less than 50 active cases. Active cases in other districts include 61 in Virudhunagar, 62 in Tuticorin, 82 in Dindigul and 90 in Tirunelveli. The central districts had witnessed 55 cases only on Thursday. It has taken two weeks for the region to have 1,000 more cases after crossing 74,000 on January 2 indicating that slow infection rate has kept the numbers under control. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of 27 cases on Friday followed by Trichy with 20 (total tally 14,473) followed by Karur with 10 cases. Ariyalur recorded no case and Perambalur one while Tiruvarur, Nagappattinam and Pudukkottai districts recorded seven, five and five cases respectively. The number of active cases in the region slipped to 609 on Friday with Thanjavur having the highest of 172 while Trichy had 166. With no casualty, the region’s death toll remained at 937.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/75-covid-19-cases-each-in-south-central-tn/articleshow/80292715.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||In a first, US Nagar admin to promote biofloc fish farming technology||Rudrapur: In a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state, the Udham Singh Nagar administration has introduced the biofloc farming technology to promote intensive aquaculture. The biofloc exhibition unit has been established in the district at a cost of Rs 7.5 lakh. Himanshu Khurana, chief development officer (CDO) of the district, said, “Applying the biofloc technology, farmers can raise fish in artificial tanks in an area between 150-to-200 square metres. These tanks are connected with piped water supply. The system can be used to produce freshwater fish species such as tilapia, pangasius, common carp, and others. Organic waste in the tanks will be treated and converted into fish food by using helpful bacteria and carbon sources like molasses.” The official added that the scheme will boost employment. According to officials, the biofloc technology can produce 3,000 kilograms of fish in just four small tanks of 150 square metres each. On the other hand, the traditional pond farming system needs an area of 4,000 square metres to produce a similar output in six months, Khurana said. “Currently, we have this facility at the Baur reservoir in Bazpur. We are planning to start a training centre at Gularbhoj fish farm for the officers of the department, who will further proliferate the scheme amid the district farmers. Also, there are two privately-owned biofloc units owned by progressive fish farmers in Khatima and Kashipur. We want people to come forward and leverage the benefit of this scheme. Under the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), the Centre also provides a grant for this initiative,” said the CDO. He added that the state government will provide necessary technical support for the biofloc-based farmers. Himanshu Joshi, project director at the CDO office, said that the biofloc-based tanks can be installed on the terraces of buildings and also in backyards. A biofloc unit of two tanks will cost Rs 1.5 lakh. For a unit of six tanks, the cost is Rs 4 lakh. Meanwhile, divulging information regarding yet another significant development, CDO Khurana said that Pangasius fish has become very popular in the district due to its high demand. Till now, farmers have been importing the fingerlings from Andhra Pradesh. However, for the first time in the state, Rs 22.05 lakh has been provided to farmers for this purpose. Besides, four clusters have been selected by the fisheries department, providing direct livelihood to 104 families. Farmers in these clusters are being benefited with pond construction and duck shed construction in convergence with MGNREGA scheme and district plan.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/in-a-first-us-nagar-admin-to-promote-biofloc-fish-farming-technology/articleshow/80291638.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||GMCH gets ‘Fire Exit’ from Covid-19 service as all patients being shifted to Mayo||Nagpur: In a surprising development, district collector Ravindra Thakare has issued orders to shift all Covid-19 patients from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) Nagpur to Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) on immediate basis. GMCH will not admit any new Covid-19 patients anymore unless and until the hospital completes its fire audit, states the orders issued by the district collector. “The NMC Fire Department is conducting fire audit of the hospitals in city on priority basis. For this purpose, the wards need to be vacated. Admissions of Covid-19 patients must be stopped for this,” reads the order issued by the district collector. It also states that many wards in hospital buildings in the GMCH premises are yet to install fire safety measures. Some of these wards are reserved for Covid-19 patients. On the other hand, the IGGMCH already has fire safety mechanism in place. “The number of Covid-19 patients is also going down significantly these days. Hence, we are taking this decision on immediate basis to shift patients from GMCH to IGGMCH,” reads the order. GMCH was the first to start dedicated Covid-19 hospital at its Trauma Center in April. Covid-19 lab here is most advanced and can conduct about 750 tests a day which is highest in the region. The hospital has admitted, treated and discharged highest number of patients in Vidarbha. It was selected to treat and isolate suspected patients of UK strain and presently 156 patients are admitted in the hospital. All of them will be shifted to Mayo Hospital (IGGMCH). IGGMCH has city’s first Covid-19 test lab, and first Covid-19 patient was admitted here only. The surgical complex building in the IGGMCH was converted into Covid hospital in May. This building has 600 beds and equipped with fire alarm and facilities. Presently, IGGMCH has only 56 patients admitted. While the authorities in both hospitals admitted that the decision has been taken in wake of the fire audit; they refused to comment whether it will be inconvenient for the patients. It is still not clear what will happen to those patients who reach GMCH in emergency and test positive for Covid-19 afterwards. Patients from other districts/states are referred mostly to GMCH.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/gmch-gets-fire-exit-from-covid-19-service-as-all-patients-being-shifted-to-mayo/articleshow/80292739.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, farm group goes all out against party leaders||Bathinda: Farmer organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has asked its various district units to reach native villages of two BJP leaders to hold protests on the occasion of Mahila Kisan Diwas on January 18. The outfit has asked its Ludhiana, Patiala, Fatehgarh Sahib, Sangrur, Barnala and Mansa units to hold a protest at BJP leader Harjit Singh Grewal’s native village Dhanaula in Barnala district while units in Fazilka, Ferozepur, Bathinda, Muktsar, Moga and Tarn Taran have been asked to protest at Surjit Kumar Jyani’s village Katehra in Fazilka that day. The women leaders and activists of the farm organisation will manage the stages at both the places. The various district units have started preparing and holding smaller meetings even at village level for the protests against two BJP leaders for their regular utterances against farmers’ protests and farm leaders, BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) general secretary Sukhdev Singh Kokri said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/in-punjab-farm-group-goes-all-out-against-party-leaders/articleshow/80293630.cms||Neel Kamal
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Deputy CM celebrates Pongal in Theni village||Theni: Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam participated in the Pongal festival organised by the department of tourism in Theni district on Friday, to promote local tourism. Donning the role of a farmer, Panneerselvam rode a bullock cart and greeted the locals. The festival is held every year to promote tourism and also Pongal festival. This year, the festival was held in Pallarpatti village in which the deputy CM participated along with his son and Theni MP P Ravindranath, Cumbum MLA STK Jakkaiyan and Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev. He inaugurated the Tamil cultural games in the village and took the bullock cart ride along with the locals. Surrounded by the western ghats and has many places of tourist interest to showcase like the Vaigai dam, Sothuparai dam, Suruli falls and Kumbarakarai falls which are major attractions among locals. The district is also home to some of the famous temples such as the Kuchanoor Sanibagawan temple, Sri Kowmariamman temple, Maavutru Sri Vellappar temple among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deputy-cm-celebrates-pongal-in-theni-village/articleshow/80292735.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: A ride through hell at Vijayanagar junction||CHENNAI: Vijayanagar junction has been a nightmare for road users for five years now, ever since work on the flyover began, but the recent rain has made things worse. Till Friday afternoon, an MTC bus that had sunk in the mud under the flyover during the rain added to the chaos. There is no road on a long stretch on the Taramani-Pallikaranai section. What there is resembles an obstacle course at one of the more difficult motorsport rallies.  “Potholes, pending drain work, cement and debris have worsened traffic on the road which we usually use to reach Thiruvanmiyur,” said Dr Keerthana Rao, a resident of the area. Work on the Rs 92crore flyover began in 2015. “In the centre of the road, concrete and debris has been placed. The authorities are aware that this is a busy stretch, yet there is no planning. The authorities could have easily ensured double shifts to at least complete work at major bottlenecks,” said V Rama Rao of Traffic and Transportation Forum, Chennai. The section from Velachery bypass road till the MRTS station was the worst. “We suggested shifting the bus terminus to a vacant plot near the MRTS station to ensure speedy completion of the project,” he said. Sami Ayyah, an auto driver in the area, said almost every day someone suffered a fall or a minor accident took place. “The past 15 days have been the worst. We are sure before elections they will lay the road. This type of haphazard work without any planning puts people’s lives at risk,” he said. Highways officials said Metrowater is laying a sewage pipeline along the stretch from Vijaynagar bus stand till Taramani junction. “We are waiting for them to complete the work. Even after the pipeline is laid, they will conduct tests for leakages and only after that can we lay the road. We hope at least around the bus stand area, work will be complete in a week’s time, after which we will complete roadwork,” said an official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/a-ride-through-hell-at-vijayanagar-junction/articleshow/80292742.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Withdraw jallikattu cases, say posters ahead of CM visit||Madurai: Posters demanding the government to withdraw cases against pro-jallikattu protesters have mushroomed in Alanganallur ahead of chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami’s visit to inaugurate the jallikattu event on Saturday . As many as 179 people have been answering court summons once a month, for taking part in the pro-jallikattu protests in Madurai in 2017. Each of these 179 people have eight cases pending against them in the Alanganallur, Sellur, Perunkudi and Thilagarthiddal police stations, after the CBCID took up the case. They said that the chief minister should withdraw the cases against them and help them get back to normal life, without further delay. K Selvaraj of Kambur in Melur taluk, said that they were among the thousands of people who took to the streets to demand that the ban on jallikattu be lifted. When the then chief minister O Panneerselvam, obtained an ordinance for the game to be conducted, he also promised them that the cases against the protesters would be withdrawn, but that was never happened. K Geetha from Chennai lost an opportunity to work in films as her face was injured during the protests when they were manhandled by the police. “Now, I am trying for a job in Dubai, but cannot proceed because I have to keep answering summons every month, and it was only during the lockdown that there were no summons,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/withdraw-jallikattu-cases-say-posters-ahead-of-cm-visit/articleshow/80292749.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chennai||Criminal cases deter insolvency resolution professionals: Tribunal||Chennai: If every resolution professional (RP) is bombarded with criminal prosecution and police investigation, they won’t be able to conduct the insolvency process without fear, observed the National Company Law tribunal’s division bench in Chennai. The tribunal’s observation was in response to a petition moved by Subrata Monindranath Maity, a RP who stated that he was harassed for discharging his duties. He was appointed by the tribunal to take over the insolvent company M/s/ Bhatia Coke and Energy Limited to conduct CIRP (corporate insolvency resolution process). The company’s directors, however, filed complaints against Maity with police and a criminal prosecution has begun, with FIRs filed in Maharashtra and in Tamil Nadu. Maity’s counsel submitted that if RP is harassed by police, he will not be in a position to conduct the proceedings under the insolvency & bankruptcy code (IBC) without fear or favour. “The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Board of India (IBBI) is the regulatory authority and any complaint against the RP or any violation by RP can be placed before the internal monitoring committee of IBBI for assessment and necessary action,” the counsel submitted. The tribunal noted the submission by RP’s counsel that his team and family were threatened by the directors and that the RP’s life was in danger. Clarifying that the tribunal is not passing any orders on merits of the FIRs, the tribunal comprising R Sucharitha (judicial member) and B Anil Kumar (technical member), directed that police give adequate protection to the RP, his family and the entire team. “If there are irregularities on part of the RP or his team, the director could have filed necessary applications before this tribunal and with IBBI. Accelerating criminal charges and using police to register criminal complaint are not appropriate,” the tribunal observed. The tribunal also stated that police can proceed as per the code for criminal procedure (CrPC) but no arrest can be made until the petition is disposed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/criminal-cases-deter-insolvency-resolution-professionals-tribunal/articleshow/80292753.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||‘Pained’ over being used, HC nixes plea on illegal colleges||Mumbai: Pained that the high court was used by a trustee of an educational trust to see that its rivals were pushed out of business, Bombay HC on Friday dismissed her petition on mushrooming of illegal junior colleges and vacated interim orders passed on it. “We feel the high court has been taken for a ride,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. On January 4, HC had restrained school education minister Varsha Gaikwad from granting final permission to Rao Educational Trust’s five institutes in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai to operate as regular junior colleges without obtaining its nod. This interim order was passed on an application by Manju Jaiswal, a trustee of Kaushalya Education Society, to stay Gaikwad’s December 18 order allowing Rao time to comply with infrastructure conditions under the Maharashtra Self-Financed Schools (Establishment and Regulation) Act, 2012. On January 28, 2020, a coordinate bench, on Jaiswal’s petition, had prohibited the school education department from processing any pending applications unless permitted by it. It also directed rules under the Act to be framed. Rao’s advocate S C Naidu argued her petition is a “cut-copy-paste” of a PIL on the same issue which was dismissed in September 2019 due to non-removal of HC office objections. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for Jaiswal said the coordinate bench had found merit in her petition and urged that it “should not be dismissed on technical grounds.” The CJ said angrily, “We’ll find if you (Nirmal) have complied or not. You are running from a municipal school. We will see that each of your institutions will close down. You do not know how far this court can go.” Naidu argued that Jaiswal conveniently did not disclose that on the date of filing of the petition she was also a trustee and a treasurer of Nirmal Education Society, founded by J M Abhyankar, former director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and former divisional chairman of SSC and HSC boards. She is his daughter-in-law and used her maiden name to hide her identity and filed the petition to enable Nirmal “to steal a march over” Rao, its competitor. The judges said Jaiswal approached the court “with a veil on her face hiding her identity’’ and “what has pained us is the conduct of the petitioner not disclosing her association with Nirmal.” While Sakhare said she is estranged from her husband, the judges said nothing prevented Jaiswal from making such a disclosure. They said Jaiswal’s petition is a “reflection of the PIL” and drafted by “borrowing words” with no disclosure of how her personal right is affected. The judges said indeed a good cause had led to an order being passed which culminated in the framing of rules under the Act which were long overdue. “However, we cannot lose sight of the fact that however good the cause may be, the golden rule is a party approaching the court must approach it with clean hands,” they added. They dismissed the petition, discharged the rule (admission of petition for final hearing) and disposed of pending applications, adding that “any (interim) order passed stands vacated”. “Having regard to students, we wish to remind the state government that mushrooming of schools and junior colleges, in violation of the statutory enactments/rules, is not what the people of Maharashtra would like to have. It is incumbent on the government to keep a strict vigil on such institutions that are allowed to operate, breaching the statutory requirements,” they concluded.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pained-over-being-used-hc-nixes-plea-on-illegal-colleges/articleshow/80292754.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Farmers worried as crops ready for harvest inundated||Tirunelveli: Flooding in the Tamirabarani River over the last three days has left farmers in Tirunelveli and Tuticorin districts worried, despite water level dropping with drop in rainfall in the catchment areas of Papanasam and Manimuthar dams for five days. Though farmers are worried about damage to their crops, officials say they would be saved if the water drains in two to three days.The district administration used drones to assess the extent of inundation. “We hired 10 drones and they have been up since Wednesday. It also helped in identify inundated, low-lying and disconnected areas and rescuing those in distress. The actual extent of crop damage can be assessed only after the water drains,” he said, adding that the assessment would begin in a couple of days.According to district joint director for agriculture R Kajendra Pandian, drone surveillance revealed that at least half a kilometre on either side of the river’s banks are inundated. The impact of the floods is more at Ambasamudram (Vairathikulam, Mannarkoil, Aladiyur, Keelmugam and Vellankuli), Cheranmahadevi (Polikarai, Karaisoolnthamangalam, Pachamadai and Kooniyur) and Mukkudal (Thirupadaimaruthur).In Tirunelveli district, 843 people were relocated to shelters from inundated areas, of which around 800 have returned home with the receding water. Around 1,450 people were rescued and accommodated in seven shelters in the district, especially in Alwarthoppu, Alwarthirunagari and Punnaikayal areas. Close to 700 people are still in the shelters, district collector K Senthil Raj said. While paddy and banana cultivation has been affected by the floods, flooding in the rain fed cultivation of pulses, oil seeds, corn and cotton in Kovilpatti and Vilathikulam areas is an issue of concern as crops ready for harvest are submerged. The biggest challenge for Tuticorin city – especially in the added areas of the corporation – is inundation due to local showers. The city recorded more than 170mm rainfall last two days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/farmers-worried-as-crops-ready-for-harvest-inundated/articleshow/80292752.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Working professionals to aid of protesting farmers in Delhi||NEW DELHI: Nine working professionals from Pune reached Singhu border on Friday under the banner of Lokayat to join the farmers’ protest. The self-funded group declared they had come to lend their support to the protest and will stay at the border for a week. Nikhil Rajankar, 29, who works as a tutor in Pune, said, “I teach students from Class VIII to X, but have given them a break to be able to come to Delhi to support the agitating farmers. We are a group of nine, which includes three women. All of us are working professionals and have taken leave from work to come and support the cause of the farmers.” Rajankar said many protests had been staged in Delhi, but described the current one as “one of the biggest”. While Rajankar maintained that the new agriculture laws would create further problems for the farmers not just in Delhi, but even in Pune, other members of his group visited local farmers during the day. Playing the tambourine and shouting slogans to boost the spirits of the protestors, the group also distributed newsletters in Hindi and English giving details about the laws and analysing the effects they could have on the farmers. The group will camp in Delhi for a week and live in the tents installed at Singhu border. The group is self-funded, with each member having contributed money to come for the protest and to visit places to support the farmers’ cause. Varsha Sapkal, 36, said, “I am here for a week, but our group will keep visiting in turns. We were following the news, but wanted to come and experience the movement for ourselves. This protest started because of the efforts of the farmers and has been growing by the day.” She said that all people should come out and raise their voice on every contentious issue, be it health, women or a national crisis. Sapkal’s husband also works with Lokayat, but is currently engaged with other group members in Pune.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/working-professionals-to-aid-of-protesting-farmers/articleshow/80293654.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand’s first Doppler Weather Radar, which can predict storms, inaugurated at Mukteshwar||Dehradun: Uttarakhand’s first Doppler Weather Radar (DWR), a device which can read the intensity of precipitation in the air to predict severe weather conditions like storms and heavy rainfall, was inaugurated at the campus of Institute of Temperate Horticulture in Mukteshwar, Nainital district, on Friday. The inauguration was done jointly by union minister of earth sciences Harsh Vardhan and chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat through videoconferencing on the occasion of 146th foundation day of Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). A DWR was also inaugurated in Kufri, Himachal Pradesh on the day. “The radar transmits a focused pulse of microwave energy into the atmosphere. Part of this beam (on coming in contact with precipitation) bounces back and is measured by the radar. The device is thus able to measure the size, quantity, speed and direction of movement of precipitation. This helps it predict imminent severe weather conditions,” said Bikram Singh, director of Met Centre. Harsh Vardhan congratulated the state government on its first weather radar. The radar has been installed under the Integrated Himalyan Meteorological Project (IHMP) of the Ministry of Earth Sciences. Under the project, two more DWRs will be commissioned in Uttarakhand — one at Surkanda near Mussoorie and the other at Lansdowne in Pauri district.“The (state) government has already provided land for the second DWR at Surkanda near Mussoorie, and will provide all necessary support to the Met department for the proposed third radar at Lansdowne after getting the No-Objection Certificate (NOC),” said CM Rawat at the inauguration. “Uttarakhand is prone to natural disasters like landslides, cloud bursts, floods and heavy rainfall. It also witnesses higher average monsoon rainfall compared to other states. This makes the role of the regional meteorological centre imperative in the state,” the chief minister added. “The radar at Mukteshwar has been functional for a couple of months now and was formally inaugurated on Friday," said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uttarakhands-first-doppler-weather-radar-which-can-predict-storms-inaugurated-at-mukteshwar/articleshow/80291671.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Senior doctors urged to get shots on Day 1 to boost confidence||MUMBAI: On the eve of the Covid-19 vaccination rollout, there was some confusion over the number of days the drive is supposed to last. While state health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that the first phase of the drive for healthcare workers would entail four days a week of vaccination, senior BMC officials were not clear about it. “We have prepared for Saturday and Sunday, and will continue the vaccination drive on Monday if we get directions from the state,” said a senior civic official. To iron out the problems, including second thoughts that some healthcare workers have about the vaccine, Ramaswami, and also some of the city's prominent doctors, including head of Covid-19 taskforce Dr Sanjay Oak and another member Dr Shashank Joshi, have been requested to take the vaccine on the first day as a confidence-building measure. Meanwhile, the BMC focused on preparedness at its vaccination centre at Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle where the prime minister will interact with health workers through video conferencing. And, at the BKC field hospital, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit to monitor the vaccination process and interact with the help staff. Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, mayor Kishori Pednekar and BMC commissioner I S Chalal will accompany the chief minister. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are very excited as Covid vaccination is starting in the city and it’s a big day for us. We have been handling Covid cases for months and have managed to control the spread. The vaccination will lead it to a logical end.” He said, “In our initial vaccination list we included all health workers, even those working in private hospitals, nursing home apart from civic-run hospitals and contractual health workers.” The BMC got 1.34 lakh doses of Serum Institute-produced Covishield and 1.3 lakh health workers listed with the BMC for vaccination. The BMC has trained 7,000 health staff for conducting the vaccination and they are in the process to train 10,000 more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/senior-docs-urged-to-get-shots-on-day-1-to-boost-confidence/articleshow/80293686.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Covaxin reaches GMCH, doctors convinced but health workers sceptical||Nagpur: While all other centres in Nagpur will administer the SII’s Covishield vaccine, GMCH Nagpur will be the only centre where Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin will be administered to the beneficiaries. Amravati’s district hospital will be the only other centre in Vidarbha where Covaxin will be administered to the beneficiaries. Doctors and Health workers who will get GMCH as the vaccination centre are most likely to take Covaxin on Saturday. While both vaccines have received emergency use authorization from the government of India, the only difference is that the beneficiaries must sign a consent form before getting Covaxin jab. Doctors and experts in the field of vaccines told TOI that both vaccines are safe and there is no need to get confused over the consent form. “It’s more a technical issue. Phase III human trials of Covaxin are still ongoing. DCGI has given an approval for restricted use in emergency situation. But, the individuals who are going to get this vaccine must know the facts. The consent form serves only this purpose,” said Dr Sushant Meshram, HoD of Pulmonology Department of Super Specialty hospital who has worked closely with human trials of Covid vaccines. A fact sheet about Covaxin will be shared with the beneficiaries and a consent form will be given to them. After they sign this form, the vaccine will be administered. Even though the process appears to be simple, it has created enough confusion especially among non-medico health workers who are eager to get themselves vaccinated. Many health workers in GMCH, not willing to be named, told TOI that they are sceptical about getting Covaxin jab. They said that Consent form itself has created this sense of insecurity. “There is no need to sign consent form for one vaccine and we have to sign a form for another. This itself is enough to create confusion,” said a health worker. Infectious disease specialist Dr Nitin Shinde told TOI that Consent form is a good practise. “Being approved for restricted use in emergency situation, consent form is in fact a better practice. People must go ahead with the consent form and get the Covaxin jab without confusion,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covaxin-reaches-gmch-doctors-convinced-but-health-workers-sceptical/articleshow/80292761.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 16, 2021||Thane||Man strangles lover, cements body in loft in Palghar||MUMBAI: A 34-year-old man, who works as a driver, was arrested for allegedly killing his girlfriend in October 2020, and hiding her body in the bathroom loft of his rented flat in Vangaon, Palghar district, and cementing it to avoid a foul smell. Suraj Harmalkar was arrested on Thursday and skeletal remains of Amita Mohite (32) were recovered from the loft. The police had to break the cement wall covering the loft. Harmalkar and Mohite met six years ago while working in Boisar MIDC. Both resided in Vangaon. Mohite’s family had approved of their relationship. On October 21, 2020, Amita had left home saying that she and Harmalkar wanted to shop for their impending wedding, though no date had been fixed. She did not return till late evening, and calls to her cellphone went unanswered. The family received WhatsApp messages from her number stating that she and Harmalkar had moved to Vapi, Gujarat for work., and that they had got married. The family tried contacting Harmalkar, who worked as a driver in Boisar MIDC, but he did not answer calls or return them. The family filed a case against Harmalkar with Vangaon police in October. Last week, Amita’s brother spotted Harmalkar in Boisar. He pinned him down and brought him to the Boisar police station. Harmalkar told the police that he had married Amita who was working in Vapi. The police took him to Vapi, but he kept giving evasive replies. The police later interrogated him and found Amita’s cellphone on him. Harmalkar told the police that he was estranged from his wife before Mohite, and Mohite, who did not know about his marital status, had been pestering him for marriage. In October 2020, he rented a flat in Vrindavan Darshan building, Vangaon and invited Mohite over. She kept asking about their marriage. He strangulated her and dumped her body on the loft. He constructed a wall with cement, mortar and anti-leak glue. Harmalkar continued to pay rent and visited the flat regularly to ensure there was no foul smell. The skeletal remains found were sent for DNA analysis, said the police. Harmalkar was booked for murder and destroying evidence, and has been remanded to police custody. Harmalkar claimed to have been inspired by a Hindi film ‘Drishyam’ that deals with a body hidden underneath a police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/man-strangles-lover-cements-body-in-loft/articleshow/80294964.cms||Sandhya Nair
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers protest in Patiala over land acquisition rates||Patiala: Farmers on Friday held a protest in Patiala against Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh, saying that he failed to intervene and stop the acquisition of land for the Delhi-Katra highway. The protesters warned the government of an indefinite strike in case the state government failed to stop the process. Farmers whose land is being acquired for the highway’s construction have been protesting for the last few months. They claimed that until the three laws were repealed, landowners would not hold any talks over the acquisition process. On Friday, farmers from 12 districts — Ludhaina, Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Bathinda, Moga, Patiala, Sangrur, Barnala, Pathankot, Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur — reached Patiala for the protest. They gathered at PUDA Ground near Gurudwara Dukh Nivaran Sahib for over three hours and then marched towards the CM residence in Patiala city. The protestors were stopped near YPS Chowk, where the administration got the protestors a meeting with an OSD to CM. The farmers claimed that a number of houses and business establishments were also notified, besides agricultural land, for the highway and the compensation was too less for the land being acquired. Sukhdev Singh Dhillon, president of Delhi-Katra expressway sangharsh committee, said, “Punjab is an agrarian state and has just 1.5% of the country’s land. There is a deep-rooted conspiracy to acquire the agricultural fertile land of Punjab in the name of construction of national highways. Why these highways are being established via Punjab? Around 1.5 lakh acres will be acquired under the new proposed highways. We are protesting against the acquisition of land for three national highways — Delhi-Jammu Katra, Jamnagar-Amritsar and another highway for which land from Ballowal village of Ludhiana via Barnala will be acquired up till Bathinda district of Punjab. Earlier, when land was acquired for NH 71 and NH 95, farmers were awarded compensation of more than Rs 1 crore, but this time the government has set a basic rate Rs 9 lakh per acre, which is a mockery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-protest-in-patiala-over-land-acquisition-rates/articleshow/80293658.cms||Bharat Khanna
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Abhay starts Delhi march from Shambhu||Ambala: Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader Abhay Chautala on Friday started a tractor march from Shambhu border, which falls between Ambala in Haryana and Patiala in Punjab, to Singhu border, which falls between Delhi and Haryana’s Sonipat district. Earlier, Abhay sat on a protest with farmers associated with Bharatiya Kisan Union (Charuni) at Devi Nagar toll plaza on Shambhu border. “On January 26, maximum people would reach Singhu border to show their strength and force Prime Minister Narendra Modi to rectify his mistake, and repeal the three black laws. During Covid pandemic, there was a sense of panic among people and lockdown was imposed,” he said. Chautala said the Centre had imposed the three laws in an “unconstitutional and undemocratic manner”. “So far, more than 60 farmers have been martyred due to the severe cold, but the government is not listening,” he said. Chautala said INLD had always struggled for the cause of farmers and followed the ideology of former deputy PM Devi Lal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/abhay-starts-delhi-march-from-shambhu/articleshow/80293675.cms||JK Singh
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Two arrested for abducting two DGCA employees||NEW DELHI: Two men have been arrested for posing as police officers and abducting two Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) employees who did not attend to their complaints on priority. One of the accused, Vaibhav Chaturvedi, a Rohini resident, was outraged after he was denied permission to use the flight’s washroom during landing while on a recent trip to Delhi. He went to the DGCA office to complain and got angry when nobody paid attention to him, police said. The police received information on January 8 about the incident. The victim complained that he was kidnapped from his office and taken to Safdarjung hospital for medical examination by two people alleging that he was drunk. He also alleged that the mobile phone of his colleague was taken by them. However, medical examination couldn’t be conducted and the victim and his colleague were allegedly left by the accused near Kotla red light. The accused gave his personal mobile number to the victim and fled from there, taking two mobile phones and an ID card of the victim. During investigation, it was found that Chaturvedi was traveling on a Go Air flight from Varansi to New Delhi on January 7. When the plane was about to land, Chaturvedi wanted to go to the washroom, but he was not allowed by the staff. An argument took place between them on that issue. Next day, Chaturvedi and a taxi driver came to the DGCA office to complain. During an argument there, the accused took the complainant with him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/2-arrested-for-abducting-two-dgca-employees/articleshow/80293707.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Institut Français’ Night of Ideas is back with ‘Closer’||New Delhi: A marathon of dialogues, debates, art and music — Institut Français’ Night of Ideas is all set to return on January 28. Night of Ideas, currently in its sixth year, is a 24-hour-long event that aims to establish international cooperation through free-flowing information. The 2021 edition will see participation of 103 countries through nearly 200 events. “We chose the theme, Closer (In Space and Time), this year to question our idea of space and physical closeness, especially in the wake of Covid-19,” said Judith Roze, director for French language, books and knowledge, Institut Français Paris, in a press conference on Thursday. “We also want to explore how social media and the internet played a role in this time. Did it bring us closer or did it create more estrangement?” German philosopher and sociologist Hartmut Rosa, whose work revolves around identity, alienation and modernity, also participated in the event through a video. “Closeness does not just mean physical proximity, but involves people forming connections through conversations and dialogues,” said Rosa, adding that opportunities and events like these made it possible for people to come together and celebrate humanity. The Indian segment of Night of Ideas, scheduled to be two-hour-long, is set to take place at a historic site in Delhi. It will also bring together several prominent names, who will discuss this year’s theme through different lenses. Participants include French minister of ecological transition Barbara Pompili, spaceship designer Susmita Mohanty, historian William Dalrymple, political scientist Christophe Jaffrelot and economist Sanjeev Sanyal. The event will be broadcast live on YouTube and Facebook, and also on the institute’s official website. The French embassy counsellor for education, science and culture, Emmanuel Lebrun-Damiens, said the event would give a chance to local and regional artists to build solidarities across the world and find global audiences. “The event tells us how we can fight against the tyranny of distance. Local artists will be able to use this space to form connections without the obstacle of physical boundaries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/institut-franais-night-of-ideas-is-back-with-closer/articleshow/80293679.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Seers stage protest against removal of Shri Chandra Bhagwan's idol from Chandracharya Chowk||All India Akhada Parishad president Narendra Giri, Acharya Bal Krishna, along with several other seers, at the protest in HaridwarHaridwar: A protest was held by the seers, including Akhil Bharatiya Akhada Parishad (ABAP) president Mahant Narendra Giri and general secretary of Patanjali Yogpeeth Acharya Balkrishna, against the removal of the idol of Shri Chandra Bhagwan, founder of Udaseen sect and Shri Panchayati Bada Akhada Udaseen from Chandracharya Chowk. The protesting seers said that their consent was not taken before removing the idol. ABAP president Mahant Narendra Giri told TOI, “Shri Chandra Bhagwan was the founder of Udaseen sect and deity of Bada Akhada Udaseen. The mela administration should inform us before the removal of the idols of saints. We will not tolerate this type of mistake again.” The seers were pacified by an additional mela officer, who gave a written apology for not informing them before getting the idols removed. Harbeer Singh, additional mela officer, told TOI, “Widening and beautification works are underway at 15 important junctions of the city and thus, the contractor removed the idol temporarily from Chandracharya Chowk, which is among the busiest squares of the city. We have given a written apology and assured the seers that works will be finished within one month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/seers-stage-protest-against-removal-of-shri-chandra-bhagwans-idol-from-chandracharya-chowk/articleshow/80291678.cms||MS Nawaz
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Schools given SOPs ahead of reopening on Monday||Madurai: Monitoring hygiene and cleanliness, including status of ventilation, sanitisation of rooms, furniture and toilets at schools and maintenance of kitchen, especially in case of noon-meal preparation, are some of the SOPs given to schools ahead of their reopening for Classes X and XII on January 19. The SOPs were given during a meeting of the district chief educational officer (CEO) of Madurai with headmasters of all high and higher secondary schools. Meetings were held at the Sethupathi Higher Secondary School and OCPM Girls Higher Secondary School with school heads from all four educational districts - Madurai, Melur, Thirumangalam and Usilampatti taking part. All schools have been given the final SOPs to follow for reopening and a checklist was also given for how prepared and equipped they are for Covid-19 safety measures. District education officials are to carry out inspections to ensure that schools have these measures/facilities in place. Schools must ensure availability of handwashing facilities, sanitiser/hand wash, safe drinking water/water, thermal scanner and pulse oximeter. They have also been asked to ensure display of posters/boards with Covid-19 safety measures and emergency contact numbers. Students are required to submit a form, the details of the general health condition of not only them but their family members as well, especially if they have or had Covid-19. Students must mandatorily submit the consent letters from parents to be allowed to attend school. As part of Covid-19 preventive measures, the CEO directed to make arrangements to provide multivitamin and zinc tablets to all schools in the district before January 18. Each student will be receiving 10 multivitamin and 10 zinc tablets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/schools-given-sops-ahead-of-reopening-on-monday/articleshow/80292768.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Health secy: Frontline workers can register for vaccination till Jan 25||Madurai: With the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination set to kick off on Saturday, state health secretary J Radhakrishnan on Friday said that after healthcare workers, frontline workers will be vaccinated and they can register for the same till January 25.The health secretary, along with minister for co-operation, Sellur K Raju inspected the vaccination drive preparedness in Madurai, including the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), where chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is set to inaugurate it on Saturday.“Vaccine is an important milestone for us in Covid-19 prevention. It is set to be carried out at 3,000 centres across India, including 166 in the state in the first phase on Saturday. In the next phase, frontline workers will be vaccinated,” said Radhakrishnan. He further urged to view the Covid-19 vaccine from a scientific point of view and after administering the vaccine, the beneficiaries will be closely monitored.The health secretary noted that 4.89 lakh healthcare workers have registered for the first phase of Covid-19 vaccination and that many have come forward voluntarily. Madurai has received 23,100 doses of Covishield vaccine and the vaccination drive will be carried out at five centres in the district on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/health-secy-frontline-workers-can-register-for-vaccination-till-jan-25/articleshow/80292770.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||2.8 lakh new voters enrolled in T||Hyderabad: The Election Commission of India published a special summary revision of electoral rolls in Telangana where 2.82 lakh new voters have been enrolled. According to Telangana chief electoral officer Dr Shashank Goel, final electoral rolls have been published for all 119 assembly constituencies in Telangana. Out of three crore voters, 1.51 crore are male and 1.5 crore are female voters. Third gender voters are 1,628 in all of Telangana. Hyderabad district has the highest number of voters at 43.1 lakh followed by 31 lakh in Rangareddy district. Medchal Malkajgiri district has 25.4 lakh voters. Mulugu district has the least number of voters at 2.1 lakh. Wanaparthy has 2.47 lakh voters. Meanwhile, the ECI has issued instructions to all states stating that it has come to the notice of the commission that officers who worked on electoral duty at the time of elections are being victimised. “The state governments should invariably obtain approval of the commission if any disciplinary action is initiated against the CEO and up to the rank of joint CEO during their tenure and also one year after the election. The commission also directs the governments not to reduce facilities such as vehicle and security to these officers,” the ECI said in a note to the states.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/2-8-lakh-new-voters-enrolled-in-t/articleshow/80293712.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Driver, clerk, nurse, doctor...vaccination army comes in all shades||As the largest vaccination drive in recent times kickstarts in the city, TOI speaks to women and men working behind the scenes to ensure the success of the final assault on Covid-19 pandemic. Right from department heads to nurses—the mainstay of the drive as they are the vaccinators —and civic staff comprising drivers, labourers and clerks, many have worked without an off for the past six months or more towards this day. Prakash Bhonsale (50) | vaccine delivery driverChembur resident Prakash Bhonsale has been a delivery driver for two decades. When he received a call on January 12 about making a trip to Pune’s regional vaccine depot, he knew it was special. He soon learnt that he was to carry precious Covid vaccine doses meant for Mumbai’s citizens all the way from Pune. “I knew it was different from the thousands of trips I have made in the past 20 years to collect vaccines for children,” said the father of two daughters and a son. The four-hour drive in the dead of the night felt royal in a way too. “Never was my van escorted by police in all these years,” he said. Only eight years shy of retirement, he called the opportunity to serve the city as his most glorious moment”. His association with BMC began 28 years ago when he joined as a labourer. He graduated into the driver’s job about eight years later. During the pandemic, Bhonsale recalled driving doctors to SevenHills and Kasturba hospitals. “We worked non-stop without leave for six months.” Vivek Apte (49) | vaccine store clerk Vivek Apte got a call from the state government’s immunisation cell in Pune on January 12 to collect the vaccines. A clerk with BMC’s vaccine store in the Parel office, Apte travels to Pune frequently to collect consignments of other vaccines. “We took permission from higher-ups and informed police about the exact route and left for Pune. There were three of us. The driver Prakash Bhonsale and labourer Kisan Lote,” said Apte who started out as a contractual labourer in BMC in 1994. “The entire trip was kept confidential and no one knew about it. It was a very proud feeling. I was happy that I was playing a part in helping fight Covid-19, especially since the first batch would be given to our own BMC health workers and other healthcare workers,” Apte said. The trio drove straight to Pune in the BMC’s small vaccine van. “I was praying that all should go well and the vehicle shouldn’t break down or there must be no untoward incident. We reached Panvel and there we had police escorts. On the way to Pune and back, we didn’t realise how time flew, there was such a great sense of excitement and pride. It was something that I had not felt before.” Kisan Lote (43) | labourer, immunization cell Kisan Lote lives in Igatpuri and commutes daily to BMC’s vaccine store in Parel. Like others in the department he had made several trips to Pune before to collect vaccines. “I was in office when asked to head to Pune. This was very special since we were getting something that could defeat Covid-19. I am very proud that I could bring the vaccine. For me it was just my job but I feel lucky that my job will let me help save lives,” said Lote who joined BMC in 2012 and has worked with the immunization cell since as a labourer. “I never imagined that a labourer like me would be part of getting this vaccine that can defeat coronavirus,” he said. Shweta Rane (49) | nurse, Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital In her three decades of nursing career, Shweta Rane said most healthcare workers have never experienced anything like the coronavirus pandemic. Most also didn’t expect a solution in the form of a vaccine to be available so soon. “Scientists have done their job, now our role is to take it to the community. I am very proud that I will be part of a vaccination drive that can potentially return normalcy to people’s lives,” said Rane, a staff nurse at the Kandivli hospital. Though Rane has worked in immunising children for more than two years, she said, “Children only fear pain, but adults will come with their own notions of fears, apprehensions, questions. As far as possible, we will try to convince them to take the vaccine,” she said. The Borivli resident said she hoped the first round would be seamless as only healthcare workers will get the vaccine, and most are aware about its benefits. “Every drug or vaccine can cause minor side-effects but the pros of a vaccine outweigh its risks,” she said, adding her husband and two daughters aged 19 and 22 have always been proud of her work. “They have always appreciated the fact that my job is to heal.” Dr Mangala Gomare (55) | executive health officerDr Mangala Gomare took charge of the city’s public health services in the midst of the pandemic. As BMC’s executive health officer, her office is located in the civic public health department’s headquarters in Parel—the site where 1.4 lakh Covidshield vials were offloaded and stored for the past three days. It is her department that has to handle the nitty-gritty of the city’s vaccination drive and even the software Co-WIN’s schedules and data. Gomare is no stranger to mass vaccination drives, having handled Mumbai’s pulse polio drive for years. Gomare said she is amazed at how different the Covid-19 mass drive is turning out to be. “For one, it is on a larger scale,’’ she said. For another, the Covid vaccination is highly digitized. She has been on several rounds and inspection drives, along with top BMC officials, in the runup to the vaccination. “Fifteen years back, there was no app or digilocker to handle vaccine details. The Covid-19 vaccination is a smart drive, with dry runs and minute planning,’’ she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/driver-clerk-nurse-doctor-vaccination-army-comes-in-all-shades/articleshow/80293772.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||MIM man files plaint against corporator, alleges cheating||Hyderabad: Alleging cheating and suppression of facts, AIMIM candidate from Jambagh division, J Ravindra, filed a complaint with Abids police against corporator Rakesh Jaiswal from BJP. The petitioner, in his complaint, alleged that in the recently held GHMC polls in 2020, BJP candidate Rakesh Jaiswal had suppressed and concealed facts and submitted a “false affidavit on oath”, before the returning officer in Ward-77 at Abids, which said he has two children, but in reality he has three children. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/mim-man-files-plaint-against-corporator-alleges-cheating/articleshow/80293753.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kochi||Munnar heritage train project gets a boost||IDUKKI: Finance minister T M Thomas Isaac, in his budget proposal, announced that Tata Company has agreed to provide land for the heritage rail project in Munnar, thus giving a boost to tourism in the hill station. The Kundala Valley railway project by the Britshers was destroyed due to floods in 1924. In 2019, the tourism department decided to revive the monorail project in Munnar and railway officials conducted a feasibility study. In October last year, a high-level meeting of officials and stakeholders suggested that the project will be implemented through a public private partnership (PPP) model. Devikulam MLA S Rajendran said, “The feasibility study of the project was completed and Kerala state railway development corporation is preparing a detailed project report (DPR). The alignment of the Munnar British rail was already fixed, and it was around 6.5km from Munnar to Mattuppetty.” Devikulam sub-collector S Prem Krishnan said, “The project will provide an extra push to the tourism sector in the hill station. The implementation of the project will be under the district administration.” The old Munnar railway station is now being used as the head office of Kannan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP). The railway station was built in 1902, and a steam engine railway line in the region used to carry tea and other goods. But a devastating flood in 1924 washed away the railway line. After the floods, the railway line was not repaired. Later, a road was constructed on the Munnar-Kodaikanal route. The 35km-long railway line used to pass through the various tea estates of KDHP plantations. A tourist who reaches KDHP Tea Museum in Munnar can see a wheel of the erstwhile train service in addition to the ruins of the British-era railway along office buildings, which too are of heritage value. Once the Munnar rail project becomes a reality, tourists to the area will be able to experience the past century’s train service.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/munnar-heritage-train-project-gets-a-boost/articleshow/80291722.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Retired babu fined Rs 13 lakh for overstaying in south Mumbai government quarters||MUMBAI: The state public works department, in a first-of-its-kind action, has imposed a penal rent of over Rs 13 lakh on retired bureaucrat K P Bakshi for overstaying in the government quarters at Yashodhan building near Mantralaya in south Mumbai. An IAS officer of the 1982 batch, Bakshi had retired as additional chief secretary (home) on November 30, 2016. He was then appointed as chairman of the water resources authority for a three-year term. As per the rules promulgated by the state government last week, if an employee does not vacate the quarters within three months after retirement, transfer or dismissal, the government will disconnect the water, power and piped gas supply and impose a fine of Rs 150/sq ft per month. According to the notice served on Bakshi on Wednesday, accessed by TOI, he has been asked to pay Rs 2,395 per month for three months and a little over Rs 2.6 lakh per month for five months, which comes to around Rs 13.2 lakh. Responding to TOI’s message, Bakshi said he was not aware of any penal rent imposed on him. “I was expecting further extension of my tenure as head of the water resources authority,” he said. “I had urged the government to allow me to occupy the quarter for some more time, since my ailing in-laws live with me. I mentioned all these issues in my letter to the chief secretary with a request not to impose any penal rent as the reasons were genuine and that I have no intentions of overstaying.” Bakshi is not alone, there are more than half a dozen bureaucrats who have not vacated their quarters after retirement or transfer. “We will take stern action against erring officials if they do not vacate the official quarters after their retirement or transfer,” said a senior bureaucrat, adding that there is an acute shortage of quarters for serving IAS and IPS officers. The bureaucrat said that four retired IAS officers had cited appointment on official commissions or committees as reason for not vacating the government quarters. “But their stay... is illegal; they were allotted the quarters for their position in the government, not for post-retirement assignments. They will have to apply to the government for retention of the quarters,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/retired-babu-fined-for-overstaying-in-sobo-govt-quarters/articleshow/80295007.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||No clarity on schedule for vaccinating common man||Nagpur: Even as the Covid vaccination programme for health care workers will kick-start on Saturday, the central and state governments are yet to clear the schedule for the common man. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI that there are no instructions in this regard. “We will implement whatever instructions come from the government,” he said. Kumar said that the government has made it very clear that the vaccine will be first administered free of cost to health care workers followed by front line workers. “Government also announced vaccination for people above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidities,” he said. The centre had announced vaccination for front line workers — employees of civic bodies, state and central police forces etc — along with health care workers. But doses have been delivered only for 50% of health care workers registered from Vidarbha since November. It is also not clear when doses for remaining health care workers will arrive. Also, the government has restricted number of centres in each area. In Nagpur city, the NMC had planned 60 centres but vaccination has been permitted only at five. Vaccinating 50% health care workers will take longer than expected if centres are not increased. Also, these health care workers will have to given booster dose 28 days after the first shot. The registration for front line workers is yet to be done. All departments are yet to finalize the list. The government has announced schedule for pulse polio drive. It was supposed to kick-off on January 17 and end on January 22. But the drive was postponed following announcement of Covid-19 vaccination. As per latest guidelines, pulse polio drive will start on January 31 and complete by February 6. During this drive, Covid-19 vaccination is not likely to happen.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/no-clarity-on-schedule-for-vaccinating-common-man/articleshow/80292775.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Man arrested for stealing bonsai from former DGP’s house||HYDERABAD: One person was arrested by Jubilee Hills police on Friday for allegedly stealing a bonsai plant from the residence of a former director general of police rank officer. Jubilee Hills police said that G Prasannanjaneyulu was arrested. On Sunday, Prasannanjaneyulu — who is a mason — and Abhishek, who is his associate, came across the bonsai plant in front of the IPS officer’s residence, at Jubilee Hills road no. 18. CCTV footage showed that they stole the plant and fled at around 3pm. Prasannanjaneyulu was nabbed by police at his residence in Yousufguda, and the stolen bonsai was recovered from him. He was tracked based on the CCTVs located enroute. After the plant was stolen, the IPS officer’s gardener found that bonsai was missing missing and alerted the IPS officer’s wife, who lodged the police complaint. Meanwhile, late on Friday night, Abhishek was also taken into custody by the police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-arrested-for-stealing-bonsai-from-former-dgps-house/articleshow/80293731.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||‘Hasty rollout of Covaxin defies CDSCO conditions’||Madurai: The All India Peoples Science Network (AIPSN), a network of 40 people’s science movements working in 25 states, has condemned the hasty rollout of 56 lakh doses of Bharat Biotech-ICMR’s Covaxin, along with 110 lakh doses of Serum Institute of India-Oxford Astrazeneca Covishield, for the vaccination drive beginning on January 16. In a statement, general secretary of the network, Prof P Rajamanickam said that rolling out of the vaccine in a hasty manner is in open defiance of the conditions imposed by the Central Drugs Standards Control Organization (CDSCO) while granting emergency approval for Covaxin. CDSCO and its subject expert committee (SEC) had clearly differentiated between Covishield and Covaxin. Whereas both vaccines were approved for “restricted use in emergency situations,” Covaxin was given conditional approval, after apparent overnight arm-twisting of the SEC, only “ in clinical trial mode (emphasis added).” He has said that 56 lakh doses, that is inoculation of 28 lakh people cannot be considered a trial by any means, when the phase-3 clinical trials for Covaxin involving 26,000 volunteers was already under way. The government seems to have clearly placed Covaxin and Covishield on a similar footing. Any “trial mode” vaccination should involve special monitoring, follow-up and institutional arrangements. The ethical and scientific quality of the ‘trials’ cannot be disregarded. There is no information yet available in the public domain if the government has communicated any special protocols for Covaxin inoculation. Recently, secretary of the Union health ministry stated in a press conference that recipients would have no right to choose between the two vaccines, making it clear that the central government is intent on shoving Covaxin down the throats of state governments and into the arms of innocent recipients regardless of the CDSCO conditions. The government has only itself to blame if public suspicion about Covaxin and vaccine scepticism increases further due to its own complete opacity in rolling out Covaxin, with no information on any of the questions raised here. Unfortunately, the CDSCO and the health ministry, have subverted the scientific criteria regarding the regulation of vaccines including their own guidelines for emergency use. All doses of Covaxin distributed to the state so far be held in stock by them and not administered till greater clarity is given by the government or till CDSCO/SEC approval conditions are amended based on efficacy data from Bharat Biotech-ICMR as promised, the statement said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/hasty-rollout-of-covaxin-defies-cdsco-conditions/articleshow/80292786.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Taxi drivers at T2 airport go on flash strike||Mumbai: Taximen went on a flash strike at T2 airport on Friday, inconveniencing scores of flyers arriving by domestic and international flights. Nearly 600 taximen went on strike to protest against airport authorities giving away a parking lot, meant for Kaali Peeli taxis and Cool Cabs, to trucks. The protest was from morning till late afternoon. When they saw airport officials allowing trucks to enter the lot meant for cabs, some cabbies resisted and argued. “Some drivers got into an altercation and there was a fight between them and airport staff, when police intervened,” a union activist said. “By then, several drivers assembled but police averted a law and order problem,” he said. Some airport officials and cabbies were injuries, the activist said. Sahar police said they were registering an FIR against more than 40 persons for the commotion.. Sources said police may make some arrests after checking CCTV footage and investigations. Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros, who went to the spot, said the cabbies were not allowed to park at the lot for around nine months due to Covid. “It is difficult parking taxis on the road,” he told TOI. “The locked parking area for taxis can accommodate around 700 cabs. It was opened for trucks on Friday morning, which enraged cabbies,” he said. The parking facility, for several years, was convenient for taxis operating at T2 airport. At present, due to Covid-19, domestic and international flights operate from this airport, so there is more demand for taxis there. Quadros said he requested the airport authorities to convene a meeting. “Passengers arriving at the airport get transportation by Kaali Peelis and Cool Cabs. So, they must be provided proper parking space,” he said. Another union leader, Maqbool Mujawar, from Navbharatiya Shiv Vahtuk Sanghatana, said the airport authorities had discussions with his union few days back, and one issue was parking. “They assured us of a solution, but what happened on Friday was unwarranted,” he added. Somit Sen & V Narayan||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taxi-drivers-at-t2-airport-go-on-flash-strike/articleshow/80292400.cms||Somit Sen
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Spl trains restored||Hyderabad: The partially cancelled Vijayawada – Hubballi – Vijayawada special trains will now run normally. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/spl-trains-restored/articleshow/80293756.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kochi||Covid vaccination drive to begin today, Kerala all set: K K Shailaja||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Health minister K K Shailaja has said that the state is all set for administering the Covid-19 vaccine from 9am on Saturday. The vaccines will be given at the select 133 centres across the state. In the first phase, healthcare workers will be given 0.5ml Covishield vaccine as the first dose. It is estimated that per person five minutes will be taken for completing the vaccination process. After taking the vaccine, it has been made mandatory that the person should continue in the observation room for 30 minutes. This is being done to find out whether there is any adverse events following the vaccination. Meanwhile, Covid-19 cases were reported among 5,624 people in the state on Friday. Among the new cases 5,110 people have contracted the virus through local transmission and sources of infection in 394 cases were unknown. Among those infected include 62 medical or paramedical staff and 58 people who have arrived from outside the state. As many as 4,603 patients have recovered from the disease. Also, 23 deaths occurred in the last few days were confirmed due to Covid-19 taking the death toll in the state to 3,416. So far, 56 people who have come from the UK after December 9 have been tested positive of Covid-19 and the samples of these people have been sent to NIV Pune for conforming the new virus strain. Of the results received so far, nine people have been identified with the new strain till date. In the last 24 hours, 62,934 samples were tested with a test positivity rate of 8.94%. So far 7,65,757 people have recovered from virus infection in the state and 67,496 patients are still undergoing treatment for the same. Ernakulam reported the highest number of cases (799) followed by Kozhikode (660), Kottayam (567), Thrissur (499), Malappuram (478), Kollam (468), Pathanamthitta (443), Alappuzha (353), Thiruvananthapuram (301), Idukki (290), Wayanad (241), Kannur (219), Palakkad (209) and Kasaragod (97). Currently, 2,02,080 people are under observation in various districts of the state. Two new places were declared as hotspots, while three places were excluded. Presently, there are 419 hotspots in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/covid-vaccination-drive-to-begin-today-state-all-set-min/articleshow/80291728.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Corona fails to tame jallikattu spirit||Madurai: Amidst cheers of an electric crowd, a determined horde of bull tamers and charging bulls made sure the spirit of jallikattu kept burning as ever among Tamil youths in Palamedu on Friday. The world-renowned Palamedu Jallikattu saw a neck-and-neck contest for the best bull tamer with Karthik from Karuppayurani, Madurai taking home a car after taming 18 bulls to claim the first place, closely followed by Prabhakaran from Podumbu village in Madurai, who tamed 17 bulls. A slow start with minor disruptions and drama was more than made up for by the gifts that rained from the Vadivasal on the victorious bull tamers and owners — silver vessels, gift hampers, clothes, bicycles, beds, grinders and what not. Emotions ran high as bull tamers and owners got into passionate fights which needed intervention. Tamers had their fair share of struggle against the bulls that were keen to toss them around. The bull belonging to AMMK leader T T V Dhinakaran too did just that to emerge victorious. This time, as a unique addition to the range of gifts, cookers, which is the symbol of AMMK, were also in the mix. In each round of the event, 30 bull tamers were allowed and towards the end, seven were selected for the final rounds. At the end of eight rounds, a total of 674 bulls out of the 783 registered ones had been released and 600 bull tamers had taken part. The jallikattu came to a close by 5 pm with an extra hour of action being permitted considering the number of bulls left for release. The event left around 30 bull tamers injured. The best bull tamer, Karthick from Karuppayurani, who tamed 18 bulls credited his family and mentors for the win. “This is a team effort. I won third place here last time and now have come first. With the support of fellow bull tamers, jallikattu was fun and I did not even feel any pain,” he said. Karthick, who is doing his diploma in civil engineering, also urged the government to give a government job to the winners. The third place went to another Karthick, who was from Mettupatti, after he tamed 10 bulls. The bull of Jeyaraman from Palamedu emerged as the best bull, followed by bulls of Kalimuthu from Vathirairuppu and Veerapandi from Sikkandarchavadi in second and third place. The owner of the best bull was awarded a Kangeyam cow and a calf. The action, not much unlike the coronavirus, was contagious as spectators and villagers were as much a part of the event. The event was flagged off by revenue minister R B Udhayakumar. Covid-19 safety was a major concern as hundreds of villagers crowded in front of Vadivasal without masks and not following social distancing, not to speak of the thousands who thronged the arena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/corona-fails-to-tame-jallikattu-spirit/articleshow/80292785.cms||Sukshma Ramakrishnan
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Another round of minister-bureaucrat tussle in U’khand: Satpal Maharaj miffed with DM, SP Bageshwar for not turning up at event||Dehradun: In yet another high voltage drama involving a legislator and bureaucrats, tourism and irrigation minister Satpal Maharaj – who is on an official tour to the Kumaon region – has directed the state chief secretary to seek explanation from the district magistrate and superintendent of police of Bageshwar for not turning up at an important oafficial event. After waiting for the officials for an hour, the minister called up chief secretary Om Prakash from the stage of the event to complain of their conduct. Taking note , the chief secretary sought an explanation from the DM and SP. Speaking tos TOI, Maharaj said, “The official programme about my Kumaon tour was released well in advance and it is not possible that the DM and SP of the district were not aware about it.” There have been several other instances in the state of ministers having issues with babus. Earlier, minister of state Rekha Arya had written a letter to SSP/DIG Dehradun, in which she had claimed that an IAS officer of her department was “missing” and even mentioned the possibility of his “kidnapping”. However, it was later found out that due to Covid threat, the officer was at his home in self-isolation. When the matter escalated, a probe was conducted by a senior IAS officer and the report was handed over to the chief secretary. However, the details of the findings are yet to be made public. In another such instance, BJP’s Kiccha MLA Rajesh Shukla had moved a privilege motion in the state assembly against an IAS officer, who earlier was the district magistrate, of “insulting him by making derogatory remarks”. In September last year, BJP legislator Puran Singh Fartyal had accused the BJP government in the state of favouring a corrupt contractor and delaying the development work in his constituency (Lohaghat). Similarly, five-time MLA, Bishan Singh Chufal had met party’s national chief JP Nadda and apprised him of officials not listening to BJP lawmakers. Another BJP MLA Umesh Sharma Kau has accused state officers of ignoring him, urban development minister, and even the chief minister by not carrying out development work in his constituency. In a letter to Nadda, Kau wrote, “People of Raipur have high expectations from me, but as development works are not being carried out for the last few years, the people are not holding a good opinion about the government, party or me, which is a cause of serious concern.” The list does not end here as ruling party MLAs from Haridwar district too have expressed concern over “non-cooperation” from bureaucrats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/another-round-of-minister-bureaucrat-tussle-in-ukhand-satpal-maharaj-miffed-with-dm-sp-bageshwar-for-not-turning-up-at-event/articleshow/80291733.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 16, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Rs 117 crore earmarked for tourism infra development||Thiruvananthapuram: An amount of Rs 117 crore has been allocated for the infrastructure development of existing tourism destinations. Through this the budget aims at reviving the tourism sector, which is badly affected by the pandemic. However, the major highlight will be Rs 100 crore allocated for marketing the tourist destinations, which is the highest-ever provision. Tourism is a sector that moved to the verge of a complete lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Loans with interest subvention for tourism entrepreneurs and financial aid for houseboats have been provided. An amount of Rs 35 crore has been allotted to KTDC for disbursing salary. The tourism sector will return to normalcy by 2021-22. With a view to this, intensive marketing has already been started in the current year itself. Top priority is being given to Heritage Spice Route project. Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode will also become part of it in 2021-22, in addition to Muziris, Alappuzha and Thalassery heritage projects. A total of Rs 40 crore is allocated for these projects. An amount of Rs 10 crore is specially provided for Thiruvananthapuram Heritage project. The aim of heritage tourism projects is not only tourism development but also informal education and creation of self-esteem in the heritage of Kerala. A special programme has been prepared for the students to visit and learn about Muziris project locations. An amount of Rs 5 crore is earmarked to encourage such study tours. The Champions Boat League, which was halted due to Covid-19 pandemic, will be resumed in 2021-22. For this, Rs 20 crore is allocated. A total of Rs 3 crore is allocated for the promotion of modern tourism products, including eco-tourism. An amount of Rs 7 crore is allocated for Kochi-Muziris Biennale and Rs 2 crore for Global Painting Exhibition in Alappuzha. Also, Rs10 crore is allocated for other cultural fares.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/rs-117-crore-earmarked-for-tourism-infra-development/articleshow/80291736.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Deputy CM celebrates Pongal in Theni village||Theni: Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam participated in the Pongal festival organised by the department of tourism in Theni district on Friday, to promote local tourism. Donning the role of a farmer, Panneerselvam rode a bullock cart and greeted the locals. The festival is held every year to promote tourism and also Pongal festival. This year, the festival was held in Pallarpatti village in which the deputy CM participated along with his son and Theni MP P Ravindranath, Cumbum MLA STK Jakkaiyan and Theni district collector Pallavi M Baldev. He inaugurated the Tamil cultural games in the village and took the bullock cart ride along with the locals. Surrounded by the western ghats and has many places of tourist interest to showcase like the Vaigai dam, Sothuparai dam, Suruli falls and Kumbarakarai falls which are major attractions among locals. The district is also home to some of the famous temples such as the Kuchanoor Sanibagawan temple, Sri Kowmariamman temple, Maavutru Sri Vellappar temple among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/deputy-cm-celebrates-pongal-in-theni-village/articleshow/80292793.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Taxi drivers at T2 airport go on flash stir; flyers hit||MUMBAI: Taximen went on a flash strike at T2 airport on Friday, inconveniencing scores of flyers arriving by domestic and international flights. Nearly 600 taximen went on strike to protest against airport authorities giving away a parking lot, meant for Kaali Peeli taxis and Cool Cabs, to trucks. The protest was from morning till late afternoon. When they saw airport officials allowing trucks to enter the lot meant for cabs, some cabbies resisted and argued. “Some drivers got into an altercation and there was a fight between them and airport staff, when police intervened,” a union activist said. “By then, several drivers assembled but police averted a law and order problem,” he said. Some airport officials and cabbies were injuries, he said. Sahar police said they were registering an FIR against more than 40 persons for the commotion.. Sources said police may make some arrests after checking CCTV footage and investigations. Mumbai Taximen’s Union leader A L Quadros, who went to the spot, said the cabbies were not allowed to park at the lot for around nine months due to Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/taxi-drivers-at-t2-airport-go-on-flash-stir-flyers-hit/articleshow/80295024.cms||Somit Sen
January 16, 2021||Madurai||Heavy inflow raises water level in major dams||Madurai: Heavy rain in the catchment areas has brought an inflow of over 10,000 cusecs to the Mullaperiyar dam raising its water level by 5 feet in a day, from 122.3 on Tuesday to 126.4 on Thursday. Vaigai dam’s level has also gone up to 66 feet forcing PWD authorities to issue a flood warning. PWD sources said this was a bonus as usually rains ceased in December and the inflow comes to hardly a hundred cusecs during January. The inflow to Mullaperiyar dam dropped by half on Friday, to 5,276 cusecs and the water level stood at 128.2 feet. Last year, the inflow on the same day was 33 cusecs while the water level stood at 120.5 feet. Meanwhile, steady inflow to Vaigai dam resulted in its water level going up to 64.93 feet on Thursday, against its maximum level of 71 feet. The inflow on Thursday was 7,034 cusecs. The first flood warning was issued by PWD when the level touched 66.01 feet on Thursday evening. On Friday it stood at 67.9 feet with an inflow of 7,408 cusecs whereas the level was 57.1 feet with an inflow of 507 cusecs on January 15 last year. The second flood warning will be issued when the level touches 68.5 feet which was expected by evening. Waterfalls like Kumbakarai in Theni district were flooded and people were asked to refrain from bathing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/heavy-inflow-raises-water-level-in-major-dams/articleshow/80292790.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||In midnight effort, fire service personnel rescue family stranded on temple tower||Tirunelveli: Battling odds, a team of seven fire and rescue services (FRS) personnel rescued a family of five that was stranded on the tower of a temple flooded by Thamirabarani about one km from the nearest shore. The family was stranded at the temple at Vadakku Ariyanagipuram near Mukkudal on Wednesday evening and was rescued in the early hours of Thursday. Despite warnings not to get close to the river as it was flooding, the family – Aravind, 28, his wife Muthumari, 25, their children Suresh, 7, and Baby, 5, and Muthumari’s mother Ramalakshmi, 60 – manged to sneak in and reached the temple to offer prayers. “Around 6.30pm I got a distress call that five of a family are missing,” district collector V Vishnu told TOI. It was dark and raining and the officials were clueless if they were washed away. “Luckily we managed to get in touch with Aravind on his mobile phone. He said that they were on top of the tower and there is water around them,” he said and added that rescue teams were alerted. The FRS team led by station fire officer (transport) B Subramanian, 57, reached the spot close to 11pm. On Wednesday night, the team had a command light that could focus 750m. But it could not reach the temple. “It was flooding and the water was more than 40 feet deep. Our team of expert swimmers were confident of swimming to the shore if our rubber boat capsized. We started upstream and reached the temple with the course of the river. In about an hour we reached the shore with the family,” he added. The team comprising Subramanian, Albert, Raja, Thirumalaikumar, Ramesh, Murugan and Kombaiah were appreciated by the collector and top officials from the police and other departments who camped at the river banks and waiting for the successful rescue of the family that lasted about an hour.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/in-midnight-effort-fire-service-personnel-rescue-family-stranded-on-temple-tower/articleshow/80292795.cms||M K Ananth
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||‘Adding Dr Jichkar’s name to centre is inspirational’||Nagpur: An eminent scholar Dr Shrikant Jichkar is a true son of Maharashtra and christening a knowledge centre on his name is inspirational. He was a man with multidimensional wisdom, said governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari while inaugurating the Dr Shrikant Jichkar Knowledge Resource Centre at Kavikulaguru Kalidas Sanskrit University (KKSU) in Ramtek on Friday. Dedicating the centre to public, Koshyari, who is the chancellor of KKSU, mentioned about the importance of Sanskrit language and motivated the youth to learn it. “Vedas provide deep understanding and yoga and ayurved knowledge is used internationally. Thus, the study of Vedic and Sanskrit knowledge should be widespread and motivated,” said Koshyari. The event was presided over by president of Sandipani Management Committee and Arshvidnayan Gurukul Rajashri Shrikant Jichkar. KKSU vice-chancellor Prof Shrinivasa Varakhedi, centre director Deepak Kapade and KKSU registrar Prof Vijay Kumar were also present. “Dedicating a knowledge resource centre in the name Dr Jichkar is our way of expressing pride and honour to him,” said Varakhedi. Apart from the centre, Koshyari inaugurated open theatre ‘Chandrashala’ and KKSU TV channel ‘Sanskritam’. Rajashri Jichkar thanked KKSU for building the knowledge resource centre in the name of Dr Shrikant Jichkar, who himself was a great lover of Sanskrit language. Other prominent guests who attended the function are founder vice-chancellor of KKSU Pankaj Chande, Amravati University VC Murlidhar Chandekar, Nagpur University vice-chancellor Subhash Chaudhari, pro-VC Sanjay Dudhe, VC of Mahatma Gandhi International Hindi University Rajnish Shukla, Mafsu VC Ashish Paturkar, pro-VC of Gondwana University Shriram Kawale, principal of Mundle College of Architecture Ujwala Chakradeo, chief engineer Sanjay Dashpute along with Dr Jichkar’s sons Yanjnyavalkya and Surendra. Parag Joshi conducted the proceedings while Vijay Kumar proposed a vote of thanks. A live streaming on KKSU’s Facebook page was done for distant viewers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/adding-dr-jichkars-name-to-centre-is-inspirational/articleshow/80292797.cms||Anchal Bhatia
January 16, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Isaac attacks CAG for terming KIIFB unconstitutional||Thiruvananthapuram: Finance minister Thomas Isaac has come down on CAG, saying it took a wrong and discriminatory stand against KIIFB. The minister in his budget speech said the ruling and opposition benches should stand united against the moves, allegedly aimed, at undermining the development of Kerala. He said KIIFB projects valued at Rs 7,000 crore have been completed and 821 projects estimated at Rs 40,100 crore were in pipeline. Besides this, Rs 20,000 crore has been sanctioned for acquiring land for industrial parks and the like. “Projects worth Rs 19,100 crore have either been tendered or at the implementation stage. KIIFB projects worth at least Rs 15,000 crore will be completed in 2021-2022,” he said. Isaac said the state would have to wait another 15-20 years to get such projects completed, unless it sources funds through KIIFB. The money would be given to KIIFB by the government as annual grants like annuity projects undertaken in the previous times. But there is a difference. While annuity amounts are equal, the annuity given to KIIFB will increase in proportion to the hike in motor vehicle tax and petrol cess. “So far, nobody has demanded that projects implemented through annuity mode to be included in the government borrowing. But this is what CAG is arguing today. This argument is not only wrong but also discriminatory towards Kerala,” he said. Almost all states, said Isaac, have infrastructure financial institutions like KIIFB. They too avail loans; but nobody could mobilize resources in a massive scale as done by KIIFB. “So far, no CAG report has opined that these institutions are unconstitutional. But they accuse that KIIFB is unconstitutional. We have to stand united and defeat such moves aimed at undermining the development of Kerala,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/isaac-attacks-cag-for-terming-kiifb-unconstitutional/articleshow/80291746.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||JMC Heritage takes back land from private school after 60 years||JAIPUR: After more than 60 years, Jaipur Municipal Corporation (JMC), Heritage, took possession of a land allotted to a school for not paying premium on time despite regular reminders sent over the years. On Friday, JMC Heritage Commissioner Lok Bandhu issued an order cancelling the allotment of land to ‘Kanya Sadachaar Pathshala’, a girls’ school. The possession of the said land was obtained by the vigilance branch and Civil Lines zone team of JMC. The conditions of the allotment letter have been violated by the school by not depositing the required premium amount, on the basis of which the allotment of the said institution has been cancelled. According to the order, in 1958, a 12,500sq m land was allotted to the girls’ school in Bani Park, which was created by the then City Development Trust. According to the conditions of allotment, the said institution had to deposit an amount of Rs 16,464 to the fund of the Trust. The institution submitted an application of free land allotment to the government, to which the state government had instructed that the institution will submit the undertaking to the effect that if the proposal of free land allocation is not approved by the state, whatever premium is set by the government will be payable by the institution. The institution was given conditional possession in 1961 under the said undertaking. Notifying the non-receipt of free allocation from the state government, the then City Development Trust had directed the institution to deposit the prescribed amount in 1964, but the institution did not deposit the amount. At present rate, this land is worth Rs 150 crore which was acquired by the institution against norms. In this regard, in 2003, deputy commissioner of Vidyadhar Nagar zone had asked the institution for the receipts of deposited amount in respect of the said land, as well as for unilateral action. But the organization did not give any satisfactory reply. In December 2020, the corporation had again written to the institution to submit the receipt of the deposited premium amount, but no evidence was presented by the institution till date. Thus, the order was cancelled by Commissioner Municipal Corporation, Jaipur Heritage due to the violation of the terms of the allotment letter and possession of the land was taken by the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jmc-heritage-takes-back-land-from-pvt-school-after-60-years/articleshow/80293841.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Alwar cops suspended for implicating man in false cheating case||ALWAR: The Alwar police has suspended two police officials — SHO Ramkishen Yadav and ASI Papuram Meena — for falsely implicating one Aarif Khan in a cheating case on Friday. Prima facie, both the officers of Bada Damev police station implicated Khan and took Rs1 lakh bribe to drop the false charges against him in November 2020. The matter came to light when Khan’s cousin brother Shamshudin Khan of Haryana shot a letter to the senior police officers stating that while he was travelling in a bus from Haryana to Alwar, the police stopped the bus and arrested Khan without giving a reason. “I reached police station to know that Khan was arrested for uploading a false advertisement on OLX and duping somebody. The police said that they have a cheating case against him. The police didn’t share any details of the case and threatened him saying that he will remain in prison for years and asked for a bribe of Rs 1 lakh to relieve him from the said charges,” said Shamshudin in a written complaint. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-suspended-for-implicating-man-in-false-cheating-case/articleshow/80293867.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Wastage of vax hinges on turnout of beneficiaries||Pune: Dr Archana Patil, director of state health services, said on Friday wastage of some Covid-19 vaccine doses may be unavoidable despite best efforts if less than the stipulated number of beneficiaries turned up at vaccination centres. Stressing that all efforts were in place to preclude the possibility of the wastage of the Covid vaccines, Dr Patil told TOI, “If a centre has to cover 100 beneficiaries per day, it would require 10 vials of Covishield (there are 10 doses in each vial). If the number of beneficiaries turning up at a centre is 91, nine dosages could go waste because there isn’t an open vial policy.” Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, deputy director of health services for Pune region, said, “When there are 10 beneficiaries, one Covishield vial has to be used. So, if up to 55 beneficiaries come at a session site, then five doses from the sixth vial could go waste.” Dr Patil said the upper limit or allowable programmatic wastage of vaccines was 10%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wastage-of-vax-hinges-on-turnout-of-beneficiaries/articleshow/80293862.cms||Neha Madaan
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: BMC engineer takes bribe, lets travellers skip quarantine||MUMBAI: BMC on Friday suspended sub-engineer Dinesh Gawande, posted at international airport, for issuing fake letters on private hospital letterheads to international passengers landing here, for exemption from institutional quarantine. BMC also filed an FIR against Gawande at Sahar police station. He was to scrutinise passengers arriving from UK, Europe, Middle East and South Africa. Officials said Gawande charged two passengers Rs10,000 for letters from a private hospital. Gawande is with the town planning department but was posted at the airport on Covid-19 duty. “We were tipped off that he may indulge in such activity. We had a suspicion and when we checked him we found letterheads of two private hospitals with him, and some money. He has been suspended pending a probe and an FIR was filed,” additional municipal commissioner (projects) P Velrasu said. “We want to give a stern message that such irregularity will not be tolerated,” Velrasu said. BMC had last December issued guidelines for passengers arriving from Europe and Middle East. Passengers have to undergo seven-days compulsory institutional quarantine at designated hotels. It had said all passengers will only be tested on the seventh day, while it had earlier said passengers can be tested between the fifth and seventh days. All passengers in institutional quarantine will have to be in seven days’ home quarantine if their test reports are negative on the seventh day and they are allowed to go home. Officials said an FIR was filed under IPC and Disaster Management Act sections. They said an employee with a duty-free shop had taken two passengers to Gawande. “The employee gave Rs10,000 to Gawande for exemption from institutional quarantine as they were in need of urgent medical care. On medical grounds, we are given exemption from institutional quarantine like cancer patients and other seriously ill patients,” an official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-staffer-at-airport-suspended-for-issuing-fake-letters/articleshow/80293891.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BMC must get Rs 35 crore from Bandra Taj: Congress||MUMBAI: After slamming Shiv Sena for giving Colaba’s Taj Mahal Palace Hotel a waiver of nearly Rs.10 crore for blocking a public road outside the hotel and barricading parts of the footpath citing security, Congress has now told BMC to recover Rs 35 crore as property tax from Taj Lands End hotel in Bandra (W). In a letter to civic chief Iqbal Chahal, Congress corporator Ravi Raja, who is Opposition leader in BMC, said the hotel was listed among BMC’s top 50 property tax defaulters. “BMC must recover the entire amount and if they hotel fails to pay it, its property must be attached, following procedure. BMC is not trying to recover the tax from top defaulters,” Raja said. A Taj Lands End spokesperson said with the change to capital value-based tax in 2010, there was a hike in taxes. “Since the amended rules were not in accordance with law they were challenged in Bombay HC by many property owners, including Taj Lands End,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bmc-must-get-rs-35cr-from-bandra-taj-cong/articleshow/80295036.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Akshay Kumar, Kriti Sanon flag off marathon in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: On the occasion of Army Day on Friday and as part of the ongoing golden jubilee celebrations of 1971 Indo-Pak war, a 22km half marathon (Vijay Run) was organised at Jaisalmer Military Station. It was flagged off by film stars Akshay Kumar and Kriti Sanon and Battle Axe Division GoC Major General A K Gahlot. Kumar on this occasion felicitated war hero of 1971 War lance naik Bhairon Singh and risaldar Prayag Singh. The actor touched their feet and took their blessings. He clicked photos with the jawans and officers and played volleyball with them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/akshay-kriti-flag-off-marathon-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80293893.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Average 72% polling in Vid GP elections||Nagpur: About 72% polling took place on an average in the 3,857 gram panchayats of Vidarbha on Friday. Enthusiasm among voters was evident since morning and long queues were witnessed at polling booths in the afternoon. No untoward incident took place in the Naxalite-affected districts of Gadchiroli and Gondia. Polling took place extremely peacefully in these areas. In Nagpur district, around 70% voting took place in 127 gram panchayats. Voter enthusiasm was evident in these elections, which are contested mostly on local issues, till the end. Maximum voting of around 90% took place in Mouda taluka. In Katol taluka, the polling percentage is expected to be over 80%. The state election commission (SEC) had announced elections for the 130 gram panchayats in the district. However, elections were not necessitated in Sonpur village of Kalmeshwar taluka and Jatamkhora village of Saoner taluka as the candidates were elected unopposed. SEC cancelled elections in Kalal village of Kuhi taluka due to major errors in the electoral rolls. Polling was therefore held for only 127 panchayats on Friday. There were 485 polling booths and 3,015 candidates in the district. The district administration had deployed 1,455 staffers for elections in thirteen talukas. Dairy development minister Sunil Kedar cast his vote in his native village Patansaongi while BJP general secretary Chandrashekhar Bawankule exercised his franchise in Koradi. In Gadchiroli district, around 85% voting is expected to have taken place for 170 panchayats even though polling ended at 3 pm instead of 5.30pm. In many places, tribals walked five to ten kilometres on foot to exercise their franchise. Dhanora, Korchi and Kurkheda talukas are the maximum affected due to Naxalite menace. Here, government had deployed armed personnel for peaceful polling. There was a heavy bandobast at the base camp. A few days before polling, the state government had implemented an anti-Naxalite campaign. As a consequence, over 70% polling was witnessed in Chawela, Sode and Salebhatti panchayats by 1.30pm. In Savana village of Yavatmal district, a candidate was booked by the Mahagaon police for distributing liquor among voters. In Adegaon, under the Mukutban police station, cops raided a farm house and seized a big haul of country liquor meant for distribution among voters. Shevalpimpri village witnessed a clash between two groups and the police had to resort to a mild cane charge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/average-72-polling-in-vid-gp-elections/articleshow/80292957.cms||Ashish Roy
January 16, 2021||Surat||PMLA case: Sarma’s bail plea rejected||Surat: The special judge (The Prevention of Money Laundering Act) of Ahmedabad District and Sessions Court rejected bail plea to BJP leader PVS Sarma in connection with a money laundering case filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED). Enforcement Directorate (ED) had initiated an investigation under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of an FIR registered by the Gujarat police under various sections of Indian Penal Code. Sarma is currently lodged in Lajpore Central Jail in Surat, was income tax officer and after voluntary retirement had joined the BJP. Special public prosecutor S K Gupta said Sarma was not cooperating with probe and sought his bail plea be rejected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pmla-case-sarmas-bail-plea-rejected/articleshow/80291654.cms||Vijaysinh Parmar
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||AWBI issues orders to ban glue trap for rodents||Nagpur: The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has issued orders to immediately ban use of glue trap method for catching rodents. In a letter written recently to Directorate General of Foreign Trade and Indian Pest Control Association, the board stated that the glue trap method inflicts unnecessary pain and suffering to the rodents and is also against the spirit of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Earlier in 2011, the board had issued similar directions to ban the traps which was reportedly not followed. “It has come to our notice that the glue traps are still widely manufactured and sold across the country. No strict action has been taken to ban the import or stop manufacturing of the glue traps and neither any such strong directions have been issued to restrain its manufacturing use and sell,” the board stated. AWBI added that the use of glue traps is a cruel reoccurring practice . “People usually use multiple traps and keep using them within a very short period for controlling rats. This is in direct violation of section 11 of PCA Act for which a person is liable to punishment,” AWBI stated. The punishment may extend to one hundred or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with both for the second or subsequent offence. The board has asked chief secretaries of all states to issue appropriate directions to prohibit the manufacture, sale and use of glue traps. The board has further asked director general of foreign trade to issue directions to impose the ban on import of glue traps. The Indian Pest Control Association has also been asked to take similar action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/awbi-issues-orders-to-ban-glue-trap-for-rodents/articleshow/80293606.cms||Manka Behl
January 16, 2021||Agra||Kasganj police bust illegal firearms manufacturing factory, four arrested||Agra: Ahead of the Panchayat elections, four persons were arrested on Friday morning for allegedly running an illegal firearms factory in Karsana village under Amapur police station of Kasganj district. A cache of finished and unfinished weapons along with machinery used in manufacturing these arms was recovered from the spot. According to police, the exact time since the illegal arms factory was operating is yet to be ascertained. There is a high possibility of weapons manufactured at the centre being used in the upcoming Panchayat elections. Additional superintendent of police (ASP) Aditya Verma said, “Following a tip-off, a police team was directed to conduct a raid on an illegal firearms factory on Friday morning. Over a dozen finished and unfinished weapons, large stock of machinery and raw materials used in manufacturing of arms and ammunition were recovered. A total of four men were arrested. An FIR has been registered against them under the Arms Act. The Gangsters Act will also be slapped on them." The four men arrested by the police include Brijlal, Rinku, Sarvesh and Pradeep. All four are residents of Kasganj district and have previous criminal history. Explaining the modus operandi of the gang, ASP said it would cost around Rs 500 to manufacture each gun. “This is a professional gang. They would manufacture at least four guns every day. Using their contacts, they have been supplying weapons for around Rs 5,000 in Agra, Etah, Firozabad, Mainpuri and other districts of Agra and Aligarh division. We are trying to identify their contacts and customers."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/kasganj-police-bust-illegal-firearms-manufacturing-factory-four-arrested/articleshow/80291761.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Patna||300 centres in Bihar ready for vaccination drive today||PATNA: Altogether 4,64,160 healthcare workers had been registered across the state till Friday morning to get the Covid-19 vaccines in the first phase beginning on Saturday. Officials said all the 300 vaccination centres were ready for the purpose. The first phase beneficiaries include 3,72,715 health workers associated with the state government, 7,247 associated with the central government working in Bihar and 84,198 from private healthcare sector. Healthcare workers means all the employees giving their services in a health institute, like sanitation staff, technicians, ambulance drivers, nurses, paramedics and doctors. “Even those working on contract or outsourced by an agency have been included,” said state health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit. He said the state had received 5,49,000 doses of Covishield and 20,000 doses of Covaxin, which were sufficient for the first phase. “Those who are registered on CoWIN will only be vaccinated,” Pratyaya said, adding that the registration for the second phase will begin on January 25. In the second phase, frontline workers like police personnel, home guard jawans, municipal workers, prison staff and those associated with disaster management will be given the shots. In the third phase, the prioritized age group, which includes those above 50 years and below 50 years with comorbidity like diabetes, hypertension and cancer, will register themselves. The dates for the registration will be announced later. Those registered can get their queries answered by calling the state control room on 104 or national control room on 1075. The centres where vaccines will be given include medical college and hospitals and primary health centres. Among them, 259 are public health institutes and 41 private ones. While healthcare workers will be vaccinated in the health institutes they are working while private hospitals and other nursing homes have been tagged. State health minister Mangal Pandey said Saturday will be an important day for the entire country as the fight against Covid-19 will begin that day. He said, “For a long time, we were in the dark and waiting for a vaccine to protect us from Covid-19. But now the time has come. It is a moment of pride for us that we will be immunized with vaccines produced in our country. Dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to become atmanirbhar has come true.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/300-centres-in-bihar-ready-for-vaccination-drive-today/articleshow/80292810.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 16, 2021||Pune||Pune ZP ready for Stds V-VIII, PMC & PCMC prefer to wait||Pune: Schools in the state have been permitted to reopen for standards V to VIII from January 27, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said in a video tweet on Friday. Locally, Pune Zilla Parishad officials said they are prepared to start the classes, but Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal corporations said they will wait for the official government notification before deciding. Gaikwad’s video tweet on Friday night said,“We had requested the chief minister to permit reopening of classes V to VIII in schools. He has agreed to it and we have decided to reopen the said classes from January 27. Local administration needs to take full responsibility of reopening the schools adhering to all Covid-19 safety protocols. In this period, we will frame the SoPs which include parental consent, RT-PCR test of teachers and other staff for Covid-19 etc.” Jyotsna Shinde, administrative officer for Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation, said they do not have any plans to reopen for standards V to VIII as of now and will wait for the state government’s order. Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said they will be able to comment about reopening of schools for standards V to VIII in the PMC area only after receiving an official communication from the government. Sunil Kurhade, primary education officer of the Pune Zilla Parishad, said, “We have been sanitising the schools, making rearrangements inside the classrooms and speaking to parents for their consent about sending their children to school. We have been preparing for some time now as we were expecting the government’s announcement.” Amruta Prabhu, principal at the HDFC School, said they will go by the proper channel and start getting consent forms filled by the parents of students in standards V to VIII, but she doesn’t expect a good response. “We have started calling students of Std X in staggered manner for two hours each and only 50% parents have consented to sending their wards to school. Parents of primary classes would be even more apprehensive. But the government has given the order and we will ask for parental consent first and then decide on reopening. Online classes will continue,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pune-zp-ready-for-stds-v-viii-pmc-pcmc-prefer-to-wait/articleshow/80292815.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Courses on hold, colleges wait for host of approvals||Pune: Autonomous colleges in the city that have the permission to start new courses, including certificate and diploma that are skill based, are facing many issues. Their representatives said they have to get several clearances from the state directorate of higher and technical education and the Savitribai Phule Pune University. These are never approved on time resulting in scrapping of the proposals. Sometimes, there is excessive delay in introducing these courses. Autonomy to the university affiliated colleges for academics was to reduce the burden on the university, improve the quality of education and start new courses as per demand. But, when the colleges applied for new courses they have had a very disappointing experience from the state government over approvals. Principal of Modern Arts, Science and Commerce College, Rajendra Zunjarrao, said, “We were supposed to start a course in master of science in data science and animation. We have also received approval from UGC. But, the approval from the state higher and technical education is still pending resulting in a delay in starting this course.” When contacted, director of higher and technical education, Dhanraj Mane, said, “We do not make any changes in the guidelines for approving course applications by autonomous colleges. We follow the guidelines. The colleges are expected to take appropriate steps as suggested by the UGC and satisfy all the requirements.” College representatives have raised it with the Savitribai Phule Pune University under the leadership of Gajanan Ekbote, chairman of Progressive Education Society, who has formed a committee to streamline this system. Meanwhile, the golden jubilee celebration of Modern College of Arts, Science and commerce will be concluded by governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari on January 19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/courses-on-hold-colleges-wait-for-host-of-approvals/articleshow/80292823.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Develop, beautify Mahabaleshwar for tourism: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: CM Uddhav Thackeray took a review of Mahabaleshwar, a key tourist spot in the state, and instructed the department to develop the city in a planned manner to increase its popularity and attract more tourists. Thackeray also asked the department to beautify the Venna lake by January 31, and to increase the height of the Venna dam, to increase water storage capacity, which supplies water to the Mahabaleshwar city. Thackeray suggested a scope of different types of tourism to be implemented in Mahabaleshwar such as adventure, nature, heritage, religious and agriculture tourism. Thackeray asked the department to take major works on priority basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/develop-beautify-mahabaleshwar-for-tourism-cm/articleshow/80295046.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi takes 1st shot at Covid today, 8,000 to get vaccine||NEW DELHI: Three waves of infections. Over 6.3 lakh cases and 10,732 deaths, leading to it being described as the “Covid capital”. The pain of the pandemic has been felt everywhere, but at least going by official figures, Delhi has been hit the hardest among all Indian cities by Covid-19. Now, it’s time for Delhiites to roll up their sleeves and begin the fightback. The long-awaited vaccination campaign finally kicks off today. First in line will be frontline corona warriors, the city’s healthcare workers. Over 8,000 of them, mostly young, are scheduled to get the vaccine shots for free across 81 government and private hospitals where all arrangements are in place. Multiple dry runs were held recently to ensure that the process is smooth and hassle-free. The healthcare workers have been sent text messages with details of the time and location where they will receive the shots. Most of them have also received calls from the district health offices asking them to report on time and assuring them of the safety of the vaccine. Seventy-five vaccination centres will use Covishield while six will administer Covaxin, made in India by Serum Institute and Bharat Biotech, respectively. They have been approved by the Drugs Controller General of India. The government has made it clear that the vaccines are 100% safe and ensure safety, efficacy and immunogenicity. The vaccination drive will be from 9am to 5pm with each centre inoculating only 100 beneficiaries. CM Arvind Kejriwal will review administration of the vaccine at Lok Nayak Hospital in the afternoon. House of vax: Why it’s like an electoral exerciseAhead of Saturday's vaccination drive, Delhi has received 2.7 lakh vials which are stored at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital’s cold-storage facility. The required number of vaccines have been distributed among 11 districts. These are now kept in the district-level storage facilities and will reach the vaccination centres in carriers an hour before the drive starts. At all the centres, posters and educational materials stressing on the safety of the vaccines are on display. Markings have been done to ensure social distancing and encourage people to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination. Those who are administering the vaccine will receive their shots as and when their turn comes. As healthcare workers, they too are enrolled for vaccination. Some of them may receive the shots on Saturday. A health department official said the entire drill was like the electoral exercise. "If any beneficiary fails to turn up at the scheduled vaccination centre on the given date due to any reason, they will not be accommodated the next day. A decision about all those left out will be taken after a review which is planned at the end of completion of the inoculation of all healthcare workers," said Dr Suneela Garg, director-professor of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College and a public health expert. At each vaccination centre, the entire operation will be run by 8-10 healthcare workers besides cops and civil defence volunteers, who will be managing security and ensuring crowd management. The centres are under CCTV coverage. Each vaccination centre has three rooms where the entire process will unfold. In the verification room, the credentials of the beneficiaries will be verified by confirming the text message sent to them and checking their identity proof. They will then be directed to the vaccination room where they will receive the shot. The last stop for the beneficiaries will be the observation room where everyone will be monitored for 30 minutes for adverse effects, if any. In case a beneficiary develops any adverse effect, which officials said could be very rare, healthcare professionals trained and deployed at the centres will take action and even shift the person to a hospital, if necessary. To begin with, the shots will be administered four days a week — Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday — so that regular vaccinations for other diseases can also be carried out. The vaccine will be given in two doses with the second dose being administered 28 days after the first dose. Starting with healthcare workers, around 51 lakh people — 3 lakh healthcare workers, 6 lakh other frontline workers and 42 lakh other people, either above 50 years of age or below 50 but with comorbidities in the priority group — will be vaccinated in the first phase. The Delhi government will be increasing the number of vaccination centres in a few days to 175 and gradually to 1,000. When the entire programme expands, finally, around one lakh people will be vaccinated daily. Watch Delhi: 8,000 corona warriors to get 1st Covid shot today||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/house-of-vax-why-its-like-an-electoral-exercise/articleshow/80293938.cms||AlokKNMishra
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||Two women killed in road accident||Rajkot: In a tragic incident, two women of a family returning from a popular tourist destination Dhorda near Khavda in Kutch after the rickshaw (Chhota hathi) in which they were travelling overturned following tyre burst. Seven other received injuries in the accident. According to police, the deceased were identified as Dipti Dangar and Sheetal Dangar, both residents of Sapeda village of Anjar in Kutch district. The family went to Dhordo in a hired vehicle on occasion of Uttarayan and were returning home when the accident took place near Bhirandiyara village in Bhuj taluka of Kutch district. In another tragic accident, a 51-year-old resident of Maninagar in Ahmedabad died after the boat in which she and her three other family members were ridding off Mandvi coast in Kutch capsized on Thursday. Belaben Thakkar drowned while the four other occupants including the boatman were rescued by locals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/two-women-killed-in-road-accident/articleshow/80290811.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Poor resources, lack of modern tech derailing solid waste management: Study||Ludhiana: Inadequate resources, insufficient land for disposal of waste, lack of integrated solid waste management plan, little public unawareness, shortage of staff, no incorporation of modern technology and poor enforcement of rules and regulations are some of the key problems identified in a study on the implementation analysis of solid waste management (SWM) in Ludhiana. The study—conducted by Ishfaq Showket Mir, Puneet Pal Singh Cheema and Sukhwinder Pal Singh of the department of civil engineering at Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College (GNDE), Ludhiana—also mentioned that providing monetary incentives for recyclable items, developing a strong policy, incorporating technological innovations, support from political leadership, encouraging waste reduction, and composting and recycling techniques can go a long way in effective waste management in the city. It mentioned that several allied areas that directly affect the solid waste management are under-researched in Ludhiana. These areas include financing of waste management and mobilising revenue from local sources, urban housing development and land use, compositional analysis of changing waste mix in the city, bio-medical waste and liquid waste disposal and appropriate logistics and modern technologies for solid waste management. The study suggested that there is a need for a research directed towards addressing the issues of urban development and allied areas for a detailed understanding of these issues and find ways for improving environmental sanitation and sustainable development. The researchers stated that the figures on the quantity of municipal solid waste collected from the city between September 2019 and December 2019 were among the data used for the future projection of the quantity of waste generation. According to the residents, a major amount of solid waste generated in their homes comprised waste food, followed by paper cardboard and plastic materials. The respondents were also asked to indicate their method of storing the solid waste before disposal. The majority of respondents said they go for open container storage, while in high-income households, the preferred method was closed container storage. The results revealed that facilities to the municipal staff, their commitment and awareness level, political commitment, and residents’ and business establishments’ contribution majorly influence the successful implementation of the solid waste management programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/poor-resources-lack-of-modern-tech-derailing-solid-waste-management-study/articleshow/80292828.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 16, 2021||Kochi||Is Kerala govt overborrowing from markets?||KOCHI: Finance minister TM Thomas Isaac’s budget speech reveals that the state government is planning to increasingly depend on financial market to raise additional resources to meet its deficit. Now the question is whether this is a sustainable route compared to raising further funds through taxation. Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), the fundraising agency of the state government for infrastructure projects, had been borrowing from domestic as well as the overseas markets to fund governmental projects. “This is following the annuity model, so the state government is actually giving guarantee to a corporate body like KIIFB and the government earmarks some funds from its own revenue for the repayment of KIIFB’s loans. And that will be one of the income sources for KIIFB in future. In future too, governments can decide which all items shall be included as the income sources for KIIFB. Suppose the government wants to borrow more funds, then government can include more sources of income or apportion more sources of income for KIIFB,” said senior fellow, Centre for Socio-Economic and Environmental Studies (CSES) KK Krishnakumar. However, tax revenues of the state have dwindled due to the pandemic and it is not expected to return to normalcy until a few months, perhaps a year. Data show that during April-August 2020, the revenue receipts of Kerala came down to Rs 26,203 crore, a decline of nearly 24% from Rs 34,251 crore in the similar period, previous year. Tax revenue of the state came down by 38% to touch Rs 16,504 crore and non-tax revenue came down by 82% from Rs 4,497 crore during April-August 2019 to Rs 794 crore in the similar period of 2020. Will this situation affect the repayment of its debt from the financial markets? “For the time being it [KIIFB’s source for repayment] is part of the road tax on an incremental basis – 10% during first year and 20% during the second, and up to 50% within five years. After that, 50% of the road tax and petroleum cess will become one of the income sources for KIIFB. On the other hand, some of the projects KIIFB implemented have their own income. So that will be another source of income for KIIFB. Hence, that [further borrowing from the financial markets] won’t be an issue,” Krishnakumar said. It seems Isaac has immense faith in the powers of KIIFB as a fundraising arm. “KIIFB has accorded sanction for 821 projects worth Rs. 40,100 crore. In addition to this, Rs. 20,000 crore has been sanctioned for land acquisition of industrial parks and the like,” he said in his speech.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/is-state-overborrowing-from-markets/articleshow/80291909.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||5.6k health workers in Vid to get Covid vaccine 1st dose today||Nagpur: After 6,789 deaths and 2,63,838 positive cases in 10 months, the 11 districts of Vidarbha are all set to begin Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. Some 5,600 health care workers who worked through the pandemic, mostly from government hospitals, will be administered the first dose at 56 centres on Saturday. Most of the beneficiaries expected to be vaccinated on the first day had not received SMSes of the schedule and location till 11pm on Friday. This was despite the central government claiming SMSes will be sent 24 hours before vaccination. This happened due to technical problems with the Co-WIN application across Vidarbha. Nagpur divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar told TOI, “Vaccines along with syringes were delivered to 34 centres in six districts of Nagpur division on Friday. All preparations have been completed at the centres. Some 3,400 health care workers will be administered vaccine in the division,” he said. In five districts of Amravati division, vaccine will be administered to 2,200 health care workers at 22 centres. In city, guardian minister Nitin Raut, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, Kumar and municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B will inaugurate the drive at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Pachpaoli hospital. The two NMC medical officers, Dr Sanjay Chilkar and Dr Vijay Joshi, are likely to take the first doses. They have been working in the pandemic since March and are yet to test positive. AIIMS, IGGMCH, Daga Maternity Hospital and GMCH are the other four vaccination centres in city. At the 56 centres in Vidarbha, Covishield, manufactured by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), will be administered. Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, will be administered at two centres, GMCH in city and Amravati district general hospital. Within 24 hours of announcement, the state has supplied 2,000 doses each to GMCH and Amravati district general hospital. GMCH will use it for its own health care workers. Amravati district civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam said Covaxin will be given to staff of this hospital, Women Special Hospital and Superspeciality Hospital. Kumar said, “IGGMCH in city and general hospitals at district level have been identified to admit and treat any beneficiary who develops complications. A team of experts has been formed to identify reasons for any complications, treatment and further steps. These are precautionary steps and we hope there are no such cases.” All districts had a tough time on Friday registering health care workers in Co-WIN application. NMC received username and password only at around 12 noon. The team of civic body started process of registration of 500 health care workers for five centres but could not finish till filing of this report at 11pm. NMC additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi said, “Names of 100 beneficiaries per centre could be uploaded but process of entire registration was not ending. After consultation with state-level experts, it came to fore that it was a state-level issue. At around 10pm, messages were delivered to 100 health care workers of IGGMCH and process for remaining is in progress.” Joshi said health care workers will be contacted and asked to reach centres on Saturday morning if messages not delivered from Co-WIN application to all. This means health care workers, excluding 100 from IGGMCH, who are supposed to arrive at centres and take vaccine were not aware of the schedule till 11pm. In Amravati district, officials contacted beneficiaries and gave them the schedule on phone. Other districts also faced similar problems. The officials were also confused about timing to kick-off the drive. In the morning, all received instructions to start the drive at their respective places after inauguration in New Delhi. In the evening, they received messages that inauguration in state would be done at Mumbai at 11.30am. But the government did not mention whether to start in all districts before inaugural programme in Mumbai. This confusion is likely to affect schedule of beneficiaries at the centre, as each has to wait for 30 minutes in observation room. Also, each centre will have to complete vaccination of 100 health care workers. Officials said, “There might be no problems since process on 25 dummy beneficiaries was completed in two hours. This means 100 can be covered in four hours. Also, government relaxed norms in Co-WIN application in case of any technical issues. Vaccine can be administered after completing process on paper, instead of finishing formalities in Co-WIN application, subject to technical problems.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/5-6k-health-workers-in-vid-to-get-covid-vaccine-1st-dose-today/articleshow/80292844.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 16, 2021||Pune||Peaceful rural polls in dist amid 80.5% voter turnout||Pune: The gram panchayat polls in 13 tehsils of rural Pune was conducted peacefully on Friday amid 80.54% turnout of voters.District collector Rajesh Deshmukh told TOI, “It was a challenging task for us to conduct the elections in this pandemic time, but our officials and police did a good work today (on Friday). Thus, not a single untoward incident was reported in the district.”Deshmukh categorically said they had paid extra attention towards the big gram panchayats to prevent any law and order issues.The polls were held in 649 villages in the first phase. A total of 11,007 candidates are in the fray.The state election commission had announced elections in a total of 746 gram panchayats. Of them, as many as 97 gram panchayats were elected unopposed.The voting began at 7.30am and concluded at 5.30pm on Friday. There was overwhelming response from voters in crucial gram panchayats like Maan and Hinjewadi, which have IT parks. A majority of them are working professionals.The highest voting percentage was recorded in Velhe (86.69%), followed by Bhor (85.53%) tehsil, stated the report released by the district administration. Both have a sizeable tribal population.Superintendent of police (Pune rural) Abhinav Deshmukh said, “We had deployed adequate personnel at each polling station. Barring a few EVM glitches, the elections were conducted smoothly.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/peaceful-rural-polls-in-dist-amid-80-5-voter-turnout/articleshow/80292831.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Man booked for opening fire||Ludhiana: The division number 3 police have registered FIR against unidentified accused for opening fire in the air. The FIR was lodged after a video of the youngster had gone viral. According to the police, the incident occurred on Lohri when some youngsters opened fire in the air while flying the kites. Inspector Satish Kumar, station house officer at division number 3 police station said the police have registered a case on the basis of the video and the information that the incident has occurred in division number 3 area. The police will identify the accused and arrest them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/man-booked-for-opening-fire/articleshow/80292836.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Pune||PCB to rename chowk||Pune: The Pune Cantonment Board on Friday decided to rename the renowned Golibar Maidan Chowk after Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj. A resolution in this regard was unanimously passed by the elected board members in the Pune Cantonment Board’s general body meeting on Friday. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) had already installed a statue of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj towards the north-east corner of the office lawn on the Cantonment Board’s headquarter premises in 2018. “It was a long-pending demand of the people of the Cantonment. We had first installed the statue and now we will rename the chowk, which is one of the main junctions in the Cantonment-limits,” the vice-president Vivek Yadav of the PCB said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pcb-to-rename-chowk/articleshow/80292833.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||‘Southern Command prepared’||Pune: Southern Army Commander Lt Gen CP Mohanty on Friday said that despite the Covid-19 pandemic, the Command was operationally geared up to give a befitting response to misadventures by adversaries and was prepared to thwart any challenge that came its way. He laid a wreath at the National War Memorial in Ghorpadi to mark the 73rd Army Day, which is observed every year on January 15. The theme for Army Day 2021 was “Indian Army strong and capable”. The Army Day is celebrated to commemorate the taking over of the Indian Army by the first Indian Commander-in-Chief Lt Gen (Later Field Marshal) KM Cariappa, on January 15, 1948. Lt Gen Mohanty reaffirmed Southern Command’s commitment towards continued assistance to citizens in times of any calamities or natural disasters. Results were announced of the competition on the awareness campaign, themed “Indian Army a symbol of unity in diversity,’ which was run on social medial from October 19 to January 10. Out of 53 prizes at the national-level, Puneites bagged five individual prizes. The Commander gave the prizes to winners.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/southern-command-prepared/articleshow/80292837.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: A shot in the arm for Covid-19 fightback||KOLKATA: The potential receivers of the Covid-19 vaccine were surprised to get personalized calls from hospitals, instead of a system-generated text on the time and venue of the immunization drive on Saturday. The officials called up the healthcare workers at their establishments on Friday, congratulating them and notifying them about their schedule. From Saturday, 59,984 healthcare workers will receive the first dose of Covishield at hospitals and health centres across the state. The first batch, comprising doctors, nurses, Group D staff and ambulance drivers, started receiving calls from their hospitals on Friday afternoon, alerting them about their selection for the first day of the immunization drive, and the time and venue for the exercise. “I had expected a computerised text, informing me about the time and venue for the vaccine. But it was much more comforting when I heard a familiar voice on the other side of the line, asking me to report to the academic building auditorium of our hospital at noon, with the photo ID proofs for verification. I am grateful to the government and the hospital authorities for selecting me as one of the first few to get the first dose of vaccine,” said Hironmoy Roy, associate professor, department of anatomy at SSKM Hospital. Sanjib Bandyopadhyay, a community medicine specialist at ID Hospital in Beliaghata, who has been working closely with Covid patients throughout the pandemic, said he was grateful to be among the first set of vaccine beneficiaries. “We have been waiting for this vaccine for months. I am happy to be one of the 10 recipients of the first Covishield vial to be opened at our hospital on Saturday, leading from the front so that others come forward to take the vaccine,” said Bandyopadhyay, in charge of post-Covid follow-up clinic at the hospital. There were reportedly two reasons for the personalized calls: first, an alleged glitch in the Co-WIN system that delayed the delivery of the text messages and secondly, the authorities did not want to take any chance with any dropout on the very first day of the immunization programme. So, officials were told to personally call up the beneficiaries from the list and ensure they turned up for the shot on Saturday. Hospital authorities in charge of making the calls said they received the last-minute instruction only on Friday morning. “Going by the earlier plan, the beneficiaries were to be alerted by the Co-WIN system that would have selected random candidates from the uploaded data. But on Friday, we were asked to make the calls ourselves and then, send the list of confirmed candidates to the state health department. We had a busy day as it also involved convincing some of the beneficiaries, who were still in two minds, to attend the Saturday session,” said the medical superintendent of a government hospital in Kolkata. The calls are likely to smooth the process as a number of healthcare workers, either off duty or on vacation, expressed their inability to be present and sought a different date. “I received a call around afternoon, asking me to report for the first vaccine dose on Saturday afternoon. I told them I was currently out of town but I would be back at the hospital in four days. I have requested to be provided a slot around that time, if possible,” said Akashleena Pal, a nurse with the paediatric medicine department at Medical College and Hospital (MCH).  Anupam Das, senior medicine registrar at AMRI Dhakuria, considers himself lucky to have not contracted the novel coronavirus till now. But he said he was glad he would no longer have to depend only on luck. “Now that the vaccine is here, I hope the trying times will be over soon. I am excited and happy to be one of the first beneficiaries of the vaccine the entire world has been hoping for,” said Das, among the first 100 beneficiaries at AMRI Dhakuria, one of the three private hospitals allowed to have a vaccination centre from Saturday. The hospital selected its beneficiaries alphabetically, Das added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/a-shot-in-the-arm-for-covid-19-fightback/articleshow/80292854.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 16, 2021||Udaipur||Jaipur takes first shot at Covid, 600 to get vaccine||JAIPUR: Preparations were in full swing on Friday at 167 sites in 33 districts across the state to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. Some 5,63,500 vaccine doses are ready to be given to beneficiaries, starting with healthcare workers. Each centre in the state is expected to see around 100 beneficiaries. Jaipur, which though has arranged for 21 vaccination centres, will only see six operational on the first day today. “We have completed all preparations and vaccines have reached maximum sites across the state,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. In Jaipur, the vaccination drive will be held in 21 centres. However, the supply of vaccines is not adequate for the state, he said. “We have 4.80 lakh health workers, including those working in central government-run hospitals, in the state. We are hoping the supply of the vaccine will increase,” he told TOI. Rajasthan has so far received around 5.63 lakh vaccine doses from two companies. While the state vaccine store in Jaipur received 4,43,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, 1,00,500 doses have been taken to the vaccine store in Udaipur. Vaccines for the districts of Udaipur division have been distributed from the store in Udaipur, and for other other divisions in the state from Jaipur. “By Friday evening, every centre in the state has received vaccines,” said a senior official. According to health authorities, each beneficiary will be given a first dose of 0.5ml of the vaccine. “The second dose of 0.5ml from the same company will be administered after 28 days of the first dose. Also we have two interactive sites for the process, including one at SMS Hospital in Jaipur and JLN Medical College in Ajmer,” said Sidharath Mahajan, secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/city-takes-1st-shot-at-covidtoday-600-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80295947.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ajmer||Jaipur takes first shot at Covid, 600 to get vaccine||JAIPUR: Preparations were in full swing on Friday at 167 sites in 33 districts across the state to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. Some 5,63,500 vaccine doses are ready to be given to beneficiaries, starting with healthcare workers. Each centre in the state is expected to see around 100 beneficiaries. Jaipur, which though has arranged for 21 vaccination centres, will only see six operational on the first day today. “We have completed all preparations and vaccines have reached maximum sites across the state,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. In Jaipur, the vaccination drive will be held in 21 centres. However, the supply of vaccines is not adequate for the state, he said. “We have 4.80 lakh health workers, including those working in central government-run hospitals, in the state. We are hoping the supply of the vaccine will increase,” he told TOI. Rajasthan has so far received around 5.63 lakh vaccine doses from two companies. While the state vaccine store in Jaipur received 4,43,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, 1,00,500 doses have been taken to the vaccine store in Udaipur. Vaccines for the districts of Udaipur division have been distributed from the store in Udaipur, and for other other divisions in the state from Jaipur. “By Friday evening, every centre in the state has received vaccines,” said a senior official. According to health authorities, each beneficiary will be given a first dose of 0.5ml of the vaccine. “The second dose of 0.5ml from the same company will be administered after 28 days of the first dose. Also we have two interactive sites for the process, including one at SMS Hospital in Jaipur and JLN Medical College in Ajmer,” said Sidharath Mahajan, secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/city-takes-1st-shot-at-covidtoday-600-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80295949.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Instant loan apps case: Chinese bonded over chat group||HYDERABAD: Chinese national Zhu Wei alias Lambo, who was arrested in the instant loan apps case, told Hyderabad police that he came across Yuan Yuan alias Jennifer, the key person behind four different instant loan lending companies, through a social media chat group operated by Chinese nationals residing in India. During his custodial interrogation, Lambo said he came to India on a business visa to explore business opportunities. After he became part of the social media chat group, he got to know Jennifer. “Lambo claims that on the request of Jennifer, he had decided to supervise her business operations in India. Though she offered Rs 1 lakh salary per month, Lambo claimed that he refused to take salary and offered to work for free,” sources in Hyderabad police told TOI. It is learnt that these Chinese nationals were using the group for interactions to discuss business opportunities and other issues faced by their compatriots in India. In the investigation into some of the instant loan app cases, police found that the Chinese nationals sent money from Singapore under the pretext of maintenance and employee salaries into bank accounts in India. Later, this money was used by the accused and their companies to distribute loans through different apps. “Nowhere it was said that the money sent to India was meant for financing,” Cyberabad police said. In fact, the other Chinese national Y Bai alias Dennis, who was also arrested, disclosed the role of five more Chinese nationals, who are residing presently either in China or Singapore or New Zealand. During the custodial interrogations, Dennis said that they use the Dingtalk app for all the internal communication among the employees and with their Chinese management.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chinese-bonded-over-chat-group/articleshow/80294023.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Bizmen ask railway minister to resume Shatabdi trains||Ludhiana: Peeved at non-resumption of all trains to and from Ludhiana, the city-based businessmen have now written to railway minister Piyush Goyal to resume the services of Shatabdi Express, which used to run twice a day between Ludhiana and Delhi. In a letter to the minister, the businessmen have stated that with only one superfast train—Vande Bharat Express— available for Delhi, they are facing huge problems, as its timings do not suit everyone. Moreover, Shatabdi trains were the most preferred mode for travelling to Delhi for the Ludhiana businessmen, as the train to Delhi would leave in the morning and return in the evening, which was convenient for them. Meanwhile, according to sources in the railways, the Shatabdi trains remain cancelled, as they originate and terminate at Amritsar railway station, where rail blockade had been resorted to by the agitating farmers. Some more trains plying on the route also remain cancelled. Harish Kairpal, finance secretary of Knitwear Club, said, “Non-resumption of all trains to Delhi from Ludhiana is causing huge problems to the commuters, especially businessmen. Hundreds of businessmen from the city used to go to Delhi by Shatabdi Express for business meets in the morning and come back the same day by evening in a hassle-free manner. Timings of the currently plying Vande Bharat Express do not suit us, as it leaves late in the evening and returns the next day.” Moreover, as farmers’ agitation is going on at the borders of Delhi, going by road to the national capital these days is very time consuming, he pointed out. General secretary of Apparel Manufacturers Association, Ludhiana, Atul Saggar, said, “Shatabdi pair of trains are a lifeline for Ludhiana’s industry, especially the garment industry since our biggest markets are located in Delhi. As we have only a few hours’ work in Delhi, we prefer Shatabdi Express. It is not only convenient and fast, but also economical. Both trains should be resumed at the earliest. If they can’t run these trains up to Amritsar, why not short-terminate them at Ludhiana, from where most passengers board?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/bizmen-ask-railway-minister-to-resume-shatabdi-trains/articleshow/80292832.cms||Mohit Behl
January 16, 2021||Jodhpur||Jaipur takes first shot at Covid, 600 to get vaccine||JAIPUR: Preparations were in full swing on Friday at 167 sites in 33 districts across the state to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. Some 5,63,500 vaccine doses are ready to be given to beneficiaries, starting with healthcare workers. Each centre in the state is expected to see around 100 beneficiaries. Jaipur, which though has arranged for 21 vaccination centres, will only see six operational on the first day today. “We have completed all preparations and vaccines have reached maximum sites across the state,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. In Jaipur, the vaccination drive will be held in 21 centres. However, the supply of vaccines is not adequate for the state, he said. “We have 4.80 lakh health workers, including those working in central government-run hospitals, in the state. We are hoping the supply of the vaccine will increase,” he told TOI. Rajasthan has so far received around 5.63 lakh vaccine doses from two companies. While the state vaccine store in Jaipur received 4,43,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, 1,00,500 doses have been taken to the vaccine store in Udaipur. Vaccines for the districts of Udaipur division have been distributed from the store in Udaipur, and for other other divisions in the state from Jaipur. “By Friday evening, every centre in the state has received vaccines,” said a senior official. According to health authorities, each beneficiary will be given a first dose of 0.5ml of the vaccine. “The second dose of 0.5ml from the same company will be administered after 28 days of the first dose. Also we have two interactive sites for the process, including one at SMS Hospital in Jaipur and JLN Medical College in Ajmer,” said Sidharath Mahajan, secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/city-takes-1st-shot-at-covidtoday-600-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80295948.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur takes first shot at Covid, 600 to get vaccine||JAIPUR: Preparations were in full swing on Friday at 167 sites in 33 districts across the state to start the Covid-19 vaccination programme on Saturday. Some 5,63,500 vaccine doses are ready to be given to beneficiaries, starting with healthcare workers. Each centre in the state is expected to see around 100 beneficiaries. Jaipur, which though has arranged for 21 vaccination centres, will only see six operational on the first day today. “We have completed all preparations and vaccines have reached maximum sites across the state,” health minister Raghu Sharma said. In Jaipur, the vaccination drive will be held in 21 centres. However, the supply of vaccines is not adequate for the state, he said. “We have 4.80 lakh health workers, including those working in central government-run hospitals, in the state. We are hoping the supply of the vaccine will increase,” he told TOI. Rajasthan has so far received around 5.63 lakh vaccine doses from two companies. While the state vaccine store in Jaipur received 4,43,000 doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and 20,000 of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech, 1,00,500 doses have been taken to the vaccine store in Udaipur. Vaccines for the districts of Udaipur division have been distributed from the store in Udaipur, and for other other divisions in the state from Jaipur. “By Friday evening, every centre in the state has received vaccines,” said a senior official. According to health authorities, each beneficiary will be given a first dose of 0.5ml of the vaccine. “The second dose of 0.5ml from the same company will be administered after 28 days of the first dose. Also we have two interactive sites for the process, including one at SMS Hospital in Jaipur and JLN Medical College in Ajmer,” said Sidharath Mahajan, secretary, health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/city-takes-1st-shot-at-covidtoday-600-to-get-vaccine/articleshow/80294013.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Two Hisar soldiers martyred in 1971||HISAR: Nearly 50 years ago, two natives sons of Hisar district were martyred in the India-Pakistan War of 1971. Company Havildar Major (CHM) Krishna Kumar of Kajla village and 2nd Lt Hawa Singh of Mirzapur village were among the soldiers who sacrificed their lives in the war and were awarded Vir Charka. Their families attended the ‘Victory flame’ ceremony held at Hisar Cantonment on Friday. CHM Kumar’s wife Badamo Devi, who lives with her children at Sector 14 here, said she had got the news of his martyrdom a month after he died on December 8, 1971. That, too, when a soldier from a neighbouring village came home on leave. His last rites were also performed in Bangladesh, she recalled. Her elder daughter Maya was only 7 then, while son Ramesh was 4, Sheela 2 and Anil four months old. “The pension policy of the Army and the government’s aid policy were not like they are today. So, I she went to my parental home at Budak village and took care of my children there,” she said. Apart from Maya’s husband Dharampal, who served in the Army for some time, no one from the family has joined the defence forces. Ramesh is a senior manager in a bank and posted in Sangrur, while Anil availed Army quota to get a gas agency 20 years ago. 2nd Lt Hawa Singh’s nephew, Assistant Attorney General Krishna Kumar Chahal, who was present at the event, said he was not even born when his uncle was martyred. The family came to know of his martyrdom three days later, through wire service, he said. He said the officer was wounded during the war and in had destroyed five bunkers of the enemy in that condition.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-hisar-soldiers-martyred-in-1971/articleshow/80292846.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Parents strike outside Yashodham High school for fee waiver||MUMBAI: A group of parents from Yashodham High school in Goregaon staged a protest outside the institution’s premises on Friday to demand a fee waiver. The school authorities said considerations were being made for parents facing financial trouble. Ketan Kumbhar, a parent who participated in the protest said, “Since we are not using school facilities, expenses for the school are lower. We are willing to pay the portion that is required for teachers’ salaries but the rest of the benefits must be passed on to parents in these tough times.” Around 70 parents held placards during the protest and met with school management and police officials. The parents also wrote to the state education department. School authorities, however, said they were following all rules with respect to fee collection. “The government’s directive asking schools not to collect fees this year was stayed by Bombay high court. The court hasn’t issued a final order. We provided parents to liquidate their deposits with the school if they are facing financial troubles but only 12 of 3,000 parents availed the option. The schools expenses continue even if physical classes are suspended,” said Sunita Goenka, chairperson of the school’s board of trustees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/parents-strike-outside-school-for-fee-waiver/articleshow/80295049.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||12-year-old boy sodomised, killed in Jaisalmer district||JAISALMER: A 12-year-old boy belonging to the minority community was allegedly sodomised and murdered by the son of a landlord in Hariyasar village in Pokharan sub-division of Jaisalmer district late on Thursday night, the police said on Friday. Following the incident, angry villagers from nearby areas gathered and pelted stones at the police and even moved to demolish a religious place. The boy's family too refused to take his body. Pokharan CO Motaram Godara had to rush to the spot with heavy police force to control the situation. Four to five police personnel sustained injuries in stone-pelting. The accused Bacchan Singh was later detained. Police said the boy may have been murdred to possibly hide the sodomy. According to sources, the family of the boy was working at a tube well site of one Tej Singh of Hariyasar village under the Phalsoond police station area. On Thursday night, Tej Singh's son, who is married, came to the spot and took the minor boy out into the fields on the pretext of collecting honey. He then allegedly sodomised and later strangled him to death. Cops from the Phalsoond station reached the area after receiving information about the murder. People from nearby villages too gathered on Friday morning and demanded action against the culprit. Talks went on through the day and the atmosphere became tense as the mob reached Hariyasari village and started pelting stones at a temple and shops. In the following violence, Motaram, Pokharan SHO Manak Ram Vishnoi and Bhaniyana tehsildar had to hide in houses to save themselves. Though the mob reached the house of the culprit, they were kept at bay by the police. Jaisalmer additional SP Vipin Sharma also rushed to the spot. The family was later persuaded to take the body of the child. It was taken to the mortuary and the post-mortem done. Police have started investigating the matter. A case has been lodged under sections 302, 377 and the Pocso Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/12-yr-old-boy-sodomised-killed-in-jaisalmer-district/articleshow/80294059.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Vaccines to be administered to healthcare workers in 5 places today||Ludhiana: As the vaccination process is to start from Saturday, the vaccines will be administered to health workers at five places in the district. On Thursday, consignment of vaccine, having 36,500 doses, had reached Ludhiana and was stored at civil surgeon’s office before being sent to vaccination sites. Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar confirmed that on the first day, vaccines will be administered to health care workers at five places. He added that vaccination will start at around 11.30am. Health department officials said vaccines will be injected to healthcare workers at five special vaccine sites — civil hospital in Ludhiana, sub-divisional hospitals in Khanna and Jagraon and at two private hospitals, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) and Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH). Health department officials further said five teams will carry out vaccination at these five special sites from 11.30am to around 5pm. They added that they expect that five health care workers will be vaccinated on the first day. “The vaccination sites might be increased after day one and are expected to increase in the coming days. Initially they had decided to set up around 150 such sites but due to certain reasons, they decreased such sites for inaugural day to just five,” said a health department source. “In the private set up, 20 sites are made at DMCH, 16 at CMCH, eight at Deep Hospital, six each at Mohandai Oswal Hospital and Fortis Hospital. In government sector, six vaccination sites were made at civil hospital Ludhiana, four at Mother and Child Hospital (MCH) Vardhman, two each at sub-divisional hospitals at Khanna and Jagraon, equal number at civil hospitals at Raikot and Samrala. Two sites each were made at CHC Payal, CHC Pakhowal, CHC Sahnewal whereas one site each was made at CHC Sidhwan Bet and CHC Manupur.” He added that in future all such sites may be used for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/vaccines-to-be-administered-to-healthcare-workers-in-5-places-today/articleshow/80292840.cms||Shariq Majeed
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Chaitanyaraj Singh crowned 44th Maharawal of Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: The grandeur of the royal era of the princely states was relived at the Sonar Fort on Friday when Chaitanyaraj Singh, son of late Maharwal Brajraj Singh, was crowned as 44th Maharawal of Jaisalmer. He sat on the ‘throne’ amid chanting of mantras. A gathering of 25,000-30,000 people, including erstwhile Thikanedars and zamindars, from every caste and community witnessed the event. People thronged to have a glimpse of the new Maharawal and gathered near Sonar Fort, Gopa Chowk and on the main roads. The Sonar Fort was decorated like a bride and entire city wore colourful turbans. After the coronation ceremony, the new Maharawal went to the city with a cavalcade of horses, camels and band. He was in an open jeep with his younger brother Janmajay Singh and accepted the greetings of the people. People welcomed him by throwing flowers. Police had a tough time controlling the crowd.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/chaitanyaraj-singh-crowned-44th-maharawal-of-jaisalmer/articleshow/80294051.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Chetak Corps, Golden Division Arrow celebrate Army Day||Bathinda: The Chetak Corps celebrated 73rd Army Day with a solemn ceremony at Bathinda military station on Friday. Army Day is celebrated on January 15 in recognition of Lieutenant General (later Field Marshal) K M Cariappa’s taking over as the first commander-in-chief of the Indian Army of Independent India on January 15, 1949. The Indian Army marks this day to pay homage and salute to soldiers who sacrificed their lives to protect the country. As a mark of respect to martyrs, a wreath-laying ceremony with appropriate military decorum was held at the Chetak war memorial. The wreath was laid by general officer commanding of the corps, followed by officers and subedar majors of the units, keeping in mind Covid-19 protocol. In the meanwhile, the might of Indian Army was on display at Ferozepur Cantonment as part of ‘Know Your Army’ campaign on Army Day by The Golden Arrow Division. Sophisticated and new generation weapons and equipment used by various arms of the army — infantry, armoured, artillery, engineers and signals — were displayed at the Hony Capt Sunder Singh Stadium. A military band performance was also part of the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chetak-corps-golden-division-arrow-celebrate-army-day/articleshow/80292855.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||19-year-old stabbed over flying kite dispute||Ludhiana: A group of miscreants have stabbed a 19-year-old, on Thursday, following a dispute over kite-flying on Lohri. The man is admitted to the Christian Medical College (CMC) hospital and his condition is stated to be critical. The victim has been identified as Surjit Kumar, a resident of Model Colony of Jagirpur. He runs an automobile workshop on Jagirpur Road. On the complaint of Surjit’s father Ram Surat, the Maharban police have booked Honey, Kaku Mota, Jatin, Ghuggi, Vishal, Lucky, Bagga and their six unidentified accomplices. Father Ram Surat stated that his son Surjit Kumar was flying kites with his friends on Lohri. Meanwhile, he indulged in a dispute with the accused over flying kites. Later on, they were pacified and the matter was resolved. However, on Thursday, the accused intercepted his son in Gujjar Colony and assaulted him with sharp-edged weapons, sticks and iron rods. He came to know about the incident from his younger son Sunil Kumar. When he reached the spot, he found that the accused were brutally assaulting his son. He added, one of the accused has stabbed his son with a sharp-edged weapon and they all escaped with his accomplices. Thereafter, he rushed his son to hospital and also informed the police. Investigating officer from Meharban police station, assistant sub-inspector Karanjit Singh said a case under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimidation), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of IPC. The accused, who live in the nearby localities, will soon be arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/19-year-old-stabbed-over-flying-kite-dispute/articleshow/80292852.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Awareness, monitoring to check vaccine hesitancy||NEW DELHI: As teams of vaccinators inoculate the first batch of healthcare workers at the 81 designated centres on Saturday, the streamlined implementation of the first two steps — verification of documents and the vaccination — will set the stage for the future rollout of this massive exercise. This would be the last step of monitoring for any adverse events that would take care of vaccine hesitancy. Dr Suneela Garg, director and professor in department of community medicine at Maulana Azad Medical College, University of Delhi, and a public health expert who is a part of the vaccination programme, said that while each team at the vaccination sites would have 8-9 members, the minimum number being five, more healthcare workers with experience of vaccination and adverse events could be roped in. “We want people who, apart from streamlining the system, can also help in adverse events. We want to mobilise more such people, particularly in the hospitals. Even though nothing is going to happen after vaccination, it is good to have people experienced in the vaccination process to instill confidence. Both the vaccines are safe and have been tested. The vaccines have been given emergency approval and are effective,” said Garg. The professor said more healthcare professionals, like pharmacologists, anaesthetists, paediatricians etc, would be needed as they were experienced in all types of adverse events, even though the chances of any such reaction after Covid-19 vaccination were slim. “It only brings confidence and addresses vaccine hesitancy. Some hospitals have set up high density units just to manage adverse events, which brings more confidence even though those getting the vaccine first are all doctors and other healthcare workers,” Garg added. “Once doctors and healthcare workers are inoculated in the first phase, they can be interviewed so their experience can be shared. Dissemination of correct information will be important in addressing any kind of vaccine hesitancy,” said Garg. Apart from effective training of healthcare personnel involved in the vaccination process, other initiatives for creating awareness would also be taken. Dr Garg had earlier told TOI that children had been messengers of change and they could be involved too, as was done in the case of the polio eradication programme. Garg had earlier said that even though the chances of adverse reaction were less than 1%, but just in case someone complained of even a small pain, some swelling or itching, steps would be taken accordingly and the observation recorded. “They will be provided a helpline number to be directly in touch with a healthcare worker and a medical officer,” she had added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/awareness-monitoring-to-check-vaccine-hesitancy/articleshow/80293988.cms||Sidharatha Roy
January 16, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan liquor sales down 42% in April-December, beer collapses 45%||JAIPUR: Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales nosedived by a record 42% in the first nine months of the current financial year, while beer declined sharply by 45% for the same period. Despite the dramatic decline, revenues increased by Rs 800 crore compared to the nine months in 2019-20. During the April-December period this year, the government earned a revenue of Rs 6,854.51 crore compared to Rs 6,049.19 crore for the same period previous year as per the excise department figures. During the year, the state government has increased taxes on liquor by up to 25%, while for beer it has gone up by 35%. The rise in revenue is mainly on account of higher taxes, said liquor shops in the state. Officials in the excise department attributed the drop in volumes to the closure of shops in March, April and some days in May due to the lockdown and night curfews during the peak tourist season and festival months. “The corona pandemic did have a major impact on volumes, but we cannot ignore the illegal trade which is on the rise to take advantage of the price arbitrage. In neighbouring states, liquor is cheaper by 20-25%,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society. Besides, he said the restricted shop timing was another factor fuelling the illegal trade. “After 8pm when the shops are closed in Rajasthan, the illegal trade becomes active. The department catches hold of bootleggers once in a while, but the illegal business is regular, eating into the volumes sold in government licensed retail shops,” Mewara said. Even though the shops opened after May 4, the demand from the hospitality and tourism industry remained almost negligible due to restrictions. When they were allowed to operate bars, the night curfews were imposed. “Due to the corona situation, we did not expect tourists starting from September even as the peak season kicked in during that time. We hoped the city residents would visit the bars. But then, the night curfews were imposed, wiping out all chances of any business,” said Mohit Agarwal, a restaurant owner. While the government may be content in having salvaged the situation by raising taxes and making better revenues compared to the previous year despite the challenges, its licensees are staring down the barrel. “The government has mandated us to sell 10% more. While the government banked on increasing taxes to meet its revenue targets in the absence of volume, the same logic should also apply to us. Instead of a 10% increase in volume, the government should make it an increase in revenue. Now, we are in a difficult situation because the demand is very less and we are required to sell 10% more. Otherwise we have to pay a penalty,” Mewara said. The precarious situation is forcing some retailers to mix Haryana-made cheaper liquor in their stores. “In the current policy environment, they cannot survive if they do not mix cheaper liquor from Haryana. It’s a loss to the state government,” sources in the industry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/raj-liquor-sales-down-42-inapr-dec-beer-collapses-45/articleshow/80295956.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan liquor sales down 42% in April-December, beer collapses 45%||JAIPUR: Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales nosedived by a record 42% in the first nine months of the current financial year, while beer declined sharply by 45% for the same period. Despite the dramatic decline, revenues increased by Rs 800 crore compared to the nine months in 2019-20. During the April-December period this year, the government earned a revenue of Rs 6,854.51 crore compared to Rs 6,049.19 crore for the same period previous year as per the excise department figures. During the year, the state government has increased taxes on liquor by up to 25%, while for beer it has gone up by 35%. The rise in revenue is mainly on account of higher taxes, said liquor shops in the state. Officials in the excise department attributed the drop in volumes to the closure of shops in March, April and some days in May due to the lockdown and night curfews during the peak tourist season and festival months. “The corona pandemic did have a major impact on volumes, but we cannot ignore the illegal trade which is on the rise to take advantage of the price arbitrage. In neighbouring states, liquor is cheaper by 20-25%,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society. Besides, he said the restricted shop timing was another factor fuelling the illegal trade. “After 8pm when the shops are closed in Rajasthan, the illegal trade becomes active. The department catches hold of bootleggers once in a while, but the illegal business is regular, eating into the volumes sold in government licensed retail shops,” Mewara said. Even though the shops opened after May 4, the demand from the hospitality and tourism industry remained almost negligible due to restrictions. When they were allowed to operate bars, the night curfews were imposed. “Due to the corona situation, we did not expect tourists starting from September even as the peak season kicked in during that time. We hoped the city residents would visit the bars. But then, the night curfews were imposed, wiping out all chances of any business,” said Mohit Agarwal, a restaurant owner. While the government may be content in having salvaged the situation by raising taxes and making better revenues compared to the previous year despite the challenges, its licensees are staring down the barrel. “The government has mandated us to sell 10% more. While the government banked on increasing taxes to meet its revenue targets in the absence of volume, the same logic should also apply to us. Instead of a 10% increase in volume, the government should make it an increase in revenue. Now, we are in a difficult situation because the demand is very less and we are required to sell 10% more. Otherwise we have to pay a penalty,” Mewara said. The precarious situation is forcing some retailers to mix Haryana-made cheaper liquor in their stores. “In the current policy environment, they cannot survive if they do not mix cheaper liquor from Haryana. It’s a loss to the state government,” sources in the industry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-liquor-sales-down-42-inapr-dec-beer-collapses-45/articleshow/80294092.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 16, 2021||Goa||With 80 new infections and 61 recoveries, active cases at 865||Panaji: Eighty more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Goa on Friday. Sixty-one were cured and one lost the battle to the virus, taking the tally of active cases to 865 and casualties to 754. A 70-year-old man from Santa Cruz died at Goa Medical College (GMC). The man had uncontrollable diabetes as comorbidity. The state’s case positivity rate came down by one point. the recovery rate did not change. It has been at 97% for the last many days. For the last one month, the recovery rate hasn’t seen much change and has ranged between 96% to 97%. Of 80 cases registered on Friday, 22 were detected in Panaji. The city’s daily average cases had dropped. In South Goa, the daily count of the Margao urban health centre dropped slightly to 92 . It is the only centre that has more cases. The caseload of the Ponda primary health centre marginally rose to 55. The day saw 25 hospital admissions and 52 patients home isolated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-80-new-infections-and-61-recoveries-active-cases-at-865/articleshow/80294094.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||Lion kills leopard in Gir||Rajkot: Lion killed a female leopard aged 9-12 years in Tulsishyam range of Gir (east) division in Junagadh on Thursday. The carcass, which was found in the sanctuary area by the forest guards, did not have anything suspicious near or on it, while pug marks around it suggested that it could have been killed by a lion. Also, there were canine marks on the body of the leopard further confirming that it could have been killed over territorial dispute. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/lion-kills-leopard-in-gir/articleshow/80290870.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan liquor sales down 42% in April-December, beer collapses 45%||JAIPUR: Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales nosedived by a record 42% in the first nine months of the current financial year, while beer declined sharply by 45% for the same period. Despite the dramatic decline, revenues increased by Rs 800 crore compared to the nine months in 2019-20. During the April-December period this year, the government earned a revenue of Rs 6,854.51 crore compared to Rs 6,049.19 crore for the same period previous year as per the excise department figures. During the year, the state government has increased taxes on liquor by up to 25%, while for beer it has gone up by 35%. The rise in revenue is mainly on account of higher taxes, said liquor shops in the state. Officials in the excise department attributed the drop in volumes to the closure of shops in March, April and some days in May due to the lockdown and night curfews during the peak tourist season and festival months. “The corona pandemic did have a major impact on volumes, but we cannot ignore the illegal trade which is on the rise to take advantage of the price arbitrage. In neighbouring states, liquor is cheaper by 20-25%,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society. Besides, he said the restricted shop timing was another factor fuelling the illegal trade. “After 8pm when the shops are closed in Rajasthan, the illegal trade becomes active. The department catches hold of bootleggers once in a while, but the illegal business is regular, eating into the volumes sold in government licensed retail shops,” Mewara said. Even though the shops opened after May 4, the demand from the hospitality and tourism industry remained almost negligible due to restrictions. When they were allowed to operate bars, the night curfews were imposed. “Due to the corona situation, we did not expect tourists starting from September even as the peak season kicked in during that time. We hoped the city residents would visit the bars. But then, the night curfews were imposed, wiping out all chances of any business,” said Mohit Agarwal, a restaurant owner. While the government may be content in having salvaged the situation by raising taxes and making better revenues compared to the previous year despite the challenges, its licensees are staring down the barrel. “The government has mandated us to sell 10% more. While the government banked on increasing taxes to meet its revenue targets in the absence of volume, the same logic should also apply to us. Instead of a 10% increase in volume, the government should make it an increase in revenue. Now, we are in a difficult situation because the demand is very less and we are required to sell 10% more. Otherwise we have to pay a penalty,” Mewara said. The precarious situation is forcing some retailers to mix Haryana-made cheaper liquor in their stores. “In the current policy environment, they cannot survive if they do not mix cheaper liquor from Haryana. It’s a loss to the state government,” sources in the industry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/raj-liquor-sales-down-42-inapr-dec-beer-collapses-45/articleshow/80295958.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 16, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan liquor sales down 42% in April-December, beer collapses 45%||JAIPUR: Indian Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) sales nosedived by a record 42% in the first nine months of the current financial year, while beer declined sharply by 45% for the same period. Despite the dramatic decline, revenues increased by Rs 800 crore compared to the nine months in 2019-20. During the April-December period this year, the government earned a revenue of Rs 6,854.51 crore compared to Rs 6,049.19 crore for the same period previous year as per the excise department figures. During the year, the state government has increased taxes on liquor by up to 25%, while for beer it has gone up by 35%. The rise in revenue is mainly on account of higher taxes, said liquor shops in the state. Officials in the excise department attributed the drop in volumes to the closure of shops in March, April and some days in May due to the lockdown and night curfews during the peak tourist season and festival months. “The corona pandemic did have a major impact on volumes, but we cannot ignore the illegal trade which is on the rise to take advantage of the price arbitrage. In neighbouring states, liquor is cheaper by 20-25%,” said Nilesh Mewara, president of the Raj Liquor Welfare Society. Besides, he said the restricted shop timing was another factor fuelling the illegal trade. “After 8pm when the shops are closed in Rajasthan, the illegal trade becomes active. The department catches hold of bootleggers once in a while, but the illegal business is regular, eating into the volumes sold in government licensed retail shops,” Mewara said. Even though the shops opened after May 4, the demand from the hospitality and tourism industry remained almost negligible due to restrictions. When they were allowed to operate bars, the night curfews were imposed. “Due to the corona situation, we did not expect tourists starting from September even as the peak season kicked in during that time. We hoped the city residents would visit the bars. But then, the night curfews were imposed, wiping out all chances of any business,” said Mohit Agarwal, a restaurant owner. While the government may be content in having salvaged the situation by raising taxes and making better revenues compared to the previous year despite the challenges, its licensees are staring down the barrel. “The government has mandated us to sell 10% more. While the government banked on increasing taxes to meet its revenue targets in the absence of volume, the same logic should also apply to us. Instead of a 10% increase in volume, the government should make it an increase in revenue. Now, we are in a difficult situation because the demand is very less and we are required to sell 10% more. Otherwise we have to pay a penalty,” Mewara said. The precarious situation is forcing some retailers to mix Haryana-made cheaper liquor in their stores. “In the current policy environment, they cannot survive if they do not mix cheaper liquor from Haryana. It’s a loss to the state government,” sources in the industry said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/raj-liquor-sales-down-42-inapr-dec-beer-collapses-45/articleshow/80295957.cms||Srikanta Tripathy
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||‘Proud to be part of historic day’||Kolkata: A day before the country’s biggest adult immunization drive, all eyes are trained on the vaccinators, the senior nurses at multiple hospitals and health centres across the state, who will administer the shot of a lifetime, injecting their colleagues with the first dose of Covishield on Saturday. Most hospitals have chosen senior nurses to be vaccinator officers on the first day of the rollout, after training them and including them in dry runs. A dedicated vaccinator for the past eight years, Moumita Mondal (33), a public health nurse attached with SSKM Hospital, said she had never been more tense in her life. “I have undergone the training and I know the medicine is absolutely safe. I am thankful to my seniors for choosing me to be a vaccinator and proud to be part of the historic day. But I need to be cautious to ensure after injection, the beneficiary does not feel much pain and that no abscess develops. A simple mistake on my part can jeopardize the exercise,” said Mondal, who will inject 100-odd healthcare workers, including nurses, senior doctors, ambulance drivers and junior doctors. Mondal said the vaccination was different this time, because she will inoculate adults, and not children. “I have been part of the Hepatisitis B vaccination drive for adults, but it’s the children whom we immunize mostly. Vaccinating adults is more difficult than a child, but I am ready for the challenge,” Mondal told TOI. Pushing an injection has been part of sister Dola Das’s regular work for about two decades. But the nursing supervisor at AMRI Dhakuria is elated and proud to be chosen as a vaccinator officer at the Dhakuria Hospital site. Das is all prepared for the D Day. “I have been in this profession for almost 20 years. Never have I have felt so privileged to be part of a system, under which the country embarks on a historic journey. I am excited, happy and proud to be a vaccinator officer. The vaccine is a weapon against the virus that has ruined many lives. I will carry out my duty with the hope that this vaccine will provide us the much-needed protection,” said Das.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/proud-to-be-part-of-historic-day/articleshow/80292927.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Poultry farmers seek Center’s help to check bird flu rumours||AMRITSAR: Having suffered losses due to widespread scare of bird flu, the poultry farmers have sought the Centre’s intervention in checking rumours and false fear in the minds of people by giving them the true picture. The Amritsar Poultry Industry Association has written a letter to the Union minister of fishery, animal husbandry and dairy Giriraj Singh, urging him to step in to help the poultry farmers from the alleged false propaganda. Association president G S Bedi claimed that the poultry farmers had been taking a lot of biosecurity measures on the guidelines of WHO and animal husbandry department since the first outbreak of bird flu in the country in 2006. “Since then, we are using disinfectants, sanitizers, and proper vaccination at our poultry farms besides using a lot of immunity building products in the poultry feed to protect the birds from the disease,” said Bedi. Claiming that despite taking all measures, the mortality of some birds is reported in the winter season every year, he rued, “It’s only the poultry farmers who have to bear huge economic losses. We can control the disease, but not the rumours.” He said the association had also written to the minister to check on news channels which sensationalize the issue while compromising accuracy. The association president said the poultry farmers were dealing with the sensitive livestock and during winters the natural mortality increases. “In winter, we maintain 75 to 95° Fahrenheit in poultry sheds as per the age of birds, but wild birds live only at the mercy of nature, so their mortality is always high. Bird flu is always brought in by migratory birds to wild birds, which are not protected by anyone and are likely to be harmed by the sudden change in temperature,” he explained. The association also cited a report prepared by Reshmi Kazi, association fellow at Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defense Studies and Analysis which says “In India, bird flu outbreaks have occurred on 11 occasions since 2006. Though there has been no human death reported, the pandemic has significantly hit the poultry industry and has serious concern within India.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/poultry-farmers-seek-centers-help-to-check-bird-flu-rumours/articleshow/80292880.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||10k recoveries, 11k Covid-19 cases in first half of January||Nagpur: The first fortnight of the New Year has seen 11,588 new Covid-19 cases while 10,593 patients recovered from Vidarbha region in January. For the second day in a row, on Friday, the number of recovered patients was more than the number of new cases. Remarkably, the difference between new cases and recoveries was a significant 150 on Friday as compared to 5 on Thursday. More recoveries and fewer cases indicate improvement in the recovery rate and reduction in the number of patients under treatment. At present, 7,662 patients are under treatment in Vidarbha which is less than 3% of the total 2,63,838 cases reported till date. On Friday, 836 patients recovered from Covid-19 while 686 new cases were detected. Only 11 deaths were reported. Eight of them were reported from Nagpur district alone. It means that the rest of Vidarbha reported only 3 deaths, one each in Amravati, Yavatmal and Buldhana. Interestingly, barring Nagpur, no other district in Nagpur division reported death due to Covid-19 on Friday. Vidarbha’s Covid-19 death toll reached 6,789. The fatality rate is 2.57% which is higher than the state’s average of 2.54% and national average which is 1.44%. Day’s 686 new patients came from Nagpur (318), Yavatmal (79), Amravati (60), Akola (43), Chandrapur (41), Buldhana (36), Bhandara (34), Washim (28), Wardha (18), Gondia (15) and Gadchiroli (14) which took the total to 2.63 lakh. On the other hand, 836 patients recovered in a day from Nagpur (459), Chandrapur (72), Yavatmal (68), Bhandara (66), Amravati (37), Gondia (34), Wardha (30), Buldhana (26), Akola (18), Gadchiroli (14) and Washim (12), taking the total recoveries to 2.49 lakh. Recovery rate of Vidarbha is 94.52% which is still less than the state’s average of 94.78% and national average of more than 96%. Bhandara: On Friday, 608 tests for Covid-19 were conducted in Bhandara district. Out of these, 34 tested positive which took the total number of cases to 12,943. No death was reported in Bhandara after 5 days. Total toll remained unchanged at 313. On the other hand, 66 patients recovered in a day taking the total number of recoveries to 12,272 which means nearly 95% recovery rate. Now, 358 patients are under treatment in Bhandara. Gondia: Gondia district reported 15 new Covid-19 cases while 34 patients recovered from the disease. Total cases of Covid-19 in Gondia surpassed the 14,000 mark on Friday and reached 14,004. On the other hand, recoveries reached 13,593. Recovery rate in the district is 96.75%. No death was reported in a day which kept the toll unchanged at 181. Total 230 patients are under treatment. Gadchiroli: The district reported 14 patients and exactly 14 patients recovered from Covid-19 in a day on Friday. This took the total number of cases of Covid-19 to 9,253 and recoveries to 9,018. No death was reported so the death toll remained 105. The number of patients under treatment also remained unchanged at 130. Gadchiroli’s recovery rate is 97.46%. Akola: More than 700 tests were conducted in Akola in the last 24 hours out of which 43 tested positive taking the total number of Covid-19 cases to 11,083. On the other hand, 18 patients recovered from the disease taking the number of recovered patients to 10,139. No death was reported. Total 618 patients are under treatment in district. Washim: The district reported 28 new cases and 12 recoveries on Friday. No death was reported. The total number of cases reached 6,860, including 6,573 recoveries and 152 deaths due to Covid-19. Washim has 134 patients under treatment. Buldhana: A 55-year-old woman died in Buldhana on Friday taking the total toll of the district to 158. The district received more than 700 test reports of Covid-19 in a day on Friday. Out of them, 36 tested positive. Total 26 patients recovered in a day. Now, Buldhana has total 13,205 cases, 12,720 recoveries and 158 deaths. Total 327 patients are under treatment. Amravati: Sixty new cases on Friday took the district’s caseload to 20,620. One Covid death increased the toll to 408, while 37 recoveries took the number to 19,856. This left 356 patients under treatment. Wardha: Eighteen persons tested positive for Covid infection in the district on Friday, while 30 patients were discharged. With this, the caseload of the district reached 9,641 and recoveries 9,031, while the number of patients was at 319 as on January 15. The new cases detected today include Wardha 12, Arvi 2, Deoli, Hinganghat, Selu and Samudrapur 1 each. No death was reported on Friday and the cumulative toll stands at 291. Yavatmal: The district recorded death of a 65-year-old man from city, which took the Covid toll to 417. Of the 506 test reports received on Friday, 79 were positive. As on January 15, 460 patients are undergoing treatment in various Covid-19 care centres across the district. As on date, 13,544 patients have been treated in the district, of whom 12,670, including today’s 68, have recovered. Chandrapur: The number of patients under treatment in the district scaled down to 287 with the discharge of 72 patients on Friday. There were 41 new detections, while no Covid casualty was reported during the day. The Covid caseload thus has reached 22,819, while the number of total discharged persons climbed to 22,152.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/10k-recoveries-11k-covid-19-cases-in-first-half-of-january/articleshow/80292884.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||HC judge retires without hearing any case physically during his tenure||Chandigarh: Justice S N Satyanarayana, who had joined the Punjab and Haryana high court in May 2020, retired on Thursday without holding any physical court or hearing any cases physically in court during his entire tenure as the judge in Chandigarh. However, he had held court proceedings via video conferencing after joining the HC till his superannuation on January 14. It would be a record of sorts in the Punjab and Haryana high court where a high court judge completed his entire tenure without holding court physically. This happened due to the Covid-19 pandemic because of which the HC has not been holding physical court since March 2020. Justice S N Satyanarayana had joined as a judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court on May 28 after his transfer from Karnataka high court, where he was serving as HC judge since his elevation on June 9, 2008. A total of eight judges of the Punjab and Haryana high court were scheduled to retire in 2021. Of these, two judges - Justice Daya Chaudhary retired on January 9 and Justice S N Satyanarayana retired on January 14. Six other judges, who are due to retire this year include Justice Rekha Mittal on Saturday (January 16), Justice Nirmaljit Kaur on January 27, Justice Hari Pal Verma on April 5, Justice Jitendra Kumar Chauhan on June 5, Justice Arun Kumar Tyagi on August 31 and Justice Sudip Ahluwalia on December 30. With the retirement of four judges this month, the current strength of the judges of the Punjab and Haryana HC would drop to 48 against the sanctioned strength of 85 judges. The Punjab and Haryana high court is one of the largest high courts of the country having jurisdiction over the states of Punjab and Haryana and UT Chandigarh. The limited hearing of cases via video conferencing at the high court and shortage of judges has also increased the pendency of cases at the high court. As per data procured by TOI from the National Judicial Data Grid on Friday, a total of 641,722 cases are currently pending before the Punjab and Haryana high court, of which 374,563 are civil cases and 267,159 criminal cases are pending before the HC. Pendency Before The Punjab And Haryana High Court Period Civil Cases Criminal Cases TOTAL 0-1 years 38,833 62,204 101,037 1-3 years 125,807------- 105,830 231,637 3-5 years---------- 65,887--------- 31,900------------- 97,787 5-10 years-------- 66,398--------- 41,793------------ 108,191 10-20 years------ 67,597--------- 24,954------------ 92,551 20-30 years------ 10,041--------- 478------------- 10,519 TOTAL------------- 374,563------ 267,159 641,722 Data Source: National Judicial Data Grid as on January 14, 2021||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/hc-judge-retires-without-hearing-any-case-physically-during-his-tenure/articleshow/80292858.cms||Ajay Sura
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Man falls off building, lands on gate spikes||Hyderabad: Kite flying claimed three lives in the city with a 44-year-old man and two boys dying in different incidents during Sankranti on Thursday. This despite the police issuing caution on flying kites. TRS member, B Krishna (44), slipped from the top of a three-storey building while flying a kite in Chikkadpally and fell directly on the gate below. As he fell directly on the gate spikes, his chest was pierced. Krishna died on the spot. Chikkadpally police said Krishna along with a few others were partying on the terrace of his neighbour’s building in Viveknagar. The incident sent shock waves in the area as a large number of people gathered at the spot. Police said Krishna stood close to the parapet wall on the terrace while flyingh the kite. While he took the support of the parapet wall, it suddenly broke and he came crashing down. A case of suspicious death was filed but police ruled out any foul-play. In the second incident, K Rakesh (13) was flying kite at his neighbour’s house in Yacharam when the manja got entangled between the high-tension power cables. He tried to untangle the manja by using an iron rod. However, the boy suffered an electric shock soon after the rod came in contact with the cable and died on the spot. In Jeedimetla, M Charith Kumar (12) died after he suffered an electric shock while flying a kite on the terrace of his house. He took support of a rod to stand while flying the kite. The iron pipe was connected to a water pumping motor. Two days ago, a girl fell down from a building while flying a kite in Jangaon. However, she escaped with injuries.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/man-falls-off-building-lands-on-gate-spikes/articleshow/80294127.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Rs 4 lakh burgled from potato chips firm godown||Ludhiana: Some unidentified burglars targeted the godown of a potato chips company in Alamgir village of Dehlon in the wee hours of Friday and decamped with Rs 4 lakh in cash. The matter came to light when the godown’s caretaker, Aman, reached there in the morning. The Dehlon police have registered a case against unidentified persons. Munish Kumar, the supplier of the company from Chandigarh, said Aman informed him about the theft on Friday morning, after which he reached Ludhiana. SHO of Dehlon police station inspector Sukhdev Singh said according to the complainant, the cash was kept in an almirah locker in the basement of the godown. Some unidentified persons scaled the boundary wall, broke open the locker and escaped with the cash, he said. The police officer said there was no security guard in the godown and no CCTV is installed there. Besides Aman, about 40 people work for the company, who visit there every day. The police believe that it is the handiwork of someone, who knew that the cash is kept in the basement of the godown. The SHO said a case has been registered under IPC sections 457 (trespassing) and 380 (theft). Further probe is going on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/rs-4-lakh-burgled-from-potato-chips-firm-godown/articleshow/80292857.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Steps to demolish old steel bridge over Kollidam river||Trichy: Ending uncertainty, the state highways department has mooted preliminary measures for dismantling the old steel bridge across the Kollidam river. Locals have been batting for strengthening the bridge and preserve it as a heritage structure ever since a portion of it was damaged due to floods in 2018. A source from the state highways department (construction and maintenance circle, Trichy) said that Rs 3.1 crore was sanctioned to dismantle the bridge built in 1928. Although it was decommissioned in 2014, it remained an iconic landmark for senior citizens. According to officials, the move was taken as it is beyond repair. “Repairing the bridge is an expensive and unviable task. A tender has been floated to dismantle the structure in six months,” a source with the highways department said. With the riverbed being frequently used by washermen, the safety of public was also considered, an official added. “At least the intact portion could be strengthened and retained to serve as a historical monument instead of demolishing it,” C Balasubramanian, advisor, Trichy district Exnora added. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/steps-to-demolish-old-steel-bridge-over-kollidam-river/articleshow/80294111.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||3,145 new Covid-19 cases and 45 fatalities in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: On the eve of the Covid-19 vaccination rollout, the state reported a dip in new cases and deaths on Friday. A total of 3,145 cases and 45 deaths were reported in the state, taking the case tally to 19,84,768 and the toll to 50,336. The dip was registered after two days of reporting over 3,500 cases and 70 deaths. The city registered 574 cases and eight deaths, continuing with the steady decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The mortality was lower than 10 deaths for a second day in a row. Of the eight victims, six had comorbidities and were over 60 years of age. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the city is over 3 lakh and the toll is at 11,229 since March. Despite the steep drop in cases since September, BMC officials said they were playing it safe because of the worry of mutant strains in circulation abroad. The BMC on Friday issued a circular stating that schools in Greater Mumbai that were supposed to reopen by January 16 would remain closed till further notice. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state government's task force on Covid-19, said the pandemic is on a decline across the country, but the Mumbai “tail” seems to be steady between 500 and 600 cases for over two months now. “This is a thick tail. It should have ideally reduced further in this time,” he said. Experts said that despite the start of the vaccination drive on Saturday, people should not ignore Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks and frequent handwashing. A BMC doctor said that face masks will continue to be the best vaccine against Covid for another six to eight months. Active cases in the state declined on Friday. There were a total of 3,500 discharges, taking the total recoveries to over 18.8 lakh. Across the state 52,152 people were under treatment, of which 7,107 were in Mumbai. In Thane, 74 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 57,159. With one Covid death, the toll increased to 1,282. In Navi Mumbai, authorities added 66 cases, taking the total to 52,054. Two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,074.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/3145-new-covid-19-cases-and-45-fatalities-in-state/articleshow/80294167.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BMC tells schools to stay shut, rest of Maharashtra to reopen from January 27||MUMBAI: The school education department has decided to allow physical sessions for Classes V to VIII from January 27 across the state making Maharashtra among the first to do so. The Brihanmumbai Muncipal Corporation, however, has decided to keep schools shut until further notice. Minister for school education, Varsha Gaikwad, told the media that the local authority should take responsibility for safety measures. “The state will issue a separate standard operating procedure (SOP) soon about how to go ahead with the reopening of schools in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic,” she said. Many cities are still reporting fresh cases of Covid-19. “It will be necessary to have parents’ consent for students to attend school physically. Apart from other measures, teachers will need to undergo RT-PCR test,” said the minister. Over 15 lakh students have been attending school daily after the state allowed physical sessions for classes IX to XII from November 23. Schools have restarted in all districts except Mumbai and Thane. Gaikwad said chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had given the nod for reopening schools, but advised her to ensure the health of students and teachers was given priority.  BMC decided to extend restrictions and asked schools to remain shut until further notice due to the prevalence of a second wave and in view of the situation in other states. It issued a circular to this effect on Friday. However, based on a previous notification issued on Tuesday, the civic body will allow schools to host offline board exams and pre-boards if mandated by the various education boards. “If the boards make it mandatory for schools to hold prelims, they can conduct the exams, however schools cannot decide on their own,” said Mahesh Palkar, BMC education officer. The civic body had allowed board exams to be conducted after a representation from Cambridge International-affiliated schools which begin their exams from January 23. Schools in the city were hopeful of reopening in the coming week. “We want students to attend school for at least a few days before they appear for the board exams. We have scheduled Covid-19 tests for our teachers over the weekend,” said a CBSE school principal. The state school education department presented a ‘Vision-2025’ document to the CM on Friday. Thackeray asked the department to set a target to curb the dropout percentage and to develop about 5,000 ‘adarsh’ (ideal) schools across the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/classes-v-viii-to-reopen-on-jan-27-but-not-in-mumbai/articleshow/80295060.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 16, 2021||Navi-mumbai||3,145 new Covid-19 cases and 45 fatalities in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: On the eve of the Covid-19 vaccination rollout, the state reported a dip in new cases and deaths on Friday. A total of 3,145 cases and 45 deaths were reported in the state, taking the case tally to 19,84,768 and the toll to 50,336. The dip was registered after two days of reporting over 3,500 cases and 70 deaths. The city registered 574 cases and eight deaths, continuing with the steady decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The mortality was lower than 10 deaths for a second day in a row. Of the eight victims, six had comorbidities and were over 60 years of age. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the city is over 3 lakh and the toll is at 11,229 since March. Despite the steep drop in cases since September, BMC officials said they were playing it safe because of the worry of mutant strains in circulation abroad. The BMC on Friday issued a circular stating that schools in Greater Mumbai that were supposed to reopen by January 16 would remain closed till further notice. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state government's task force on Covid-19, said the pandemic is on a decline across the country, but the Mumbai “tail” seems to be steady between 500 and 600 cases for over two months now. “This is a thick tail. It should have ideally reduced further in this time,” he said. Experts said that despite the start of the vaccination drive on Saturday, people should not ignore Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks and frequent handwashing. A BMC doctor said that face masks will continue to be the best vaccine against Covid for another six to eight months. Active cases in the state declined on Friday. There were a total of 3,500 discharges, taking the total recoveries to over 18.8 lakh. Across the state 52,152 people were under treatment, of which 7,107 were in Mumbai. In Thane, 74 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 57,159. With one Covid death, the toll increased to 1,282. In Navi Mumbai, authorities added 66 cases, taking the total to 52,054. Two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,074.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/3145-new-covid-19-cases-and-45-fatalities-in-state/articleshow/80299841.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 16, 2021||Thane||3,145 new Covid-19 cases and 45 fatalities in Maharashtra||MUMBAI: On the eve of the Covid-19 vaccination rollout, the state reported a dip in new cases and deaths on Friday. A total of 3,145 cases and 45 deaths were reported in the state, taking the case tally to 19,84,768 and the toll to 50,336. The dip was registered after two days of reporting over 3,500 cases and 70 deaths. The city registered 574 cases and eight deaths, continuing with the steady decline in Covid-19 cases and deaths. The mortality was lower than 10 deaths for a second day in a row. Of the eight victims, six had comorbidities and were over 60 years of age. The tally of Covid-19 cases in the city is over 3 lakh and the toll is at 11,229 since March. Despite the steep drop in cases since September, BMC officials said they were playing it safe because of the worry of mutant strains in circulation abroad. The BMC on Friday issued a circular stating that schools in Greater Mumbai that were supposed to reopen by January 16 would remain closed till further notice. Dr Shashank Joshi, who is a member of the state government's task force on Covid-19, said the pandemic is on a decline across the country, but the Mumbai “tail” seems to be steady between 500 and 600 cases for over two months now. “This is a thick tail. It should have ideally reduced further in this time,” he said. Experts said that despite the start of the vaccination drive on Saturday, people should not ignore Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing face masks and frequent handwashing. A BMC doctor said that face masks will continue to be the best vaccine against Covid for another six to eight months. Active cases in the state declined on Friday. There were a total of 3,500 discharges, taking the total recoveries to over 18.8 lakh. Across the state 52,152 people were under treatment, of which 7,107 were in Mumbai. In Thane, 74 new cases were reported, taking the tally to 57,159. With one Covid death, the toll increased to 1,282. In Navi Mumbai, authorities added 66 cases, taking the total to 52,054. Two deaths were reported, taking the toll to 1,074.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/3145-new-covid-19-cases-and-45-fatalities-in-state/articleshow/80299840.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Woman conned of gold chain, one held||Trichy: One of the two women who tricked a 39-year-old woman to give away her seven sovereign gold ornaments to them in Srirangam in Trichy a few days back was arrested on Thursday. The Srirangam police had a peculiar case of cheating when R Chandra, 39 of Srirangam in Trichy lodged a complaint on Thursday against two women – Indirani and Backiyavathi who cheated her on January 06, 2021. According to the complaint by Chandra, she and her neighbour Ambika were on their way to market by walk around 10.30 am on January 6. When they were walking on Keela Adayavalanjan Street, Indirani and Backiyavathi approached Chandra and sought help to meet an emergency medical expense for them. The women showed a ‘gold coin’ to her and asked her to give them Rs 6,000 in return of the coin. As she decided to help them, she took her to a nearby jewellery shop and weighed the gold coin. The jewellery shop owner had valued the gold coin for Rs 10,500. Chandra took the women to her house and gave them Rs 6,000. After receiving the cash, the women showed 20 more ‘gold coins’ and asked Chandra to give her money equal to the coin.Believing in their words, Chandra decided to give them money and claimed that she gave her seven sovereign gold chain to them. And they left the spot with the chain. Three days after the incident, Chandra brought all the gold coins to the jewellery shop and weighed them. The shop owner found them to be fake and returned the coins to her. The woman said that she discussed the issue with her family members and filed the complaint more than a week later. Acting on the complaint, the police arrested Indirani but Backiavathi was on the run. Indirani was remanded. The police recovered the gold chain worth Rs 2.45 lakhs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/woman-conned-of-gold-chain-one-held/articleshow/80294100.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Supplementary challan filed against Saini, Umranangal||Bathinda: The special investigation team (SIT) probing into the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing cases of October 14, 2015, filed a supplementary challan on Friday in Faridkot court against former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini and suspended IG Paramraj Singh Umranangal in Behbal Kalan police firing case, wherein two protesters were killed. Ilaqa magistrate Suresh Kumar, in whose court the challan was filed, issued a notice to both Saini and Umranangal for February 9, asking them to appear it. The two were nominated into the case on September 27, 2020. When the firing happened on October 14, 2015, Saini was then DGP of Punjab and Umranagal was posted as police commissioner in Ludhiana. The SIT mentioned that Umranangal was specially called to diffuse the situation at Kotkapura and he was continuously in touch with Saini on the night of October 13 till the wee hours of October 14. Police had taken action at protesters in Kotkapura in early morning and later fired on the protesters at Behbal Kalan, wherein two protesters — Krishan Bhagwan Singh and Gurjit Singh — were killed. Earlier, challan was presented in the court against retired SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma and other cops. Both Saini and Umranangal have been accused of conspiracy. Umranangal had recently approached the high court to change SIT member Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Inspector Pardeep Singh, who was assistant to then SSP Sharma, was also an accused in the case but later turned approver.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/supplementary-challan-filed-against-saini-umranangal/articleshow/80292882.cms||Neel Kamal
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||Ex-dacoit held after 26 years||Vadodara/ Anand: A team of local crime branch (LCB) of Anand has arrested a man for dacoity and murder which was committed before 26 years. The accused was nabbed from near Vasad chowkdi . The accused Gorsinh Parghi, now 70, was wanted in connection to a dacoity cum murder case registered in 1994. Parghi was allegedly part of a gang that had carried out dacoity at a residence on Bhalej Road in Anand district. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/ex-dacoit-held-after-26-years/articleshow/80290904.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Release degree to SC students in 3 days, institutes told||Chandigarh: Taking note of withholding of degrees of SC students by private colleges/institutions owing to non-payment of fees after the closure of post-matric scheme for SC students by the central government in 2017, the Punjab Government on Friday directed all the institutions to release degrees to such students within three days. The decision was taken during the meeting of the high-powered committee of the group of ministers (GoM) under the chairmanship of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal to decide on the pending issues of 2017-18, 2018-19 and 2019-20 as a result of closure of the scheme. After the meeting, Manpreet said that the GoM has extended an invitation to all the colleges and institutions for comprehensive discussions on the pending issues and explore ways for their redressal on January 19. The minister further said the colleges and institutions have been given three days to release degrees to the students. “The meeting would also brainstorm about the ways and means to settle the pending liabilities of three years,” Manpreet said, adding that releasing of degrees within the stipulated three days’ period would be a pre-requisite for the institutions to attend the meeting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/release-degree-to-sc-students-in-3-days-institutes-told/articleshow/80292902.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Accurate forecast: Doppler weather radar comes up at Kufri||Shimla: Union minister for earth sciences, health and family welfare and science and technology Dr Harsh Vardhan virtually inaugurated the first Doppler weather radar (DWR) installed at Kufri near Shimla in Himachal Pradesh and at Mukteshwar, Nainital in Uttarakhand on the occasion of the 146th foundation day of India Meteorological Department. He said accurate weather forecast was not only vital for farmers to protect their crops from natural calamities, but also helped in tourism development as tourists can decide about their travel plans according to the climate. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said two more radars would be installed at Mandi and Dalhousie in Chamba district. He said the site had already been finalised at Mandi. He said at present, the radar installed at Kufri was on a test mode for a period of two weeks and thereafter its data would be used for forecasting purposes. He said the range of this radar was up to 100 kms in radial distance. He said it would observe and provide weather data of 100 kms in all directions, which would be used for forecasting purpose especially for short-range forecast. He said more précised area-specific weather forecast and warning would be issued for a particular place, for weather phenomenon like thunderstorm, lighting, hailstorm, heavy rainfall/snowfall, gusty winds etc. Thakur said basic information from DWR would be obtained using the principal of reflectivity- a measure of water content in the cloud, and it would give the base and height of the cloud including area of the particular cloud cell and movement and direction of the clouds. He said this centre would help the horticulturists and farmers of the state by providing accurate information on weather. He said DWR Kufri would run round the clock and it is fully automatic and computerised programme based. He said it would transmit the data in various digital formats and picture forms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/accurate-forecast-doppler-weather-radar-comes-up-at-kufri/articleshow/80292896.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Pak intruder shot by BSF in Gudaspur||Gurdaspur: A Pakistani intruder shot by the Border Security Force (BSF) along the international border in Punjab’s Gurdaspur sector on Thursday night was identified by the Pakistan Rangers on Friday morning. In a flag meeting held between the BSF and Pakistani Rangers, the latter not only identified the intruder as a Pak national but also agreed to receive his body, a senior official said. “In 99% cases of shooting down of intruders by us, Pakistan Rangers neither accept them as being a Pakistani national nor (intruders) having crossed the international border from their side. But strangely today, they not only immediately identified the intruder but also agreed to receive his body,” said a senior official of BSF said. Earlier on December 16 night, BSF personnel in Amritsar sector had killed two Pakistani armed intruders and had seized arms, ammunition and drugs. “As Pakistan Rangers had just refused to either identify them or even accept that they had infiltrated into India from their side of the border, the two Pak intruders were cremated in India,” said sources. An official release issued by the BSF stated that a patrolling party had detected suspicious movement of an intruder from the Pakistan side near the barbed fence inside Indian territory and troops opened fire. “Since nothing was found in possession of the killed Pak intruder, we believe he was sent to execute some operation with the help of local militants who may have been successful in retrieving a part of the consignment of arms and ammunition air-dropped by Pakistan. As Pak Rangers agreed to accept his body, it means the intruder was known to them,” said sources. On December 19, the Punjab Police had seized 11 Austrian Arges Type HG 84 grenades which were dropped in Salach village near Dorangala town of Gurdaspur district. Two days later, they had found an AK 47 rifle, one magazine and 30 rounds in a mustard field in Wazirpur village. The ammunition is believed to have been airdropped by Pak militants into the Indian territory.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pak-intruder-shot-by-bsf-in-gudaspur/articleshow/80292885.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Nine IAS officersallocated to T||Hyderabad: The Central government on Friday allocated nine IAS officers of 2019 batch to Telangana. These nine officers are among 179 IAS officers allocated to various states in the country. The IAS officers allocated to Telangana were Mayank Mittal, Apurv Chauhan, Abhishek Augustya, Manda Makarandu, Ashwini Tanaji Wakade, B Rahul, Pratibha Singh, Praful Desai and P Kadhiravan. Rahul and Makarandu belong to Telangana and got allotted to their home state. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nine-ias-officersallocated-to-t/articleshow/80294163.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||2 arrested with 30kg opium in Karnal||Karnal: The special task force (STF) of Haryana police arrested two Punjab-based men with 30.34kg of opium in Karnal district. The accused have been identified as Darshan Singh of Luhand village of Patiala district and Devender Singh alias Vicky of Bhuri Majra village of Patiala district in Punjab. They were arrested near Andhera village in Karnal district on Thursday night. Karnal superintendent of police (SP) Ganga Ram Punia said that acting on a tip-off, a team led by inspector Pawan arrested the duo near Andhera village in Karnal district on Thursday night when they were coming from Gauhati. The police recovered 30.34kg of opium from them. Punia said Darshan Singh was the owner of the truck and Devender was a driver. They had brought the opium from Gauhati after unloading the iron rods there. During the preliminary investigation, it was also revealed that they had purchased the contraband for Rs 1.25 lakh per kg. They used to sell the narcotics in Haryana and Punjab area at high prices. The SP said a case under the NDPS Act has been registered against the duo at Sadar police station in Karnal. The accused was produced before a local court which them on police remand. The case has been handed over to the Narcotics cell of Karnal police for further probe.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/2-arrested-with-30kg-opium-in-karnal/articleshow/80292917.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||66L saplings planted to mark 400th Parkash Purb||Chandigarh: The Punjab government has so far planted more than 66 lakh saplings in 6,986 villages to commemorate the 400th birth anniversary of the ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur with the objective of enhancing greenery in the state. The sapling plantation drive is in progress in remaining villages. Punjab forest minister Sadhu Singh Dharmsot said under the state government’s plan to combat climate change and increase greenery, the forest cover in the state was being increased on a large scale. He said that 76.25 lakh saplings were planted in 12,986 villages in connection with the 550th birth anniversary celebrations of Guru Nanak Dev. The state government had also set up 432 ‘Nanak Bagichis’ across the state to commemorate the 550th birth anniversary of Guru Nanak Dev. “With these green cover campaigns of Guru Sahib’s message about the environment could also be turned into a ground reality,” said Dharmsot. The minister said in all 2.45 crore saplings had been planted by the state government during the last four years under various schemes. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/66l-saplings-planted-to-mark-400th-parkash-purb/articleshow/80292912.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Victory flame of ’71 war reaches Hisar||Hisar: Victory flame reached Hisar Cantonment on Friday to commemorate 50 years of the 1971 Indo-Pal war and mark 2021 as “Swarnim Vijay Varsh”. The family of two martyrs of the war from Hisar and Army officers were also present at that time. The flame was welcomed by Maj Gen Devendra Kumar, GoC (general officer commanding) of the Dot on Target division. The ceremony was attended by all military personnel as well as a large number of ex-servicemen and their families. War veterans of 1971 and their next of kin humbly attended the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/victory-flame-of-71-war-reaches-hisar/articleshow/80292946.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||Four-month-old lion cub killed in infighting in Jasadhar||Rajkot: A four-month-old lion cub was killed in infighting in a farm in Khilvad village near Jasadhar forest range in Gir (east) division of Junagadh on Friday. Forest official said that pug mark of some adult lions on the farmland and marks of canine teeth on the cub's body suggested that it may have been killed during infighting. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/four-month-old-lion-cub-killed-in-infighting-in-jasadhar/articleshow/80290941.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Madurai||143 apply for BDU vice-chancellor post||Trichy: A total of 143 candidates from across the country have applied for the post of vice-chancellor of Bharathidasan University, according to the shortlist released by the VC search committee on Friday. This is 41% less compared to last time when a total of 241 candidates applied for the post. Academicians say the search committee has managed to eliminate non-serious candidates from applying for the post unlike in the past. The list of shortlisted candidates was released by the search committee on the university website. Academicians point out that the application format was slightly different from last time with the search committee asking for valid prof of academic and administrative experience. This kept away non-serious candidates as the evidence of their academic experience was sought along with the application. “A majority of the applicants have applied for one university or the other in the past for the post of vice-chancellor,” said M S Balamurugan, general secretary, Association of University Teachers. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/madurai/143-apply-for-bdu-vice-chancellor-post/articleshow/80294204.cms||Sampath Kumar
January 16, 2021||Agra||Cold conditions continue in western UP, fog disrupts normal life||Agra/Bareilly/Meerut: Icy winds continued to sweep the western Uttar Pradesh and the sun hidden beneath the fog and haze failed to offer any relief to people of the region on Friday. Minimum temperature in Agra dipped to 3.7 degree Celsius, four notches less than the normal and sky remained partly covered with clouds throughout the day. The maximum temperature was recorded 22 degrees amid cold winds which blew at a speed of 12 kilometers per hour. The weatherman has forecast tough days ahead. According to the meteorological department, the mercury level is likely to drop below 3 degree Celsius in the next two days. Due to the dense fog, traffic movement on highways and major roads remained affected till afternoon. And several trains passing through the region were running later by several hours. Tourists at Taj Mahal were upset as they were not able to see the monument properly due to dense fog. Meanwhile, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) operated gas heaters at over 12 places in the evening to relieve people staying outdoors. Besides, people also set up bonfires. Besides Agra, cold wave swept Firozabad, Mathura, Etah, Aligarh and Mainpuri. According to the meteorological department, the region will continue to witness dense fog in morning and evening for the next two days. On Friday, the Air Quality index (AQI) of Agra was recorded at 337 which was in a “very poor” category, data released by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). In Bareilly, the minimum temperature plunged to 4.9 degrees, three notches below the normal temperature. While the maximum temperature was recorded at 18.2 degrees, two notches below the normal. Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted dense to very dense fog in the days to come. Meanwhile, there was some relief from the biting cold in Moradabad on Friday as the mercury climbed to 7 degrees, two notches above than the previous day. In Meerut, the maximum and minimum temperatures were 19.2 degrees and 6.6 degrees respectively. “Dense fog was reported in the city with reduced visibility of 50 metre. The temperatures will rise at the end of next week,” said Brij Mohan, in-charge of the meteorological department in Meerut.(With inputs from Maria Khan & Ishita Bhatia)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/cold-conditions-continue-in-western-up-fog-disrupts-normal-life/articleshow/80290945.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Why water disruption is now 24x7 headache||NEW DELHI: At a time when Delhi plans to provide 24x7 water supply, even the basic twice-a-day provision is frequently disrupted due to raw water contamination. The ammonia level in the Yamuna was recorded at 3.4 parts per million on Thursday when Delhi Jal Board can treat the compound’s presence only up to 0.9ppm. This led to supply cuts and alerts to citizens to use tap water very judiciously. This is the third day in row that the ammonia level in the river water has been above the treatable limit. On Thursday morning at 6.30am, DJB reported that dumping of industrial waste in Haryana had led to the ammonia level rising to 3.2ppm, chlorides to 112ppm and turbidity was at 34 units, resulting in blackish water. The water utility tried to remedy the situation by diluting this contaminated supply with water from other sources. High ammonia levels directly impact the functioning of the Chandrawal, Wazirabad and, to some extent, the Okhla water treatment plants, cumulatively affecting a third of the city’s daily water supply. The scale and frequency of pollution affecting the city’s water supply can be gauged from the fact that in 2020, the ammonia level remained above the treatable limits cumulatively for over one month (33 days). So, while DJB has repeatedly argued that the source of the contamination lies beyond its jurisdiction in Haryana’s Sonipat and Panipat, its officials revealed that the water utility has been forced to plan the raising of the ammonia treating capacity at Wazirabad and Chandrawal water treatment plants up to 4.0ppm through advanced ozonation plants. “The upgrade will take care of 95% of ammonia spikes. The project is expected to be completed in the next 8-12 months,” a DJB official said. Records show January is the worst affected month. Ammonia levels between January 4 and 31in 2019 varied between 0.76 and 2.2ppm, while in 2020, in two elevated ammonia presence lasting 12 days, the readings were 2.4-2.7ppm. Delhi has seen 20 multi-day episodes of raised ammonia levels in the last two years. DJB claims that the two main sources of ammonia are the dyeing operators and industrial units in Panipat. The polluted water intermixes with industrial waste in Sonipat, where two canals carrying fresh water and sewage spiked with industrial pollutants run parallel to each other with a sand wall only a few inches wide separating them. “A breach in the wall or overspilling between the two drains contaminate Delhi’s raw water,” pointed out a DJB official. “We have asked Haryana to concretise the wall, but there’s been no progress because of a dispute about who bears the cost of this.” While Delhi needs to expedite the long-delayed upgradation of its water treatment plants, DJB officials argue interstate agencies like Central Pollution Control Board and Upper Yamuna River Board also need to intervene and seek reinforcement and concretisation of the perilous wall between the drains. They also need to crack down on the Panipat units releasing untreated industrial effluent and carry out regular monitoring of ammonia levels upstream of Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/why-water-disruption-is-now-24x7-headache/articleshow/80294180.cms||Paras Singh
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Woman, kin harassed by 2 bike-borne men on Western Express Highway||MUMBAI: A 21-year-old woman and her family travelling on the Western Express Highway (WEH) on Thursday night were harassed by two bike-borne men for 15 minutes. The men, who did not have masks or helmets on, yelled expletives and made obscene gestures, while driving close to the car. The woman shot a video of some of their antics and uploaded it on Twitter, tagging the Mumbai Police. Senior inspector Sunaina Nate of Vakola police said they would review CCTV camera footage from the WEH and register a complaint. The woman, a Santacruz resident, was heading to Prabhadevi with her family. Her father was driving, and she was in the passenger seat. Her 18-year-old sister and grandmother were in the back. Around 10.10pm, when they were at Vakola on WEH, two men came riding rashly on a motorcycle. Their bike did not have a numberplate. “The rider was speeding and narrowly avoided colliding with our car. He was driving zig-zag throughout,” the woman told TOI. The rider sped up to the driver’s side and hurled abuses. Then, he and the pillion rider targeted the girls. “They hurled abuses in Hindi and English and made obscene gestures. My father drove away. The men changed lanes and came up to my side. I recorded them on my phone. They were drinking out of a glass bottle. Till we crossed Kherwadi, the harassment went on. They turned to go towards Mahim,” said the woman.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/woman-kin-harassed-by-2-bike-borne-men-on-weh/articleshow/80295072.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||MedBros seeks a week’s extension||Pune: MedBros Healthcare Private Limited, the agency which runs the jumbo Covid-19 units at the College of Engineering, Pune (CoEP), and Annasaheb Magar stadium has requested a week’s extension to facilitate smooth handover of the facility to both the civic bodies. MedBros officials said it was yet to receive pending payments for December and January and the abrupt termination of staff could lead to chaos. Both the facilities received an official letter from the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) to close the facilities on January 15. The letter stated that there will be no liability on PMRDA to provide accommodation and food for the staff of the jumbo units after January 16. Shreyansh Kapale, director, CoEP jumbo unit, said they had demanded extension for at least a week, but did not receive a positive response from the PMRDA. “We discharged 14 patients on Friday, while three were shifted to the Sassoon General Hospital. The staff is still awaiting pending salary,” he said. PMRDA chief engineer Vivek Kharwadkar said, “We are closing down the operator services. We will make sure the facility is maintained.”  “Extension is not warranted at this point in time. We are mandated by the directives given to us by the steering committee. Right now, there is no need of the service due to less patients,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/medbros-seeks-a-weeks-extension/articleshow/80293000.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Pawar ‘disturbed’ by case fallout, speaks to joint CP||Sources said a section of Munde’s supporters within the NCP feels the party leadership must wait for the outcome of the police investigation before taking a decision. The woman had on January 10 lodged a complaint with Oshiwara police saying that Munde had sexually abused her since 2006 and that he should be booked for rape. Police have not lodged an FIR yet but have said they will call Munde and the woman for recording statements. Munde has said he had a consensual relationship with the woman’s sister and even had two children from her. Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut, asked about the case, said that “family matters must not be used for political purposes” and that “the NCP leadership is strong enough to take a decision”. Munde, a prominent leader of the OBC community, has a significant following within NCP as well as in the Marathwada region. However, if a senior NCP leader is to be believed, Pawar is disturbed over the damage caused to the party following the accusations against Munde. Besides meeting senior party leaders, Pawar had a brief meeting on Thursday with joint commissioner of police (law and order) Vishwas Nangre Patil at his residence to take stock of the situation. Pawar sought information on the status of the case and on how such complaints were dealt with. He was informed that the complaint was being looked into as per guidelines prescribed by the Supreme Court. A close relative of Munde had on November 12 last year lodged a complaint against the woman, alleging she had been blackmailing the minister and demanding a huge sum and had even threatened him to defame him on social media. Denying all charges, Munde in a statement on Wednesday admitted he had been in a relationship with the complainant’s elder sister. “My entire family as well as my wife are aware of my relationship with the woman. I am taking care of the two children. When there were attempts to blackmail me, I approached Bombay high court and explained the situation. The HC then restrained the woman from publishing my pictures or articles against me on social media. Following the HC order, her younger sister began blackmailing me.” While most BJP leaders demanded Munde’s resignation, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis was guarded in his reaction. “We should wait for the probe’s outcome,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pawar-disturbed-by-case-fallout-speaks-to-joint-cp/articleshow/80286033.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||BJP slams BMC for trimming garden budget||Mumbai: BJP on Friday slammed BMC for cutting gardens department and garden infrastructure cell (GIC) funds by 25%, and not using a large chunk of it. Pankaj Yadhav (BJP) raised the issue at the gardens and markets committee meeting. Vinod Mishra (BJP) said the party had formed a shadow committee of BMC committees and corporators were now taking up issues in civic committees and panels. “It is unfair that BMC cut the budget for open spaces when people want to use them the most. Because parks and gardens in the city are being neglected. This is one civic facility citizens use everyday, and it is free,” Mishra said. BMC cut its budget for developing parks and gardens by 25% this financial year and of the remaining amount, 85% is lying unused, which will lapse in March. Activists and Opposition parties alleged that with one of the steepest cuts, parks and gardens won’t see any new development this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/bjp-slams-bmc-for-trimming-garden-budget/articleshow/80292406.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Dean Dr Keoliya first to be vaccinated at IGGMCH||Nagpur: Dr Ajay Keoliya, dean of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital, Nagpur, was the first person to be administered dose of Covishield vaccine at the hospital, which is one of the vaccination centres in Nagpur. It was a historic moment for the hospital and its staff who fought against the Covid-19 onslaught like the rest of the country in the absence of any specific and proven medicine or therapy. At 10.45am, Keoliya arrived at the special immunization room in the community medicine department where the vaccination programme is being held. Surgery department Dr Sunil Lanjewar accompanied Keoliya. Within 5 minutes, Keoliya was vaccinated and asked to proceed to the observation room. The dean termed it as a big moment for all at the hospital. “We thank the government for keeping health workers on priority. The vaccine has been prepared through scientific research and after thorough trials. We should have no doubts about it,” he said on fears about adverse reactions to the vaccine. Keoliya did not complain of any problem after more than 30 minutes. After Dr Lanjewar, Department head and professor Dr Ashok Jadhav was the third person to be vaccinated. The hospital staff was already present while others were yet to arrive. Hence, none of the beneficiary turned up for the next half an hour. Some curious low risk individuals also turned up at the centre like lift man Hemraj Bhaghel outside the vaccination room who inquired if his name was there. Staff told him he can get the jab only if he has received any message. The hospital staff made complete arrangements at its community medicine department. Associate professor Dr Jyostana Deshmukh and assistant professor Dr Nisha Agrawal are monitoring the process to ensure a smooth roll out. Dr Deshmukh, who is nodal officer for the drive, said a list of 100 front line workers has been finalized and they would be vaccinated during the day. “Around 15 to 20 people will get the jab in an hour. Only the first person takes more time before the activity picks pace,” said Dr Jadhav. The vaccination room has a separate entry and exit. Two residents doctors are deployed in the observation room where beneficiaries will have to wait for 30 minutes after receiving the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dean-dr-keoliya-first-to-be-vaccinated-at-iggmch/articleshow/80298648.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Trichy fish market to get Rs 13cr revamp, cold storage||Trichy: Trichy corporation has decided to redevelop the century-old fish market on East Boulevard (EB) Road under smart cities mission. The market will be demolished and reconstructed as a two-storey market with cold storage facility at an outlay of Rs 13 crore.Trichy Corporation sources said that the existing market was identified as an ageing structure as only maintenance work was taken up while reconstruction was long due. Utilizing the smart cities mission fund available, the civic body will construct two-storey RCC market complex with ground floor earmarked for retail shops and first floor for refrigeration units.For now, the market has a conventional tiled roof. The civic body has retrieved and identified close to 17,000 square feet space for the proposal through which 150 shops will come on both floors combined for seafood, chicken and mutton stalls. So far, as two-wheeler parking is unavailable in the fish market, officials said that redeveloped fish market complex will facilitate exclusive space to park 100 two-wheelers at a time. “Proper passage for people to access the shops will be facilitated. A tender is floated, the civil work may go on for 2 years,” an official source with Trichy corporation said. Till the construction work concludes, the existing vendors will be relocated to a temporary place near the market.Simultaneously, the civic body in a separate plan has chalked out Rs 6 crore proposal to rehabilitate the small market complex near Maharani theatre on East Boulevard Road. The 11,000 square feet market will be reconstructed to facilitate 42 retail vegetable shops on the ground floor and 17 commercial outlets on the first floor. The facility will get space to park 160 two-wheelers. So far, the civic body has not included any market proposals under the smart cities mission programme, the redevelopment of two markets in Gandhi market vicinity are maiden market proposals. Corporation officials said that street vendors occupying road space near EB Road will be relocated after the completion of the small market within a year. The two proposals besides augmenting revenue generation is touted to decongest the locality and EB Road to an extent.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/trichy-fish-market-to-get-rs-13cr-revamp-cold-storage/articleshow/80294263.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Rs750cr spent on road safety in Nagpur dist: Mahatme||Nagpur: Rajya Sabha member from city Dr Vikas Mahatme, who is also a member of Parliament Road Safety Committee (MPRSC) on Friday said Rs750 crore have been spent in Nagpur district to rectify 66 accident-prone spots.“The amount has been spent for not only rectifying black spots, but for construction of roads, flyovers and underpasses in the district,” said Dr Mahatme while addressing a press conference after chairing MPRSC meet here at Regional Transport Office of Nagpur city. He also announced a road safety month would be observed from January 18 to February 17.Dr Mahatme said of the 66 black spots, rectification was done at 32, work is on at 30, while the remaining spots will be covered soon.City RTO Dinkar Manwar, deputy RTO (East) Vinod Jadhav, Janakrosh secretary Ravindra Kaskhedikar, vice-president Ashok Karandikar and Jeevan Raksha NGO’s founder Raju Wagh were among others present on the occasion.Dr Mahatme said in year 2020, different government agencies including NHAI, RTO, NMC, state PWD and NIT have succeeded in bringing down road accidents across the district. Nagpur rural had witnessed 13 fewer road accidents in 2020. This has also reduced fatalities by 5%. Similarly, Nagpur city too had witnessed 27% reduction in road accidents, bringing down the fatality rate by 22%, said the MP.He said because of the efforts of Union minister Nitin Gadkari, condition of roads, not only in the city but in Nagpur rural, has improved. Sadly, it has also increased road accidents due to speeding by motorists, he said.“The MPRSC is going to take help of Visvesvaraya National Institute Of Technology (VNIT) civil engineering faculty headed by V Landge and professor Udit Jain for carrying out accident spot analysis,” he said.Taking cognisance of electric poles that now stand in the middle of roads because of widening of streets, Mahatme said he will soon convene another meeting with concerned departments, including Nagpur Municipal Corporation and state’s public works department.“There is lack of coordination among various departments engaged in infrastructural works in the city,” he said and admitted flaws in Sadar flyover design. He said the MPRSC will soon issue a directive to all government agencies involved in road and flyover development works to coordinate before taking up any infrastructure work in the city.During the month-long awareness programme, several programmes pertaining to road safety will be organized, he added. Suggestions By Members* Synchronisation of signals* Lane demarcation* Timers at signals* Removal of beggars from busy intersections and their rehabilitation||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rs750cr-spent-on-road-safety-in-nagpur-dist-mahatme/articleshow/80293030.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Dr Sudhir Bhandari to be first beneficiary to get vaccinated in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Amidst many apprehensions over the corona vaccine and its effects, the principal and controller of SMS medical college Dr Sudhir Bhandari will get the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at the main vaccination centre at SMS hospital. He stated that people should get vaccinated without any fear as it has been prepared by learned scientists of the country. He would be the first beneficiary among the health workers of Rajasthan, while the state would launch the vaccination programme on Saturday. Ahead of the start of the vaccination programme, he spoke to TOI and shared his views on the vaccines. “Let me tell you that India produces 60% of the vaccines for various diseases and vaccines for corona are scientific innovation by the most talented scientists of our country. With full faith and confidence, I am taking this vaccine just to convey my fellow countrymen that I have full faith in our indigenous vaccine,” Dr Bhandari said. He added that he was also Covid-19 positive almost three months ago. “A person who had Covid-19 almost 18 weeks ago can have the vaccine without any fear or apprehension,” he added. Asked why he volunteered to get the jab as the first beneficiary in the state, he said, “Look, SMS hospital has been pioneer in Covid-19 management and its related medicine protocol. We followed HCQ and other medicines while the world was demoralizing and spreading wrong news on these medicines. We pioneered plasma therapy and were successful in bringing down the mortality by administering remdesivir and other injections. Now, when vaccination has started, I have volunteered to give a loud and clear message that our vaccine is safe,” he added. He added that Rajasthan started administering tocilizumab injection to ensure that serious patients of Covid may not go into ventilator support. “A UK study, too, has subscribed to our idea of tocilizumab injection,” he added. Box - Contraindications for vaccine · It should not be given to people below 18 years of age · Persons with a history of anaphylactic or allergic reaction to the previous dose of Covid-19 vaccine · Immediate or delayed onset of allergic reaction to the vaccines or injectable therapies, pharmaceutical products, food items · Pregnant or lactating woman||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/dr-sudhir-bhandari-to-be-first-beneficiary-to-get-vaccinated-in-the-state/articleshow/80293055.cms||Ashish Mehta
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Night curfew to continue in 13 districts||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Friday extended the night curfew within the urban limits of 13 districts in state. The 13 districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. "The guidelines issued vide order dated January 2 for surveillance, containment and caution for the period January 1 to January 15 are hereby extended till further order," stated the home department order issued by principal secretary Abhay Kumar. "The order dated January 6 giving permission for opening of government and private schools, higher educational institutions (colleges and universities) for final year students, coaching institutions and medical, dental, nursing and para medical colleges will continue to remain in force," it added. However, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will continue to remain closed. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted. “All markets, workplaces and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the previous order had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/night-curfew-to-continue-in-13-districts-till-further-orders/articleshow/80292995.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Recovery rate stays above 96% in PMR, 10 more dead||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) added 578 cases as against 544 recoveries on Friday, taking its total discharges and infections above 3.57 lakh and 3.72 lakh, respectively. The region’s recovery rate continues to remain above 96%. The Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad municipal limits recorded marginally higher infections than recoveries in the past 24 hours. In the PMC limits, 261 patients tested positive for the infection on Friday as against 240 recoveries. As many as 147 people were found infected with Covid-19 as compared 122 recoveries in the PCMC limits. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated that 10 more patients succumbed to the infection on Friday in the region, which included three deaths each in the PMC and PCMC limits, while four deaths were recorded from the rural parts. The region’s total death count for Covid-19 stood at 8,946 on Friday evening. The region tested 7,226 samples on Friday, which pushed total tests above 19.94 lakh. The PMC tested 3,161 samples, followed by the PCMC (2,270) and the rural areas (1,795) in the last 24 hours. With 5,474 patients, the region’s active cases continued to remain below 5,500 even on Friday. As many as 3,425 patients were in home isolation in the region and 2,049 were undergoing treatment at various hospitals in PMR. As vaccination begins for health workers on Saturday, officials said people needed to abide by the Covid-appropriate behaviour even after getting the shot. “People should continue to wear masks and maintain social distance to keep the infection at bay. People should also stay away from crowded areas as far as possible. Frequent washing of hands will also go a long way to keep the diseases at bay,” a health official said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/recovery-rate-stays-above-96-in-pmr-10-more-dead/articleshow/80293040.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 16, 2021||Udaipur||Rajasthan: Night curfew to continue in 13 districts||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Friday extended the night curfew within the urban limits of 13 districts in state. The 13 districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. "The guidelines issued vide order dated January 2 for surveillance, containment and caution for the period January 1 to January 15 are hereby extended till further order," stated the home department order issued by principal secretary Abhay Kumar. "The order dated January 6 giving permission for opening of government and private schools, higher educational institutions (colleges and universities) for final year students, coaching institutions and medical, dental, nursing and para medical colleges will continue to remain in force," it added. However, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will continue to remain closed. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted. “All markets, workplaces and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the previous order had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/udaipur/night-curfew-to-continue-in-13-districts-till-further-orders/articleshow/80296213.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Inspect vaccination centres in Jaipur daily: Collector||JAIPUR: District collector Antar Singh Nehra, after reviewing the preparations for Covid vaccination on Friday, instructed all assistant district collectors and additional district collectors to inspect the 21 vaccination centres in Jaipur on a daily basis. He said the reports on vaccination have to be submitted to the collectorate on a daily basis till the end of the first phase of vaccination in the state. “The inspecting officers will undertake the overall management and supervision of the vaccination centres from January 16 till the end of the first phase of vaccination. Inspection of the sites will be conducted with the medical officer in-charges of vaccination centres,” said Nehra. The collector had also asked the officials to submit a report on Friday’s inspection by evening. The first phase of Covid vaccination is starting on Saturday. The vaccination centres of Jaipur district are: Sawai Man Singh Hospital, Sawai Man Singh Medical College, S R Goyal Sethi Colony Hospital, J K Lon Hospital, SDMH Hospital, Jaipur Hospital (Lal Kothi), BDM Hospital (Kotputli), Janana Hospital. Among others are: Women’s Hospital (Mahila Chikitsalay), Gangori Hospital, Manipal Hospital, Haribaksh Kawantia Hospital, ESI Hospital, Metro Mas Hospital, EHCC Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Naraina Hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Hospital, RUHS Hospital, Jaipuria Hospital and Jaipur National University.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/inspect-vaccination-centres-daily-submit-reports-collector-to-officials/articleshow/80293023.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Agra||Leopard electrocuted in Aligarh||Agra: An electric fence put up by a farmer to protect his potato crop from stray animals proved to be a death trap for a leopard that apparently tried to jump over it and was electrocuted. The incident took place in Aligarh’s Jawan area on Thursday night. Aditi Sharma, conservator of forest, Aligarh range, told TOI that the carcass has been sent for a post-mortem to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly on Friday morning. The exact cause of its death would be revealed in the report. However, the way the leopard was found hanging on the fence shows that it was electrocuted as one part of its body was burnt, she said. According to the forest official, the leopard’s teeth, nails and tail were intact. An FIR has been registered against the farmer concerned, Dharampal of Barauli, under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act, said forest department officials. Earlier this week, several farmers annoyed over persistent damage caused to their crops by stray cattle had herded these cows and bulls inside a government school premises and staged protests. They had blamed the government for not providing a permanent solution to stray cattle who destroy their standing crops.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/leopard-electrocuted-in-aligarh/articleshow/80290982.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Focus on US market, 3D tech: SoftTech||Pune: City-based SoftTech has added “more technology” to its flagship automated construction plan approval platform, AutoDCR, via AI, AR and VR to enhance user experience. The company said AutoDCR, in which computer-aided design (CAD) drawings of construction plans by architects and developers are automatically checked and evaluated by relevant authorities, was already in use by over 600 urban local bodies nationally. SoftTech said it had also signed agreements with IIT-Bombay, as well as IISc, Bengaluru. “The experience till now has been a mix of challenges. There are funds and manpower issues in the urban local bodies to implement such a platform, as well as non-transparent processes, and to make it work in a manner that can be useful for them. But, there were leaders who were initially resistant to this idea, but have taken it up now,” said SofTech MD Vijay Gupta, while discussing the firm’s recent move to a new and unified HQ in Baner. Gupta said the firm’s expansion plans were taking it overseas. “We are aggressively looking at the US market for expansion...We see a huge potential there and have already set up a subsidiary there which is talking to authorities,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/focus-on-us-market-3d-tech-softtech/articleshow/80293003.cms||Shiladitya Pandit
January 16, 2021||Goa||PM wishes speedy recovery to Naik||Panaji: Prime Minister Narendra Modi called the Union Ayush minister Shripad Naik on Friday and inquired about his health. Naik has been undergoing treatment at the Goa Medical College (GMC) after his car met with an accident in Karnataka on Monday. Naik’s personal assistant told TOI that the PM advised the Ayush minister to take proper rest. “PM told Naik that he shouldn’t think about work, but take proper care for speedy recovery,” he added. Chief minister Pramod Sawant visited Naik and said the condition of Ayush minister was much better than that on Thursday. After four surgeries Naik is recovering well and his all vital parameters including blood pressure, pulse rate and oxygen saturation level were within normal limits, said Dr S M Bandekar, GMC dean in the media bulletin. Naik continues to be on high flow nasal cannula (HFNC). Vice President Venkaiah Naidu, who has been in Goa, also visited Naik at the GMC and inquired about his health.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pm-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-naik/articleshow/80294252.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ajmer||Rajasthan: Night curfew to continue in 13 districts||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Friday extended the night curfew within the urban limits of 13 districts in state. The 13 districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. "The guidelines issued vide order dated January 2 for surveillance, containment and caution for the period January 1 to January 15 are hereby extended till further order," stated the home department order issued by principal secretary Abhay Kumar. "The order dated January 6 giving permission for opening of government and private schools, higher educational institutions (colleges and universities) for final year students, coaching institutions and medical, dental, nursing and para medical colleges will continue to remain in force," it added. However, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will continue to remain closed. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted. “All markets, workplaces and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the previous order had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/night-curfew-to-continue-in-13-districts-till-further-orders/articleshow/80296215.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jodhpur||Rajasthan: Night curfew to continue in 13 districts||JAIPUR: The state’s home department on Friday extended the night curfew within the urban limits of 13 districts in state. The 13 districts include Kota, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Bikaner, Udaipur, Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Nagore, Pali, Tonk, Sikar and Ganganagar. "The guidelines issued vide order dated January 2 for surveillance, containment and caution for the period January 1 to January 15 are hereby extended till further order," stated the home department order issued by principal secretary Abhay Kumar. "The order dated January 6 giving permission for opening of government and private schools, higher educational institutions (colleges and universities) for final year students, coaching institutions and medical, dental, nursing and para medical colleges will continue to remain in force," it added. However, cinema halls, theatres, multiplexes, entertainment parks, and similar places will continue to remain closed. Social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious functions and other large congregations will also not be permitted. “All markets, workplaces and commercial complexes shall remain closed during night curfew. These places should be closed by 7pm so that the staff and others reach home by 8pm, unless special permission is obtained from the officer authorised by the district collector in this regard,” the previous order had stated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jodhpur/night-curfew-to-continue-in-13-districts-till-further-orders/articleshow/80296214.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Trichy||7K roosters duel at Poolamvalasu on concluding day as 20K people watch||Karur: The popular rooster duel at Poolamvalasu in the district attracted a large crowd on the concluding day on Friday. According to the organisers, around 20,000 people came to witness the event in which close to 15,000 roosters were brought, of which 7,000 entered the event. The annual rooster duel of Poolamvalasu, which is usually held for four days, was given permission for three days this year. Incessant rainfall affected the duels and had to be called off a couple of hours before schedule on Wednesday and the whole day on Thursday. On Friday, the venue witnessed overwhelming crowd from several neighbouring districts to get their roosters participate in the duels. The duels took place in 20 arenas spread on 5 acres created for the event. “Two rooster jockeys stand opposite to each other and release their roosters into the arena for duels. The rooster holding the ground at the end is declared winner,” said M Ananthan, one of the organising committee members. “Unlike jallikattu, there are no special prizes for the winning rooster. The event is alive only because of people with the craze for rooster duels who come all the way to see their roosters in the arena,” said Bank R Natarajan, head of the organising committee. Large scale trade of roosters also takes place at the event. People come with at least 3-4 roosters and the healthy roosters may be sold for over Rs 5,000, said Natarajan. The event was relatively peaceful this year as no case was registered by the Aravakurichi police either for malpractices or gambling.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/7k-roosters-duel-at-poolamvalasu-on-concluding-day-as-20k-people-watch/articleshow/80294270.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Jallikattu at Periya Suriyur among those put off due to rain||Trichy: The jallikattu event organisers in Trichy district were forced to postpone the games due to incessant rains on Friday. Periya Suriyur village in Trichy district was all set for Jallikattu event on Friday but the organisers had to postpone the event due to rain water accumulated at the venue. It has now been decided to have the event on January 20. While the state government granted permission for jallikattu games after Covid-19 cases came down, unexpected rains hampered the expectations of the enthusiasts in central region.“Close to Rs 14 lakh was spent on making the arrangements by following all the guidelines. We really hope that rain doesn’t last till January 20. Else we will have to postpone the event to next year,” said one of the organisers of Periya Suriyur jallikattu.Similarly, jallikattu in Pothamettupatti village of Manapparai in Trichy district was scheduled for Monday on January 18. The organisers have now decided to postpone the event to February 10. Marungapuri village near Thiraiyur, too, was planning to organise jallikattu event but they, too, have called off their plans.Jallikattu in Vanniyanviduthi of Pudukottai district scheduled for Saturday also stands cancelled. The organisers have called off the event because of inundation in the bull running area.According to officials from the district administration, three applications were received for organising jallikattu for the month of January.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/jallikattu-at-periya-suriyur-among-those-put-off-due-to-rain/articleshow/80294269.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Day after 5-yr low, mercury crawls upwards||Times News Network Ludhiana: A day after Ludhiana witnessed the coldest day in January over the past five years, day temperature rose slightly even as the city remained in the grip of cold wave. Meanwhile, the School of Climate Change and Agricultural Meteorology, PAU predicted that cold wave would persist in the city for the next few days. PAU said maximum (day) temperature in Ludhiana on Friday was recorded at 12.6 degrees Celsius, which is 5.2 degrees less than normal. On Thursday, day temperature in the city was recorded at 11.2 degrees Celsius, 6.9 degrees less than normal and a five-year low. The last time day temperature fell to such levels was on January 21, 2016, when it was recorded at 10.2 degrees Celsius. Minimum (night) temperature in the city on Friday was recorded at 6.4 degrees Celsius, which is 0.5 degree more than normal and two degrees more than a day before. Also, dense fog reduced visibility to below 50 metres at 8.30am on Friday. Visibility was recorded between 500 and 1,000 kilometres at 11.30am and 2.30pm. As residents battled with the cold weather, PAU’s school of climate change and agricultural meteorology predicted cold wave conditions in the next few days. Weather expert Kulwinder Kaur Gill said with snowfall taking place in the higher reaches, a northerly wind system had developed, leading to a cold wave in Ludhiana. She said cold wave would prevail in Ludhiana for the next two to three days. She also stated that during this time, temperature is expected to remain around the present value. Met department officials in Chandigarh said dense fog is expected in Ludhiana for the next three days, which would reduce visibility significantly. Residents are doing their best to deal with the spine-chilling cold. “Although night weather has improved, days are very cold and one doesn’t feel like going out in such chilly conditions. Also, because of the cold weather, we have plenty of hot tea and coffee to keep warm,” said Manpreet Singh, a resident of Pakhowal Road.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/day-after-5-yr-low-mercury-crawls-upwards/articleshow/80293080.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Move to rebuild median on EB road draws flak||Trichy: The corporation’s plan to reconstruct the damaged median on EB road by spending Rs 1.5 crore has drawn flak for the huge project cost as the road will not be relaid. The corporation plans to grow ornamental plants on the median and the construction will be carried out using the smart cities mission fund. The median on EB road has damages at multiple places, while LED lamp posts on the median have started to slide off from their actual positions. With the construction of the new median the civic body aims to prevent pedestrians from crossing the four-lane road through gaps in between the median.While residents welcomed the move, such a huge sum being sanctioned just for the sake of constructing a median has disappointed many. Corporation sources stated that the road was recently relaid and that there was no need for relaying the road immediately. Meanwhile, the pothole-ridden Dharbarmedu road is set to be relaid at a cost of Rs 27 lakh. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/move-to-rebuild-median-on-eb-road-draws-flak/articleshow/80294264.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan sees no Covid death, 310 fresh cases||JAIPUR: The state again witnessed zero Covid-19 deaths while 310 fresh cases were witnessed on Friday. Last week on January 8 as well the state had witnessed zero deaths. The mortality rate has been dipping in the state as for past fortnight there has been either zero deaths or two to three deaths. “The continuous dip in the mortality rate is a result of improved testing facility as we now have a testing facility of 60,000 samples per day, timely detection, our medicinal protocols, Remdesivir therapy, enhanced infrastructure in Jaipur and other parts of the state and most importantly public awareness,” said Ravi Prakash Sharma, additional director (Rural) health. However, in terms of numbers, Jaipur continued to be on top as 56 cases were reported in the city. Also, in Jaipur the number of active cases have gone down to 1173. Due to the continued dip in the active cases daily admissions the RUHS hospital has started reliving the staff and have sent them to their original posting. “Week by week we are witnessing a dip in the number of cases. Also mortality rate and critical patients are lesser in number. I think people’s awareness, timely testing and detection and medicinal protocol has been beneficial,” said Dr Ajeet Singh, superintendent of RUHS. The districts including Churu, Dausa, Dholpur, Jalore, Karauli and Tonk have witnessed zero fresh cases. Also in the whole state the total number of cases are though 5568441 the active cases are merely 5608. “Out of these active cases at least 70 percent are either asymtompatic or are under home quarantine,” said an officer with the health department. Jaipur was followed by Jodhpur where 42 cases were reported, Kota 41, Bhilwara 27 and in Nagaur 21 cases were found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/raj-sees-no-covid-death-310-fresh-cases/articleshow/80293075.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Man arrested on murder bid charge, three booked||Pune: The Dattawadi police on Thursday afternoon arrested a 26-year-old man on the charge of attempt to murder after he and three accomplices brutally assaulted a grocer and his nephew for refusing to give them money to buy liquor. The police said they have booked the accomplices, including a minor, in the case. According to a complaint lodged by the grocer, Bhimrao Banjara, the incident occurred at his shop at Jai Bhavaninagar in Janata Vasahat. Around 4pm, the suspect, Rakesh Datta Awale, and his accomplices visited Banjara’s shop. “The suspects demanded that Banjara give them money for liquor. When he refused, they assaulted him and his nephew with iron pipes and sickles,” senior inspector Krishna Indalkar said on Friday. Banjara and his nephew suffered injuries to their faces and arms, and were admitted to the hospital. Police arrested Awale on Thursday night. “We booked his three aides,” Indalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-arrested-on-murder-bid-charge-three-booked/articleshow/80293078.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Conveyance deed drive now till January 31||Pune: The state cooperation department issued a fresh circular on Friday extending the deemed conveyance drive till January 31. The drive entails the cooperation department to conduct surveys of societies that do not have the conveyance deed. Earlier, the deadline of the state government’s initiative of allowing the cooperative housing societies to apply for deemed conveyance was January 15. There are more than one lakh housing societies in Maharashtra without conveyance deeds. In 2012, the state government brought in the concept of deemed conveyance, wherein a society can bypass the builder failing to execute the conveyance deed and get it from the registrar. Conveyance deed allows the society to mortgage its land for obtaining loans to carry out repair works.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/conveyance-deed-drive-now-till-january-31/articleshow/80293058.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Health workers enrolled for shot jittery ahead of drive||JAIPUR: Healthcare workers engaged in the vaccination programme and those who have enrolled themselves for the jab were jittery on Friday ahead of the dive on Saturday. Even as the experts stated that the vaccine was tried and tested and is scientifically safe, the workers fear they might face backlash even if a single vaccination result goes wrong. TOI on Friday visited various centres across Jaipur to find the preparedness and how the healthcare workers engaged in the vaccination programme are feeling ahead of vaccination. “We are only praying that it goes smoothly and people get better results. In the dry run, we had not seen the vaccine which would be administered for the first time on Saturday. There is little nervousness. Hopefully, it will go well,” said Sunil Kumar, a nursing supervisor at the SMS hospital. Sheeba Jacob, a nurse who joined government hospital almost six months ago, said, “I have read that our vaccine is safe. But practically this would be seen tomorrow. There are butterflies in the stomach. I am sure it would have good effects.” However, there are some health workers who have not yet enrolled and are little apprehensive towards vaccination. “Let’s see the results of the vaccination. In next one month the whole picture would be more vibrant and clear. Thus, I will enroll in the next phase,” said Shashi Kala, a senior nurse at a private hospital in Jaipur. Meanwhile, some of the health workers are also jittery of the fact that if anything goes awry during vaccination they might face a backlash. “God forbid if a beneficiary gets some adverse effect, we will have to face their ire. So, I am hoping it goes well. We are told those who have allergy won’t be included in the vaccination and we will also follow the contraindication,” said a senior nurse at the SMS hospital on the condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/healthcare-workers-enrolled-for-vaccination-jittery-ahead-of-drive/articleshow/80293059.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Trichy||Tamil Nadu: Four dead as rain wreaks havoc in central, southern districts||TRICHY: Four people died in Thanjavur and Pudukottai districts on Friday as incessant rain lashing the central region in the last few days disrupted normal life. A 45-year-old woman and her 18-year-old daughter from Thanjavur district died after a portion of the wall of their house fell on them killing them on the spot in the early hours. The deceased were identified as V Mary and her daughter Nivedha of Veerakurichi village near Pattukottai in Thanjavur district. Mother of three daughters, Mary was sleeping with Nivedha in her tile-roofed house when the wall which was all soaked in the continuous rain fell on the duo. Fire and rescue service personnel who rushed to the spot recovered the bodies. In another incident, a nine-year-old girl died after a portion of the wall of her house collapsed on her near Manalur village near Aranthagi in Pudukottai district on Friday. The girl, identified as U Sathyashri, was living with her parents in the tile-roofed house. She was cleaning the house in the morning when a portion of the wall of her house collapsed on her causing serious head injuries. She was rushed to a private hospital where she was declared brought dead. According to Manamelkudi police, the wall made of clay had become weak in the last few days due to rain. It appears to have fallen on her and police are carrying out further investigation. In other incidents, a 55-year-old man was washed away in Vettaru river in Panaveli village near Thanjavur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/4-dead-as-rain-wreaks-havoc-in-central-southern-districts/articleshow/80294265.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra panchayat polls in 12,711 villages see 79% voting||MUMBAI: Primary reports pegged at 79% the turnout in elections held for 12,711 gram panchayats in 34 of the 36 districts in the state on Friday. Counting of votes is scheduled on Monday. There were no gram panchayat elections in the city and suburban districts. Neighbouring Thane district saw a polling percentage of 80.23%, while Panvel taluka in Raigad district saw 77% voting in the elections. State election commissioner U P S Madan said of the 28,000 gram panchayats in the state, 14,234 had completed their term. The elections had been announced in two phases, with voting for the remaining panchayats will be held in the next phase on Wednesday, when 162 panchayats from six talukas of Gadchiroli district will also go to polls. Thane district, with over 3 lakh voters, recorded a voting percentage of 80.23%. Ambernath taluka was on top with 82.84%, Kalyan taluka at the bottom with 71.66%. Bhiwandi taluka recorded 82.78%, Murbad taluka 81.5% and Shahapur taluka 80.18% voting. Polling was held in 143 of the total 158 gram panchayats. From start of polling at 7.30 am till end of voting at 5.30 pm, the elections were peaceful but for a few minor disputes in some seats. There was no voting in 15 gram panchayats as the candidates had won unopposed. Raigad district, with 1.77 lakh voters, saw polling in 78 of 88 gram panchayats, as nine panchayats unanimously elected candidates and in one the election could not be held. The 22 panchayats that went to vote in Panvel taluka together recorded 77% turnout, and the six in Uran taluka collectively had a turnout of 75%. Panvel had 55,297 voters and 432 candidates, and Uran had 30,463 voters and 172 candidates. A voter each from Panvel and Uran had registered as transgender. (Inputs from Pradeep Gupta in Kalyan and Umesh K Parida in Navi Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/panchayat-polls-in-12711-villages-see-79-voting/articleshow/80295127.cms||Sujit Mahamulkar
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Cutting of Sal trees: HC gives state 4 weeks to explain reforestation policy||Nainital: The Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday gave the state government four weeks to explain its reforestation policy as it plans to cut over 2,500 British-era Sal trees, many of them over 100 years old, to widen a 3.6-km stretch of highway through Rajaji National Park in Dehradun. The development comes as a PIL was filed before the HC seeking quashing of the permission from the Centre for felling of these trees as well as constitution of a committee to find alternate methods for widening the highway. The bench of Chief Justice RS Chauhan and Justice Manoj Kumar Tiwari heard the PIL. “The court has asked the state government to give details about how it plans to compensate the felling of trees and whether these trees will be planted within the eco-sensitive zone of Rajaji. The government has also been asked to elaborate on its policy on reforestation,” said Dushyant Mainali, the counsel appearing for the petitioner Amit Kholia. As reported by TOI earlier, a 19.6 km stretch of the Delhi-Dehradun national highway is being widened of which, 3.6 km falls in Uttarakhand. Due to this widening, the hill state will lose more than 2,500 British-era Sal trees whereas around 10 hectares of land in the eco-sensitive zone of Rajaji National Park will be diverted. The petitioner has claimed that though the state plans to restore the forest, the saplings will be planted in the Malhan range which is far away from where these trees are being cut. Further, the petitioner said that no impact assessment was done before the Centre gave its nod for felling of trees. “An impact study is mandated before the Centre gives consent to felling of trees. However, in this case, the process has been by-passed and so we have asked the court to quash the Centre's consent and explore alternate ways for the project,” Mainali said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cutting-of-sal-trees-hc-gives-state-4-weeks-to-explain-reforestation-policy/articleshow/80291016.cms||Prashant Jha
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Let coaching classes in Mumbai restart operations: Owners||MUMBAI: Over 10 months since coaching classes in the city downed shutters, their owners want to be allowed to reopen as most are struggling to survive the economic slowdown. From Thursday, teachers and staff of coaching classes in the city wore “green bands” at online sessions, hoping that the government would give them the “green signal” to resume operations. While many coaching classes have moved online, the number students enrolling has been drastically lower, owners said. “There are a few big players in our industry but most small and medium classes are struggling...,” said Santosh Vaskar of Maharashtra Class Owners’ Association.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/let-coaching-classes-restart-ops-owners/articleshow/80273906.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||PAUTA elects new office-bearers||Ludhiana: Elections of PAU Teachers Association (PAUTA) were held on the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) campus on Friday. Dr Harmeet Singh Kingra won elections to the post of PAUTA president for the second consecutive time. His team consists of Dr Jasjit Singh Kang, who won the post of vice-president by 25 votes and Dr K S Sangha, who won the post of secretary by 44 votes. Dr D K Sharma won elections to the post of treasurer by 16 votes. Anil Sharma of the Siag group won elections to the post of joint secretary by 41 votes. Among councillors, Dr G P S Dhillon, Sarabjeet Singh Sooch, Dr Harmeet Singh and Dr Naresh Chuneja are from Dr Kingra Group while Rajni Chauhan and Kulbir Singh have been selected from Dr Siag group. Devinder Tiwari of north extension, from Siag group won by 386 votes. Navdeep Singh Gill for extension south, Sukhpreet Singh Gill for reasearch North and Baljit Singh for research south are from Dr Kingra group. Returning officer Dr S S Hundal said, “Elections were held smoothly. There was 99.3% voting. Dr Kingra said, “We will focus on uplift of faculty, farmers and other issues. We will meet demands of teachers, such as full pay allowance for teachers recruited after January 15, 2015, reduced number of years for eligibility for transfer from outstations to PAU Campus, implementation of new pay scales, provision of personal loan for teachers appointed after June, 2004, restoration of LTC, pursuing cases of selection grade etc.” The new office-bearers said they plan to stop administrative interference in PAUTA affairs and restore the dignity of teachers. They also want the orders of transfer of teachers for contesting elections last year and for raising issues of the faculty on PAUTA forums withdrawn. Quotes: This is a historic win of faculty against a dispensation which interfered with the process of elections. We had raised many issues with the administration which interfered in every matter and will continue to do so in future Dr KS Sangha Whatever the faculty’s mandate is, it will always be honoured. We will support the other team for betterment of university. Dr Mukesh Siag||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/pauta-elects-new-office-bearers/articleshow/80293056.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||CM lays foundation for Bisalpur water supply in Rajasthan University||JAIPUR: Rajasthan University will finally get Bisalpur water as the state government has laid the foundation for the pipeline on Friday. This scheme, to be completed at a cost of Rs 15.60 crore, will supply 27 lakh litres of pure drinking water to the university and its constituent colleges every day. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot and minister of water resources B D Kalla laid the foundation stone for Bisalpur Water Supply Scheme on the varsity campus through video conferencing on Friday. Kalla said at present tubewell water is being supplied to Rajasthan University and its affiliated colleges — Maharaja College, Maharani College, Commerce College, Rajasthan College and Poddar Institute of Management. The university’s professors and students were demanding Bisalpur water due to the falling groundwater level and water quality. Gehlot said, “Under this scheme, one clean reservoir and one high reservoir each will be constructed on the university campus and Maharani College. In addition, a 10 lakh litre capacity sewerage treatment plant has been planned in the second phase, whose treated water will enable gardening, cleaning and other works. Kalla said water conservation is important due to the declining groundwater level and uncertainty of rainfall. He hoped that Rajasthan University will play a positive role in motivating people, besides contributing to the campaign of water conservation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cm-lays-foundation-for-bisalpur-water-supply-in-ru/articleshow/80293081.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||No chicken and egg items on Vistara, IndiGo flights from Delhi||NEW DELHI: In wake of bird flu outbreak in severe states, airlines like IndiGo and Vistara have stopped serving chicken and egg dishes on some of their flights. A Vistara official said the airline has “already removed chicken and egg items from the onboard menu on both domestic and international flights originating from Delhi. For flights originating from other places, chicken and egg items will be removed from the menu starting Saturday. Initially we are replacing these dishes with vegetarian options. We are also exploring other non-veg options like fish”. An IndiGo spokesperson said the airline has “discontinued all non-veg items at the moment for flights catered from Delhi. We may be reversing the decision soon given the new order by Delhi government.” Other carriers did not comment if they have changed their onboard meal option due to bird flu.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/no-chicken-and-egg-items-on-vistara-indigo-flights-from-delhi/articleshow/80295595.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Online gambler loses money, cooks up abduction story||Aurangabad: City police, while investigating the abduction of a 25-year-old medical representative, have found that the 25-year-old man had actually lost Rs 40,000 to online gambling following which he faked his kidnapping. According to police, the man is a mechanical engineer and after failing to find a suitable job he started working as a medical representative. Fearing that the family members would scold him for losing the money, the youth switched off his cellphone and disappeared. While moving from one place to another, the man used the cellphones of random people for calling his family and informing them that he has been kidnapped. He also informed that he was continuously being shifted from one place to another by the abductors. Pundaliknagar police station’s assistant inspector Ghanshyam Sonawne said, “After the youth’s family registered a complaint with us claiming that their son has been kidnapped, we immediately carried out a technical analysis and found that an amount of Rs 50,000 was withdrawn from the account in which money for his sister’s marriage was being saved.” Further probe revealed that the youth was alone at the time of withdrawing the money from an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) kiosk and nothing suspicious was caught on the camera installed there. In the first call made by the man, he claimed that he was kidnapped from Connaught place, but after scanning the CCTV footage of the area no such incident was recorded. In subsequent calls, the youth claimed of being taken towards Solapur, followed by Pune and the last call was made from Beed. Not taking any chance, the police team immediately tracked down the call he made from an unidentified person’s cellphone in Beed and based on the tower location, contacted the Beed traffic police. Description of the missing youth along with his photos were shared with the constables on duty in the given area. One of them spotted the youth and caught hold of him, following which a city police team rushed to Beed and brought him .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/online-gambler-loses-money-cooks-up-abduction-story/articleshow/80291058.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 16, 2021||Agra||Ist waterbird census conducted at Mathura’s Jodhpur Jhal||Agra: For the first time, Asian Waterbird Census (AWC), an annual census by Wetlands International, was conducted at Jodhpur Jhal in Mathura and a good growth and diversity of waterbird species was recorded. The good news however comes amid bird flu scare in several parts of the country. During AWC 2021 census, a team of volunteers under the supervision of AWC Delhi state coordinator, TK Roy, recorded the presence of 1,179 birds of 47 different species. Out of the 47 species, 20 were resident, 27 migratory and seven were IUCN Red-listed “threatened” species. Among the winter migratory waterbird species recorded, were Western Marsh Harrier, Common Teal, Northern Shoveler, which migrate from North Asia and Bar-headed Geese, Red-crested Pochard, Ruddy Shelduck and Pied Avocet, which migrate from Central Asia, said Roy. AWC also recorded presence of, Painted stork, an Indian resident species, Black-headed Ibis, an Indian migratory species, Black-necked Stork and Woolly-necked Stork (local migratory species), Black-tailed Godwit, migrates from North Asia, Sarus Crane, resident species, and Greater Spotted Eagle, a migratory species. All these birds come under IUCN red-listed threatened species. The census was carried out in active collaboration with the Biodiversity Research and Development Society (BRDS), Agra, a team of volunteers from Dr B R Ambedkar University, Agra and Jagdamba College, Agra on January 10 this year, said Roy. Meanwhile, a sharp increase was also witnessed in the number as well as species of birds at Soor Sarovar Bird Sanctuary in Agra during the AWC census 2021. According to available figures, it recorded 70 waterbird species with a total population of 5,294 in comparison to last year’s figure of 47 and 3,874 respectively.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ist-waterbird-census-conducted-at-mathuras-jodhpur-jhal/articleshow/80291039.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana HC junks woman’s plea seeking acquired Emaar land back||HYDERABAD: Telangana high court has refused to entertain a writ petition seeking either compensation under the new Land Acquisition Act or restoration of land that was acquired for the Emaar project in Hyderabad 17 years ago. A bench of Chief Justice Hima Kohli and Justice MS Ramachandra Rao was dealing with a petition filed by Gummadi Lakshmi Kumari, who said that her 305 square yards of plot in Nanakramguda in Serilingampalli should be returned to her. The judges, however, dismissed the plea as withdrawn. The judges said: “You (petitioner) took 17 years to challenge the acquisition notification. You remained a spectator all these years. We are dismissing the petition.” Lakshmi’s counsel argued that since the Emaar project ran into rough weather and is being probed by the CBI, his client should get back her land. The judges went through the records and found that she had purchased this plot after the land was notified for acquisition by the state government for handing it over to Emaar company. The petitioner, however, claimed that she bought it from Kiran Krishna Real Estates and Constructions Private Ltd. The judges told her counsel that the state had notified the land for acquisition on July 17, 2002, while she had purchased the plot a year later (on June 13, 2003). When the counsel pointed out that similar petitions had been entertained by the court before, the judges did not agree with his contention. “Others may have purchased the land before the acquisition. A pending CBI probe into the issue is no solace,” the judges said. The judges further said, “The petitioner knew that this plot was under acquisition. Yet you chose to purchase it with your eyes wide open.” At this stage, the counsel said he would withdraw the plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/hc-junks-womans-plea-seeking-acquired-emaar-land-back/articleshow/80294300.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Schools start demanding 70% fees, but without following Rajasthan HC guidelines||JAIPUR: After the judgment of the Rajasthan high court, city schools have started demanding 70% fees, but haven’t bifurcated the fee as per the court order. Most of the schools in the city do not have any bifurcation of tuition fees and fees under other sections like sports, library and swimming pool. Parents are objecting to schools charging 70% of the fees without bifurcation. Pramila Saini, whose daughter studies in a private school in Jaipur, said that the school has refused to release the result sheet of my son’s half yearly exam recently without payment of fees. “We are ready to pay the fees, but the school is not ready to give us proper bifurcation of fees and has given us a total of 70% fees receipt. This is unfair and against the order,” Saini said. Similarly, Rajesh Gupta, whose son studies in a school in Mansarovar, said that school authorities have removed his son from online classes as they refused to pay fees without bifurcation. President of All Rajasthan Parents’ Forum, Sunil Yadav, said, “Every day I am receiving desperate calls from parents whose wards are been removed from online classes or their results are withheld by school authorities for not paying fees. We have no objection on paying fee, but that should be according to high court order. We will take up this issue with the authorities soon.” Meanwhile, president of Sahodya Group of Schools in Jaipur, Ashok Vaid said it is unfair if any school is not charging fees according to the court’s decision. “According to the high court decision, schools can charge 60% of fees until the school re-opens after which they can charge 70% of tuition fees. But the court has specifically mentioned that they have to give a bifurcated fee receipt to the parents. It is not fair if schools are not following it,” Vaid said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/schools-start-demanding-70-fees-but-without-following-hc-guidelines/articleshow/80293083.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Man on criminal record killed over money for liquor||Aurangabad: A 28-year-old criminal on police record was stabbed to death on Thursday night in Aurangpura area of the city after he allegedly refused to give money to the accused, who also has a criminal record, to purchase beer. The incident took place in the vicinity of a beer shop in Piya Market area. The arrested accused has been identified as Chirag Bidla(19), a resident of Gandhi Nagar. He had two other accomplices, who are minor, were produced before the women and child welfare committee, following which, they were sent to the correctional home. The deceased, Sameer Khan, a resident of Asefia Colony, had eight offences registered against him including kidnapping, molestation, voluntarily causing hurt. He was externed twice from the city. Khan along with his friend Mohammed Adil went to the liqour shop to buy beer on Thursday at around 11.30 pm. Crime branch inspector Avinash Aghav said, “After they found the shop closed, they were talking near the shop when the trio came.” A heated argument broke out between Khan and the trio when the deceased refused to give money, following which Bidla drew out a sharp-edged weapon and stabbed Khan on his thigh. As a result, the main artery vein was cut resulting in profuse bleeding. Following the incident, the suspects fled the spot. Adil rushed Khan to the GMCH where he succumbed to his injuries. Police teams from City Chowk and crime branch rushed to the spot. With the help of CCTV footages, police identified the accused and arrested them in six hours. “In one of the footages, a suspect was spotted using a cellphone. Using it as a clue, the identity of the suspects were established,” said City Chowk police station’s inspector Sambhaji Pawar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-on-criminal-record-killed-over-money-for-liquor/articleshow/80291029.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 16, 2021||Pune||3 assault doc over refund, vandalise his clinic & car||Pune: Three men assaulted a 45-year-old homoeopath and damaged his property in Lohegaon on Thursday after he refused their demand to refund fees. Ritesh Kitikumar Shah lodged a complaint with the Airport police, alleging that the suspects attacked him with a stick, vandalised his clinic and broke a window of his car parked outside. Police said Shah has been treating one of the suspects for severe body aches at his Porwal Road clinic for some time. “Around 6pm on Thursday, the patient and two of his friends visited Shah’s clinic and demanded that he attend to him immediately,” senior inspector Gajanan Pawar said. Shah told the patient to wait for some time. “Enraged by this, the patient started arguing with Shah and demanded that he refund the fees from previous sessions,” Pawar said. “When Shah refused, they assaulted him with a stick, vandalized the clinic and damaged his car and fled,” assistant inspector Rahul Patil said. Senior inspector Pawar said Shah gave them the patient’s name and contact information. “We have booked them under the IPC and will invoke provisions of the Maharashtra Service Person and Medical Service Institution (Prevention of Violence and Damage or Loss to Property) once they are arrested,” he said. Shah could not be reached for comment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/3-assault-doc-over-refund-vandalise-his-clinic-car/articleshow/80293085.cms||Asseem Shaikh
January 16, 2021||Pune||PMC helpline for avian flu||Pune: The civic body has started a helpline and issued guidelines to identify any possible case of bird flu. As per a public notice, the citizens can contact 1800 1030 222 to give information, which will be directed to the senior officials in the war room set up by the PMC. The war room will pass on the information to health inspectors. People can also contact on 9689931192 or 9689931690. The information can also be shared on 02025501237. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/pmc-helpline-for-avian-flu/articleshow/80293090.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Birds bear brunt, 22 injured||Hyderabad:Animal rescuers and officials of the forest and fire department rescued as many as 22 birds entangled in the glass-coated manja between January 8 and 15. Of those, nine birds were rescued on the day of Sankranti. Apart from pigeons and crows, rescue teams found two Barn Owls and eight Black Kites that suffered deep cuts due to manja. Animal rescuers, who are expecting the numbers to increase in the next couple of days, said many birds have sustained severe injuries, some of them fatal. Pradeep Nair, of Animal Warriors Conservation Society said, “Our team has been attending rescue cases of birds entangled in manja the entire week. While we were able to save almost all the birds, the ones that suffered potentially fatal injuries were shifted to the rescue centre for treatment. We request people to remove the tangled remains of kite flying thread from their premises and check roofs and trees for threads as there is every possibility of a bird getting trapped in coming months.” Meanwhile, forest officials seized 20kg of banned glass-coated manja in and around Hyderabad on Thursday. To curb usage of synthetic manja for kite flying, 13 teams of forest staff searched 200 shops and seized 111.5 km of synthetic manja. Forest department officialssaid cases would be booked against repeat offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/birds-bear-brunt-22-injured/articleshow/80294279.cms||Nikhil J Nair
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Ensure development of govt schools’||Ludhiana: Deputy commissioner (DC) Varinder Kumar Sharma, on Friday, directed block development and panchayat officers (BDPOs) and other officials concerned to ensure that all development works related to government schools and anganwaris in Ludhiana are completed on priority basis. He was chairing a monthly review meeting of development works being conducted by all government departments at Bachat Bhawan. Additional deputy commissioner (Development) Sandeep Kumar, besides several other senior officials were also present on the occasion. During the meeting, the deputy commissioner reiterated the commitment of the Punjab government to provide the best educational facilities to students of government schools and said that lapse would be tolerated in this regard. He also directed officials to focus on the development of anganwaris and toilet blocks in villages, besides other civic amenities. The DC asked officials to ensure that maximum number of people were benefited from government welfare schemes, for which he instructed them organise awareness camps. He also reviewed the progress of the boundary wall of the upcoming international airport in Halwara, upcoming toilet blocks, Sakhi one stop centres, Southern Expressway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/ensure-development-of-govt-schools/articleshow/80293087.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur police recovers hacked FB page||JAIPUR: Jaipur police recovered the compromised Facebook page of social activist Poonam Ankur Chhabra from Facebook on Friday. The page with 2.8 million followers had disappeared after the admin was tricked by an unidentified person claiming to get an advertisement on the page. This is among the few occasions when the disappeared page has been recovered by the police within days. The police revealed that Chhabra was approached through virtual numbers of US and UK by cyber frauds who lured her to grant access to the page to them. "The page was stolen by the cyber frauds but not dropped by Facebook as alleged in the complaint. The reason why the page was not appearing to anyone is that the frauds had changed its appearance settings from India to Cambodia and Thailand," said Mukesh Choudhary, cybercrime consultant with Jaipur police, who has investigated the case. The investigating team also revealed that the kind of English language format used by the cyber frauds is similar to the one internationally used by the frauds operating from China. "The standard operating procedure stated by Facebook to recover the page has been followed with proper evidence," said Choudhary. The page was saved in the nick of the time, else in similar cases the cyber frauds sell the pages online for marketing. Similar modus operandi was followed by the cyber frauds with former food and civil supplies minister Ramesh Meena. His page couldn’t be recovered and was found to be sold on the online platform in Chinese and Korean languages. Reacting on the move, Chhabra said that the page has been recovered but the cyber frauds have deleted all profile pics, cover photos and user name has also been changed. "The frauds changed the Facebook page from Poonam Ankur Chhabra to Live Khmar 002 and my phone number," said Chhabra.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/jaipur-police-recovers-hacked-fb-page/articleshow/80293089.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Agra||Maya’s birthday celebration: Covid norms go for a toss||Agra: A large number of people gathered in Aligarh’s exhibition ground on Friday to celebrate BSP chief Mayawati’s 65th birthday despite fresh cases of the new strain of the disease being reported from the state. BSP’s district president Ratandeep Singh said that they had invited only office bearers of the party due to Covid-19. On being asked about the gathering, he said that this is a yearly event and people come on their own.BSP coordinator Ranveer Singh Kashyap said, “We are taking the oath to make Behenji the chief minister of Uttar Pradesh in 2022. Presently, our target is to win Zila Panchayat elections.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/mayas-birthday-celebration-covid-norms-go-for-a-toss/articleshow/80291061.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||Tourist spending takes a dive, North coastal biz hit||CALANGUTE: The Covid-19 pandemic appears to have affected the spending capacity of the largely low-budget domestic tourists who visit the Calangute-Candolim tourism hub in the new year, with stakeholders saying that their turnover has dropped by around 70%. Damien Teles who operates a stall selling T-shirts and knick-knacks at the Candolim beach promenade said that even though the inflow of tourists is good, including a surge over the weekends, their spending has not kept up. “Earlier even the low-budget tourists would buy four or five ‘I love Goa’ T-shirts to take back home for friends. But now they’re not doing this. They only buy sunglasses to take photos on the beach,” he said. Teles added that earlier women would buy coconut coir bags or fridge magnets to carry back as gifts, but now even that has slowed down. “I’ve stopped displaying the bags because there is no sale,” he said. Shack owners are also reporting poor business this year in the area. A veteran shack owner said he is averaging around Rs2,000 a day when earlier they would do business of around Rs7,000-10,000, with those in prime spots doing much better. Instead of eating and drinking in shacks and restaurants, tourists from neighbouring Maharashtra and Karnataka who come to Goa on a day’s trip bring their own cooked food, locals said. Many tourists are seen eating at isolated places on the beach or in quiet lanes. “These tourists come in tourist taxi vehicles from Kolhapur, Sawantwadi, Belagavi, etc. They come in the morning and go back the same evening or next morning after sleeping on the beach,” a local said. “They only come to Goa to drink because alcohol is cheap here. Except for wine shops they don’t contribute to the local economy in any way,” John Lobo, general secretary of the Shack Owners Welfare Society, said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tourist-spending-takes-a-dive-north-coastal-biz-hit/articleshow/80294297.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Rajkot||Body of 50-yr-old exhumed after wife alleges murder||Palanpur: Body of a 50-year-old man was exhumed by police in Kamoda village in Lakhni taluka of Banaskantha district on Friday after his wife alleged that her husband was murdered over property dispute by his own brother. The deceased identified as Ramesh Barot had died on December 28, 2020. However, Ramesh’s wife, Paru (45), who was living with her parents in Dhanera alleged that her brother-in-law Vishnu and other family members had killed her husband over a property dispute. She also alleged that she was not intimated about her husband’s death by her in-laws. Based on Paru’s complaint, on January 10, the body was exhumed on Friday. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/body-of-50-yr-old-exhumed-after-wife-alleges-murder/articleshow/80291085.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Booty worth Rs 5.3L stolen from Nigdi||Pune: Burglars broke into two bungalows in Nigdi on Thursday morning and stole gold ornaments and cash, totally worth Rs5.3 lakh. The Nigdi police said the burglars struck at one bungalow in Akurdi Pradhikaran and another at Ganganagar in Nigdi Pradhikaran, between 10am and 12.30pm. A CCTV camera captured the images of a woman with two minor boys entering the premises of the Nigdi Pradhikaran bungalow. “CCTV footage from Akurdi Pradhikaran also showed the involvement of a minor,” assistant inspector Laxman Sonawane said. “We are looking into whether the two burglaries are connected, as the modus operandi is similar,” Sonawane said, adding, “In Akurdi Pradhikaran, the 77-year-old resident of the bungalow had gone for a bath when the burglars entered the house, locked her inside the bathroom, and made off with gold and cash worth Rs3.7 lakh.” In the other incident, cash and a smartphone, totally worth Rs1.6 lakh, were stolen. A 50-year-old woman lodged a FIR in this regard.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/booty-worth-rs-5-3l-stolen-from-nigdi/articleshow/80293095.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||Burglars target telecom store||Pune: Cash and valuables collectively worth Rs 21,500 were stolen from a telecom company store near Garware College on Karve Road between Wednesday night and Thursday morning. “Unidentified men stole two phones, a camera, a laptop, a mobile tab and Rs3,500 after breaking open the shutter locks,” senior inspector Murlidhar Karpe of the Deccan Gymkhana police said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/burglars-target-telecom-store/articleshow/80293098.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Jaipur||Coaching town Kota abuzz after 9 months as students set to return||JAIPUR: Almost nine months after the pandemic painted Kota with a near-deserted look, the country’s famous ‘coaching town’ is now readying for a new lease of life. From the numerous big and small coaching institutes and hostels to roadside vendors, cabs and auto-rickshawallahs, all are up on their feet. The town is abuzz with activity, waiting for January 18 when students from across the country studying there for competitive exams – an estimated 1.5 lakh – who left for their homes during the lockdown begin to return. The coaching town is expecting around 30,000-40,000 students returning in the first leg, most of them being those who will appear in the JEE-Main and NEET exams scheduled this year. As per the government order, the institutes are allowed only 50% of students of the maximum limit in their classes, which could be further reduced to 20% to win over the confidence of parents and students. The city, which suffered huge losses when students went back home, is now going all out to provide safe and secure stay in institutes, hostels and at marketplaces and eateries. Coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, lifestyle businesses and real estate agents are racing against time to ensure state government norms on safety – issued on January 6 -- are implemented before the students are back. Kota has four major and 50 minor coaching institutes which have a combined strength of 1.5 lakh students during the peak season that lasts from July to January. From hiring doctors and nursing staff, earmarking isolation rooms and taking steps to minimize human contact by introducing digital means like mobile applications, software, digital attendance to making structural changes for easy following of social distancing, they are doing it all. “All students entering coaching institutes will be checked twice for fever and ILI symptoms. Isolation rooms have been equipped with facilities like oxygen cylinders and PPE kits along with an ambulance on standby to ensure that students’ health comes first,” said Nitesh Sharma, marketing-cum-media manager at a coaching major in Kota. Provision has been made for infrared sanitization of the campus twice in a day, he added. Owners and managers of about 3,000 hostels and 25,000 families renting portions of their homes to students are also gearing up, with guidelines mandating measures like painting, fumigation and sanitization of their complexes re-opening after nine months. “I have been working 18 hours a day to get two hostels I run as per the new guidelines. The protocol allows me to use only 50 out of 150 rooms. The hostel association has made it mandatory to shut the dining area and serve food in rooms,” said Sunil Agarwal, president of the Koral Park Hostel Association, which has 600 hostels. “Markets in the city alone have reported a loss of Rs 3,000 crore. Two lakh persons lost employment. The biggest worry was that Rs 12,000 crore of investment related to students was at stake. The re-opening, even with 40% strength, can help save the city’s economy,” said Ashok Maheshwari, secretary of Kota Vyapar Sangh, a body of 150 market associations. To make markets safe and secure, all 150 market associations have committed to forming a monitoring committee who will routinely inspect shops. Those in the unorganized sectors too are hopeful. TOI spoke to an autorickshaw driver Azad Khan before the re-opening announcement who then told that his earnings without students had gone down to 20% and finding it difficult to meet ends. “When students left Kota, my earnings went down to almost 20%. It was difficult to make ends meet. I have borrowed money for new seat covers to provide a comfortable ride. I am hoping to earn as much I was before the pandemic hit,” said Azad Khan, an auto-rickshaw owner in Kota. The local administration too is doing its bit to ensure smooth re-opening of the coaching town. “Special teams have been formed. All stakeholders have been instructed to follow guidelines. We have offered every possible assistance to ensure students stay like home in Kota,” said Kota district collector Ujjwal Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/coaching-town-kota-abuzz-after-9-mths-as-students-set-to-return/articleshow/80293093.cms||Shoeb Khan
January 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Maharashtra: Just an exam between 100 women and soldier’s duty||PUNE: A written exam is all that needs to be cleared by a hundred women, mostly from rural Maharashtra, to achieve their dreams of joining the Indian Army. They had attended the first women’s recruitment rally for soldiers on general duty conducted by the zonal recruiting office of Southern Command at Army Institute of Physical Training in Hadapsar. The three-day rally ended on Friday. “These women have cleared the mandatory physical and medical tests. Now, they are eligible for the common entrance examination (CEE), the last stage, before joining, which is scheduled in February. The first 100 candidates will be selected for training that will be conducted at Corps of Military Police training centre and school in Bengaluru,” a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity. Most of the selected women have a sports background, and have played at state and national level events. “This helped them outperform their competitors easily during the ground events. It was a massive success as we got the right candidates from the rally. They met the required physical fitness,” the officer added. Although the army had shortlisted 1,000 candidates, based on the 85% cut-off in the SSC examination, only 350 women actually participated in the rally, army sources said. “Most candidates were from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar and Beed. Less than 10 women from Gujarat participated. Many candidates may have refrained from participating due to the Covid-19 situation,” another army officer said. Those who qualified were happy about the recruitment. “We got proper guidance during and after the rally. The officers and staff encouraged us and explained the process in detail. This gave us clarity,” an aspirant from Satara, who didn’t wish to be named, said. Another woman said the army had appointed female staff to assist them in all the stages. “We didn’t face any administrative issue anywhere during the rally,” another woman who qualified said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/just-an-exam-between-100-women-and-soldiers-duty/articleshow/80297128.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||UK-returnee contact tested positive for new Covid strain, but curiously the returnees didn’t||Dehradun: In a strange case that has sent Uttarakhand health department into a tizzy, a contact of UK returnees tested positive for the new strain of Covid-19 while the spreaders, who have returned from Ireland, tested negative. The health department is now once again sending samples of the person who tested positive for new strain for gene sequencing along with his contacts. “This is a first-of-its-kind case about the new strain in India. We are trying to find how it happened,” said a senior official from the health department. Some from the health department also feel that this may have happened due to “sample mishandling”. According to the information provided by the district surveillance team, the middle aged man who tested positive for the new UK strain of Covid 19 had relatives from Ireland visiting his place in the first week of December. After the pan-India alert by the government of India, the health department started testing all the UK returnees, in which his relatives were also tested and kept in isolation. “When we asked the UK returnees for their contacts, they told us about this man (who tested positive for the new strain) and we tested around 6-7 people in the family. All other people tested negative for the virus. His Covid positive report arrived on December 26 and we then shared his sample with the Pune institute where he tested positive for new strain too, on January 14,” said Dr SK Gupta, director of state medical and health department. When contacted, secretary (health), Amit Negi said it is also possible that this man may have met some other person who was positive with the new variant but escaped detection. “All his contacts will be tested,” he said. “We have started his contact tracing to ascertain the person he got the infection from and to stop the spread further,” Negi added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/uk-returnee-contact-tested-positive-for-new-covid-strain-but-curiously-the-returnees-didnt/articleshow/80291093.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 16, 2021||Pune||Man held murder bid charge, three booked||Pune: The Dattawadi police on Thursday afternoon arrested a 26-year-old man on the charge of attempt to murder after he and three accomplices brutally assaulted a grocer and his nephew for refusing to give them money to buy liquor. The police said they have booked the accomplices, including a minor, in the case. According to a complaint lodged by the grocer, Bhimrao Banjara, the incident occurred at his shop at Jai Bhavaninagar in Janata Vasahat. Around 4pm, the suspect, Rakesh Datta Awale, and his accomplices visited Banjara’s shop. “The suspects demanded that Banjara give them money for liquor. When he refused, they assaulted him and his nephew with iron pipes and sickles,” senior inspector Krishna Indalkar said on Friday. Banjara and his nephew suffered injuries to their faces and arms, and were admitted to the hospital. Police arrested Awale on Thursday night. “We booked his three aides,” Indalkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-held-murder-bid-charge-three-booked/articleshow/80293101.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Maharashtra: Just an exam between 100 women and soldier’s duty||PUNE: A written exam is all that needs to be cleared by a hundred women, mostly from rural Maharashtra, to achieve their dreams of joining the Indian Army. They had attended the first women’s recruitment rally for soldiers on general duty conducted by the zonal recruiting office of Southern Command at Army Institute of Physical Training in Hadapsar. The three-day rally ended on Friday. “These women have cleared the mandatory physical and medical tests. Now, they are eligible for the common entrance examination (CEE), the last stage, before joining, which is scheduled in February. The first 100 candidates will be selected for training that will be conducted at Corps of Military Police training centre and school in Bengaluru,” a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity. Most of the selected women have a sports background, and have played at state and national level events. “This helped them outperform their competitors easily during the ground events. It was a massive success as we got the right candidates from the rally. They met the required physical fitness,” the officer added. Although the army had shortlisted 1,000 candidates, based on the 85% cut-off in the SSC examination, only 350 women actually participated in the rally, army sources said. “Most candidates were from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar and Beed. Less than 10 women from Gujarat participated. Many candidates may have refrained from participating due to the Covid-19 situation,” another army officer said. Those who qualified were happy about the recruitment. “We got proper guidance during and after the rally. The officers and staff encouraged us and explained the process in detail. This gave us clarity,” an aspirant from Satara, who didn’t wish to be named, said. Another woman said the army had appointed female staff to assist them in all the stages. “We didn’t face any administrative issue anywhere during the rally,” another woman who qualified said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/just-an-exam-between-100-women-and-soldiers-duty/articleshow/80297129.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 16, 2021||Aurangabad||Gram panchayat elections peaceful, good voter turnout in most districts||Aurangabad: Friday’s gram panchayat polls in the state went off smoothly, barring some minor incidents at some centres. In the Marathwada region, polls to 3,746 gram panchayat seats took place. As per the preliminary reports, about 80% votes were polled in the Aurangabad district alone, where 579 gram panchayat seats were contested. The Marathwada region, overall, has 4,134 gram panchayats. However, after the polls were announced in December 2020, villages within the jurisdiction of 388 gram panchayats unanimously declared their candidates as winners. As a result, no polling was necessitated in these villages. As per the preliminary reports, a petty incident of stone-pelting and group clash was reported in Sonpeth of Parbhani district. The Parbhni police nabbed four suspects for allegedly trying to influence voters by giving them money. At some places, including Hingoli, Osmanabad, Nanded, the police had to use force to disperse crowds near the polling booths. In Latur district, superintendent of police Nikhil Pingale had barred notorious and criminal elements from entering their respective villages, except for polling. “Initiating this preventive action helped us ensure a peaceful election,” said Pingale. 66.8% turnout in north Maharashtra The Nashik division — where the polls were conducted for 2,238 gram panchayats the five districts of Nashik, Jalgaon, Ahmednagar, Dhule and Nandurbar — saw 66.8% voter turnout till 3.30 pm. The highest turnover was in Ahmednagar district, followed by Nashik, Jalgaon, Nandurbar and Dhule. The overall voter turnout is expected to be better than the last time though the final figures are yet to arrive. In Nashik, there were some incidents of the EVMs failing to start in the morning. Bodhe village gets its first-ever polling station The Bodhe village, which is part of Dahival gram panchayat in Malegaon taluka, got a polling booth for the first time ever. “Earlier, the residents of the village had to go to Dahvial village, which is 4 km away, to cast their votes. This is the first time the tribal village has got a polling station that was converted to a ‘Model Polling Booth’. The voters were welcomed with the roses,” Chandrasingh Rajput, the Malegaon tehsildar, said. Candidate name goes missing from EVM unit The name of a candidate in the Panewadi village of Nandgaon taluka went missing from the EVM ballot unit. This was noticed by the candidate. “The name of Dattu Sonawane, in ward 2 was not added to the ballot unit. When the matter came to our notice, we rushed our teams and ensured the name was included,” said tehsildar Uday Kulkarni. — With inputs from Nashik||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/gram-panchayat-elections-peaceful-good-voter-turnout-in-most-districts/articleshow/80291105.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai to get marriage registrar||Mumbai: The state government on Friday told Bombay HC it was in the process of appointing a marriage registrar for Christians in Mumbai. This information was given to a bench of Justices Amjad Sayed and Madhav Jamdar while hearing a petition by Vasai resident Allen Cusher (35) on inconvenience to Christians after the marriage registrar in Mantralaya retired in February 2020. Government pleader Poornima Kantharia said after approval to the appointment of a desk officer, general administration department, it will be published. Regarding marriage registrars for other districts, she said an advertisement will be issued on GAD’s website. Also, petitioner’s suggestions, including a separate certificate by the marriage registrar, has been sent to the inspector-general of registration and controller of stamps. The judges will take an update on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-to-get-marriage-registrar/articleshow/80295132.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||PMO fulfills 7-yr-old’s wish to meet jawans||Hyderabad: A seven-year-old girl’s dream to meet an army person was fulfilled when her wish was fulfilled by PMO which responded to her and made arrangements for her to meet army personnel in Hyderabad. This happened when Army Day was celebrated on Friday. Nyorah Patra was starstruck when she watched R-Day parade on TV last year. Her parents told her about bravery medals given to soldiers. Nyorah asked her parents to make it possible for her to meet army personnel. Her parents wrote to PM informing their daughter’s desire. On Friday, she was taken to war memorial in Secunderabad where Major General RK Singh, general officer commanding, Telangana and AP sub area and veterans received her. She interacted with them and took photos.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pmo-fulfills-7-yr-olds-wish-to-meet-jawans/articleshow/80293103.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 16, 2021||Nashik||Maharashtra: Just an exam between 100 women and soldier’s duty||PUNE: A written exam is all that needs to be cleared by a hundred women, mostly from rural Maharashtra, to achieve their dreams of joining the Indian Army. They had attended the first women’s recruitment rally for soldiers on general duty conducted by the zonal recruiting office of Southern Command at Army Institute of Physical Training in Hadapsar. The three-day rally ended on Friday. “These women have cleared the mandatory physical and medical tests. Now, they are eligible for the common entrance examination (CEE), the last stage, before joining, which is scheduled in February. The first 100 candidates will be selected for training that will be conducted at Corps of Military Police training centre and school in Bengaluru,” a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity. Most of the selected women have a sports background, and have played at state and national level events. “This helped them outperform their competitors easily during the ground events. It was a massive success as we got the right candidates from the rally. They met the required physical fitness,” the officer added. Although the army had shortlisted 1,000 candidates, based on the 85% cut-off in the SSC examination, only 350 women actually participated in the rally, army sources said. “Most candidates were from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar and Beed. Less than 10 women from Gujarat participated. Many candidates may have refrained from participating due to the Covid-19 situation,” another army officer said. Those who qualified were happy about the recruitment. “We got proper guidance during and after the rally. The officers and staff encouraged us and explained the process in detail. This gave us clarity,” an aspirant from Satara, who didn’t wish to be named, said. Another woman said the army had appointed female staff to assist them in all the stages. “We didn’t face any administrative issue anywhere during the rally,” another woman who qualified said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/just-an-exam-between-100-women-and-soldiers-duty/articleshow/80297127.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 16, 2021||Pune||Maharashtra: Just an exam between 100 women and soldier’s duty||PUNE: A written exam is all that needs to be cleared by a hundred women, mostly from rural Maharashtra, to achieve their dreams of joining the Indian Army. They had attended the first women’s recruitment rally for soldiers on general duty conducted by the zonal recruiting office of Southern Command at Army Institute of Physical Training in Hadapsar. The three-day rally ended on Friday. “These women have cleared the mandatory physical and medical tests. Now, they are eligible for the common entrance examination (CEE), the last stage, before joining, which is scheduled in February. The first 100 candidates will be selected for training that will be conducted at Corps of Military Police training centre and school in Bengaluru,” a senior army officer said on the condition of anonymity. Most of the selected women have a sports background, and have played at state and national level events. “This helped them outperform their competitors easily during the ground events. It was a massive success as we got the right candidates from the rally. They met the required physical fitness,” the officer added. Although the army had shortlisted 1,000 candidates, based on the 85% cut-off in the SSC examination, only 350 women actually participated in the rally, army sources said. “Most candidates were from Satara, Sangli, Kolhapur, Pune, Ahmednagar and Beed. Less than 10 women from Gujarat participated. Many candidates may have refrained from participating due to the Covid-19 situation,” another army officer said. Those who qualified were happy about the recruitment. “We got proper guidance during and after the rally. The officers and staff encouraged us and explained the process in detail. This gave us clarity,” an aspirant from Satara, who didn’t wish to be named, said. Another woman said the army had appointed female staff to assist them in all the stages. “We didn’t face any administrative issue anywhere during the rally,” another woman who qualified said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/just-an-exam-between-100-women-and-soldiers-duty/articleshow/80293104.cms||Sandip Dighe
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Missing case registered||Hyderabad: A missing case was registered after a housewife went missing after a quarrel with her husband in Baghamberpet. Police said teams were formed to search for her. A complaint was lodged on Thursday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/missing-case-registered/articleshow/80294326.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Trichy||NGO condemns felling of trees for parking space||Trichy: Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam, an NGO working for nature conservation, has condemned Trichy corporation for felling trees to facilitate parking on the Karur bypass road locality. Stating that the commercial establishments should be instructed to provide space to park the vehicles of their customers, the organisation urged the civic body not to cut the trees for vehicl parking. Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam also sought a report from the state highways department for compensating the loss of trees felled for the Pudukkottai highway road expansion project in Trichy. Convening the district office bearer’s meeting on Wednesday, Makkal Sakthi Iyakkam also urged the local body to repair the roads damaged in rains in Thiruverumbur. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/ngo-condemns-felling-of-trees-for-parking-space/articleshow/80294324.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Dehradun’s Gorkha School, with a glorious past in football, fights for survival||DEHRADUN: Gorkha Military Inter College (GMIC), a city-based school that has produced many international footballers like Shyam Thapa and Amar Bahadur Gurung, Olympians like Padam Bahadur Mall ( who won the first-ever Asian Games gold medal for India in boxing) and Army officers like Shaheed Major Durga Mall, the first Gorkha soldier in Indian National Army (INA) to lay down his life for the independence movement — is fighting for survival after getting notice to evict land on which the institution has been operating for almost a century. Started in 1925 by the British Indian Army for children of Gorkha officers and men, the school was given land on a 90-year-long lease by the defence estate department. The lease expired in 2017 and now, the school is being demanded a hefty monthly fee of almost Rs 8 lakh which they say is impossible to pay since it has just 180-odd students and charges a nominal Rs 45 per month from them (the fees is only for boys; girls are taught free). “GMIC is a heritage institution with a glorious past that needs to be cherished and conserved. It has for long been regarded as a cradle of footballers and remains the only school from Uttarakhand to win Subroto Cup twice -- in 1964 and 1965,” said Bom Prasad Thapa, an ex-student and a retired Armyman. Thapa, who was a member of the school’s football team which participated in the Subroto Cup in 1970s, added, “The 3 Gorkha Training Centres which were earlier in Dehradun and whose personnel’s children formed the maximum number of students of the school were shifted to different parts of the country in 1977 and with that, a large chunk of the school’s students also moved out of Dehradun. This started the gradual decline of the school and it became difficult to maintain the glorious football heritage of the school.” Currently, the school has a private management body. “The salary of the staff members is paid by the state government but rest of the expenses, including expenditure on students’ food, uniforms, infrastructure and other running expenses has to be managed by the school on its own,” said GMIC principal Jyoti Prakash Jaguri, adding that they are somehow managing through donations from ex-students and well-wishers. “Despite being a Gorkha school, we admit students from every community and have a very inclusive atmosphere. Currently, most of our students are from poor financial backgrounds,” said Jaguri, who has been with the school since 1983 and serving as principal since 2016.4 He added that being a not-for-profit school, they can’t afford to pay the monthly fee of Rs 8 lakh that is being asked by the defence estate department. An eviction notice has been issued to the school in May last year. “Currently, the matter is in the courts, therefore, we can stay here only till the court’s final judgement. We have requested that the amount that we are paying — Rs 180 per month — may be doubled as per the Public Property Act and we are allowed to continue in the premises, otherwise the country will lose a school of historical importance,” said Jaguri.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/doons-gorkha-school-with-a-glorious-past-in-football-fights-for-survival/articleshow/80291112.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 16, 2021||Pune||ED conducts searches over cooperative bank fraud||PUNE: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Friday conducted searches at multiple premises in Pune and other places in connection with the Shivajirao Bhosale Cooperative Bank money-laundering case. The ED had registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against bank directors MLC Anil Bhosale and Suryaji Pandurang Jadhav, CEO Tanaji Dattu Padwal, and others. The ED issued a statement saying it seized incriminating documents, including digital evidence, during the search operation. The statement pointed out that the bank did not comply with internal, RBI, and inspection audits. “Borrower’s and guarantor’s financial statements and re-payment capacity were not considered before loan sanction,” it read. The ED further stated that the bank did not conduct due diligence in most cases and violated RBI and cooperative department guidelines while disbursing advances, many of which were unsecured but treated as otherwise. “Even though some accounts were marked as non-performing assets (NPAs) and their account balance was outstanding, their properties were released along with NOCs,” the statement read. The ED said multiple properties were “mortgaged to various loans even if the margin was not sufficient to cover said advances” and added that “Bhosale, Jadhav, and Padwal, by hatching a criminal conspiracy had illegally transferred money through RTGS/NEFT from the bank”. The ED went on to add that more than 90% of the bank’s loans were NPAs.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/ed-conducts-searches-over-cooperative-bank-fraud/articleshow/80293105.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: With prof’s entry, grad MLC election likely to be a thriller||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar graduates MLC constituency is heading for an intense electoral battle. While the BJP wants to consolidate its base among the educated voters in the three districts of Hyderabad, Rangareddy and Mahbubnagar by fielding its sitting MLC N Ramchander Rao and win the seat again, the entry of former two-time MLC and independent candidate professor K Nageshwar has made the election interesting. The BJP had won the seat in 2015. The decision of prof Nageshwar to plunge into electoral fray despite remaining aloof in the 2015 poll is posing a challenge to the BJP, TRS and Congress. Prof Nageshwar had defeated sitting BJP MLC N Ramchander Rao in 2009. “I had defeated the candidates of all the parties in 2007 too. I am contesting as an independent candidate and have neither sought nor seeking any party’s support. No one has approached me extending support,” said Nageshwar while brushing aside the talk in political circles that some of the parties may extend support to him. Congress has shortlisted the names of five candidates — Indira Shoban, AICC secretaries Ch Vamshi Chand Reddy and G Chinna Reddy, Telangana Congress OBC cell chairman Kathi Venkat Swamy and party spokesperson and teachers’ union leader Harshavardhan Reddy. Chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is yet to finalise the party candidate for the seat, which covers the educated voters of the state capital. PL Srinivas, who had unsuccessfully contested this seat in 2007 on a TDP ticket, is seeking TRS ticket now. Greater Hyderabad mayor Bonthu Rammohan, CM’s secretary and poet Deshapati Srinivas and former TNGO leader Devi Prasad are among the front-runners from TRS for this seat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/with-profs-entry-grad-mlc-election-likely-to-be-a-thriller/articleshow/80293107.cms||Roushan Ali
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Capt Amarinder Singh to kickstart Covid vaccination of 1.74 lakh health workers in Punjab||CHANDIGARH: A day before the process of vaccination of Punjab’s 1.74 lakh health workers, with 40,000 to be covered every day over the next five days in the first phase, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking free vaccine delivery to the poor population of the state. While acknowledging the receipt of 2,04,500 doses of Covishield vaccine, Amarinder thanked the Prime Minister for making this vaccine available on priority to the healthcare workers (HWs) of the state and central government in Punjab. At the same time, he requested the Prime Minister “to consider providing free vaccines to the poor population with a view to lessen the disease burden and also ensuring a check on the further spread of transmission thereby allowing more economic activity”. Referring to reports citing some central government sources that apart from the HWs and frontline workers (FWs), the remaining population may not be provided free vaccine, Captain Amarinder said in his letter: “The people of the state have gone through a very difficult time due to Covid wherein economic activities have nosedived and the economy has still not recovered from this shock. It would be difficult for the poorer sections of society to pay for the vaccination.” In his letter, the CM said that all steps were in place to ensure vaccination of HWs on priority, with FWs to follow in the next phase. “The state has adequate capacity for storing as well as transportation of the vaccine, Enough vaccination sites have been identified and all logistics tied up. Adequate number of vaccinators have been identified and trained and enough teams have been mobilised and trained to manage the vaccination sessions,” he has written. Pointing out that the Covid-19 pandemic “has been an unparalleled disaster in living memory, and heavy expenditure had to be incurred in our Covid response,” the CM wrote that his government had already requested the Centre that the accumulated balances with the state in the state disaster relief fund may be permitted to be used as necessary for Covid response. “The MHA may kindly approve this to allow pending payments to be cleared,” he urged the Prime Minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/capt-to-kickstart-covid-vaccination-of-1-74-lakh-health-workers/articleshow/80293109.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Day after kid dies in dung pit, Kandivli police file case of negligence||MUMBAI: After a 10-year-old boy slipped into a five-foot-deep pit filled with cow dung and water and died on Thursday, the Kandivli police filed a case of negligence on Friday. The boy, Durvesh Jadhav, had entered an open plot adjoining a cowshed to retrieve a kite on Thursday. None of the locals knew that the plot had a five-foot-deep pit. Durvesh, an only child, lived with his parents at Bhabrekar Nagar, Charkop. In December, Durvesh and his mother moved to his grandmother’s house in Kandivli after his parents started having arguments. His grandmother lives in an SRA building at Shankar Pada, off Kandivli Link Road. On Thursday, Durvesh was at home with his mother when he spotted a kite sweep down into an empty plot next door. He ran out to the plot, found a gap in the tin sheets surrounding it and got in. “The pit should have been covered. It was filled to the brim with cowdung and water and was at the same level as dung lying around the rest of the plot. The child couldn’t have known the location of the pit. We will probe into who was responsible for having that pit covered,” said a senior officer. The boy’s body was brought to the SRA society for a last darshan before final rites on Friday. “He had plans to celebrate his birthday in April at his grandmother’s place and was already sending out invitations,” said a neighbour. Jadhav’s parents were unconsolable. His father, who takes painting contracts, had been at their Charkop home when the incident occurred. Yusuf, a youth residing in a nearby building, spotted Jadhav slipping into the pit. He ran out and tried to rescue Jadhav. “He managed to bring Jadhav out twice, but the boy slipped back inside,” said an officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/day-after-kid-dies-in-dung-pit-police-file-case-of-negligence/articleshow/80294365.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Chief secy heads panelon SVANidhi||Hyderabad: The state government on Friday constituted an eight-member high-level committee headed by chief secretary Somesh Kumar to monitor the socio-economic profiling of the PM SVANidhi beneficiaries and their families in nine selected urban local bodies (ULBs) in Telangana. The objective of the programme is to map the socio-economic profile of the PM SVANidhi beneficiaries and their families, assess their potential eligibility for various central welfare schemes and facilitate linkages to these schemes. This will also help the states if they deem fit to extend their state-specific welfare schemes and benefits too to the eligible PM SVANidhi beneficiaries and their families.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/chief-secy-heads-panelon-svanidhi/articleshow/80293110.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab: To allay fears, health workers request govt to vaccinate them first||CHANDIGARH: To counter the scepticism over safety and efficacy of the Covid-19 vaccines, the Punjab government has got a much-needed shot in the arm with many health workers approaching it with a request to vaccinate them on priority on the inaugural day of the drive. Keenness exhibited by the health workers will help the government allay the apprehension of people regarding the vaccines. During the peak of the pandemic, Punjab had to struggle a lot due to misinformation and rumours spread regarding the Covid-19 treatment. The much-awaited first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive will get under way from Saturday during which 1.74 lakh health workers will be administered two doses of coronavirus vaccine 28 days apart. A day before the launch of the drive, the state health department received a request from about 200 health workers, including doctors, nurses, and paramedic staff for giving them the shot on the Day 1 of the drive. As vaccination will be done only on 59 web-connected sites on the inaugural day, the health department could not accommodate all the requests. Each site has a maximum capacity of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries. Punjab Covid nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said vaccination would be done on limited sites on the opening day and they tried to accommodate maximum requests. The interested medical professionals who could not get slots on the opening day will get the shot on January 18. “It is very heartening to see medical officers, civil surgeons and other categories of health workers coming with a request to vaccinate them on priority,” said Dr Bhaskar, adding that it would send the right message to the public. All the necessary arrangements required for the smooth roll out the immunisation drive have been made. The state received its first consignment made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) On January 12. Taking possible wastage into account, each district has been provided 10% dose more than the actual number of beneficiaries. Ludhiana district which has the highest number of beneficiaries has been given 36,510 doses of vaccine. As many as 20,880 doses have been provided to Amritsar, 16,490 to Jalandhar, 13,640 to Mohali, 12,430 to Bathinda, 11,080 to Patiala, 9,790 to Gurdaspur, 9,570 to Hoshiarpur, 8,210 to Tarn Taran and 7,660 to Sangrur. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the state government had left no stone unturned to make the immunisation drive a success. “After providing the first dose, all the site will necessarily plan for second dose after 28 days as per protocol,” said Sidhu. In total, there are over 300 sites across the state and all the sites will be made operational in coming days. Over 4,000 vaccinators will be pressed into service during the drive. The drive will be closely monitored by the health minister and the state steering committee, headed by chief secretary and comprising principal secretary for health and administrative secretaries of 15 departments. Boxes Next in line After vaccinating 1.74 health workers in the first phase, the government will move on to frontline workers engaged in delivery of essential services such as police, officials of the revenue department and municipal workers. All people above 50 will be vaccinated in the third phase, followed by all people below 50 with comorbidity as on January 1, 2021. In all, Punjab aims to vaccinate about 70 lakh people which account for about 25% of the state’s total population. Dos & Don’ts • Only individuals of 18 years and above are to be vaccinated • Other vaccines and Covid vaccines to be separated by an interval of 14 days • Covid vaccines cannot be interchanged • Special precaution to be taken while vaccinating persons with a history of bleeding • The vaccine cannot be administered to individuals with a history of an allergic reaction to a previous dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, those who show an allergic reaction to vaccines or injectable therapies and food items, and pregnant and lactating women DELAY IN INFORMING BENEFICIARIES The Punjab government was unable to send messages in time to about 6,000 beneficiaries who are to be vaccinated on the inaugural day of the mega immunisation drive. Till 9pm, the health department was able to send messages to only a few registered beneficiaries, informing them about the location of the centre and the time of vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/to-allay-fears-health-workers-request-govt-to-vaccinate-them-first/articleshow/80293108.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Khadse gives statement in land deal case||Mumbai: Enforcement Directorate (ED) recorded statements of NCP leader and former revenue minister Eknath Khadse for over five hours on Friday in a case related to a land deal in Pune. ED investigating if there was money-laundering in the deal. While leaving from ED’s office at Ballard Pier, Khadse said, “ED called me for an inquiry and I replied to all questions. Whatever documents and information they need, I will provide them. Whenever they call me again, I will make myself available to them.” Earlier, ED had called Khadse for his statement on December 30, 2020, but he expressed inability as he had Covid-19 symptoms and had been advised rest for 14 days. ED accepted his request. Khadse, accompanied by his daughter, went to the office around 11am and left around 5.30pm. Khadse was a senior cabinet minister in the BJP-led government in Maharashtra but he lost his ministry in 2016 after allegations that he misused his position to facilitate purchase of government land by his wife and son-in-law near Pune. The land was reserved for acquisition by MIDC in Bhosari in Pune district. Khadse had pointed out that entire transaction pertains to his wife and son-in-law. " “It's a private land deal. The land continues to be owned by a private person, and it was purchased by my wife and son-in-law by following due process of law. It will be wrong to say it was an illegal deal,” he had said earlier. Khadse had also taken the view that even as the MIDC was claiming ownership of the small piece of land in Bhosari in Pune district, the land was never transferred in MIDC’s name and that the original land-owner was still paying the requisite taxes to the local authority. The previous government had told the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to investigate the allegation. Subsequently, ED too initiated an investigation. Khadse recently left BJP for Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) . Khadse earlier maintained that ACB and tncome-tax department had found no irregularities in the transactions. Source said ED has yet to conclude its investigation. The NCP spokesperson and skill development minister Nawab Malik had condemned the ED's decision to initiate proceedings against Khadse, calling it the move a “vendetta politics”.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/khadse-gives-statement-in-land-deal-case/articleshow/80295141.cms||Vijay V Singh
January 16, 2021||Goa||Cancel Mollem projects also if govt respects people’s sentiments: Cong to CM||Panaji: If the state government really respects the sentiments of the people, it should scrap the three linear projects coming up in Mollem, Congress said on Friday. The party’s state president Girish Chodankar said that the government agreed to shift the IIT-Goa campus for political interests and not out of respect for people. Chodankar said that the ‘Tiranga Satyagraha’ has been kept on hold and will be revived if the government fails to officially scrap the IIT Goa campus at Melauli and withdraw cases filed against protesters within a month. “The true test of respecting public sentiments will be seen from his actions as regards to double tracking, four-laning of the national highway and laying of power transmission lines,” Chodankar said while reacting to the state government’s move to scrap the plan to setup the IIT-Goa campus at Shel Melauli. “The chief minister Pramod Sawant came to his senses only when health minister Vishwajit Rane realised that the wrath of the people was threatening his political career and he demanded to scrap the IIT campus,” Chodankar said. “People’s power is supreme in democracy. Congratulations to the struggle of Melauli panchkroshi gram bachav andolan and the people of Goa who raised their voice to protect the identity of Goa and compelled Goa chief minister to cancel IIT project at Melauli. Protecting Goa’s identity is our priority,” said opposition leader Digambar Kamat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cancel-mollem-projects-also-if-govt-respects-peoples-sentiments-cong-to-cm/articleshow/80294323.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Kolhapur||Work on 3rd line to end by 2022||Nashik: The third line connectivity between Jalgaon junction and Manmad junction in the Bhusawal division of Central Railway (CR) will be completed by 2022, after which, more trains can be accommodated between the two junctions.“The work of Jalgaon – Manmad is in an advanced stage of the survey and soon the work on the same will begin.,” said, Sanjeev Mittal, the general manager of CR, who was on the annual inspection of Devlali-Manmad section. The stretch between Jalgaon and Manmad junction as the Jalgaon junction receives traffic from Western Railway towards Nagpur and Manmad, while the Manmad junction receives traffic from South Central Railway, besides Solapur Division of Central Railway. The third line will help in handling of traffic.The officer also said the work on the third line between Jalgaon-Bhadli junctions will be completed by March 2021 while the third line connecting Bhusawal – Bhadli junctions has already been commissioned.The work on the Bhusawal-Jalgaon fourth line has started and is expected to be completed by the end of 2023. “Two road over bridges being constructed by National Highway Authorities of India (NHAI). There are some land acquisition issues, for which, help from the state government is being taken,” the officer said. The CR has, however, not given any thought for connectivity from Nashik Road towards Tirupati via Nanded or even towards Kanyakumari through the Konkan railway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/work-on-3rd-line-to-end-by-2022/articleshow/80291130.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 16, 2021||India||New timeline for politicians to list criminal history||NEW DELHI: The Election Commission has outlined the three occasions on which candidates for polls to the Rajya Sabha and state legislative councils shall need to publish details of criminal cases, in accordance with an earlier direction of the Supreme Court. The timeline, as indicated in a letter sent to the president, general secretary or chairperson of all recognised national and state political parties on January 11, requires the criminal antecedents to be published thrice — first within the first two days of withdrawal of nomination, second between the third and fourth days, and third from the fifth to sixth day, prior to the date of poll. Date of poll in case of RS and state legislative council polls by MLAs, if required, must be a date not earlier than the seventh day after the date of withdrawal of candidature, as per Section 39 of Representation of the People Act, 1951. In September 2020, the EC had released the timeline of publishing of criminal antecedents in LS/assembly polls. The three occasions, as spelt in the EC order, were within the first four days of withdrawal of candidature, between fifth and eighth days, and from ninth day till the last day of campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/new-timeline-for-politicians-to-list-criminal-history/articleshow/80295605.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||7,000 frontline workers to get vaccine today||Shimla: As many as 7,000 frontline workers will be administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in 27 vaccination centres set up across Himachal Pradesh on Saturday. The second dose of the vaccine will be administered after 28 days of the first dose. Himachal Pradesh had received 93,000 doses of the vaccine on Thursday. The state government has planned to administer vaccine doses to frontline workers in three stages. Around 1.34 lakh frontline workers including healthcare workers of state, Union government and Armed Forces will be administered the doses. State vaccination store has been set up in Shimla whereas regional vaccine stores have been set up at Mandi and Dharamshala. District vaccine stores have been set up in all 12 districts of state, besides 371 stores in medical colleges, block level, community health centres and primary health centres. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur will review the arrangements of Covid-19 vaccination in Mandi on Saturday. For the effective monitoring of the vaccination programme, the state health department has set up a control room at Parimahal in Shimla. Teams deployed at the state control room will provide hourly updates to the higher authorities about the vaccination programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/7000-frontline-workers-to-get-vaccine-today/articleshow/80293114.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nashik||310 recruits join Regiment of Artillery of Indian Army||Nashik: A total of 310 young recruits joined the Regiment of Artillery of Indian Army in an impressive passing out parade at the Nashik Road-based Artillery centre on Thursday.Commandant of Nashik Road based Artillery centre Brigadier J S Goraya reviewed the passing out and attestation parade. Goraya appreciated the high standard exhibited by these young recruits and exhorted them to uphold the rich traditions and professionalism of the Indian Army. These recruits marched on the martial tunes of the military band and were applauded by the audience present at the event. All the recruits as well as attendees adhered to Covid-19 safety protocols during the event. The recruits hailing from various parts of the country had successfully completed the arduous training of 42 weeks at the Artillery centre. The training crafted them into fit and professional soldiers. Recruit Rohit Kumar was adjudged as the overall best recruit. All the passing out recruits were also presented with ‘Gaurav Padak’ as appreciation for committing themselves in the service of the nation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/310-recruits-join-regiment-of-artillery-of-indian-army/articleshow/80291137.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Dehradun||Illegal call centre dupes US citizens worth millions, busted; 4 Delhi youths among 5 held||Dehradun: Five youths, four of them from Delhi, allegedly duped hundreds of US citizens -- mostly elderly and ex-servicemen--worth millions of dollars in the last few months while operating from a small room in Dehradun’s upscale colony. The illegal call centre was on Thursday night busted by the hill state’s Special Task Force (STF) in Vasant Vihar area of the capital city. Posing as officials of law enforcement agencies, the youths would threaten the US citizens to take legal action or to suspend their Social Security Number (SSN) if they failed to pay a fine, an STF official said. “We were receiving complaints of the fake call centre running from Vasant Vihar in Dehradun. A multi-departmental team raided the place on Thursday night and arrested five persons. Four are from Delhi and one from Dehradun,” said Ajay Singh, senior superintendent of police (SSP). Explaining the modus operandi, the SSP said, “The call centre employees used to make Voice Over Internet Protocol (VOIP) calls to US citizens. Speaking in American accent they used to threaten to seize their bank accounts, suspend SSN if they didn’t transfer the said amount. Several people fell into their trap and transferred money in dollars.” The accused used to get the SSN data of US citizens, mainly elderly who benefit from government health schemes, from hackers, the police officer said. Danish Atri, 25, Sandeep Gupta, 22, Narayan Adhikari, 21, and Ayushman Khurana, 27, are from New Delhi. While Archit Wilfrid, 26, is a resident of Dehradun, STF officials said. The STF also found a trail of financial transactions worth crores of rupees from the laptops and mobile phones seized from the accused. In all, 21 computers, eight mobile phones, an iPad and an SUV were seized from the premises, according to Singh. The STF is now planning to contact all those who have been duped in the US, to get more details about their modus operandi, SSP Singh told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/illegal-call-centre-dupes-us-citizens-worth-millions-busted-4-delhi-youths-among-5-held/articleshow/80291139.cms||Gaurav Talwar
January 16, 2021||Vadodara||‘Manja’ damages hive, bees sting eight||Vadodara: Kite flying revelry in the Bariyani Hathod village in Fatehpura taluka of Dahod district led to eight persons being rushed to the hospital. The reason was not falls, kite flying string injuries or quarrels, but honeybees that swarmed the revellers after being disturbed. According to sources, the incident took place when the kite-flying string cut through a beehive in the village. The honeybees swarmed the revellers and around eight persons suffered from multiple bites by the bees. The 108 emergency services were called by the villagers and eight injured persons were rushed to the Sukhsar health centre for treatment. The injured included three children and a teenager. Five of the injured were rushed to Santrampur for further treatment.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/manja-damages-hive-bees-sting-eight/articleshow/80291143.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: SCCL proposes mining in Shivaram wildlife sanctuary||HYDERABAD: In what could anger green activists and wildlife enthusiasts, Singareni Collieries has proposed a cluster of Ramagundam coal mines in the eco-sensitive zone of Shivaram wildlife sanctuary and also in the tiger corridor area of Chennur in Mancherial district. SCCL sought an NOC from National Wildlife Board (NWB) for expansion of coal mines in 3,297 hectares of the protected area. Shivaram sanctuary is not only a habitat of marsh crocodiles but also home to leopards and other wildlife. The total land required for a cluster of Ramagundam mine is 10,550 hectares. Out of this, 3,296 hectares of area falls in 10km radius of the eco-sensitive zone of Shivaram sanctuary. Out of these, 372 hectares is reserve forest (RF) land. The RF land falling in Adriyala of Manthani range in Peddapalli district has already been diverted to SCCL. The cluster mine area has 413 million tonnes of extractable coal reserves. Amalgamation and expansion of 11 mines needed revised environmental clearances for which NOC of the standing committee of NWB is mandatory, experts said. SCCL, in its application to the Union ministry of environment and forest, said: “To meet the increasing demand of coal and targets fixed by the central government, we are on a large-scale expansion mode to increase coal production.” The production capacity is 34 million tonnes per year and the same is supplied to NTPC Ramagundam and other industries. The cluster project entails converting the existing Godavarikhani number 5 incline underground mine into an opencast mine, utilising the surface area of Godavarikhani mine number 2 and 2A for overburden dump and continuing production in these mines and also at Godavarikhani 1 and 3. SCCL said the proposed project will not impact the sanctuary. “If there is a wildlife plan, the company is ready to work with the forest department,” it said. Moreover, in between mines and the sanctuary, there are villages and agriculture fields, the SCCL said. The total area of Shivaram sanctuary is 29 square km.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sccl-proposes-mining-in-shivaram-wildlife-sanctuary/articleshow/80293116.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||67 lakh to get the jab in Haryana vaccine rollout||CHANDIGARH: Haryana health department has set up 77 Immunisation sites for the first round of Covid-19 vaccination to be launched on Saturday. Haryana health minister Anil Vij said the PM will inaugurate the first phase of the vaccine rollout. “The two sites of Haryana where PM’s address will be live are government primary school, Wazirabad, in Gurgaon and civil dispensary at Sector 4 in Panchkula,” said Vij. In all, 67 lakh people of Haryana will be vaccinated during the rollout. The vaccine will also be administered to eminent doctors. Health additional chief secretary Rajeev Arora said as per guidelines given by the Centre, the vaccine will be administered sequentially, starting from healthcare workers (HCWs) in the first category, frontline workers like municipal and sanitation staff, state and central police force, civil defence and armed forces personnel, and revenue workers in second category, and people aged over 50 and those with comordities but aged less than 50 in third category.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/67l-to-get-the-jab-in-haryana-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/80293117.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||51 Covid +ve cases in HP||Shimla: Himachal Pradesh reported 51 Covid-19 positive cases on Friday, while 95 patients recovered. The state has a total of 56,802 positive cases, of which 767 are active, 55,071 patients have recovered, 951 have died, and one has migrated out. New positive cases include 20 from Kangra, 10 from Sirmaur, four each from Mandi, Hamirpur and Bilaspur, three each from Una and Chamba, two from Solan and one from Shimla. Recovered patients include two from Bilaspur, six from Chamba, 11 from Hamirpur, 27 from Kangra, one from Kinnaur, three from Kullu, two from Lahaul-Spiti, 18 from Mandi, three from Shimla, 14 from Sirmaur, seven from Solan, and one from Una.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/51-covid-ve-cases-in-hp/articleshow/80293127.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Noted physician Dr Murthy passes away||Warangal: Noted physician Dr Ramaka Lakshmana Murthy (83) passed away at his residence at Ram Nagar, Hanamkonda on Thursday night. Born in Husnabad, he lost his mother at an early age and was raised by his maternal uncle in Indurthy. He obtained his M.D in general physician from Osmania University and started his career as a government doctor at Karimnagar Civil Hospital. Later, Lakshmana Murthy joined the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) in Warangal in 1977 and served patients for two decades. After taking voluntary retirement, he started his medical services at Ram Nagar in Hanamakonda, and earned a name as ‘people’s doctor’. Lakshmana Murthy was a close associate of Kaloji Narayana Rao. He is survived by wife Anantha Lakshmi and two sons.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/noted-physician-dr-murthy-passes-away/articleshow/80294387.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Deemed medical universities auction seats to highest bidders despite cap on fees||MUMBAI: Wanted: NRI candidates. Deemed medical colleges have been hunting for genuine NRI aspirants who will shell out premium rates for seats. This year for the first time, Government of India has not permitted deemed universities to charge NRI seat fees to Indian students. That has not changed much for these colleges, though, as the cash component or donations have made a comeback this admission season. This year, when online admissions by the medical counselling committee closed, a total of 2,463 (1,090 MBBS) seats in deemed universities remained vacant, most of them, 764, under the NRI quota. Compare that with 2019 when fewer seats, 1,112, remained untaken. “Financial constraints have not permitted candidates to opt for the NRI quota. While we allowed colleges to convert their NRI seats to management quota (three times the regular fees) so that students are saved from travelling to various campuses, we did not see that conversion happening,” said an official from the Directorate General of Health Sciences. Students camping outside deemed universities for the stray (college-level) admission round were told they are “shortlisted”. The final admission result would largely depend on their “financial submission” at 4.45pm on Friday, January 15, the last day for admissions. Interestingly, vacant seats were allegedly auctioned to highest bidders. “My daughter will take the exam next year now,” said Mulund’s Mrinalini P who applied to every college where the fee was in the range of Rs 15 lakh a year. “At one college, the management told us the total package is Rs 1.16 crore, with Rs 50 lakh cash component,” she alleged. With a score of 475, and a budget of about Rs 70 lakh for the MBBS programme, she held no chance of getting a seat. Similar is the case with OBC candidate Pratik P who scored 505. “Clearly, they gave seats to the ones who quoted the highest rate,” he told TOI. “College officials said the overall package is Rs 1.6 crore. One parent said he quoted Rs 1.05 crore. Someone else offered Rs 1.25 crore,” said a student. Former DMER head Dr Praveen Shingare said, “There is a dichotomy as state governments are allowing private colleges to charge NRI fees from Indian students. If deemed universities charge merit fees, how will they sustain themselves?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/deemed-medical-univs-auction-seats-to-highest-bidders-despite-cap-on-fees/articleshow/80292109.cms||Hemali Chhapia
January 16, 2021||Chandigarh||BOX with DargHP to begin regular classes in schools from Feb||Shimla: Schools in Himachal Pradesh will finally open for regular classes from February 1. Similarly, ITIs, polytechnics and engineering colleges would also open from February 1, but government colleges would open for regular classes from February 8. Online system for education under ‘Har Ghar Pathshala’ will also continue. In a cabinet decision taken on Friday, it was decided that students of classes V and VIII to XII of summer closing schools would be allowed to attend school in-person from February 1 and laid down SOPs followed strictly. However, students of same classes of winter closing schools would be allowed to attend classes from February 15. The school management would ensure use of face masks, social distancing and sanitisers in the premises. The cabinet also decided that all teachers of summer closing government schools would attend school from January 27. In view the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government has made four ‘make-shift hospitals’ at IGMC, Shimla, Civil Hospital Nalagarh, Dr Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, and Medical College, Ner Chowk. Now that the number of Covid-19 active cases has come down, the cabinet decided to ensure optimum use of these ‘make-shift hospitals’. The one at IGMC would be used as medicine intensive care unit, the other at Tanda as communicable diseases/infectious diseases ward, Nalagarh facility as trauma care centre and Ner Chowk’s as super speciality ward. It also decided to notify Zonal Hospital Dharamshala and DDU Hospital Shimla as non-Covid hospitals. BOX OTHER CABINET DECISIONS >> Issue letter of intent in favour of RCCPL Private Limited, Navi Mumbai, regarding mining lease on 599.1935 hectares for extraction of limestone and mining minerals for cement plant in Kamandal, Kumarla, Gitrata and Aara villages of Chopal tehsil in Shimla district for three years >> Raze 28 old government structures from the construction site to facilitate early construction of Pandit Jawahar Lal Nehru Government Medical College, Chamba, complex >> Set up women helpdesks in district police offices and police thanas to make them more women friendly and approachable >> Purchase 136 scooters, 272 helmets and 136 desktop computers to strengthen women helpdesks in police department >> Provide required machinery and equipments to strengthen anti-human trafficking units in Shimla, Kangra, Kullu, Sirmaur, Solan and Chamba districts >> Create and fill up six posts of different categories for newly created civil courts at Jhandutta in Bilaspur district and Jaisinghpur in Kangra district||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/box-with-darghp-to-begin-regular-classes-in-schools-from-feb/articleshow/80293119.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Finish work on vaikunta dhamams: Min||Hyderabad: Panchayat Raj minister Erabelli Dayakar Rao directed officials to complete the works on construction of vaikunta dhamams in every village at the earliest.  At a separate meeting, the minister reviewed the arrangements made for the administration of Covid-19 vaccine at 21 identified government hospitals in the undivided Warangal district from January 16.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/finish-work-on-vaikunta-dhamams-min/articleshow/80293120.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Nzb soldier succumbs to injuries||Hyderabad: On a day when the nation was celebrating Indian Army Day, a soldier from Nizamabad Degavat Mothilal succumbed to injuries he had suffered in a road accident over a fortnight ago. The 25-year-old soldier had come home on leave and met with an accident on December 28. He died while undergoing treatment at the Army Hospital in Secunderabad on Friday. MLC Kavitha Kalvakuntla while condoling the death of the soldier said all necessary help would be extended to the family. Mothilal, who hailed from Megyanaik thanda in Indalwai mandal, met with an accident on NH-44 in Sadashivnagar. Mothilal came home on leave for a few days as he was to report for duty in Punjab on transfer. He was posted in Uttarakhand earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nzb-soldier-succumbs-to-injuries/articleshow/80293118.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||905 dead birds reported in one day across Maharashtra||MUMBAI: As many as 905 dead birds were reported in the state on Thursday, of which 753 were poultry birds, taking the total to 3,949 deaths since January 8, according to the state animal husbandry department. While 42 dead crows were reported from Thane, 11 were from Mumbai. A few of the poultry bird samples from Nanded, Parbhani, Latur, Beed and Ahmednagar have tested positive for avian influenza by the Bhopal-based National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, said an official from the animal husbandry department. Accordingly, the areas are being declared as an “infected areas” and action has being taken to enforce the preventive measures. As many as 3,443 poultry birds within 1km radius of an infected poultry farm have been culled in Parbhani, 11,064 in Ahmedpur and 2,828 in Latur. Of the 753 poultry bird deaths on Thursday, 140 were in Thane, 133 in Amravati, 110 in Nagpur, 86 each in Yavatmal and Chandrapur, 68 in Satara, 47 in Latur, 25 in Gondia, 19 in Osmanabad, 16 in Ahmednagar, 15 in Gadchiroli, five in Nanded and three in Raigad. Of the 87 crows found dead, 42 were in Thane, 11 each in Mumbai and Amravati, six in Wardha, five in Ratnagiri, two each in Pune, Gondia, Jalgaon and Satara, and one each in Nashik, Parbhani, Yavatmal and Buldhana. Among the 65 birds found dead were herons, sparrows and parrots of which 34 in Sangli, 23 in Thane, two in Akola and one each in Gondia, Ratnagiri, Solapur, Dhule, Latur and Amravati.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/905-dead-birds-reported-in-one-day-across-maharashtra/articleshow/80295145.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||GFP: CM’s U-turn proves he fears losing Sakhali seat||Panaji: While giving the villagers of Shel-Melauli and Valpoi credit for forcing chief minister Pramod Sawant to scrap the IIT-Goa campus at Melauli, GFP president Vijai Sardesai also said that the move proved that Sawant needs Vishwajit Rane’s help to retain the Sakhali assembly constituency. Speaking to reporters, Sardesai said that if the government could accept the people’s demand to shift the IIT-Goa campus, then the demand to stop coal transportation, double-tracking and cutting of trees in the protected forests must also be respected. “I hope the chief minister now realises that if he had to insist on building IIT Goa campus in that same location, then in the coming elections, Rane would have taken a stand against the chief minister and he would have lost,” said Sardesai. “The CM must realise that he needs Vishwajit’s help to win the coming election and thus to protect his political interests he has taken the U-turn.” GFP has urged the government to keep its assurances and withdraw the cases against the agitators, take action against Valpoi police inspector Sagar Ekoskar and explain to the people why the IIT campus location was shifted from Sanguem to Valpoi. “The credit for making the CM climb down, to take a U-turn on this issue, needs to go to the people of Melauli, the people of Valpoi who stood up against the government. They showed Goa that they can take on the government. But first, the chief minister needs to tell the people of Goa why was it brought to Melauli in the first place. IIT was supposed to come up in Sanguem where the local MLA and people supported it,” Sardesai said. On Friday, Sawant held a press conference and announced that the proposal to set up the IIT campus at Shel-Melauli has been scrapped out of “respect for the sentiments” of the locals. Sardesai used this to taunt the chief minister and sought to know why the government could not respect the sentiments of the entire state which wants to save Mollem, stop coal transportation and stop diversion of water from the Mhadei river basin. “Only when he is scared of losing in his constituency and he wants to save his seat does he respect the sentiments of the people. Our chief minister is competing with Salazar to brutalize the state and to commit atrocities on Goans. His continuance as chief minister only helps the Delhi lobby and not Goans,” said Sardesai.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/gfp-cms-u-turn-proves-he-fears-losing-sakhali-seat/articleshow/80294485.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||State should disclose PRC report: Unions||Hyderabad: The state steering committee meeting on Friday said that that the state should immediately disclose PRC report and hold negotiations with the unions. They said that the committee would go on a one-day hunger strike on January 23 to demand speedy implementation of the PRC and other issues.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-should-disclose-prc-report-unions/articleshow/80294490.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid vaccine drive: ‘First day, first shot’ at 161 spots in Gujarat||AHMEDABAD: On Friday, the top health department officials took stock of the vaccines that the department received from Pune three days ago. The availability on the web platform was checked against the required shots for Saturday’s vaccination. “It’s going to be a big-ticket event with CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel to remain present at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad, whereas all 161 sites will have MPs, MLAs or other social or political leaders present,” said a state health department official. “The vaccination will start after a speech by PM Narendra Modi.” Friday however marked frantic course correction for the CoWIN application. Sources close to development said that the web and mobile-based platform for vaccination drive was not functioning properly. The senior officials however remained tight-lipped. “As all participants are healthcare workers associated with the process for long, it won’t matter much. We can do it manually if technology doesn’t work,” said an officer who did not wish to be named. Dr J P Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that he will be among the recipients of the vaccine on Saturday. “We as frontline Covid workers value the vaccine as a first step towards return of normalcy,” he said. “We have got four medical officers, five heads of departments and 15-odd doctors among the first recipients of the vaccine,” said Dr Pradeep Patel, RMO of GMERS Sola Hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/first-day-first-shot-at-161-spots/articleshow/80293142.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Vadodara||Fake call centre busted; seven arrested||Rajkot: Acting on a tip off, officers of Detection of Crime Branch (DCB) of Rajkot city police raided a fake call centre late on January 13 night and arrested seven persons including four women from the fourth floor in Star Plaza in Phulchhab Chowk in Rajkot city.H B Dhandhaliya, police sub-inspector (PSI) of DCB police station, Rajkot lodged a complaint on Thursday against Latif Nariwala (22), Amir Nariwala (27), Nasrulla (22), Kajal Makwana (21), Komal Pragda (24), Pooja Solanki (24) and Saistha Tumpi (22), all residents of Rajkot city, under various sections of Indian Penal Code including 120B (criminal conspiracy) and sections of Information Technology Act.Police seized seven mobile phones, a laptop and routers and other items worth Rs 99,000 from the accused.Women members were assigned to make the calls to lure potential customers. Police are also investigating how they used to get customers data about demat accounts. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/fake-call-centre-busted-seven-arrested/articleshow/80291186.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Patna||2k take part in ‘Run for Peace’ at Motihari||MOTIHARI: Over 2,000 boys and girls participated in the ‘Run for Peace’ organized by East Champaran district administration in Motihari town on Friday. All the registered participants reached the local Gandhi Maidan and started running at 6.30am to cover 13-km-long distance with DM Shirshat Kapil Ashok and other officers. Earlier, international badminton player Jwala Gutta addressed the participants. Jwala said she was very much happy to see the participants in large number in this winter foggy morning. The event was organized to encourage the youth to courageously counter violence and discrimination. Pramod Kumar, MLA, said the run was organized to create awareness about peace, non-violence and healthy lifestyle. The DM asked the boys and girls to spread awareness among common people about Jal, Jeewan and Hariyali scheme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/2k-take-part-in-run-for-peace-at-motihari/articleshow/80292154.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||On ‘initial’ drive, TBM to move slower below Sealdah flyover||Kolkata: Tunnel-boring machine (TBM) Urvi will take much more time to burrow the west-bound tunnel of East-West Metro below the Sealdah flyover than it took to dig the east-bound tunnel in October since it is now in on its “initial” drive. Consequently, the flyover would remain out of bounds to vehicles for a longer period. The flyover must be closed for safety while the 450tonne TBM digs 17m below the ground. This is the second time the flyover is being closed for Metro construction. It was blocked for two-and-a-half days from October 2, when the east-bound tunnel was completed. The same TBM is now building the west-bound tunnel. Since the TBM is on its “initial” drive, it must dig slowly and carefully to create the space to accommodate its entire 75m length. Currently, 9m of the machine (cutterhead, front and middle bodies and tailskin) is engaged in burrowing. The “initial” drive ends and the “main” drive — with the backup gantry added to the machine — begins a month later from near Koley market when the entire 75m of the TBM can operate. The backup parts will be lowered and added one after another from the shaft at the Sealdah Metro station. “The last time when the flyover was closed, the machine burrowed 12m a day and the 25m distance below the flyover was completed in two days. This time, Urvi is barely covering 6m a day. So it will need five nights to cross over to the other side of the flyover,” an engineer involved in the project explained. Deployed by contractors ITD ITD-Cementation, Urvi completed one leg of the East-West Metro between Esplanade and Sealdah on October 9. It had started moving from Esplanade towards Sealdah in early 2019, along with its sibling TBM, Chundi. But tunneling was stopped after buildings in Bowbazar subsided when Chundi hit an aquifer on August 31, 2019. So, Urvi has now U-turned to bridge the 800m gap of the other tunnel, digging from the opposite end (Sealdah station). It started on January 4 and should reach Bowbazar in four months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/on-initial-drive-tbm-to-move-slower-below-sealdah-flyover/articleshow/80292183.cms||Ajanta Chakraborty
January 16, 2021||Pune||Late-night text alerts for govt, private health sector workers||Pune: Maharashtra immunisation officer Dr DN Patil on Friday said all health workers from government and private sectors registered on CoWin app have been sent an SMS late on Friday night, asking them to be present at the 285 sites in the state for the inaugural session of the Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday. As many as 28,500 beneficiaries will be covered on the first day of the vaccination drive and a webcasting facility of all the sites has been provided. There will be a video interaction of beneficiaries at Jalna district hospital and Cooper hospital in Mumbai with the Prime Minister. Dr Patil said 100 health workers would be vaccinated at each site. Besides the 285 main vaccinators, an additional back-up of an equal number of vaccinators were trained on Friday with the help of IT professionals to ensure a seamless update process on CoWin. The immunisation officer said the beneficiaries would be checked for any fever-like symptoms. If they have fever, the vaccination process will be delayed. Any delay or refusal to the vaccination will be mentioned on CoWin,” he said. Indian Medical Association (Maharashtra) immediate past president Dr Avinash Bhondwe said they urged allmembers to get vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/late-night-text-alerts-for-govt-private-health-sector-workers/articleshow/80293138.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 16, 2021||Pune||313 days after first case in Pune Metropolitan Region, 17 facilities ready for mega drive||PUNE: The Covid-19 shots reached the total 17 vaccination sites across the Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) by Friday evening, exactly 313 days after the first novel coronavirus case was recorded in a Pune couple on March 9, 2020, paving way for one of the largest inoculation drives in recent times to kick off on Saturday. The Aundh District Hospital, the only site offering Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in PMR, received 200 vials of the vaccine. “The list of the first 100 beneficiaries has been generated, but the online system is slow,” said Varsha Doiphode, additional district civil surgeon, Pune. The beneficiaries at the hospital will be required to submit the consent form mandatory for Covaxin. Other 16 designated centres also received their respective doses of Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India by evening. Drive to begin at 11am in PMC limitsThe Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will start the Covid-19 vaccination drive at Kamala Nehru hospital at 11am on Saturday in the presence of senior civic officials and corporators, mayor Murlidhar Mohol said in a conference on Friday. He said 96 lakh doses would be required for completing the vaccination drive in the PMC areas in all phases. Additional commissioner of PMC Rubal Agarwal said vaccination was voluntary. “We urge all the selected health workers to get vaccinated. It will be inspiration for others,” she said. 10.30am start in Pimpri ChinchwadIn the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits, the seven civic hospitals and one Union government-run hospital will hold the vaccination drive, which will start at New Jijamata hospital in Chinchwad at 10.30am in the presence of the civic chief Shravan Hardikar, mayor Usha Dhore, corporators and officials. ZP CEO rules out internet issuesPune Zilla Parishad CEO Ayush Prasad on Friday said 15 vaccination centres in 13 tehsils of rural Pune were well-equipped, including a proper internet facilitate, for the inoculation drive smoothly on Saturday. “These centres have been running various online systems for the last few years. They have power backup too. Each centre has its contingency plan ready to handle the last-minute hassles.”  (With inputs from Sandip Dighe & Swati Shinde Gole)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/313-days-after-first-case-in-pmr-17-facilities-ready-for-mega-drive/articleshow/80293136.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 16, 2021||Pune||Dentist vouches for safety of vaccination, says minor effects are immune responses||Pune: City-based dentist Ankit Khanna vouched for the safety of the Covid-19 vaccine and its immunity-lending capacity as the nationwide vaccination of health care workers is set to begin on January 16. Khanna was among 1,600 trial participants, who had enrolled for Phase II (safety) and III (immunogenicity) human trials of the vaccine in India. “Post-vaccination, minor symptoms are very normal. In fact, they reflect the body’s drive-in mounting the immune response. The Covid-19 vaccine is safe and effective,” he said. The health care professional had volunteered to participate in the human trials of the vaccine at a designated trial site in Pune. “I underwent pre-trial screening on August 29. I got the first dose of the vaccine on August 31 and the second dose on September 29,” Khanna said. After the first inoculation, Khanna noticed a slight increase in body temperature. The fever lasted for about 24 hours. “I also had body-ache, headache, and general malaise, which improved over 24 hours. All symptoms completely subsided after 48 hours. Soreness at the site of injection lasted for four days. The trial site researchers recorded all symptoms,” Khanna said. After 65 days, Khanna got his antibodies checked. “The test found a high amount of antibodies in my blood. This gave me the confidence to pursue my clinical work and serve patients without fear for them, my family, and myself,” he said. Despite receiving the vaccine, Khanna did not stop following Covid-19-appropriate behaviour during the trial period and continues to observe them even after full vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dentist-vouches-for-safety-of-vaccination-says-minor-effects-are-immune-responses/articleshow/80293144.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 16, 2021||Visakhapatnam||AP: This year, haridasu seeks alms on bikes||VISAKHAPATNAM: The tradition of haridasulu seems to have changed in keeping with changes brought about by Covid-19 in the state. Traditionally seen with an akshayapatra (a utensil to collect alms) on their head, a tambura or musical instrument on their right shoulder and a chitadulu (cymbals) in their left hand, haridasulu chant Harinamam as they go from house to house, seeking alms during the Sankranti festival. During the three-day harvest festival, haridasulu narrate stories of kings, gods, the Ramayana, Sundarakanda and the Bhagavad Gita. This year, many haridasulu were seen going around seeking alms on three-wheelers and motorbikes. Pala Manasa from Cherukumilli under Gopalapuram mandal in West Godavari district said “I came to my mother’s house this Sankranti from Hyderabad. I surprised to see the haridasu on a motor bike. When asked, he replied that it is a safety measure for Covid-19.” Mada Aadinarayana, a veteran haridasu from Makavaram in Visakhapatnam district said that less than 100 families of the community, including five in Visakhapatnam district, presently practise the age-old tradition of reciting the Harinamam during Sankranti. Haridasu S Suryanarayana from Krishna district said the younger generation is reluctant to practise the tradition, given that patronage from society and the government is on the decline. “We encourage our children to go for education. We are doubtful this would last for the next two to three years,” Suryanarayana added. Rangam Praja Samkruthika Vedika founder-president Konari Hemasudharna Rao said the government must protect the profession and those who practise it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/this-year-haridasu-seeks-alms-on-bikes/articleshow/80291189.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 16, 2021||Goa||Canacona locals irked over accident||Poinguinim: After a school girl was injured in an accident on the Manohar Parrikar bypass road at Galgibaga, Canacona, upset locals said their demands to erect signboards and rumblers on the road have fallen on deaf ears. In the recent accident, the school girl was riding pillion on a two-wheeler while proceeding from Magdal in Galgibaga towards Chaudi. According to Canacona police, another two-wheeler was travelling from the opposite direction, which led to a collision. The girl was immediately referred to Canacona community health centre and was discharged after preliminary medical treatment. “This junction has become an accident prone zone as there are no signboards. In the absence of road signs, it becomes difficult for motorists to navigate here, particularly if one is using the bypass for the first time. This often leads to collision between two vehicles,” said a Galgibaga resident.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/canacona-locals-irked-over-accident/articleshow/80293147.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||‘Pained’ over being used, Bombay HC nixes plea on illegal colleges||MUMBAI: Pained that the high court was used by a trustee of an educational trust to see its rivals were pushed out of business, Bombay HC on Friday dismissed her petition on mushrooming of illegal junior colleges and vacated interim orders passed on it. “We feel the high court has been taken for a ride,” said a bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice Girish Kulkarni. On January 4, HC restrained school education minister Varsha Gaikwad from granting final permission to Rao Educational Trust’s five institutes to operate as regular junior colleges without obtaining its nod. This interim order was passed on an application by Manju Jaiswal, a trustee of Kaushalya Education Society, to stay Gaikwad’s December 18 order allowing Rao time to comply with infrastructure conditions under Maharashtra Self-Financed Schools Act. On January 28, 2020, a coordinate bench, on Jaiswal’s petition, had prohibited the school education department from processing pending applications unless permitted by it. It also directed rules under the Act be framed. Rao’s advocate SC Naidu argued her petition is a “cut-copy-paste” of a PIL on the same issue dismissed in September 2019. Senior advocate Anil Sakhare for Jaiswal said the coordinate bench had found merit in her petition. Naidu argued Jaiswal did not disclose she was also a trustee and a treasurer of Nirmal Education Society, founded by JM Abhyankar, former director of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan and former divisional chairman of SSC and HSC boards. She is his daughter-in-law and used her maiden name to file the petition to enable Nirmal “to steal a march over” Rao, its competitor, he said. “Pained” by the petitioner’s conduct, the judges said a good cause had led to an order being passed. “However, we cannot lose sight of the fact that however good the cause may be, the golden rule is a party moving court must approach it with clean hands.’’||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pained-over-being-used-hc-nixes-plea-on-illegal-colleges/articleshow/80295147.cms||Rosy Sequeira
January 16, 2021||Pune||State wants 7.7 lakh units from Centre within 15 days||Pune: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday told TOI that he would write to the Centre on Monday seeking disbursement of the remaining 7.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state within 8-10 days thereafter.The Maharashtra government is considering offering free vaccination to most BPL families and the elderly with comorbid conditions. At present, the Centre has said Covid vaccines will be given free of charge to healthcare and essential workers in the initial stages of the mass vaccination drive. A decision on pricing for the general population will be taken after 60% of the first phase is over.Tope wants the price benefit to be extended to other vulnerable sections as well. “I have said at every video conference that vaccination should be provided free of cost by the Indian government ,” he said. Tope said the state government currently had no plan to increase the vaccnation centres from the current 285 facilities, He added that the state would conduct 15 sessions to complete the available doses of around 9.8 lakh of vaccines — 9.63 lakh vials of Serum Institute of India’s and 20,000 doses of Covaxin from Bharat Biotech — allocated by the Centre.Maharashtra needs 17.5 lakh vials for the first phase of vaccination, as 10% of wastage is expected for the entire 8 lakh beneficiaries registered on Cowin app. The 15 sessions will be distributed over four days in a week. “We can cover 4.27 lakh registered health beneficiaries during these sessions. We have to wait for the rest of the doses to cover all beneficiaries,” the minister said.  National Health Mission commissioner N Ramaswami said the authorities have as of now kept flexible the days for vaccination. Though the vaccination drive would start on Saturday, he said, the vaccination sessions would be scattered over a week. (With inputs from Mumbai)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/state-wants-7-7-lakh-units-from-centre-within-15-days/articleshow/80293145.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||‘Vaccines approved after due diligence’||On the day Gujarat starts its fight to curb Covid-19 through vaccination, TOI gets experts — infectious diseases specialist and Covid-19 task force member Dr Atul Patel and state immunization officer Dr Nayan Jani — to address key questions. Q: Vaccination for Covid-19 begins today. Is it safe for use as it has been tested and introduced in a short span of time for emergency use? NJ: Vaccines are given approval for emergency use after due diligence at all levels. The vaccines have undergone stringent medical trials to understand their impact on patients. They are safe for use. Q: What are the known side effects of the vaccines? AP: Vaccines generally produce local and systemic side effects which are generally mild and nothing to worry about. With regards to Covishield vaccine initially approved for use in India and Gujarat, almost half of the recipients can have local soreness/injection site pain, myalgia, headache, and fatigue. One-third of the cases can have fever and one-fifth can have joint pain and nausea. All these side effects generally resolve by Day 5-7. Clinical trials have shown that patients got fewer side effects with the second dose. Q: What are the major apprehensions that people have expressed in taking the vaccine? NJ: Two major apprehensions: Safety of the vaccine and effectiveness in Covid protection. Q: Should one wait till many people have taken them to ensure they are safe? AP: All high-risk elderly patients should get vaccinated to protect themselves. Instead of waiting, it’s better to protect ourselves as Covid-19 is an unpredictable illness. Q: Who should take the vaccine as soon as it is available? AP: Every citizen, except persons who have recovered from Covid-19 and have good antibodies, should get vaccinated. All high-risk elderly persons above 60, obese people, people with diabetes, hypertension, liver or kidney diseases, or heart condition should receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Q: Many Covid-19 warriors and the general population who recovered from Covid-19 have developed antibodies. Should they still take the vaccine? NJ: Yes. Even they should get vaccinated. If the infection was milder, the antibodies would also be sparse — causing the possibility of re-infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccines-approved-after-due-diligence/articleshow/80293146.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Senior city doctors lead from the front, step up for the jab...||Kolkata: The state health department has named several senior doctors among the first beneficiaries to receive the Covishield shot during the rollout in the city on Saturday. Health officials believe these eminent doctors, leading from the front, would help in making the Covid-19 vaccination programme in the state a success.“I would be taking the shot at NRS Medical College on Saturday. I am hopeful that other healthcare workers will come forward to take the vaccine that would provide some protection from Covid-19. If people are afraid of the side effects, I would say corona is much bigger a threat,” said senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee (86). The 86-year-old was discharged from the hospital only a few days ago after chest infection treatment. Throughout the pandemic, Mukherjee not only saw patients but also aided the government in its Covid-19 prevention plans.“Whenever a new vaccine is introduced, people tend to be hesitant. The healthcare system has to get back normalcy and the vaccine is required for this. There could be one or two odd cases of side effects, which can happen to any vaccine. I am happy that I have been asked by the health department to take the shot on Saturday,” said pulmonolgist Dhiman Ganguly. The 76-year-old has also been part of the state government’s expert committee on Covid-19 prevention.Along with the two senior medics, state secretary of IMA Bengal, Santanu Sen, who is also the RKS chairman at NRS Medical College will be taking the jab at the hospital on Saturday.“Vaccination-related adverse experiences are mostly of mild nature. The serious ones are rare and the vaccination programme is well geared to identify those early for appropriate treatment. Regarding efficacy, the vaccine doses are meant for boosting immunity against the disease. So don’t miss this opportunity to get vaccinated. The real benefit of this vaccination programme lies in its ‘mass vaccination’ approach,” said Santanu Tripathi, former head of clinical and experimental pharmacology department at School of Tropical Medicine, Kolkata, where he would be taking the vaccine on Saturday.At Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital (ID&BG), 10 senior doctors have decided to lead from the front by sharing the first vial of the vaccine (each vial has 10 doses). Principal Anima Haldar, medical superintendent and vice principal (MSVP) Asis Manna, infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray, community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhay and medicine head Biswanath Sarma Sarkar are among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/senior-city-doctors-lead-from-the-front-step-up-for-the-jab-/articleshow/80293152.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 16, 2021||Goa||Garbage dumped in open drains raises a stink in Mapusa||Saligao: The dumping of garbage in open drains close to a temple in Khorlim, Mapusa, has raised concern among residents of the area that it may lead to a health hazard for them. Residents said despite the municipality having placed dustbins at the spot, miscreants are dumping trash in the drains. They said that the open gutters have now become breeding grounds for mosquitoes. The residents have demanded that the garbage in the gutters be cleared immediately and that the dustbins be moved away from the site, as this is leading to waste being dumped at the location. President of the temple committee, Sanjay Salgaonkar, said that the filth in the gutters is causing a nuisance for temple authorities, vendors and devotees in the area. “We request the municipality to take immediate action and remove the bins and also close the gutters as we will be celebrating the temple zatra very soon,” Salgaoankar said. Another local said that the gutters have also not been desilted for the last two years as a result of which water gets accumulated here. “As a result of the filth, people avoid this spot and it is affecting our business,” said shop owner Purushottam Pilernkar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/garbage-dumped-in-open-drains-raises-a-stink-in-mapusa/articleshow/80293150.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Vadodara||Four including doc forge nCov report||Vadodara: The Gotri police on Thursday booked four persons, including a doctor, for faking a Covid-19 report to claim insurance money. This is the second such case of cheating booked in the city in last 10 days. The police said that it will verify all the documents and start investigations in the case. Dr Bijal Shah, who runs a pathology lab in Chhani, told the police that on January 8, he got Covid positive reports of two persons namely Mitesh Prajapati and Jyotika Prajapati. When Shah checked the lab records, he found that the reports he gave for the accused duo in December last year were negative. Shah began inquiring into the matter and learnt that Mitesh had joined hands with Praveen Kumar Parmar, an insurance agent, for claiming insurance money on the basis of a forged report. Also, Dr Anil Patel, who works at a private hospital has been booked for cheating along with Ripal Mishra who runs a private lab as they helped Mitesh in the fraud. The accused tampered the Covid-19 report and showed it as positive to claim the insurance firm. On January 6, a 33-year-old man was booked by the J P Road police for forging a Covid report to claim insurance money. Nimesh Kumar Parmar had tampered a Covid-19 report and put his name on it to claim the money.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/four-including-doc-forge-ncov-report/articleshow/80291212.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Pune||1st Covishield vax export to Brazil in 2 weeks: Poonawalla||Pune: Serum Institute of India (SII) owner and chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla on Friday said the first overseas consignment of 20 lakh doses of its Covishield vaccine would be dispatched to Brazil two weeks from now.The vaccine doses will be moved from SII’s manufacturing unit in Pune to the Mumbai airport in a refrigerated truck. A specially-equipped aircraft from Brazil is expected to airlift the consignment from Mumbai.Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro recently requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the quantum of vaccine doses that would not disrupt India’s mass vaccination of priority groups starting from January 16.“This will be the first export of Covishield. It will take place two weeks from now. We have ample stock. The export is not going to disrupt India’s vaccination programme in any way,” Poonawalla told TOI. SII has 50 million doses of the vaccine ready at its Manjari plant in Pune. Besides, it has scaled up its production to 50-70 million doses per month since the beginning of 2021.In addition to countries in South Asia, many Latin America nations and South Africa are also in touch with the Indian government and SII to procure Covishield.“However, our first priority has always been our own country. Once that is taken care of, we can start exporting the vaccine doses to other countries in full swing,” Poonawalla said.SII has sent 1.1 crore Covishield doses to the Indian government’s supply chain after the latter placed its first order on January 11. The doses were distributed across the country from January 12 to 14.“Besides Serum, the Brazilian government will also seek some stock of vaccine doses from Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech,” a source privy to the process said.Brazil is currently grappling with the second wave of Covid-19. So far, the virus has killed 2,00,498 people in that country, according to health ministry figures. This is the second-highest toll worldwide, after 3.63 lakh deaths in the US.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1st-covishield-vax-export-to-brazil-in-2-weeks-poonawalla/articleshow/80293149.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 16, 2021||Patna||Congress protest march against farm bills||PATNA: The state unit of the Congress took out a protest march from Sadaqat Ashram to Raj Bhavan here on Friday to protest against three farms bills passed by the central government and rising prices of diesel, petrol and cooking gas. Police, however, stopped the protesters midway near Rajapul where they staged a dharna, which was addressed by senior leaders of the party. The march was jointly led by party state president Madan Mohan Jha and former union minister Tariq Anwar. The internal conflict, however, came to the fore when only a handful of the 19 MLAs of the party took part in the protest march organised at the behest of state incharge of the party affairs, Bhakt Charan Das, to mark 'Kisan Adhikar Diwas'. Addressing the workers of the party and functionaries on the occasion, Jha said that the impasse over the farm bills continued even after 51 days of protest by farmers. He lashed out at the central government for its anti-farmer policies. Speaking on the occasion, former union minister and AICC general secretary Anwar said that the prices of diesel and petrol have increased multiple times in recent years due to hike in cess of petrolium products by the Narendra Modi government. He alleged that the farmers as well as common masses are feeling the heat of the price rise. Party MLAs, including Vijay Shankar Dubey, Vijendra Choudhary and Shakeel Ahmad Khan took part in the protest march. Legislature party leader Ajit Sharma was conspicuous by his absence. Sources in the party, however, claimed that he could not take part in the agitation as his mother was stated to be critically ill. Kaukab Quadri, Prem Chandra Mishra, Shyam Sunder Dheeraj, Jyoti Bharti, Rajesh Rathod, Harkhu Jha, Ashok Kumar, Amita Bhushan, H K Verma, Kripa Nath Pathak, Renu Singh and Kapildeo Yadav were prominent among others present on the occasion. Later a delegation of the party submitted a memorandum to the governor.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cong-protest-march-against-farm-bills/articleshow/80292210.cms||Ramashankar
January 16, 2021||Pune||Wastage of vax hinges on turnout of beneficiaries||Pune: Director of state health services Dr Archana Patil on Friday said wastage of some vaccine doses might be unavoidable despite best efforts if less than the stipulated number of beneficiaries turned up at vaccination centres. Stressing that all efforts were in place to preclude the possibility of wastage of vaccine, Dr Patil told TOI, “If a centre has to cover 100 beneficiaries per day, it would require 10 vials of Covishield (there are 10 doses in each vial). If the number of beneficiaries turning up at a centre is 91, nine dosages could go waste because there isn’t an open vial policy.” Deputy director of health services for the Pune region Dr Sanjay Deshmukh told TOI, “When there are 10 beneficiaries, one Covishield vial has to be used. So, if up to 55 beneficiaries come at a session site, then five doses from the sixth vial could go waste.” Dr Patil said the state, thus, urged that stipulated number of pre-registered beneficiaries turn up to avoid any possibility of wastage. She said the upper limit or allowable programmatic wastage of vaccines was 10%. “However, it is not necessary that this would be the percentage of wastage each time. Maximum utilisation of vaccine doses should be there, and the wastage must be minimised. But it is natural in immunisation programmes that the volume extracted into the syringe could vary marginally in terms of slightly less or more, which is not unusual,” Dr Patil said. The health ministry listed the precautions and contraindications for the Covid-19 vaccination recently. Dr Ashok Nandapurkar, civil surgeon in Pune district, said, “Those who come for the vaccine will be checked. Those with absolute contraindications would not be vaccinated. In case of those with provisional/temporary contraindications, Covid-19 vaccination has to be deferred for four-eight weeks after recovery.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/wastage-of-vax-hinges-on-turnout-of-beneficiaries/articleshow/80293148.cms||Neha Madaan
January 16, 2021||Goa||Vijai moves bill seeking 80% jobs for locals in pvt sector||Panaji: Goa Forward Party(GFP) president and Fatorda MLA Vijai Sardesai on Friday said he has moved a private member’s bill — the Goa State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2021 — ahead of the assembly session for 80% reservation of jobs for locals in the private sector. A similar bill has been approved by the BJP government in Haryana, Sardesai said, even as he sought to know why the Goa government was reluctant to introduce it. “We will get to know the government’s stand on this issue,” the MLA said. The four-day winter session will commence on January 25 and end on January 29. Sardesai said he has also moved a Goa Lokayukta Amendment Bill, seeking that Lokayukta reports be made binding on the government, that inquiries into cases be initiated and that a prosecution team be constituted to file cases in the Supreme Court. If the matter is not discussed in the House, the only other option would be to raise such issues in the public forum, the former deputy chief minister said while accusing the government of imposing Section 144 in the backdrop of the Covid-19 pandemic so as to avoid discussion of issues on public forums. “If this assembly session is held as per the request of the opposition, the government will be suitably exposed and may buckle under its own weight,” he said. Sardesai further said that the government was not ready to answer why the Covid vaccine will not be given first to the MLAs to ensure a lengthy assembly session. “They are using Covid to avoid answering questions,” he said while alleging that a lot of scams have surfaced in the name of the pandemic. Opposition leader Digambar Kamat said that although there is a time crunch, there were a lot of issues that needed to be raised in the assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vijai-moves-bill-seeking-80-jobs-for-locals-in-pvt-sector/articleshow/80294587.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid: Brazil strain causes concern among health experts||HYDERABAD: After the UK variant, the latest mutant of the novel coronavirus to be kept under the watch list is the Nextstrain, that was first detected in Brazil last month. This new strain has already undergone 10 mutations and health experts are not sure if it reacts to the vaccines that are being developed now. Indian scientists are also working to sequence the Brazil strain as it is one of the several strains of the novel coronavirus that escapes the immune system. Moreover, the Brazil strain contains several genetic changes observed in other leading strains. Though no cases of Nextstrain have been reported so far in India, health experts feel that it is a strain of concern. They feel so because Japan, where this variant has been detected apart from Brazil, has reported a sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases. There are also chances of reinfection by the new strain in patients, who have already recovered from the wild strain of the virus first detected in Wuhan in China, 13 months ago. The possibility of more than one strain of the virus simultaneously infecting individuals also exists and is being looked into. According to researchers, the Brazil variant has 17 unique changes in amino acid (genetic material for building proteins), three deletions, and four synonymous mutations (which do not change the amino acid sequence). Ten changes were noticed on the spike. The Brazil variant (named P.1) is characterised by mutants like L18F, T20N, P26S, D138Y, R190S, K417T, E484K, N501Y, H655Y and T1027I, tweeted senior genomics scientist Vinod Scaria. There are multiple convergent mutations of biological relevance in spike of the Brazil strain. A research study by an international team of scientists has found “a unique constellation of lineage defining mutations, including several mutations of known biological importance”. The new variant was found in 42 per cent of positive samples from Manaus, a city in Brazil, between December 15 and December 23, 2020. “The recent emergence of variants with multiple shared mutations in spike raises concern about convergent evolution to a new phenotype, potentially associated with an increase in transmissibility or propensity for re-infection of individuals,” cautioned Dr Nuno R Faria, infection diseases epidemiologist and one of the authors of the research study that analysed the Brazil variant of the virus. Even as the Brazil variant is creating a scare in the West, Indian scientists are already busy studying its genome. Earlier, they had not only sequenced the genome of the UK variant, but also cultured it in the laboratory, a scientific feat, which no one has done this pandemic season. Meanwhile, as many as 3.50 lakh sequences of the Covid-19 virus and its variants have thus far been shared among scientists around the world. This is perhaps the largest ever exercise on a virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/brazil-strain-causes-concern-among-health-experts/articleshow/80293151.cms||Syed Akbar
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||7-day check of health for beneficiaries||Each medical centre will be equipped with intensive care units, oxygen cylinders and other emergency medicines required to attend patients developing adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). Beneficiaries developing adverse reactions after going home can dial ‘104’. Information about the AEFI hospitals will be provided to those calling up. “The vaccine beneficiary has to spend half an hour in the observation room at the designated vaccination centre after getting inoculated. The observation room will have health staff to monitor the person’s health condition,” said Rao. “AEFI kits will be made available in the observation room and in case of severe reactions, the staff would shift the person to a major healthcare centre in an ambulance,” he added. The health status of beneficiaries will be monitored for seven days after the vaccine is administered, the health officials said. Meanwhile, health minister Eatala Rajender told people, “The health department has all arrangements in place for the drive. Although we are confident there will not be any adverse reactions, we have all emergency services in place."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/7-day-check-of-health-for-beneficiaries/articleshow/80293166.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Western Railway to start service to town with Statue of Unity||MUMBAI: Western Railway (WR) will provide direct connectivity between Mumbai and Kevadiya, a town in Gujarat, where the Statue of Unity is, from January 17. A WR spokesperson said 12927/28 Superfast Express, running till Vadodara, has been extended to Kevadiya, and will run as 02927/28 Dadar-Kevadiya Superfast Express. As a regular service, 02927 Dadar-Kevadiya Superfast Express will depart daily at 11:50pm and reach at 7:25am the next day. Similarly, 02928 Kevadiya-Dadar Superfast Express will depart daily at 9:25pm and reach at 5.30am the next day. It will halt at Borivli, Valsad, Surat, Bharuch and Vadodara Junction. Train 02927 will halt at Vishwamitri station. . On it inaugural run, it will leave Dadar at 11.12am and reach at 6.42pm the same day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/wr-to-start-service-to-town-with-statue-of-unity/articleshow/80295151.cms||Manthank Mehta
January 16, 2021||Goa||BJP to take final call on names for CCP elections: Panaji MLA||PANAJI: Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate on Friday said BJP will take the final call while deciding the names of the candidates for the upcoming Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP) elections. Monserrate said that though he is in favour of fielding 80% new faces, he would abide by the decision taken by BJP. Monserrate’s statements come amid speculation that many within the BJP rank and file, along with the sitting councillors, are unnerved by his plans. Monserrate said that those who were upset with his move could always approach BJP to address their grievances. “I have told them (BJP) my opinion and now the party will take a call. I want 80% fresh faces but the final call will be taken by the party,” said Monserrate on Friday after flagging off the advanced segregated waste collection vehicles procured by CCP. “The moment the party decides, I will abide by whatever it says. Everyone is free to approach the party because ultimately the panel will be of BJP,” said Monserrate. Even before being elected as the Panaji MLA, Monserrate has exercised tremendous influence over the civic body. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, Monserrate and CCP mayor Uday Madkaikar flagged off 17 new vehicles that will be used for waste collection and other civic services across the state capital. Sawant assured CCP officials that vacant posts in the civic body will be filled up through direct recruitment after taking the approval of the state cabinet. He said the procedure for municipalities to recruit will be simplified in the coming days. The chief minister also expressed satisfaction that CCP has utilised the grants disbursed by the 14th Finance Commission to improve garbage management. “I urge people not to throw garbage anywhere or along the roads because across Goa, door-to-door garbage collection is being done. Let us keep Goa clean,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/bjp-to-take-final-call-on-names-for-ccp-elections-panaji-mla/articleshow/80293167.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Be lenient with late TARs: HC||Ahmedabad: The Gujarat high court has asked the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) to take a lenient view towards those who will be late in filing TARs (tax audit reports) after the February 15 deadline. The court, however, has finally rejected the petition seeking directions to the Centre to extend the deadline for filing income tax returns (ITRs) and TARs till March 31, due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The All Gujarat Federation of Tax Consultants was seeking an extension of deadlines from the CBDT. It also approached the HC. The deadline for ITRs was January 10. The HC asked the Centre to consider extending the deadline for TARs in response to the federation’s request. The CBDT refused to accept the federation’s request and said the deadlines were already extended thrice due to the pandemic. When the CBDT’s decision was placed before the HC, the bench of Justice J B Pardiwala and Justice I J Vora rejected the petition for deadline extension for TARs and observed, “We believe such a decision must have been taken after due deliberations, and in taking such decision, many financial experts must have applied their minds.” The bench elaborately discussed when and how a court should issue a writ of mandamus and cited 10 conditions to be fulfilled before a court can issue such a writ. The HC concluded that it would not interfere in the CBDT’s decision. “Interference at the end of this court, at this point of time, in matters relating to revenue may have far reaching implications. This court may find it very easy to issue a writ of mandamus, as prayed for, saying that if the time limit has been extended in the past on three occasions, then why not for one last time up to March 32, 2021. However, such a line of reasoning or approach may upset the entire functioning of the government and may lead to undesirable results,” the court observed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/be-lenient-with-late-tars-hc/articleshow/80293168.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Meerut||Criminal facing Gangster Act flees from hospital, alert issued in Meerut||Meerut: A prisoner from Moradabad jail, who was admitted to a hospital in Meerut on Tuesday for a heart operation, fled from the ward on Thursday evening, soon after he was discharged.Police have issued an alert in the matter and teams have been formed to arrest him.Arshad, 30, was admitted to Lala Lajpat Rai Memorial Medical (LLRM) College on January 12 for the surgery to remove his stent. A resident of Amroha, he was arrested on October 24 last year and sent to a temporary jail in Moradabad. Later, he was shifted to the district jail on December 28. Arshad was admitted in the ICU for his surgery amid police protection, including one inspector and three constables.Meerut’s SP (city) Akhilesh Narayan Singh reached the hospital to take stock of the situation and issued an alert in the district.Meanwhile, the doctors at LLRM said that Arshad was discharged at 2pm, and they had no idea how he managed to escape.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/criminal-facing-gangster-act-flees-from-hospital-alert-issued-in-meerut/articleshow/80291231.cms||Ishita Bhatia
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||Flyers at a loss after Sat flight re-scheduled to Fri||Kolkata: Some passengers booked on SpiceJet flight SG-370 scheduled to depart Mumbai for Kolkata late on Saturday night have complained that the airline sent SMS on Thursday evening saying they had been rebooked on a flight taking off hours later on early Friday morning. Conventionally, when airlines reschedule flights, they do so at a later time and date. According to Suvadeep Chakraborty, who was booked on flight SG-370 from Mumbai to Kolkata along with his wife Kasturi Desarkar and father Sushil Chakraborty, they had booked the late-evening flight that was to depart at 11.45pm on Saturday, January 16, so that he could finish his commitments in Mumbai before flying out. However, around 6.40pm on Thursday, he received an SMS that stated their flight had been rescheduled to Friday morning and that it would depart at 5.30am. There was no way he could take the flight and decided to seek a rescheduling. “My entire schedules for Friday and Saturday would have gone haywire if I opted to take the fight. Moreover, to take the flight, I would have to reach the airport by 3.30am and leave home at 2.30am. My father is 78-year-old and not in the best if health. Staying awake all night to take the flight would have taken a toll,” he explained. The attempt to call up the airline and demand a change proved a Herculean task with Chakraborty unable to get through to the call centre. It is only when the problem was tweeted and the aviation minister and Prime Minister was tagged that an airline executive finally contacted the family. An airline spokesperson acknowledged that advancing a flight is rare and was taken due to the unusual Covid situation. “Flight SG-370 scheduled to operate on Saturday was cancelled due to Covid-19 restrictions that does not allow flights from five cities, including Mumbai, on days other than Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays. SpiceJet accommodated all affected passengers on alternative flights. The airline SOP allows affected passengers to be moved to a flight of choice, which could be a day prior to the original departure. However, this is solely dependent on the passenger agreeing to it and is only an option offered by the airline. Passengers also have an option to reschedule their flights to a later date or opt for a full refund,” the spokesperson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/flyers-at-a-loss-after-sat-flight-re-scheduled-to-fri/articleshow/80292235.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||Need simpler laws to make Goa ideal biz destination: Industry||Panaji: The Goa government needs to quicken the approval process, bring in clear leadership and enact supportive policies in order to attract investments, said business leaders at a high-level meeting with chief minister Pramod Sawant. Organised by the Goan chapter of the Indo-American Chamber of Commerce (IACC), the meeting focused on the ease of doing business environment in Goa and the steps required to address the hurdles. Industry leaders identified slow decision making and approval process in Goa as among the major hindrances for investment into the state. They also urged the state government to simplify laws for industry in order to make Goa an ideal business destination. “Time and delay are the enemies of opportunity,” said Shardul Shroff, executive chairman of Shardul Amarchand Mangaldas & Co. “Goa has tremendous potential to become an ideal destination for new businesses. However, it needs to establish clear thought, leadership and supportive policies which would create a friendly, efficient, constructive and transparent environment.” Sawant, who joined the discussions virtually, listed out the reforms initiated by the state. “We welcome diverse companies to set up their businesses here by providing them with a single-window clearance system, tax holidays and GST rebates,” the chief minister said. About 26 Goan business leaders, including chairman of Dempo Group Shrinivas Dempo met to brainstorm about Goa’s current investment scenario. The group highlighted the existing challenges and said that despite the state’s best intentions, Goa has failed to improve the speed and efficiency of clearances and regulatory process. “With this project, we aim to compile suggestions which can lead to a positive impact on the state of ease of doing business here,” Power Engineering (India) Pvt Ltd’s chairman and managing director Atul Pai Kane. Aside from senior IAS officers, also present at the high-level discussion were director for industries, trade and commerce Deepak Bandekar, chief executive officer for the Goa Investment Promotion Board Vandana Rao and managing director for Goa Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) Derrick P Neto.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/need-simpler-laws-to-make-goa-ideal-biz-destination-industry/articleshow/80293153.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Meerut||Hundreds of chicken found dead in Bijnor poultry farm||Bijnor: Sudden largescale death of chicken at a poultry farm on Nahtaur-Noorpur road has sent alarm bells ringing in Bijnor. Over the past few days, carcasses of crows and other birds have been found in various parts of the district. According to health department officials, this is the first instance of so many birds dying. However, the poultry farm owner claimed that the chicken was brought from outside UP in a truck that overturned and many birds were crushed and many succumbed to wounds after arriving at the farm. However, local villagers claimed that the chicken died of bird flu. Chief veterinary officer Bhupendra Singh said, "Hundreds of hens were found dead at the poultry farm. During the investigation, we have found that the hens were brought from outside the state despite a ban by the state government. Two people have been booked for the same and truck owners penalized for violating norms.” Singh added, “The birds were brought in a truck which had overturned on the road. Many of the birds were crushed. We have carried out their post-mortem. Prima facie, no case of bird flu was found. But, we are sending their samples to the Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in Bareilly for testing." Veterinarians here said 296 samples have been sent for investigations to IVRI over the past two days. Fresh samples were sent on Friday. However, cause of death of the birds is yet to be ascertained. Bijnor has been on the alert ever since neighbouring Uttarakhand state confirmed bird flu cases. Besides, hundreds of migratory birds come to the district during winter. The infection spread from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/hundreds-of-chicken-found-dead-in-bijnor-poultry-farm/articleshow/80291229.cms||Harveer Dabas
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||16-year-old boy knifed by 4 men||Ahmedabad: An attempt to rescue his kin from being attacked over a love affair ended in a 16-year-old Vadaj resident being stabbed by four men. The victim’s mother filed a complaint with Vadaj police, alleging that Pintu Darbar, Jay Vania, Gopal Thakor, and Ajay Thakor thrashed and stabbed the teenager when he tried to rescue his relative Mayur Visani from their clutches. She told police that Visani was in a relationship with Radha Bheem, with whom Pintu had fallen in love too. Pintu confronted Visani near Udaseen Ashram in Usmanpura late on Thursday. When the 16-year-old boy saw his relative getting beaten, he tried to rescue him.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/16-year-old-boy-knifed-by-4-men/articleshow/80293176.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||...But some flag concerns, may go for opt-out option amid vaccine debate||Kolkata: When the Covid-19 vaccination is rolled out on Saturday, a small section of beneficiaries, who are healthcare workers, may go for the opt-out option. Officials of healthcare units across the city said that they were getting a feedback that about 20% of their registered beneficiaries, mostly doctors, might not go for the vaccination.“None of the doctors who are talking about opting out are anti-vaccine. But they are questioning the lack of data. We feel that about 20% of beneficiaries could back out during the Phase I rollout,” said a source at Medical College Hospital Kolkata.Currently, out of the vaccines that have got emergency-use approval in India, 6.9 lakh doses of Covishield have arrived in West Bengal for vaccination of around 6 lakh healthworkers.“I am not at all anti-vaccine. I am hesitant because enough data to make an informed decision is not available from the government. Moreover, there is no announcement of compensation package from the government in case of serious adverse events,” said plastic surgeon Adhish Basu.Beneficiaries to be vaccinated at each inoculation session sites are expected to be a mix of doctors, nurses, paramedics and other hospital support personnel randomly selected by the Co-WIN app. “Getting vaccinated for Covid-19 is not mandatory. So, I have the right to refuse. Despite all the assurance of safety and efficacy, I feel more information should have been coming freely,” said a senior doctor of NRS Medical College. “The Oxford vaccine has already been given emergency authorisation for use by other western countries as well. I will surely go ahead and take the vaccine if it is Covishield,” said Deb Kumar Roy, GI surgeon. “Given our economy and cold chain facilities these two vaccines are more realistic than those that need extreme cold chain maintenance. So, I will take the vaccine as and when I get my turn,” said Yogiraj Ray, infectious diseases specialist.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/-but-some-flag-concerns-may-go-for-opt-out-option-amid-vaccine-debate/articleshow/80293174.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 16, 2021||Goa||More powers to ZPs likely after March||Panaji: The long-pending demand for more powers by zilla panchayat (ZP) members may be fulfilled after chief minister Pramod Sawant assured to introduce an amendment to the Panchayati Raj Act during the March assembly session. Speaking at a training programme for ZP members organised by Goa Institute of Public Administration and Rural Development (GIPARD), Sawant said that meeting a sarpanch in other states is a herculean task as compared to Goa where even the chief minister is accessible to the public. Sawant said that ZP members should proactively work for the citizens and also urged them to ensure that government schemes reach the people. Sawant stressed that ZP members should focus on human development instead of constructing drains.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/more-powers-to-zps-likely-after-march/articleshow/80293175.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Pune||Virologists warn against skipping second dose of Covid-19 vaccine||PUNE: Leading virologists have stressed on the need for strict adherence to the two-dose regimen of the Covid-19 vaccination, saying that while the first dose acts as a launchpad and primes the immune response, the second amplifies and makes the immune response against the virus stronger. Against the looming concern that some of the beneficiaries in the priority groups might not turn up for the second dose of the vaccine after taking the first shot, virologists urged them not to deviate from the norm as the second dose adds to the durability of protection. The first dose initiates an immunological response against the antigen introduced in the body through the vaccine. The body develops IgG and neutralising antibodies (protection) within three to four weeks of taking the first shot. “The second dose ensures that it boosts not only the virus-specific antibodies but also the T cells (T-lymphocytes) — the killer cells which are part of the broader immune response against the virus. It (second dose) also adds to the durability of protection,” said senior scientist Raman Gangakhedkar, former head of the epidemiology and communicable diseases’ division of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR). The experts also warned against lowering the guard during the period of vaccination — right from the first shot to even days after taking the second dose — as the nationwide Covid vaccination of healthcare workers begins on Saturday. Sticking to Covid-appropriate behaviour such as wearing masks and maintaining social distance continues to be key in the fight against Covid-19 even after full vaccination. “It is important to adhere to the evidence generated by the manufacturer through the vaccine trials and take two doses. Single-dose and the duration for which it will protect currently lacks in data,” said Gangakhedkar, who joined the prestigious Dr C G Pandit National chair at the ICMR this year. Vaccine researcher Prasad Kulkarni, the lead investigator of one of the two Covid vaccines rolled out for the vaccination of priority groups in India, said, “The body develops protective antibodies (IgG and neutralising) by the four weeks after the first shot. The second shot taken at this crucial point pushes the level of the virus-specific antibodies exponentially. The first dose will certainly provide him/her protection against the virus for some time, but how long it will last is questionable.” He said, “The first dose creates a sort of launchpad on which the body’s immunity against the virus takes off, with the second dose increasing the antibodies multiple times, which give long-lasting immunity against the virus.” In layman’s terms, if the first shot develops 100 virus-specific antibodies in the blood, the second shot simply helps shoot up this level to 700 antibodies within the next four weeks. “That simply means a vaccinee is fully protected against the virus within two months. However, it is certainly advisable that they continue to use masks, wash hands frequently and maintain social distance even after full vaccination,” Kulkarni said. Senior virologist Deepak Gadkari, former director of the National Institute of Virology (NIV), said, “Vaccine trials and laboratory studies have also noticed a boosting effect with the second dose of Covid vaccine. It is prudent to go for the second dose of vaccine to get better and longer protection against the disease.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/taking-both-vaccine-doses-must-for-longer-protection-experts/articleshow/80293177.cms||Umesh Isalkar
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Sputnik V gets DCGI nod for Phase 3 trials||Hyderabad: Dr Reddy’s Laboratories has received the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) nod to conduct Phase III trials of Russian Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik V in India, the company informed the bourses on Friday. “The Phase III study of Sputnik V will be conducted on 1,500 subjects as part of the randomized, double-blind, parallel-group, placebo-controlled study in India,” Dr Reddy’s said is a late night regulatory filing. The Phase II trials were conducted on 100 volunteers. Dr Reddy’s teamed up with Russian sovereign wealth fund Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) in September 2020 to conduct Phase 2/3 trials of the vaccine and also distribute over 100 million doses in India. The nod comes after the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB) reviewed the safety data from the vaccine’s Phase II clinical trials and recommended recruitment of volunteers for Phase III trials. “In its report, the DSMB concluded that no safety concerns were identified and the study met the primary endpoints of safety,” the company said. Terming the nod as an important milestone, Dr Reddy’s Laboratories co-chairman and managing director GV Prasad said: “We expect to commence the Phase III study within this month and will continue to fast-track our efforts to bringing in a safe and efficacious vaccine for the Indian population.” Sputnik V, developed by the Gamaleya National Research Institute of Epidemiology and Microbiology and RDIF, became the world’s first registered vaccine against Covid-19.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sputnik-v-gets-dcgi-nod-for-phase-3-trials/articleshow/80293171.cms||Swati Bharadwaj
January 16, 2021||Goa||Couple pleads with child rights panel to urge police to work harder in tracing daughter||Vasco: A couple in their 50s could not stop sobbing before the Goa State Commission for Protection of Child Rights in Vasco on Friday, as they spoke of their helplessness in getting the police to trace their missing 15-year-old daughter. The Class X student went missing two years ago. The commission held a hearing in Vasco on different cases related to violation of child rights. The hearing was held at the office of the NGO, ARZ, where the commission heard pleas in about five to six cases presented before them. Vasco police inspector Nilesh Rane also appeared before the commission. The couple from Desterro, Vasco, told the commission that on November 13, 2018, when the mother returned home after shopping, she could not find her daughter. The police registered the complaint on November 29 after waiting for the daughter’s return. The parents through police and other sources learnt that a native of Karnataka had taken her along and they suspected kidnapping. The parents said they are worried sick over their daughter’s well-being. Commission chairperson Sushma Mandrekar assured to take up the matter with the DGP. In another case, a high school headmaster reported that a 15-year-old Class X student had suddenly stopped attending her online classes and she, along with her mother and younger brother, went missing last October. He then informed Vasco police to check her whereabouts, who told him that the family had settled in Panaji now. The headmaster requested the commission to see whether the girl can be persuaded to finish her basic education and answer the SSC board exam. The girl had been rescued from the flesh trade last year and the culprits had been arrested. The commission said that they will take up this matter under the Right to Education Act. Mandrekar told PI Rane that she has been receiving complaints of children being reported missing in Vasco and police not taking cognisance. Rane assured her that police will deal with all cases related to minors speedily. Mandrekar said that they have at least eight cases of minors in the state where Goa police have not done a satisfactory job. She said she will take it up with the DGP and, if required, the commission will approach the high court.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/couple-pleads-with-child-rights-panel-to-urge-police-to-work-harder-in-tracing-daughter/articleshow/80293172.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||Call to withdraw move to amend Tobacco Act||Amaravati: Tobacco growers appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to withdraw amendments proposed to the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act (COTPA) as it will push farmers into debt trap. The Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA) said the proposed amendments will encourage illegal cigarettes and adversely impact legal cigarette trade. There will be a drastic drop in demand for tobacco grown by Indian farmers resulting in serious crisis in the domestic tobacco sector. FAIFA leaders submitted representations to PMO after meeting Union ministers including health, agriculture, commerce and labour. Speaking to the media in New Delhi on Wednesday, FAIFA national president Javare Gowda said that the Centre had been pushing the legal trade in India into deep crisis as it had imposed harsh regulations including increasing the size of pictorial warnings, imposing punitive taxation on cigarettes with the tax burden more than trebling since 2012-13. He said India has become the fourth largest and fastest growing illicit cigarette market in the world, adding, “Illegal cigarettes do not use locally grown tobaccos and hence, an increase in illegal trade impacts the livelihood of tobacco farmers in the country as demand for domestic tobacco gets reduced.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/call-to-withdraw-move-to-amend-tobacco-act/articleshow/80291238.cms||Samdani MN
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||West Bengal: New project to resolve Maheshtala water crisis||KOLKATA: State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on Friday laid the foundation stone to set up a purified drinking water supply project at Akra brickfield land at Natun Pool. Around 10 lakh people living in Maheshtala, Budge Budge and Pujali areas will benefit from the Rs 399-crore project. As per the project, which is expected to be set up by KMDA in a year, a 4crore-gallon water purification plant will be constructed along with a jetty and a pump. Also, two underground tanks of 7 lakh and 7.5 lakh gallon will be set up at Maheshtala and another 20 lakh gallon underground tank will come up at Budge Budge. Besides, a 7 lakh litre overhead tank will also be set up at Budge Budge. A 36km-long pipeline will be laid down to distribute treated water in these areas. Hakim, who is also the KMDA chairman, said there had been shortage of water in Maheshtala and adjacent areas for a long time. Besides, there had been a rise of population with new housings and urbanization in these areas, which has pushed up the demand for water. A few water schemes was not proving to be adequate to meet up the demand and the government had decided to set up this water supply project that will meet the demands of over 10 lakh people, he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-project-to-resolve-maheshtala-water-crisis/articleshow/80292246.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 16, 2021||Goa||HC gives Santa Cruz 2 wks to clear black spots||PANAJI: Observing that the issue of black spots appears to have “resurfaced”, the high court of Bombay at Goa has directed the panchayat of Santa Cruz to clear black spots within their jurisdiction within two weeks. The division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Sonak and Bharati G Dangre directed a joint meeting involving Goa Waste Management Corporation, Goa Legal Services Authority and amicus curiae to “suggest a plan of action”. The court was told that black spots have resurfaced within the jurisdictions of village panchayats of Merces, Chimbel and Santa Cruz, and counsels for Merces and Chimbel told the court that these would be cleared within a period of two weeks and a report filed. Since there was no representative or advocate representing the Santa Cruz panchayat in court, the division bench directed the sarpanch and secretary to be present at the next hearing next month. Advocate Aires Rodrigues offered to assist these panchayats in identifying black spots so that they are cleared urgently. The court, observing that the parade ground at Campal hasn’t been cleared of all the waste, directed the Goa Waste Management Corporation to complete the process of clearing the waste by January 31. Managing director of Goa Waste Management Corporation submitted to the court that the process of disposal of RDF from the ground will be completed by the date. The high court, in June last year, had directed CCP to shift the waste out and restore the parade ground to its original status by November end last year so that the ground could be used for the Liberation Day parade. CCP shifted part of the waste out, but abandoned vehicles, which it had promised to shift to Bainguinim, continue to remain dumped on the ground. Advocate general Devidas Pangam stated that action will be taken against panchayats which have till date not set up Material Recovery Facilities (MRF). The court has asked the Goa State Pollution Control Board to place on record the status of 44 hotels that were generating waste beyond certain prescribed limits and which were required to have their own waste composting units.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hc-gives-santa-cruz-2-wks-to-clear-black-spots/articleshow/80293206.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Health minister allays fears||Hyderabad: To give confidence to the public, health minister Eatala Rajender once again said he himself would take the vaccine along with healthcare workers of Telangana. It was not immediately clear if he would take the vaccine on the first day of the drive. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-minister-allays-fears/articleshow/80293211.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||MGP to contest all municipal elections||Saligao: Maharashtrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP), president Pandurang Dhavalikar has said that the party intends to contest the upcoming municipal elections across Goa. Stating that MGP will field candidates in all the municipal bodies, Dhavalikar said, “The party is firm about contesting municipal elections. We are taking steps towards strengthening our party. I have asked the local blocks of MGP to decide on the candidates.” He was addressing a party meeting at Mapusa on Monday that was aimed at strategising and checking the party’s preparedness for the municipal polls, likely to be held in March. The meeting was attended by Mapusa MGP block president Vaman Pandit and other members including Vinod Phadke, Eknath Mhapshekar and Shripad Yende. Dhavalikar later reiterated that a pre-poll alliance with the BJP for the forthcoming 2022 assembly elections is ‘out of question. “We will never have a pre-poll alliance with the BJP for the 2022 elections,” he said, adding that MGP intends to win 15-16 assembly seats.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mgp-to-contest-all-municipal-elections/articleshow/80293182.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Patna||Wait over, Bihar ready to knock out Covid with jab||PATNA: The D-Day in the fight against the Covid-19 pandemic is here. Altogether 30,000 healthcare workers, including sanitation staff of hospitals, lab technicians, ambulance drivers, nurses and doctors, are likely to get the shot on Day One of the vaccination drive beginning today. While vaccination will be done across 300 centres simultaneously and each centre will be vaccinating 100 people per day, the drive will be launched at the IGIMS hospital, Patna, in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar and state health minister Mangal Pandey at 10.45 am on Saturday. The first person in the state to get the shot would be a 35-year-old sanitation worker of the IGIMS, Ram Babu, who will get the vaccine in the presence of the CM and the health minister, launching the state-wide drive. The second person in the queue would be an ambulance driver Amit Kumar. “The rest 98 to be inoculated at IGIMS will have five doctors, including Dr Deepak Pankaj of general surgery, and nursing, paramedic, security and other sanitation staff,” informed the hospital’s superintendent Dr Manish Mandal. Health minister Pandey said those getting the shot on Saturday will be given the second dose after 28 days, preferably on February 14. While the age group is mixed, those above 50 years and without any comorbidity have been preferred for the exercise on the first day. Pandey further said if a person gets the Serum Institute of India’s Covishield, he will get the next dose of the same vaccine. Similarly, if one gets Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin in the first round, the person would get the second dose of the same vaccine. However, the shots vaccines would be given as per the quantities made available by the Centre, and a person cannot pick and choose between Covishield and Covaxin. “Both the vaccines have been tested and are safe. Both will have the same result,” Pandey assured. As per the information shared by the health department principal secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, the vaccination will be carried out on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday across the centres in Bihar, except for the holidays. Those who have registered themselves on CoWIN app would get the date, time and the centre where they will be vaccinated. Among the private institutes, Paras HMRI has been selected for the launch and both the health institutes will be going live with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday. Paras hospital’s superintendent Dr Syed Asif Rahman said they were fully prepared for the vaccination drive. He said the list of those getting vaccinated and the doses will be made available to them only on Saturday morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/wait-over-state-ready-to-knock-out-covid-with-jab/articleshow/80293215.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada girl’s proposal to end poverty draws PM’s praise||VIJAYAWADA: City girl Rishitha Jaladi’s address at the National Youth Parliament Festival (NYPF) has received praise from Prime Minister Narendra Modi. A final year BSc student of Maris Stella College, Rishitha created ripples at NYPF held in New Delhi, by moving a proposal to give money to all citizens of the country in an effort to end poverty. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla, Union sports and youth affairs minister Kiren Rijiju and several senior officials present at the meeting applauded the presentation made by Rishitha. Rishitha is also the first attendee from Andhra Pradesh at the NYPF. “Delighted to hear Rishitha J from AP who spoke about eradication of poverty by emphasising on skill development and entrepreneurship,” tweeted the Prime Minister. Delighted to hear J. Rishitha from Andhra Pradesh, who spoke about eradicating poverty by emphasising on skill deve… https://t.co/21grU0D0Mg— Narendra Modi (@narendramodi) 1610455487000In her four-minute-long speech, Rishitha moved a proposal of giving money as part of a Universal Basic Income (UBI) scheme to all citizens to end poverty. “UBI is basically getting money for free every year, no questions asked, no strings attached! But it is a really complicated idea and it’s seriously controversial,” she said. Rishitha, however, explained that UBI is not a new theory as Thomas Paine proposed it in the 18th century and Martin Luther King fought for it. She defended UBI on grounds of automation and developments in robotics that might result in large-scale job loss. She also contended not believing those who claim happiness is a state of mind and that happiness is mostly economic and needs to be addressed soon. Countering her opponents who said UBI would lead to inflation, demotivate people, is morally corrosive and an expensive proposition, Rishitha said the cost of poverty is expensive. She said UBI is implemented in Finland, Netherlands and Brazil while Sikkim will be the first state in India to introduce UBI. District collector A Md Intiaz felicitated Rishitha on his return from New Delhi on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/vijayawada-girls-proposal-to-end-poverty-draws-pms-praise/articleshow/80291252.cms||Samdani MN
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||State has 200 new cases, two deaths||Hyderabad: Telangana on Friday reported 202 new Covid-19 infections and two deaths. There are 4,442 patients under treatment. Health department data on Friday said 19,898 Covid tests were conducted in the state and 253 persons recovered. The GHMC limits saw 48 new cases. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/state-has-200-new-cases-two-deaths/articleshow/80293178.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Raman Patel to face interrogation over seven days||Ahmedabad: Raman Patel, the owner of Popular Builders, was sent to seven-day custodial interrogation in an alleged land grabbing case on Friday, after the Sola police challenged a magisterial court’s refusal to grant his remand. Additional sessions judge J A Thakkar at Mirzapur court observed that prima facie it appears that Patel was involved in land-grabbing activity. A magisterial court at the rural court campus had denied Sola police’s plea seeking Patel’s remand in a land-grabbing case in which he has been accused of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy. The police challenged the magisterial court’s order, and district government pleader Praveen Trivedi argued that there were 13 grounds on which the investigating officer had sought remand. "The accused is in the know of proceedings, and does not co-operate in the investigation. There is a need to recover original documents in this case without which the probe might remain incomplete," he argued. Patel’s advocate Manish Oza counter-argued that this was a 45-year-old land dispute. "There was no action taken in this case for decades and the accused cannot be framed at this belated stage. There are bungalows constructed on the disputed land and the management of the society was already handed over to the residents," Oza countered. After hearing the case, the court observed that looking at multiple offences registered against Patel, prima facie, he appears to be involved in land-grabbing activity. Since Patel is in judicial custody, the court ordered that his police remand will be between January 16 and January 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/raman-patel-to-face-interrogation-over-seven-days/articleshow/80293192.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Festivities end, Rs 2cr in fines paid in 3 days||Ahmedabad: With good wind and a generous dose of festivities, it was indeed an Uttarayan of joy and high hopes. However, some who forgot precautions being lost in festivities did pay a hefty price for the violation of Covid-19 norms. Gujarat Police on Uttarayan day on January 14 registered 233 offences, booked 4,740 persons and collected Rs 47.24 lakh in fines for violation of the mask rule and for spitting at public places. On the same day, the cops seized 334 vehicles under different sections of motor vehicles acts. On January 12, the police had registered 444 offences and collected Rs 85.55 lakh in fines from 8,603 people. The figures for January 13 were 437 offences and Rs 79.68 lakh in fines from 8,015 persons. They all were penalized for not wearing masks or spitting at public places. “A total of 21,358 people were fined Rs 2.12 crore in three days,” said a top police official. Besides those who were fined heavily, people rejoiced their terrace-time while savouring lip-smacking undhiyu and jalebi. “My childhood friend’s ancestral home is at Mandvi ni Pol. I have celebrated Uttarayan from the pol for years and this year was no different either,” said Aditya Shukla, a professional. Meanwhile, few people queued up outside joints selling undhiyu and jalebi as most had offered an alternative of delivering at home through app-based food delivery platforms.  Woman caught selling Chinese manja: Naroda police on Wednesday caught a woman Savita Patni selling Chinese kite flying threads. One beaten in Naroda: A woman, Priti Modi, 45, a resident of Naroda, lodged a complaint with police on Thursday that she was beaten by one Krunal Patel, his father Dashrath Patel and one Bhika Patel when her two sons cut a kite of the accused Krunal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/festivities-end-rs-2cr-in-fines-paid-in-3-days/articleshow/80293238.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||4-day assembly session to see 6 bills, 12 calling attention motions||Panaji: The Goa legislative assembly’s Business Advisory Committee (BAC) on Friday finalised the business for the four-day assembly session that commences on January 25. During the session, which will conclude on January 29 with a day’s break in between for Republic Day, the state government will introduce six bills. Minister of legislative affairs Mauvin Godinho said the government will introduce the Goa Regulation of House Building Advance Bill, Goa Non-biodegradable Garbage Control (Amendment) Bill, Goa Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill, Goa Municipalities (Amendment) Bill, Goa Motor Vehicle (Amendment) Bill and Goa Taxation on Passenger and Goods (Amendment) Bill during the assembly session. “There may be more government bills introduced in the assembly, which will be approved during the cabinet meeting on Wednesday,” Godinho told reporters after the BAC meeting. He said that due to the pandemic the state government cannot have a very long session, but that an attempt has been made to “accommodate as much of government and private business as possible”. “For the first time, as a special case due to pandemic, we have allowed three calling attention motions per day. Normally, as per the business rules of the House, only two calling attention motions are allowed,” Godinho said. The minister said that members of the assembly can raise important issues and that they will have sufficient opportunity to do so. “It has been decided that most time will be given to private members on the last say as it is the private members’ day,” he said. MGP senior leader and Marcaim MLA Ramkrishna Dhavalikar said there are several issues that the opposition will raise, including the sugar factory issue. The opposition is expected to corner the government on the issue of double tracking, coal handling and the power transmission line, among others.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/4-day-assembly-session-to-see-6-bills-12-calling-attention-motions/articleshow/80294694.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Stress & depression may test vaccine efficacy, says study||Hyderabad: Psychological stress, depression, loneliness and poor health behaviour may have an impact on the efficacy of Covid-19 vaccines, a study conducted by the Ohio State University, US, has suggested. “Robust evidence has demonstrated that stress, depression, loneliness, and poor health behaviours can impair the immune system’s response to vaccines, and this effect may be greatest in vulnerable groups like the elderly. Psychological factors are also implicated in the prevalence and severity of vaccine-related side effects,” said the research paper, published on January 13.  Researchers said risk factors are so prevalent that if not addressed, they could significantly reduce the overall efficacy of SARS-CoV-2 vaccine candidates. “Even short-term interventions can be effective. Now is the time to identify those at risk for a poor immune response and intervene,” says the study by researchers Annelise A Madison, M Rosie Shrout, Megan E Renna, and Janice K Kiecolt-Glaser. Some characteristics like stress can create side effects such as fatigue and low mood.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stress-depression-may-test-vaccine-efficacy-says-study/articleshow/80293224.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 16, 2021||Goa||‘Fear of wild animals in Gotcamolem fields’||Poinguinim: Due to forest patches located in the vicinity, residents of Gotcamolem in Poinguinim fear that wild animals have been frequenting the thick tree patches in the abandoned fields and they also claim to have sighted leopards and cobras there. In recent years, increasingly more fields in Gotcamolem have been left uncultivated by local farmers, leading to dense overgrowth taking over this large tract of land. It is feared by the locals that a man-animal conflict may arise due to this. The fields were cultivated by farmers as tenants around 15 years back, but thereafter they have abandoned them due to varied reasons. Gotcamolem residents said that if farmers have abandoned the fields over several years, the state government should initiate discussion with the cultivators over the reasons and try to take possession of the land if possible. “Such fields, if there are many, should be given on lease for tilling, in which case the area will not be rendered into a bushy area,” a villager said, adding that there are more than 30 houses in the area. Range forest officer for Pissonem area Devidas Velip said that forest officials will look for a solution if a written application is made. Zonal agriculture officer Kirtiraj Naik Gaonkar said that whenever a farmer stops cultivating the field, he should fence the area to prevent wild animals from entering it. “If the farmers, who have stopped cultivating their fields, need any attention, our department can provide the neccessary assistance,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fear-of-wild-animals-in-gotcamolem-fields/articleshow/80293214.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||109 caught using nylon manja for flying kites||Nagpur: The nuisance detection squad (NDS) of Nagpur Municipal Corporation on Friday caught 109 persons across the city while flying kites using nylon manja. Following death of a 23-year-old engineering graduate Pranay Thakre, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B has ordered action against those flying kites with nylon manja, which has already been banned. Besides this, the NDS team also seized 222 plastic kites and two chakri nylon manja by conducting raids at shops across the city. The civic cops also collected Rs8,000 as fine from the offenders.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/109-caught-using-nylon-manja-for-flying-kites/articleshow/80307325.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Petitioners protest closure of Maharashtra co-op bank scam case||MUMBAI: In protest petitions opposing the economic offences wing’s (EOW) closure report in the alleged Rs 25,000-crore Maharashtra State Cooperative (MSC) Bank scam case, the original complainant and two others alleged that since the NCP forms part of the coalition in power at the state and, particularly, since Ajit Pawar, who was named in the case, is the deputy chief minister, it was not surprising that the investigating agency had taken every effort to carry out a premeditated investigation so as to exonerate all accused. In addition to original complainant, businessman Surinder Mohan Arora, two other members of the sugar factories which were allegedly illegally sold by the MSC Bank, Shalinitai Patil (87), ex-MLA and widow of former state chief minister Vasantdada Patil and former NCP member, Manik Bhimrao Jadhav, submitted protest petitions through advocate Satish B Talekar. The protest petitions also allegedz that while the sugar cooperatives ran successfully for nearly two to three decades, since the rise of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, there was a decline, as he wanted to control all financial and power centres in the cooperative sector. The petitioners alleged that subsequently large-scale corruption and pre-planned destruction of the cooperative structure began. The protest petitions also claimed that the EOW had given a clean chit to Sharad Pawar even before completion of investigation. It was alleged that a team of 33 officers collected statements of the watchmen present at the sites prior to January 20, 2020. The matter will be heard on January 29.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/protest-pleas-against-closure-report-in-rs-25k-cr-scam-case/articleshow/80295155.cms||Rebecca Samervel
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||AP: One-year-old abandoned on platform||VIJAYAWADA: A one-year-old baby girl was allegedly abandoned by her parents at Koragantipalem village under Mudinepalli mandal in Krishna district on Thursday. According to Mudinepalli police, the incident happened at around 11 pm. Police said that passersby heard the cries of a baby on a platform and soon informed the police. Upon reaching the spot, police found the baby girl inside a blanket and took her to Government General Hospital for a medical checkup. Cops said child welfare officials have been informed and the baby was handed over to them. Police said that the baby is healthy and was shifted to a childcare home run by the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) officials. Cops said that they are yet to ascertain the whereabouts of the child’s parents but suspect that the baby was abandoned by them. Cops said they are looking into CCTV footage in the adjacent areas to identify the parents. Meanwhile, a missing case has been registered at Mudinepalli police station. Further investigation is still underway.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/one-year-old-abandoned-on-platform/articleshow/80291267.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Kolkata||KMC financial help to rebuild homes gutted in slum fire||KOLKATA: KMC will extend financial support to the slum dwellers who have lost their shanties in the Bagbazar fire for rebuilding their homes. According to a KMC official, the decision was taken following a meeting held at the civic headquarters on Friday between Firhad Hakim, the KMC board of administrators (BoA) and representatives of Hazar Basti in Bagbazar. Till Thursday evening, a majority of the slum dwellers insisted that the civic body would have to build permanent houses for them. However, the representatives from the slum came to realize during Friday’s meeting that it was not possible for KMC to build so many homes within a short span and it was better that they themselves built their homes with financial support from the civic body. “KMC workers are working round the clock. The locals, finally, have begun extending a helping hand. The process of enlisting the names of those who lost everything will begin from Saturday itself,” said a police source. Meanwhile, Ramakrishna Mission monks on Friday got access to the fire-ravaged Udbodhan building and carried out an inspection of different floors. Swami Nityamuktananda, the head of Mayer Bari, told TOI that the RKM authorities would engage professionals to ascertain the extent of damage to the building before deciding on repairing the worst affected portions of the first floor of the four-storey building. However, senior RKM monks expressed satisfaction over finding a copy of the first issue of Udbodhan (it was started by Swami Vivekananda in January 1899) at the library of the building. “This is the only copy left. Another such copy kept on the first floor might have been destroyed in the fire,” he said. Shyampukur police said they will continue monitoring the people at the Bagbazar college and the community centres where the slum residents have been put up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/kmc-fin-help-to-rebuild-homes-gutted-in-slum-fire/articleshow/80292282.cms||Saikat Ray
January 16, 2021||Goa||With office in Valley, Goan IT firm eyes N American mkt||Panaji: Goan tech company Umang Software Technologies has started operations in California’s Silicon Valley. The company has set up its first overseas office as it looks to widen its reach in the United States of America and Canada. The firm, which began operations in Goa in 2009, has appointed Thomas Driver as the vice-president for operations and sales in the world’s IT capital and over the next three months will build a team for the North American market. “We aim to hire a sales team in the coming month. We hope 2021 will help us cover up for the slowdown we had last year,” said chief executive officer and founder Mangirish Salelkar. Umang already counts United Nations, Idox-United Kingdom, Geo Instruments-Netherlands and Accubuild-USA among its customers. “Till date, we have been focusing on application development, maintenance and re-engineering for our clients in various domains like healthcare, fintech, marine research, construction, hospitality and many more. We will have to be more agile and accept diversification in emerging technologies like data science and artificial intelligence,” said chief technology officer Poonam Narvekar. Salelkar started Umang in a small office in Goa along with his co-founder and wife Uma. The IT company focuses on global IT contracts. It was declared one of the top five IT startups in Goa.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/with-office-in-valley-goan-it-firm-eyes-n-american-mkt/articleshow/80293235.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Stress won’t have any bearing: Expert||A senior scientist with a leading Hyderabad-based biotech company was of the opinion that stress and depression would not reduce vaccine efficacy. “If that was the case, we would have died when we are born because birth is the most stressful experience a body goes through. We are born with an innate immunity,” he said. However, he pointed out that efficacy may be impacted in those who are on heavy duty pain-killers, antibiotics or chemotherapy as their bodies may not generate adequate number of anti-bodies as quickly as a healthy person’s. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/stress-wont-have-any-bearing-expert/articleshow/80293239.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Collectors take stock of vaccine sites||Hyderabad: With the Covid-19 vaccine rollout to begin at 139 centres across the state from Saturday, arrangements have been made in all districts. The vaccines reached the districts on Thursday and they were stored at the cold storage points. On Friday, district collectors visited sites where the vaccine will be given and cross-checked procedures in place. In Mahbubabad, minister Sathyavathi Rathod cautioned people against believing rumours about the vaccine. The minister said there were procedures in place to take care of anyone having side-effects. Minister Sabitha Indra Reddy also said 108 vehicle would be available if there was a need. Rajanna Sircilla district collector Krishna Bhasker said the district had received 128 vials, which means a total of 1,280 doses of vaccine. The collector said taking the vaccine was purely voluntary.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/collectors-take-stock-of-vaccine-sites/articleshow/80293248.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra plans free vaccines for BPL families, elderly||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government, which has introduced several patient-friendly measures during the Covid pandemic, is considering offering free vaccination to most BPL families and the elderly with comorbid conditions. At present, the Centre has said Covid vaccines will be given free of charge to healthcare and essential workers in the initial stages of the mass vaccination drive. A decision on pricing for the general population will be taken after 60% of the first phase is over. However, state public health minister Rajesh Tope wants the price benefit to be extended to other vulnerable sections as well. “I have said at every video conference that vaccination should be provided free of cost by the Indian government. I will write to the union health ministry about this next week,” said Tope. His mail to the Central health ministry will also highlight the need to disburse the remaining 7.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state within the next 10 days. “We need 17.5 lakh vials to ensure 100% coverage for healthcare workers, but we have received only 9.8 lakh so far,” he said. If the Centre doesn’t respond favourably, the state may consider taking up the task on its own. “BPL people are more vulnerable to Covid infection and are more likely to suffer a worse impact due to their poor immunity. Moreover, we don’t want them to ignore taking the vaccine just because it is unaffordable for them,” said Tope. Roughly 30-35% of Maharashtra’s 11 crore population lives below the poverty line. If the youngsters are not included, roughly 50% of the 3.5 crore people living below the poverty line should be eligible for free vaccine, he added. Tope will take up the issue with CM Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Monday. Since the pandemic began, Maharashtra has been at the forefront of introducing several patient-friendly measures, including capping the price of beds in the private sector as well as CT scans and plasma therapy. Maharashtra has the lowest price for RT-PCR tests in the country, after it was cut from Rs 4,600 at the beginning of the pandemic to Rs 700 at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maha-plans-free-vaccines-for-bpl-families-elderly/articleshow/80294744.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||No respite from kite-hit for birds||Ahmedabad: Under the Karuna Abhiyan (mercy mission) launched by the Gujarat forest department, only 153 birds were rescued in Ahmedabad city and just seven in Bavla taluka, on Thursday — the Uttarayan day. However, NGOs that rescue birds did not report any decline in the count and said the number was over 400. The state government said that under the Karuna Abhiyan, since December 10, a total of 259 birds have been rescued. However, Jivdaya Charitable Trust received 400 birds on Thursday and 285 till Friday evening. The abhiyan aims to save birds that sustain injuries during Uttarayan across Gujarat. The abhiyan runs from January 10 to 20. The initiative covers 244 medical centres run by NGOs. Moreover, 46 animal ambulances, 500 veterinary doctors, 781 clinics, and 270 NGOs participate in the project. Kartik Shastri of Jivdaya Trust said that among the 400-odd birds, the majority were painted storks and bar-headed geese apart from pigeons. Shastri said that this year there was no drop in the number of birds received by the trust.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/no-respite-from-kite-hit-for-birds/articleshow/80293274.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||33% rise in emergencies on Uttarayan||Ahmedabad: Uttarayan is fun, so much so that quite a few Gujaratis throw caution to the wind. And, this has been confirmed by 108 emergency service data which reveals that it received 33% more emergency calls from across Gujarat on January 14 as compared to normal days. However, there was a dip of about 20% in injuries caused by manja and people falling from height. According to EMRI officials, compared to 2,522 emergency calls daily, they attended 3,359 calls on January 14. “Cities like Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara and Rajkot formed bulk of the cases. Majority of the patients were middle-aged and sustained injuries on their faces or neck. A few kids were also reported injured due to fall from height,” said a senior EMRI 108 official, adding that compared to 2019, there was a dip in cases. Dr JP Modi, medical superintendent of Civil Hospital, said that they attended to 22 cases of injuries related to Uttarayan festivities on January 14.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/33-rise-in-emergencies-on-uttarayan/articleshow/80293251.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Goa||17,250 new voters added||Panaji: Following the Special Summary Revision 2021 by the chief electoral officer (CEO), 17,250 new voters have been added to the electoral roll. The net change in the final roll, which was published on Friday, over the previously released draft roll is 8,396 — a 0.74% change. In all, 8,854 voters have been deleted. The Special Summary Revision 2021 has been conducted as per the guidelines issued by the Election Commission of India. The revised photo electoral rolls, including those of service voters, have been displayed at all designated locations and offices of EROs/ AEROs, as per the schedule of the Commission, for inspection. The final rolls will be displayed for a limited period of one week. The total number of voters as per the draft roll previously published on November 16, 2020, were 11,36,591. Whereas, after the Special Summary Revision, the total number of voters are 11,44, 987. The total overseas voters enrolled as on date is 62. The final roll published on January 15, 2021 has January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/17250-new-voters-added/articleshow/80293241.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Maharashtra plans free vaccines for BPL families, elderly||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government, which has introduced several patient-friendly measures during the Covid pandemic, is considering offering free vaccination to most BPL families and the elderly with comorbid conditions. At present, the Centre has said Covid vaccines will be given free of charge to healthcare and essential workers in the initial stages of the mass vaccination drive. A decision on pricing for the general population will be taken after 60% of the first phase is over. However, state public health minister Rajesh Tope wants the price benefit to be extended to other vulnerable sections as well. “I have said at every video conference that vaccination should be provided free of cost by the Indian government. I will write to the union health ministry about this next week,” said Tope. His mail to the Central health ministry will also highlight the need to disburse the remaining 7.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state within the next 10 days. “We need 17.5 lakh vials to ensure 100% coverage for healthcare workers, but we have received only 9.8 lakh so far,” he said. If the Centre doesn’t respond favourably, the state may consider taking up the task on its own. “BPL people are more vulnerable to Covid infection and are more likely to suffer a worse impact due to their poor immunity. Moreover, we don’t want them to ignore taking the vaccine just because it is unaffordable for them,” said Tope. Roughly 30-35% of Maharashtra’s 11 crore population lives below the poverty line. If the youngsters are not included, roughly 50% of the 3.5 crore people living below the poverty line should be eligible for free vaccine, he added. Tope will take up the issue with CM Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Monday. Since the pandemic began, Maharashtra has been at the forefront of introducing several patient-friendly measures, including capping the price of beds in the private sector as well as CT scans and plasma therapy. Maharashtra has the lowest price for RT-PCR tests in the country, after it was cut from Rs 4,600 at the beginning of the pandemic to Rs 700 at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/maha-plans-free-vaccines-for-bpl-families-elderly/articleshow/80295909.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai takes first shot at Covid today: 4,000 listed at 10 centres||MUMBAI: Around 11 am on Saturday, the ‘smartest’ vaccination drive ever will be simultaneously e-kickstarted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Mumbai’s Cooper Hospital and Jalna’s district hospital. “We aim to vaccinate 28,500 healthcare workers against Covid-19 across the state by Saturday evening,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope. The state has 285 vaccine centres, including six sites where the Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin would be administered, and each will vaccinate 100 healthcare workers. In Mumbai, once the worst hotspot of Covid in the country, the BMC health machinery will aim to vaccinate 4,000 doctors, nurses and paramedical staff through 40 vaccination booths set up in 10 hospitals. By Friday afternoon, Mumbai’s 10 launch day centres had received 4,000 doses of Covishield each. The vaccine vans were escorted by police. National Health Mission commissioner N Ramaswami said, “Our dry runs have shown that each vaccination takes around 4-4.5 minutes. Depending on the experience of the first few days, we will decide about scaling up.” A few technical glitches, however, marred the euphoria shown by public health officials. “We haven’t been able to log into the CoWIN software the whole day and hence haven’t been to send system-generated SMS to first-day beneficiaries,” said senior BMC officials. Late in the evening, telephone calls were being made to contact the first-day beneficiaries. Ramaswami said that most centres had been asked to call up their own employees for the Saturday drive. “We believe there is some glitch which is being sorted out,” he said. There also was confusion over the number of days that the vaccinate would be available. While state health minister Rajesh Tope told TOI that the first phase of the drive for healthcare workers would entail four days a week of vaccination, senior BMC officials were not clear about it. “We have prepared for Saturday and Sunday, and will continue the vaccination drive on Monday if we get directions from the state,” said a senior civic official. To iron out the problems, including second thoughts that some healthcare workers have about the vaccine, Ramaswami, and also some of the city's prominent doctors, including head of Covid-19 taskforce Dr Sanjay Oak and another member Dr Shashank Joshi, have been requested to take the vaccine on the first day as a confidence-building measure. Meanwhile, the BMC focused on preparedness at its vaccination centre at Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle where the prime minister will interact with health workers through video conferencing. And, at the BKC field hospital, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will visit to monitor the vaccination process and interact with the help staff. Environment minister Aaditya Thackeray, mayor Kishori Pednekar and BMC commissioner I S Chalal will accompany the chief minister. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said, “We are very excited as Covid vaccination is starting in the city and it’s a big day for us. We have been handling Covid cases for months and have managed to control the spread. The vaccination will lead it to a logical end.” He said, “In our initial vaccination list we included all health workers, even those working in private hospitals, nursing home apart from civic-run hospitals and contractual health workers.” The BMC got 1.34 lakh doses of Serum Institute-produced Covishield and 1.3 lakh health workers listed with the BMC for vaccination. The BMC has trained 7,000 health staff for conducting the vaccination and they are in the process to train 10,000 more.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-takes-first-shot-at-covid-today-4k-listed-at-10-centres/articleshow/80295157.cms||Malathy Iyer
January 16, 2021||Patna||Bihar CM inaugurates modern R-Block to Digha road||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Friday inaugurated the first phase of the six-lane road from R-Block to Digha in the state capital. Named as ‘Atal Path’ in the memory of former PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee, the road has been built at a cost of Rs297 crore. It’s second phase from Digha to JP Setu is under construction and will be ready at a cost of Rs69 crore. This 4/6-lane main road also has two service lanes. The road, which boasts of several state-of-the-art facilities, will provide smooth vehicular movement from Patna Junction and Secretariat areas to Digha and its neighbouring localities. The modern road has CCTV cameras, electronic signage and solar-powered automatic street lights, offering signal-free drive. Rainwater harvesting facility has also been there throughout the road. Commuters of Digha, Rajiv Nagar, Indrapuri, Patliputra Colony, Mahesh Nagar, Keshri Nagar, Shivpuri, Punaichak, Sri Krishna Puri and R-Block areas can now travel from one end to the other of the road in five to seven minutes as against 40-45 minutes taken earlier. The CM also inspected a newly-constructed park at the starting point of the new road near the R-Block. After its inauguration, the CM, accompanied by ministers and officials, inspected the entire stretch of the road. He also inspected two diagrams related to the phase-2 of the road and a foot overbridge near Digha. Nitish asked the road construction department officials to complete the second phase of the road as early as possible. As the new road crosses through highly-populated areas, the CM ordered construction of additional foot overbridge at three places — near the MLC flat, Punaichak and Digha flyover. He also honoured the officials, including former Patna DM Kumar Ravi, for excellent work in completing the first phase of the project. Later, talking to the media, Nitish said the work for connecting this road to the JP Setu and the Ganga Path would be completed in the next few months. “This road will provide much relief to people going to north Bihar from the state capital and vice versa,” Nitish said. The CM also said several roads and bridges were being constructed and existing roads widened as part of the state government’s decision to ensure that people from any part of the state could reach Patna within five hours. Replying to a question on the murder of IndiGo’s station manager at Patna airport Rupesh Kumar Singh and rising incidents of crime in the state, Nitish said Bihar was at 23rd place on crime graph in the country. “I myself talked to the DGP and no one will be spared in the crime. The criminals will be punished through speedy trial in a court. Police are investigating the case. It’s also necessary to ascertain the reason behind any crime,” Nitish said and advised the media not to demoralize the police force. “Those policemen, who are found lax in duty, also get punished,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-inaugurates-modern-r-block-to-digha-road/articleshow/80293270.cms||Madan Kumar
January 16, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Offline classes only for few hours, no lunch & transport, say schools||HYDERABAD: Even as the state has permitted schools to conduct full-day classes for students of class 9 and above, several schools across the city have decided to start offline classes only for few hours a day from February 1. The school managements said that there is no clarity on how many are willing to attend physical classes. A few also added that they will not be providing transportation or lunch to students. “We will be conducting physical classes only for three hours i.e. 9 am to 12 pm,” said Simi Nagi, principal, Pallavi Model School adding that online classes will be conducted during the afternoon. She said that the school has already directed teachers to not force any parent to send their kids to school as it is not mandatory. “We are sure that class 10 and class 12 students will be inclined to attend physical classes, but I don’t think many class 9 students will show interest especially because their final exams are scheduled to be held in the third week of February,” she added.  S Narasimha Reddy, principal, Hyderabad Public School, Ramanthapur, said that they too have decided to conduct classes only for half a day. “An alternate day student will be asked to come to school and classes will be conducted from 8 am 12.30 pm. A student attending online class from home will also be part of the classroom virtually as the class will be telecasted live,” said Reddy. He added that the school has also decided not to provide lunch to students as they are not quite sure how many would be willing to eat outside during the pandemic.  “Once students come to school, we will discuss with them and if they are willing to have lunch at school, we will provide it at a later stage,” he added. Many schools are yet to reach out to parents to seek their consent on sending their children to schools and added they will be reaching out to parents on Saturday or next week.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/offline-classes-only-for-few-hrs-no-lunch-transport-schools/articleshow/80293267.cms||Nirupa Vatyam
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||IGGMCH liftman, attendants feel vulnerable, seek early jab||Nagpur: Each time there is no patient, Hemraj Bhaghel (55) gets out of the lift on the first floor at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College & Hospital (IGGMCH) community medicine department and walks up to the medical students sitting with the list of vaccination beneficiaries to check his name. Bhaghel, a liftman, is disappointed on not finding his name in the first list of 100 beneficiaries who are to receive the Covishield vaccine at IGGMCH. “I lost my elder brother who used to work here as attendant. He died in IGGMCH DCH in November. My nephew too was badly infected and lost ₹3.5 lakh in treatment. Some more relatives were infected,” he said while requesting the students to once again check his name. Attendant Ashok Tirpude (54) appears too be older than his age. Since 9am he has made multiple rounds to check his name. “I don't have a mobile, therefore I think I didn’t get the SMS and my name is not here,” he said. At 1pm, Tirpude makes another round at the immunization desk and insists the doctors to give him the shot as not many have turned up. “I want to have a safe future. I am an OPD worker and I get exposed to the infection daily,” he said. Beside being technology handicapped, Tirpude feels he remains at the bottom of the hierarchy since he is just an attendant. “The dean got the first shot. Maybe our chance will come last.” Dresser Sheshrao Wadve (52) is also eager to get vaccinated on the first day itself. “I have to touch every patient for dressing. I need the shot as early as possible. But they said my name is not their. How can it be possible. I had given my details for vaccination,” he said. Attendant Pankaj Gharode (32) tells him to have patience. “Our names will come in the next list,” he assured his colleagues. Yet, Gharode too doubts that it is a “big game”. “We are not on priority. The top officials are the first preference,” he alleged.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iggmch-liftman-attendants-feel-vulnerable-seek-early-jab/articleshow/80300346.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 16, 2021||Meerut||After dolphin killing in Pratapgarh, security stepped up in Hastinapur sanctuary||Meerut: Days after a video of brutal killing of a dolphin in Pratapgarh went viral, security has been stepped up in dolphin-rich region of Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary. At present, there are 41 Gangetic dolphins in Hastinapur Wildlife Sanctuary spanning Meerut, Muzzafarnagar, Hapur, Bijnor and Amroha districts. The Gangetic dolphins are listed as “endangered” in the International Union for Conservation of Nature’s Red list. The presence of a dolphin in a river system signals its good health and biodiversity. Efforts are on to reverse its dwindling population but illegal fishing and poaching pose a grave threat to its existence particularly in the upper reaches of the sanctuary in Bijnor and Muzaffarnagar. The latter has one of the biggest Gangetic wetlands of UP. A joint team of police and forest guards have increased patrolling using boats Muzaffarnagar, while in Bijnor, morning and evening surveillance has been taken up. Speaking with TOI, Muzaffarnagar SSP Abhishek Yadav said, “We have increased patrolling to a large extent and this has certainly curbed illegal boats that often used to be seen in Ganga waters. Now, we are also in the process of setting up a permanent police picket near Haidepur Wetland to keep an eye on the poachers round the clock.” In Bijnor, the forest department claims its task force is already on the ground. “During dolphin census that took place in October last year, we did see some nets being set Now, a task force is on ground, conducting patrols especially in the evening hours and early mornings when fishermen set up nets and come back to take it out full of fish,” said M Semmaran, divisional forest officer, Bijnor. Fishing nets are a menace for dolphins. Last year, one was found dead in Bulandshahr. The conclusion drawn was that it was trapped in some net that eventually took its life. Gharials, which are being conserved in the region, are also easy victims of the nets.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/after-dolphin-killing-in-pratapgarh-security-stepped-up-in-hastinapur-sanctuary/articleshow/80291281.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 16, 2021||Thane||Maharashtra plans free vaccines for BPL families, elderly||MUMBAI: Maharashtra government, which has introduced several patient-friendly measures during the Covid pandemic, is considering offering free vaccination to most BPL families and the elderly with comorbid conditions. At present, the Centre has said Covid vaccines will be given free of charge to healthcare and essential workers in the initial stages of the mass vaccination drive. A decision on pricing for the general population will be taken after 60% of the first phase is over. However, state public health minister Rajesh Tope wants the price benefit to be extended to other vulnerable sections as well. “I have said at every video conference that vaccination should be provided free of cost by the Indian government. I will write to the union health ministry about this next week,” said Tope. His mail to the Central health ministry will also highlight the need to disburse the remaining 7.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state within the next 10 days. “We need 17.5 lakh vials to ensure 100% coverage for healthcare workers, but we have received only 9.8 lakh so far,” he said. If the Centre doesn’t respond favourably, the state may consider taking up the task on its own. “BPL people are more vulnerable to Covid infection and are more likely to suffer a worse impact due to their poor immunity. Moreover, we don’t want them to ignore taking the vaccine just because it is unaffordable for them,” said Tope. Roughly 30-35% of Maharashtra’s 11 crore population lives below the poverty line. If the youngsters are not included, roughly 50% of the 3.5 crore people living below the poverty line should be eligible for free vaccine, he added. Tope will take up the issue with CM Uddhav Thackeray and deputy CM Ajit Pawar on Monday. Since the pandemic began, Maharashtra has been at the forefront of introducing several patient-friendly measures, including capping the price of beds in the private sector as well as CT scans and plasma therapy. Maharashtra has the lowest price for RT-PCR tests in the country, after it was cut from Rs 4,600 at the beginning of the pandemic to Rs 700 at present.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/maha-plans-free-vaccines-for-bpl-families-elderly/articleshow/80295908.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||IGGMCH Covid warrior turns its first vaccinator, says she is proud today||Nagpur: It has been 10 agonizing months for junior resident-III Dr Priti Tiwari, 29, at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) which was the other government Covid hospital in the city beside GMCH and AIIMS. January 16 would go down as a memorable day in her life as she was assigned the task of administering the first Covishield shot to dean Dr Ajay Keoliya. She had helplessly witnessed many patients die of Covid-19 during the last 10 months. IGGMCH treated and discharged over 2,100 Covid patients but could not save over 1,300 moderate to severe patients admitted to the hospital. “It is hope at last. We had seen the time when everyone was fearful, everyone was eagerly waiting for a vaccine. The long wait is over,” she said. Before TOI could pose her next query, Dr Tiwari excused herself to vaccinate the next beneficiary. Returning after administering another Covishield shot, Dr Tiwari said, “Wearing the PPE kit for 12 hours, dehydration and sleepless nights are all now a thing of the past. Having lived all those nightmares, I am still happy we did our job with conviction,” she said. Dr Tiwari belongs to Yavatmal and her father is a businessman. She said the entire team at community medicine department along with rest of the doctors, nurses attendants and other staff of the college played a key role in this fight against Covid.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iggmch-covid-warrior-turns-its-first-vaccinator-says-she-is-proud-today/articleshow/80298854.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 16, 2021||Ahmedabad||Three booked for loud music||Ahmedabad: Uttarayan ni ‘majja’ turned in ‘sazza’ for three men in the city who were booked for playing their loudspeakers and ‘spreading coronavirus’. The state government had banned use of loudspeakers during the kite-flying festival. Assistant police constable Mukesh Patel lodged an FIR with Khadia police, stating that he and other cops were on patrol when they got to know that two men from Danapith were playing loud-speakers, in breach of the government notification. "We convinced two punch witnesses and went to the terrace where Arun Maji, 46, and Samar Bagvi, 25, residents of Lalabhai Ni Pol in Danapith, were playing the loud-speaker. The two accused had violated the government notification issued to prevent spread of Covid-19," the FIR stated. Khadia police seized the loudspeaker worth Rs 2,000. In the second complaint filed with Sabarmati police, head constable Bharatsinh Rana stated that Rajesh Vagela, a 32-year-old resident of Arbuda flats in Sabarmati, was playing a loud speaker on his terrace. "When police conducted surveillance through drone cameras, they found him violating the notification which prohibits use of loud speaker to prevent spread of coronavirus," stated the FIR.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/three-booked-for-loud-music/articleshow/80293309.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Meerut||Deoband mourns death of Adil Siddiqui||Muzaffarnagar: Darul Uloom’s former spokesperson and All India Radio (AIR) presenter Adil Siddiqui, 85, took his last breath after prolonged illness. Siddiqui was also the member of Muslim Fund Deoband. Thousands of supporters reached his house to pay their last respect. According to sources, he held the post in Ministry of Information and Broadcasting, Government of India. He was promoted to the post of assistant information officer in 1979 where he played a major role in the publication of Urdu Risks named ‘Nowadays’ and ‘Yojana’. After retirement, he made his debut in the Urdu daily ‘Qaumi Awaaz’ and ‘Aljamayat’. He also participated as a long-time presenter in various programs of AIR's special programmes Urdu Service, Urdu Majlis and Urdu News.His articles continued to be published in the major newspapers and magazines of the country on different topics.His last stop was Darul Uloom Deoband where he rendered invaluable services as a Nazim Talimat and spokesman. Meanwhile, Darul Uloom Deoband has expressed grief over Siddiqui’s death. Spokesperson of Darul Uloom Ashraf Usmani said, “He was ill for a long time. The news of his death has left everyone shocked at Darul Uloom.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/deoband-mourns-death-of-adil-siddiqui/articleshow/80291297.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||10k participated in Ranchi farm protest: Cong||Ranchi: The state unit of the Congress staged a dharna at the Morhabadi ground here and organised a march to the Raj Bhawan on Friday as part of its Kisan Adhikar Diwas programme. Congress Jharkhand in-charge RPN Singh, state party president Rameshwar Oraon and ministers Alamgir Alam, Badal Patralekh and Banna Gupta were among the leaders present at the dharna. Speaking on the occasion, Singh said 70% of the farmers were against the new farm laws and the Centre has turned a deaf ear to their demands. He said, “I want to convey to the farmers that the mahagathbandhan waived off their loans when voted to power in the state. However, the BJP which came to power at the Centre riding on their votes is not listening to them.” Oraon said the Union government should accept the demand of the agitating farmers if it wanted to resolve the impasse. He added that the Supreme Court has stayed the laws but his party wants the laws to be annulled. Health minister Banna Gupta said the farm laws would benefit the traders instead of the farmers. State Congress spokesman Rajesh Gupta said around 10,000 people participated in Friday’s agitation. Meanwhile, the Congress also conducted a social media campaign called ‘Speak Up For The Kisan Adhikar’. Several Congress leaders, including Rameshwar Oraon, Alamgir Alam, Badal Patralekh, Banna Gupta and Alok Kumar Dubey, uploaded videos as part of the campaign in support of the farmers’ agitation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/10k-participated-in-ranchi-farm-protest-cong/articleshow/80291889.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||JMM pledges to retaliate against DVC||Ranchi: The Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM) on Friday pledged that the state government will retaliate if Damodar Valley Corporation does not change its tactics on realising its dues from Jharkhand Bijli Vitran Nigam Limited (JBVNL). “The DVC management should not forget that their residential colonies come under the jurisdiction of Jharkhand and the facilities availed by their employees are provided by the state government. Do not try to intimidate us. If you do not change your ways, we will be forced to retaliate,” party general secretary Supriyo Bhattacharya said. Jharkhand government is at loggerheads with the Union power ministry and the DVC after the ministry asked RBI to auto-debit Rs 1,417 crore from the state’s account as a first instalment to settle JBVNL’s dues to DVC, which are over Rs 5,600 crore. A furious state government earlier this month ratified a proposal from the cabinet to exeat a 2017 tripartite agreement between DVC and Union power ministry, which enables such deduction if the state-run discom cannot pay its dues to PSU power companies. Bhattacharya criticized the Union government for withholding the state’s GST shares. “Besides GST, the Centre owes us Rs 86,000 crore from land rent of various PSUs such as DVC, SAIL and Coal India,” he claimed. Accusing the Centre of selling PSUs, JMM also criticized the Narendra Modi-led government on its stand on the new farm laws, against which farmers from Punjab and other northern states are protesting at the Delho border for weeks now. “Now that the festivities are over in Jharkhand, JMM will join the ongoing protest against the farm laws soon,” Bhattacharya said. Meanwhile, the party lauded the country’s scientists for producing Covid-19 vaccines, stating that their efforts will put brakes on the relentless march of the killer virus. The party also lauded the state government for its efforts to contain the virus. “It was because of efforts put in by the state government that Jharkhand was ranked seventh in India as far as testing per million rate is concerned. It is ahead of states like Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal and others,” he claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmm-pledges-to-retaliate-against-dvc/articleshow/80291920.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||Hazaribag medico death case: 2 autorickshaw drivers detained||Hazaribag: The joint police teams of Hazaribag and Ramgarh, which are probing the disappearance of a first-year medical student from Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital (HMCH) campus on January 11 and her subsequent death, on Friday detained two autorickshaw drivers for questioning in this regard. “They had ferried her to the bus stand on January 11 from where boarded a Ranchi-bound AC bus,” DIG (North Chotanagpur division) Amol Vinukant Homkar said. The girl’s body – identified as Puja Bharti who hailed from Godda — was fished out of Patratu Dam on January 12. Meanwhile, Homkar said that several police teams have been deployed across a number of districts for investigating the case. “We have made significant progress in our inquiry, the details of which cannot be divulged at this point,” he added. He further said that her hostel room has been sealed and they have seized her cell phone, diary, laptop and some of her documents to look for more clues. The cops have also found her apron which was lying 25m away from the place where she was last seen on HMCH campus. Meanwhile, Ramgarh police have got hold of CCTV footage from Patratu Dam which shows a Maruti Omni van entering the premises on January 11.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/hazaribag-medico-death-case-2-autorickshaw-drivers-detained/articleshow/80291524.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||Ormanjhi beheading an act of revenge, reward for officers who cracked case||Ranchi: Sheikh Bilal — the key accused in the Ormanjhi case in which a naked and headless body of a woman was found at Jeerabar forest in the outskirts of the city on January 3 and subsequent probe revealed that the victim was his second wife — had planned to kill Sufia Parveen when he was imprisoned in a case lodged under the Arms Act, police said on Friday. Bilal, who was arrested from Kutte village on Thursday after absconding for days, often had tiffs with the victim and the latter had filed a case against him under Section 498 of the IPC at Pithoria police station in May last year, SSP Surindra Jha said. “Investigation into the case led to the recovery of arms and ammunition from his house in Chandwe village, following which a case was registered against him under the Arms Act and sent to jail,” he added. “The complaint angered him and he killed her out of revenge,” he said. “He first strangulated her and then severed her head. Materials used in her murder, including a sharp weapon and an iron rod, have been seized,” he added. Jha said that the victim also had frequent tiffs with Bilal’s first wife Sabo Khatun, who also colluded with him in killing Sufia. Khatun, who was absconding along with her children, was arrested earlier following a tip-off. Upon interrogation, she confessed to her crime and provided information which led to the recovery of Sufia’s head and the iron rod used for burying it in an agriculture plot near Bilal’s house. Jha said that under the guidance of senior police officers, the special investigation team worked tirelessly for more than 10 days to crack the case. Meanwhile, Jharkhand DGP M V Rao said the police headquarters would reward the investigating officers in the case. Rao also said that those who had spread false information on social media and tried to defame the police following the incident will be questioned. He said, “Whenever a woman’s body is found some people start claiming that she has been raped. Police should be given a reasonable amount of time to inquiry before jumping to such conclusions.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/ormanjhi-beheading-an-act-of-revenge-reward-for-officers-who-cracked-case/articleshow/80291513.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||Cov recovery rate hits 98%-mark, 96 new infections recorded||Ranchi: Jharkhand reported one Covid-related death, 96 fresh infections and 133 recoveries on Friday. As per government data, as many as 1,17,480 people have been infected by the virus till date, of which 1,15,142 (98%) have recovered, 1,049 have died and 1,289 persons are still battling infection. State capital Ranchi, which recorded the lone death, reported just 33 new cases, followed by East Singhbhum (17) and Palamu (11) cases. Apart from these three none of the districts in state reported figures in double digit. Twelve of 24 districts reported fresh infections in single digit, while nine -- Deoghar, Giridih, Jamtara, Khaunti, Koderma, Pakur, Ramgarh, Sahebganj and Simdega -- reported none. The seven-day growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.1% against the national average of 0.13%. The doubling rate of the virus in the state stood at 703.03 days against the national figure of 529.80 days. The casualty rate through the pandemic in the state stood at 0.89%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cov-recovery-rate-hits-98-mark-96-new-infections-recorded/articleshow/80291943.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||Cleanliness staff, doc & ambulance driver 1st to get vax shot in Jharkhand||Ranchi: A cleanliness worker, doctors from the city and ambulance drivers will be first among over 1.4 lakh beneficiaries who have been registered on the Co-WIN application for immunisation in the first phase. According to a highly-placed source in the district administration, a cleanliness worker, an ambulance driver and three doctors from the state health services and a senior consultant of a leading private hospital in the city will be the first ones to be vaccinated. “The reason behind selecting healthcare workers from different background is to send a message to society on the safety of vaccine which will create awareness. A small video describing their experience post immunisation will be recorded which will used by government to create awareness among the public about the vaccine,” said a senior official on condition of anonymity.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/cleanliness-staff-doc-ambulance-driver-1st-to-get-vax-shot-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80292022.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Ray of hope for Vid poultry farmers as many samples -ve||Nagpur: Poultry farmers of the region can be hopeful of being safe from bird flu, even as they still need to keep their fingers crossed.Samples of a sizeable number of birds that had died during last one week in Vidarbha have been reported to be avian flu negative after first stage of tests. The confirmation was given by Western Region Disease Diagnostic Laboratory (WDDRL) at Pune, where the samples are tested first.The WDDRL tests H protein of the virus, and N1 protein is tested at National Institute of High Security Animal Disease (NISHAD) in Bhopal. Even as the samples have tested negative at WDDRL, a final confirmation will come after NISHAD submits its report, said sources in the state’s animal husbandry department.The samples that have been found negative were those taken from poultry farms in Kalmeshwar, Bhandara and Mouda. The sample of one crow that was found dead in Gondia district too have tested negative at the WDDRL, said sources. The birds may have died due to regular poultry diseases, sources added. These districts come under the Nagpur region of animal husbandry department, which covers east Vidarbha.Meanwhile, rates of live birds have also improved after farmers decided to hold the stock till it fetches a better price, said Raja Dudhbadhe, president of Vidarbha Poultry Association. The stance has brought the rates to Rs60 a kg as against Rs45-50 a week ago, he said.However, deaths continue as another 100-odd birds died on Thursday at a different poultry farm in Kalmeshwar, apart from over 80 and 25 deaths in Chandrapur and Gondia, respectively. Deaths have been reported in a poultry farm at Dhapewada near Nagpur on Friday, said sources. Sample test reports are awaited. Reports are awaited for the samples sent from Amravati region also. The region includes Amravati, Akola, Yavatmal, Washim and Buldhana districts.The biggest toll has been in Yavatmal district with more than 900 poultry birds dying at a farm near Pandharkawada town.In Bhandara, Dhananjay Bhusari, in whose farm around 90 birds had died, has been quarantined for 14 days by the district administration. Bhusari has been made to stay in a room at the poultry farm around 4km from his village — Palandur. The farm has been sealed too. TOI had reported his case on January 14.An official in Bhandara district administration said Bhusari can be released after the final report is out.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ray-of-hope-for-vid-poultry-farmers-as-many-samples-ve/articleshow/80292418.cms||Shishir Arya
January 16, 2021||Surat||‘If caught at night, show cops BJP ID’||Surat: Limbayat MLA Sangita Patil landed in an unpalatable soup by issuing a controversial advice to her party workers asking them to flash their party identity cards if they are caught during night curfew. A video that has gone viral on social media platforms shows Patil openly advising the page presidents and workers at a gathering of the party members at Limbayat on Sunday night, to use their identity cards whenever necessary during the restricted hours. “The BJP membership card has been given to the nominated members and the page presidents. If you are caught by the police, you have to tell them that I am the page president or BJP member,” said Patil, adding that if the cops still did not relent with the card, the members are free to call her up. While repeated attempts to reach Patil for her comments went in vain, BJP city president Niranjan Zanzmera told TOI: “I have not seen the video, but if she has spoken something derogatory then I will seek her reply.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/if-caught-at-night-show-cops-bjp-id/articleshow/80291725.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||CM to inaugurate vaccine drive from Ranchi hospital today||RANCHI: Once Prime Minister Narendra Modi is done inaugurating the vaccination drive at 10:30am through video conferencing, chief minister Hemant Soren will kick off the drive here in the state at 48 locations from Ranchi sadar hospital on Saturday, informed officials. Meanwhile, with just hours left for the drive to begin, district administrations are leaving no stone unturned to ensure a smooth rollout. In order to ensure everything is in place, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh along with senior officials held a video conferencing on Friday with the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts and askd them to make necessary arrangements as per protocols issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “A total of 1,40,000 healthcare workers (government and private) have been registered on the Co-WIN portal in the state with 6,816 employees trained for the vaccination drive, of which 240 staff will be deployed at 48 centres across the state on Saturday. We have asked all health officials engaged in the vaccination drive to ensure that they make people aware about the vaccination drive and bust myths around the efficacy of the vaccine as it is completely safe.” Meanwhile, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan along with senior district administration officials on Friday visited sadar hospital to take stock of the preparedness ahead of the vaccination drive and gave necessary instructions to the officials. Ranjan along with deputy development commissioner Ananya Mittal and Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad visited the centre which has also been selected to have a two-way connectivity with Prime Minister’s video conferencing link where PM Modi can interact with the beneficiaries. Talking to TOI, Ranjan said, “We have completed all arrangements on the administrative as well as medical front. Only selected healthcare workers will be immunised in the first phase and I have personally visited the vaccination room, waiting hall, observation room and AEFI centre made for providing medical attention to patients with adverse effects, if any.” Ranjan also said Hemant has given his consent to interact with the beneficiaries after the vaccination at sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jharkhand-cm-to-inaugurate-vax-drive-from-ranchi-hospital-today/articleshow/80291915.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 16, 2021||Jamshedpur||CM to inaugurate vaccine drive from Ranchi hospital today||RANCHI: Once Prime Minister Narendra Modi is done inaugurating the vaccination drive at 10:30am through video conferencing, chief minister Hemant Soren will kick off the drive here in the state at 48 locations from Ranchi sadar hospital on Saturday, informed officials. Meanwhile, with just hours left for the drive to begin, district administrations are leaving no stone unturned to ensure a smooth rollout. In order to ensure everything is in place, chief secretary Sukhdev Singh along with senior officials held a video conferencing on Friday with the deputy commissioners of all the 24 districts and askd them to make necessary arrangements as per protocols issued by the Union ministry of health and family welfare. Talking to TOI, state health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni said, “A total of 1,40,000 healthcare workers (government and private) have been registered on the Co-WIN portal in the state with 6,816 employees trained for the vaccination drive, of which 240 staff will be deployed at 48 centres across the state on Saturday. We have asked all health officials engaged in the vaccination drive to ensure that they make people aware about the vaccination drive and bust myths around the efficacy of the vaccine as it is completely safe.” Meanwhile, Ranchi deputy commissioner Chhavi Ranjan along with senior district administration officials on Friday visited sadar hospital to take stock of the preparedness ahead of the vaccination drive and gave necessary instructions to the officials. Ranjan along with deputy development commissioner Ananya Mittal and Ranchi civil surgeon Dr V B Prasad visited the centre which has also been selected to have a two-way connectivity with Prime Minister’s video conferencing link where PM Modi can interact with the beneficiaries. Talking to TOI, Ranjan said, “We have completed all arrangements on the administrative as well as medical front. Only selected healthcare workers will be immunised in the first phase and I have personally visited the vaccination room, waiting hall, observation room and AEFI centre made for providing medical attention to patients with adverse effects, if any.” Ranjan also said Hemant has given his consent to interact with the beneficiaries after the vaccination at sadar hospital.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/jharkhand-cm-to-inaugurate-vax-drive-from-ranchi-hospital-today/articleshow/80297251.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 16, 2021||Ranchi||JMM’s upcoming mega rally in West Bengal will decide alliance fate||JAMSHEDPUR: After a successful year in the coalition government in Jharkhand, JMM, the principal party among the Mahagathbandhan constituents here, is now looking to fulfil its dream of a Greater Jharkhand and foray into West Bengal in the upcoming assembly election in the neighbouring state. In order to realise its dream, the party will hold a mega rally on January 28 in West Bengal’s Jhargram district (a tribal-dominated area) and depending on its success, JMM will decide whether it will join hands with like-minded parties or go it alone in the election. Although JMM has bestowed responsibility on its Bengal unit for organising the rally, the party’s leaders in Jharkhand are playing an active role in making it a success as both Shibu Soren and Hemant Soren’s are likely to be present in the event. Speaking to TOI on Friday, JMM MLA from Baharagora Sameer Mahanty said, “For long the people living in Jangalmahal area (adjoining Jharkhand) of West Bengal have been demanding to be a part of Greater Jharkhand which has been a part of JMM’s agenda for long. If the party gets a good number of seats from areas that are a part of its Greater Jharkhand dream, the demand will get the necessary steam. JMM is very serious this time about contesting the West Bengal assembly polls.” Mahanty has been instructed to shoulder the responsibility of successfully organising the rally. Notably, Hemant had taken part in a mega rally organised by West Bengal CM and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee at the historic Brigade Parade Ground on January 19, 2019. Lalu’s son Tejaswi Yadav and former Uttar Pradesh CM Akhilesh Yadav were among the list of long participants present on the stage. At that time, a political solidarity was shown among opposition parties and an informal nod was given for a non-BJP and non-Congress alliance. However, nothing materialised and BJP comfortably won the Lok Sabha polls later that year. JMM had contested from many seats in the tribal-majority areas of West Bengal in the past too, but the results failed to paint a rosy picture for the party.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/jmms-upcoming-mega-rally-in-bengal-will-decide-alliance-fate/articleshow/80291958.cms||Debasish Chatterjee
January 16, 2021||India||Kota abuzz after 9 months as students set to return||JAIPUR: Almost nine months after the pandemic painted Kota with a near-deserted look, the country’s famous ‘coaching town’ is now readying for a new lease of life. From the numerous big and small coaching institutes and hostels to roadside vendors, cabs and auto-rickshawallahs, all are up on their feet. The town is abuzz with activity, waiting for January 18 when students from across the country studying there for competitive exams — an estimated 1.5 lakh — who left for their homes during the lockdown begin to return. The coaching town is expecting around 30,000-40,000 students returning in the first leg, most of them those who will appear in the JEE-Main and NEET exams scheduled this year. As per the government order, the institutes are allowed only 50% of students of the maximum limit in their classes, which could be further reduced to 20% to win over the confidence of parents and students. The city, which suffered huge losses when students went back home, is now going all out to provide safe and secure stay in institutes, hostels and at marketplaces and eateries. Coaching institutes, hostels, caterers, transporters, lifestyle businesses and real estate agents are racing against time to ensure state norms on sa-fety — issued on January 6 — are implemented before the students are back. Kota has four major and 50 minor coaching institutes that have a combined strength of 1.5 lakh students during the peak season that lasts from July to January. From hiring doctors and nursing staff, earmarking isolation rooms and taking steps to minimise human contact by introducing digital means like mobile apps, software, digital attendance to making structural changes for easy following of social distancing, they are doing it all. “All students entering coaching institutes will be checked twice for fever and influenza-linked illness (ILI) symptoms. Isolation rooms have been equipped with facilities like oxygen cylinders and PPE kits along with an ambulance on standby to ensure students’ health comes first,” said Nitesh Sharma, marketing-cum-media manager at a coaching major in Kota. Provision has been made for infrared sanitisation of the campus twice in a day, he added. Owners and managers of about 3,000 hostels and 25,000 families renting portions of their homes to students are also gearing up, with guidelines mandating measures like painting, fumigation and sanitisation of their complexes re-opening after nine months. “I have been working 18 hours a day to get two hostels I run as per the new guidelines. The protocol allows me to use only 50 out of 150 rooms. The hostel association has made it mandatory to shut the dining area and serve food in rooms,” said Sunil Agarwal, president of Koral Park Hostel Association, which has 600 hostels. “Markets in the city alone have reported a loss of Rs 3,000 crore. Two lakh persons lost jobs. The biggest worry was that Rs 12,000 crore of investment related to students was at stake. The reopening, even with 40% strength, can help save the city’s economy,” said Ashok Maheshwari, secretary of Kota Vyapar Sangh, a body of 150 market associations. To make markets safe and secure, all 150 associations have committed to forming a monitoring committee that will routinely inspect shops. Those in the unorganised sectors too are hopeful. TOI spoke to autorickshaw driver Azad Khan before the re-opening announcement. “When students left Kota, my earnings went down to almost 20%. It was difficult to make ends meet. I have borrowed money for new seat covers to provide a comfortable ride. I am hoping to earn as much I was before the pandemic hit,” Khan said. The local administration too is doing its bit to ensure smooth re-opening of the coaching town. “Special teams have been formed. All stakeholders have been instructed to follow guidelines. We have offered every possible assistance to ensure students stay like home in Kota,” said Kota district collector Ujjwal Rathore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/kota-abuzz-after-9-months-as-students-set-to-return/articleshow/80295611.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Dr Sangeeta 1st woman to get vaccine at centre she heads||Nagpur: Dr Sangeeta Khandait Belkote, the in-charge of the Nagpur Municipal Çorporation’s Pachpaoli Shrutika Gruha, was the first woman beneficiary of the Covishield vaccine at her own centre. Dr Belkote was followed by Dr Vaishali Mohkar, reproductive and child health (RCH) officer and Dr Manjusha Mathpati on Saturday. Dr Belkote made an appeal towards other Covid warriors like her to come forward and take the vaccine. “The vaccine is safe and Covid warriors should feel free to take it. It was a great and historic moment,” she said. Apart from being a beneficiary, Dr Belkote was one of the earliest to reach her centre to fine-tune the last-minute preparation and supervise the staffers at different sections like waiting lounge, Covid screening, observation room for adverse effects following the immunization. “We just took the dose but it was a smooth affair,” said the GMCH alumni who had passed out in 1994. Dr Mohkar, RCH officer of the NMC, cautioned the masses stating they cannot ignore the Covid behaviours of mask use, maintaining social distancing and sanitizing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dr-sangeeta-1st-woman-to-get-vaccine-at-centre-she-heads/articleshow/80301063.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Couple living on street for 6 yrs, 20m from disputed property||Nagpur: Amarjeet Singh Mehra and his wife Manjeet Kaur may be the perfect example of Leo Tolstoy’s lines — all happy families are alike and each unhappy family is unhappy in its own way. Evoking both sympathy and contempt from people around, the couple have their own story for being in a miserable condition today. Their story makes one feel that perhaps life has only brought downturns for them. Locals quickly direct a visitor to their home, and are often sarcastic if one inquires more about them. Since the last six years, 78-year-old Amarjeet and his 67-year-old wife Manjeet have been living in the open at Mecosabagh. The flyover running above the road is the roof above their head. Their belongings — a couple of cots, two buckets and a LPG cylinder, lay arranged on the road where neighbourhood cars are parked. Over the years, the childless couple has evoked sympathy of a number of passers-by, and also faced ridicule, anger and even hatred from others. The couple came to Nagpur from Nainital in 2014. Since then they have been camping below the bridge, fighting a legal case to claim their share in Manjeet’s family property just across the road. Manjeet’s two brothers stay in a two-storey home barely 20 meters way from the spot. Amarjeet relieves himself on the railway track nearby, while his wife is allowed to use the bathroom in one of her brother’s homes. The locals, which includes their community members, say many attempts were made to rehabilitate them but they come back to the spot under the bridge after some days. On Thursday, they were spotted by social worker Khushroo Poacha, who put their story on social media. “We have spent five years here, and will remain till we win the case,” says Manjeet, adding that the hardships won’t deter her. Amarjeet was 50 when he married Manjeet, who was 37. It was the first marriage for both, he says. Amarjeet was a truck driver in Nainital, when he met Manjeet’s father, who insisted that he marry his daughter. “I grew up taking care of my sick mother. Two of my brothers died of illness in young age, and my days were spent in financial struggle. Marriage was out of the question. But somehow my father-in-law convinced me to marry his daughter,” he says. Both husband and wife say they were initially reluctant to get married. However, Amarjeet’s father-in-law promised to support him, and they shifted to Nagpur, living in a rented home for three years before going back to Nainital, he says. “I continued working as a driver in Nainital, but never earned enough to buy a house of my own,” he says. In 2014, they came to Nagpur to meet Manjeet’s ailing mother, who died. Property dispute and the litigation followed soon after. The other side of the story is more straight forward. Manjeet’s kin claim Amarjeet has been living on their money all his life, doing nothing, and now wants to take over the property too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/couple-living-on-street-for-6-yrs-20m-from-disputed-property/articleshow/80292437.cms||Shishir Arya
January 16, 2021||India||50% of Covid cases in January from just 2 states||NEW DELHI: More than half of all fresh Covid-19 cases recorded in the country so far in January have come from Kerala and Maharashtra, the two states where the pandemic appears to be still raging while steadily receding from the rest of the country. The share of the two states in the national case count has been rising for the past two months. During this period, the seven-day rolling average of daily national cases has fallen by 63%, from 44,087 on November 14 to 16,330 on January 14. By contrast, the rolling average of cases in Kerala and Maharashtra has dipped by just 16%, down from 10,025 on November 14 to 8,381 on January 14. While the two states accounted for less than a third of fresh cases recorded in the country during the month of December, in January so far, the share has risen to 50.2%. In the past seven days, Kerala and Maharashtra together have accounted for 51.3% of all fresh cases in India. Over the past two days, their share has jumped to 58%. India reported15,164 new coronavirus infections on Friday, out of which 5,624 were from Kerala and 3,145 from Maharashtra. As on the previous day, no other state reported new cases in four figures on Friday. After Kerala and Maharashtra, Karnataka had the highest number of new infections at 708, followed by Bengal (623), Tamil Nadu (621), Gujarat (535) and Chhattisgarh (521). The day saw 177 deaths from the virus, out of which Maharashtra reported 45, Kerala 23, Bengal 16, Uttar Pradesh 15 and Punjab 12. Delhi recorded 295 fresh cases on Friday, the lowest in more than eight months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/50-of-covid-cases-in-january-from-just-2-states/articleshow/80295624.cms||Amit Bhattacharya
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Ajni Rly Colony now a garbage dump||Nagpur: The over 120-year-old Ajni Railway Colony having 2,500 residential quarters, railway units and offices is stinking with heaps of plastic and garbage littered all around. The Central Railway Mazdoor Sangh (CRMS) has raised a stink by demanding action against health and welfare inspectors and over 80 supervisors working under them for neglecting cleanliness. Releasing a bunch of pictures and videos to the media about the dirty picture in the historic colony, CRMS divisional president Virendra Singh said the health inspector concerned is functioning autocratically leading to a complete mess. “Against the rules, junior and inexperienced employees are being made mokadams (supervisors). Earlier, there used to be only one health inspector and around 250-300 safai workers under him. Now, there are 70-80 safai workers supervised by two health inspectors. Yet, the colony is stinking,” said Singh. “Heaps of garbage and plastic can be seen at many spots in Ajni Railway Colony as if it is the official garbage dumping site of the civic corporation. The piles of garbage are not only causing inconvenience but also pose health hazards to residents. Garbage collectors also bring waste from surrounding areas and dump it in the open Ajni grounds,” says former corporator from the area Tanveer Ahmed. Ahmed suggested that Central Railway, which has only one truck and meagre staff to collect garbage, should handover the job of garbage lifting to the NMC. Singh says being a railway land, it is the duty of railway officials to manage the garbage collection, but health inspectors and supervisors have failed to resolve the problem. “Local residents are irritated by the regular dumping of garbage in their area at various places. We have complained many times to authorities in the area, but no action was taken. At night, sometimes garbage is burned, causing smoke in the area,” said a section of railway employees. Most of the area has good vegetation and during the summer season, there are chances of fires spreading in the area. The garbage collected from Kaushalya Nagar, Wanjari Nagar, Kukde Layout, Joshi Wadi, Babulkheda, and other nearby areas is also dumped in open spaces near Ajni Railway Colony, the say. “Failure to lift garbage has led to the area becoming a breeding ground for mosquitoes causing health problems for the residents. Besides, the railway sewer lines are old and choke frequently causing problems,” said Ahmed. “Unhygienic conditions because of the garbage have caused respiratory ailments to many people in the colony. Garbage pickers even dump dead animals here causing a stink in the entire area. The Central Railway should work out a permanent solution to the menace,” he said. ACM & Central Railway spokesperson SG Rao said, “We have hired a private vehicle to lift garbage, which is done on rotation basis. The vehicle does several trips during the day. By the time some spots are cleared, garbage is dumped at other. The mess will be cleared.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/ajni-rly-colony-now-a-garbage-dump/articleshow/80292447.cms||Vijay Pinjarkar
January 16, 2021||India||War room in Delhi to keep real-time tabs on Operation Vaccine||NEW DELHI: Preparations for rollout of the massive vaccination drive against Covid-19 were completed on Friday with the control room in Nirman Bhawan — which houses the health ministry — set to scrutinise implementation of the pan-India drive on a real-time basis. PM Modi will flag off the vaccination drive on Saturday at 10.30 am, activating 3,006 session sites covering all states and UTs. Each site will inoculate an average of 100 beneficiaries on the first day. The PM is also likely to interact with healthcare workers at New Delhi’s AIIMS and Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Hospital through video conferencing. Health minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed the preparedness on Friday, including the arrangements at the control room. He also examined all aspects of CoWIN, the digital platform which will drive the mega vaccination programme. “Tomorrow is an important day... it is the last phase of the battle against coronavirus. I say this is probably the beginning of the end of Covid, starting tomorrow,” Vardhan said. He will visit the new OPD wing of AIIMS on Saturday to witness the launch of the drive. CoWIN will enable programme managers at national, state and district levels to conduct vaccination sessions and facilitate real-time monitoring of information of vaccine stocks, storage temperature and individualised tracking of vaccine beneficiaries. The Centre will also tap beneficiary dropouts, sessions planned versus sessions held and vaccine utilisation through the digital platform. The health ministry has issued a series of dos and don’ts and launched other awareness creation measures to dispel myths and rumours around the vaccines. Citing a survey by Edelman PR’s Trust Barometer Survey 2021, Vardhan said almost 80% Indians were ready to get themselves vaccinated. Among 28 countries, including the US, UK, Germany and Russia, India recorded the highest percentage of people who were willing to get vaccinated against the novel coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/war-room-in-delhi-to-keep-real-time-tabs-on-operation-vaccine/articleshow/80295648.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Book PI for protecting accused: HC to SP||Nagpur: After an elderly couple knocked the doors of the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court alleging several discrepancies in the probe of their son’s suicide at his in-laws’ home, the judges slammed Yavatmal police inspector (PI) and directed superintendent of police (SP) to register offences against the former for allegedly joining hands with the accused to protect them. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote directed SP to appoint a special investigating officer of competence from the local crime branch, who will carry out further probe into the case. “It appears to us that this case goes beyond the stage of gross negligence and it enters the arena of joining hands with accused persons in committing a serious crime. The SP to register offences under relevant sections against all suspects, including the first investigating officer, who prima facie destroyed the evidence and attempted to prepare a false one,” the judges said before asking SP to submit a report within four weeks. “Prima facie, we find that there is material available to make an inference that the Avadhutwadi Police Station PI sided with the suspects. He tried either to ignore material evidence or change the circumstances, which would have led to carrying out investigation under murder (Section 302) charges against the respondents, including his wife and her parents.” Petitioners Bhimabai and Govindrao Gadve, through counsel Apurv De, claimed that the PI was trying to hush up the death of their son Vijay who was found to have hanged himself at his father-in-law’s home on June 26, 2018. According to them, his wife and in-laws were harassing their son, but the officer tried to present the case as of a suicide and not probing it in from the murder angle. Finding substance in De’s arguments, the judges observed that just three circumstances are enough to support their conclusion. “A certificate issued by a doctor in-charge of casualty shows that the patient was brought dead to the hospital. The spot-panchanama however, displays that ICU unit has been shown to be an incident spot. Even the PI doesn’t deny that the hanging took place in in-laws' home, but the rope by which the deceased hanged himself hasn’t been seized,” they said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/book-pi-for-protecting-accused-hc-to-sp/articleshow/80292605.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Stray incidents of clashes mar GP polls in Yavatmal||Yavatmal: Barring stray incidents of group clashes at a few places, voting to elect members of 925 gram panchayats in 16 tehsils of the district was largely peaceful on Friday. As per preliminary estimates, 62.5% voters exercised their franchise till 3.30pm.An incident of ‘liquor for votes’ came to fore at Savana village under Mahagaon police station where the cops have registered an FIR against one of the candidates, who distributed liquor to woo the voters. In Adegaon under Mukutban police station, the cops raided a farm house from where they seized a big haul of country liquor intended to be distributed among the voters. At Sheval Pimpri village, supporters of candidates clashed leading to the police resorting to a mild cane charge.One 101-year-old Sakhubai Jamkar of Hiwara (Sangam) village under Mahagaon tehsil was taken to the polling station in a wheelchair where she cast her vote.The district has total 12,29,847 eligible voters — 5,90,702 women and 6,39,137 men. Besides, eight eunuchs were also enlisted for voting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/stray-incidents-of-clashes-mar-gp-polls-in-yavatmal/articleshow/80292598.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||Right time for vaccination, can stop 2nd wave: Experts||NEW DELHI: As India begins the nationwide Covid vaccination drive amid a significant decline in active cases, experts say the inoculations is necessary and the timing is apt as it can help avoid a new wave, particularly in the wake of the new UK strain which has higher transmissibility. “We are fortunate to be starting the vaccination drive at this time with the first wave in decline. This will help in timely vaccination of a significant proportion of the population if at all the second wave does hit us,” said Dr A S Soin, chairman of Medanta Liver Institute. Vaccination is urgently required at a point when herd immunity is yet to develop and the economy and travel are opening up, increasing the risk of a wider infection spread, experts said. “Vaccination is necessary because you do not know when a second wave can potentially start and various other countries have witnessed a second and a third wave with severe cases or a more infectious strain,” says Public Health Foundation of India president Prof K Srinath Reddy. “There is no herd immunity against Covid-19 as it is a new disease. Vaccine against Covid can help in reducing the spread of infection and severity. Though the active infections are currently low but we are not sure about the trajectory of this pandemic,” said Dr Atul Kakar, senior consultant and Vice Chairman of Internal Medicine at Ganga Ram Hospital. “Since the availability of the vaccines will be a constraint, the vaccination drive may stretch over a year or more. So social discipline and Covid-appropriate behaviour will remain the cornerstones of our Covid protection policy,” says Dr Soin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/right-time-for-vaccination-can-stop-2nd-wave-experts/articleshow/80295662.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 16, 2021||Business||WhatsApp puts off data sharing change after user backlash||NEW DELHI: WhatsApp has delayed till May 15 the introduction of a new privacy policy announced earlier this month after confusion and user backlash forced the messaging service to better explain what data it collects and how it shares that information with parent company, Facebook Inc.“We have heard from so many people how much confusion there’s around our recent update,” the company wrote Friday in a blog post. “There’s been a lot of misinformation causing concern and we want to help everyone understand our principles.” BLOOMBERG ‘Update won’t expand sharing data with FB’WhatsApp had asked users to agree to the new policy by February 8, but has pushed that deadline to May 15 while it further explains the changes. WhatsApp is end-to-end encrypted and those messages are not stored on Facebook servers. But WhatsApp is also pushing aggressively into messaging for businesses. The updated privacy policy was intended to alert users that some businesses would soon be using Facebookowned servers to store messages with consumers. Facebook has said that it will not access those messages for any type of ad targeting, but language in the updated terms of service concerned users who worried that Facebook would suddenly see their private messages. WhatsApp said that isn’t true, and that all private messages between friends and family members will remain endto-end encrypted. “While not everyone shops with a business on WhatsApp today, we think that more people will choose to do so in the future and it’s important people are aware of these services,” the company wrote. “This update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/international-business/whatsapp-puts-off-data-sharing-change-after-user-backlash/articleshow/80295669.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Festivities in the air as Covid vaccination begins in Vidarbha||NAGPUR: Centres wore a festive look with balloons hanging from the ceilings and rangolis on the floor as the Covid-19 vaccination programme began in Vidarbha on Saturday. After 10 months of the pandemic, the vaccination to control the pandemic commenced at 56 centres in 11 districts around 10.45am 5,400 health care workers will be administered Covishield vaccine and 200 will get doses of Covaxin vaccine on Saturday. There was some confusion at what time the drive would begin as PM Narendra Modi and state CM Uddhav Thackeray were to make inaugural speeches in New Delhi and Mumbai, respectively. Health officials got a nod for 10.45am even as many were watching Modi live at specially installed TV screens. Guardian minister Nitin Raut, mayor Dayashankar Tiwari, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B and additional municipal commissioner Ram Joshi launched vaccination drive in Nagpur district at the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital. The centre was well decorated for the historic moment. The nursing staff started to reach the centre at 8am and started to prepare for vaccination. In IGGMC, dean Dr Ajay Keoliya was the first person to be jabbed. He was followed by surgery department head Dr Sunil Lanjewar and head of community medicine department Dr Ashok Jadhao. Junior resident-III Dr Priti Tiwar administered the doses. In Daga hospital, the first recipient was Dr Sandhya Dange, the additional civil surgeon at the centre. Staff nurse Nita Murarkar, who has been a health worker for the last 15 years, was the vaccinator. In AIIMS, Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, medical superintendent was the first to get vaccinated. Nursing officer Ramya was the vaccinator. NMC zonal medical officer of Ashi Nagar Zone Dr Deepankar Bhivgade was the first to be administered the vaccine at NMC Pachpaoli Centre. Rajni Meshram and Rajashri Fule, both nurses for five years, administered the doses. At the Government Medical College, Dr Reena Ruprai, a 41-year-old assistant professor, was the first to get the Bharat Biotech Covaxin. She was followed by Dr Bhalchandra Murhar who is the 59-year-old professor of biotechnology in the GMC. The third was Dr Mukesh Waghmare, 43. Ruprai said she had faith in the Bharat Biotech vaccine and would be going to work after the 30 minute observation ends. Addressing the media after the inauguration, Raut said, “A sad and unfortunate year due to pandemic came to an end. Many from government and other sectors had to take all efforts to fight out the pandemic. That has come to an end today with beginning of vaccination all over India. Its a happy moment for all of us. I express my gratitudes towards central and state governments for providing vaccines to the district immediately. Special thanks to CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray and MVA Government.” Raut also said, “The vaccination will be given at 12 centers in the district of which five are in the city and seven in rural. 42,000 doses have been provided. Its a happy moment as vaccine Covisheild is manufactured by our country-based Serum Institute of India and is being administered. Sufficient quantity of vaccines and other necessary things have been provided at all centres in the district,” he said. As per guidelines, policeman started to check whether the name of beneficiary entering the centre was in today’s list. Then, one of the four vaccinators checked temperature and oxygen saturation level and asked the beneficiaries to be seated in the waiting room. The second vaccinator started verification of document and in Co-WIN application. The third vaccinator started to administer 0.5ml vaccine to each health care worker in vaccination room. Then, the beneficiaries were being asked to wait for 30 minutes at observation room. A fourth vaccinator is continuously monitoring the beneficiaries and talking to them. NMC Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital also has the Adverse Event Following Immunization (AEFI) kit for primary treatment in case of any complications to any beneficiary. 0.5ml adrenalin will be administered in case of any complications. 108 cardiac ambulance is on standstill at the centre for referring to IGGMCH for admission and treatment in case of any complications to any beneficiary. The NMC had delivered Covishield vaccines to Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, AIIMS, IGGMCH and Daga Hospital and Covaxin vaccine to GMCH on Friday. Also, syringes were distributed in sufficient numbers. Vaccination started at 12 centres in Nagpur district of which five are in city — Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, AIIMS, IGGMCH, GMCH and Daga Maternity Hospital. Vidarbha has registered 6,789 deaths and 2,63,838 positive cases in last 10 months. The fatalities and positive cases in Nagpur district are highest compared with remaining 10 in Vidarbha. Nagpur district has registered 4,058 deaths and 1,29,866 positive cases.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/festivities-in-the-air-as-covid-vaccination-begins-in-vidarbha/articleshow/80298552.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccine safe but continue Covid precautions, says Pachpaoli’s 1st beneficiary Dr Bhivgade||Nagpur: Dr Dipankar Bhivgade, zonal medical officer of Ashi Nagar zone of Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), who was the first to get vaccinated at Pachpaoli Shrutika Gruha (women’s hospital), said it was a safe experience but made an appeal to the masses to continue observing the mandatory Covid precautions of social distancing, mask and sanitization. Dr Bhivgade, who joined the NMC as medical officer in 2004, got a “best of luck” wish from his wife Dr Smita and their seven-year-old daughter Maulya. While Dr Bhivgade was the first recipient, the nurse team of Rajni Meshram and Rajashree Fule were the first ones to administer the dose. Dr Bhivgade, a pass out of the Government Ayurvedic College in 2004, said he felt elated after being administered the first dose of the vaccine. “We were apprehensive in the initial days while doing the Covid duties of contact tracing and other responsibilities but later had decided to put our lives at stake to ensure our Covid duties were performed selflessly. It is a memorable day for me,” said Bhivgade showing the message on the cell phone which he had received from NMC inviting him for the vaccination on Friday. Bhivgade said he took the shot on the upper right arm and spent his 30 minutes at the observation room without a hitch. “I took the dose, felt comfortable and there was no side affects too. It seemed safe for all and everyone should feel free to take the vaccine,” he said. Dr Bhivgade was followed by Dr Sangeeta Balkote-Khandait, in charge of the centre, Dr Vaishali Mohkar, reproductive and child health officer of NMC and Dr Manjusha Mathpati, medical officer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-safe-but-continue-covid-precautions-says-pachpaolis-1st-beneficiary-dr-bhivgade/articleshow/80299402.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||Don’t fall prey to rumours, says first person to get vaccine at Hingna||Nagpur: Covid vaccination started late in the seven rural centres of Nagpur district as district administration had instructed the doctors to start the process only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to nation ended. PM’s address was over at around 11.15am and the Hingna Rural Hospital authorities began the process after that. The first dose was administered to Dr Dilip Gode (67), dean of Datta Meghe Medical College, at around 11.30am. Nurse Geeta Dhurve was chosen to administer the vaccine. Dr Dilip’s wife, Dr Surinder was next to be vaccinated. Earlier, Dr Gode and his wife were welcomed with roses by the hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Ravikant Ghoderao. Five persons, whose names were on the top of the list, were asked to go inside the Covid vaccination section. They were asked to sit in the waiting room while Dr Gode was asked to come to the vaccination room. After vaccination, the vaccinated person was asked to wait for half an hour in the observation room. If the person did not have any reaction, he or she was allowed to leave. Police personnel were posted at the entrance of vaccination section. They called out the names of the persons to be vaccinated, who had to show their identity cards. They were then scanned for fever and asked about any symptoms of cough and cold by the nurses. Then they were allowed to go to the waiting room. Dr Gode told the media that he had chosen to be the first person to be vaccinated in Hingna to quell unfounded rumours on the social media about reactions of the vaccine. “I was administrated a Covid vaccine and I am absolutely fine. There is no after effect. I appeal to people to not believe in these rumours and get vaccinated when their turn comes,” he added. Nurse Dhurve said that she was feeling satisfied after vaccinating people for Covid. “This disease has killed many people and after all of us get the vaccine it will no longer be a menace,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-fall-prey-to-rumours-says-first-person-to-get-vaccine-at-hingna/articleshow/80300528.cms||Ashish Roy
January 16, 2021||India||‘Use data for Op Vax, delete it afterwards’||NEW DELHI: The EC will extend “full assistance” to the government in identifying targeted beneficiaries at the polling station level for the Covid vaccination drive, but wants health authorities to delete the data once the inoculation exercise is over, sources said on Friday. As per guidelines, the latest electoral roll for Lok Sabha and state polls will be used to identify the priority population over the age of 50 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/use-data-for-op-vax-delete-it-afterwards/articleshow/80295694.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Delhi||Will cut councillor perks if workers not paid: Delhi HC to corporations||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Friday rapped the three civic corporations for failure to pay salaries and pensions of Covid-19 frontline workers — doctors, nurses and sanitation staff. The court made it clear it intends to put an end to nonessential, discretionary expenses of the three bodies, including perks of councillors and senior officers, and asked them to furnish details of expenses incurred on top officials saying that if anyone has to take a pay cut, it has to be them, starting with the councillors. The bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli also took exception to the claim of paucity of funds, saying it “cannot be an excuse for non-payment of salaries and pensions” as these are fundamental rights under the Constitution since they have a bearing on the life and quality of life of the employees and their dependants. ‘Doctors not concerned with tussle, they want their pay’People at the top are living like lords. Once they feel the pinch, things will work out,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said, wondering, “Why should Class 3 and 4 workers suffer?” During the hearing, senior advocate Maninder Singh, appearing for the Indian Medical Association, said doctors are not concerned with the tussle between the Delhi government and the corporations and are only worried that their salaries must be paid on time. The court also expressed disapproval over the Delhi government's decision to deduct from the amounts transferred to the corporations the loans given to them, saying even the Reserve Bank of India had imposed a moratorium on recall of loans and declaration of accounts as NPA by banks and financial institutions. “Therefore, your deduction of loan amounts was certainly not called for,” it said. The HC gave the Delhi government time till January 21 to explain why the deductions were not stopped and explain why funds payable to the corporations under the heads of transfer duty and parking charges had not been released and when these will be paid. The HC’s directions and observations came while hearing a batch of PILs claiming nonpayment of salaries and pensions of serving and retired employees, including teachers, doctors and sanitation workers, of the three corporations. During the hearing, the court said it intends to direct the Delhi government to transfer the funds under the basic tax assignment without any deduction of loan amounts after the corporations contended that they would then be able to pay salaries to all their employees.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/will-cut-councillor-perks-if-workers-not-paid-delhi-hc-to-corporations/articleshow/80295710.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Nagpur||AWBI issues orders to ban glue trap for rodents||Nagpur: The Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI) has issued orders to immediately ban use of glue trap method for catching rodents. In a letter written recently to Directorate General of Foreign Trade and Indian Pest Control Association, the board stated that the glue trap method inflicts unnecessary pain and suffering to the rodents and is also against the spirit of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960. Earlier in 2011, the board had issued similar directions to ban the traps which was reportedly not followed. “It has come to our notice that the glue traps are still widely manufactured and sold across the country. No strict action has been taken to ban the import or stop manufacturing of the glue traps and neither any such strong directions have been issued to restrain its manufacturing use and sell,” the board stated. AWBI added that the use of glue traps is a cruel reoccurring practice . “People usually use multiple traps and keep using them within a very short period for controlling rats. This is in direct violation of section 11 of PCA Act for which a person is liable to punishment,” AWBI stated. The punishment may extend to one hundred or with imprisonment for a term which may extend to three months, or with both for the second or subsequent offence. The board has asked chief secretaries of all states to issue appropriate directions to prohibit the manufacture, sale and use of glue traps. The board has further asked director general of foreign trade to issue directions to impose the ban on import of glue traps. The Indian Pest Control Association has also been asked to take similar action.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/awbi-issues-orders-to-ban-glue-trap-for-rodents/articleshow/80292921.cms||Manka Behl
January 16, 2021||India||Rape-accused Maharashtra politician to stay, probe to end in a week||MUMBAI: Complete within a week the probe into the rape allegations against social justice minister Dhananjay Munde of the NCP as well his complaint against the woman who has made the accusation, state home minister Anil Deshmukh told Mumbai police on Friday. In a related development, at a high-level meeting in the presence of NCP chief Sharad Pawar, it was decided not to sack Munde from the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) cabinet in view of the “serious blackmail complaints” against the woman by former BJP MLA Krishna Hegde, MNS worker Manish Dhuri and a private individual. “We discussed the entire case, particularly the rape allegations against Munde, at length. It was felt that in view of serious allegations of blackmailing against the woman and that too by three persons of different ideologies, instead of taking any action in haste against Munde, we should wait for the outcome of the police report,’’ a senior NCP cabinet member told TOI. Pawar later said: “The NCP wants an ACP-rank woman officer to be part of the police investigation team.” ACP Jyotsna Rasam is already seized of the case and has recorded the woman’s statement.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rape-accused-maharashtra-politician-to-stay-probe-to-end-in-a-week/articleshow/80295714.cms||Prafulla Marapakwar
January 16, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: GMR, Adani, Godrej and seven others bid for Rs 1,600 crore CSMT revamp||MUMBAI: Redevelopment of the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus is likely to start this year with 10 companies successfully submitting applications to bid for the Rs 1,642 crore project. GMR Enterprises, ISQ Asia Infrastructure Investments, Kalpataru Power Transmission, Anchorage Infrastructure Investments Holdings, Adani Railways Transport, Brookfield Infrastructure Fund IV, Moribus Holdings, Godrej Properties, Keystone Realtors and Oberoi Realty have been qualified to submit financial bids in the next three to four months. The project envisages providing an airport-like experience to passengers at the iconic railway station, besides opening up a space for commercial and residential units in south Mumbai. The Unesco world heritage site will not be disturbed. The project is expected to be completed in four years "This has been the best participation in recent times in terms of the number of applications compared with projects related to airports and railways," said S K Lohia, MD & CEO of Indian Railway Stations Development Corporation, which invited requests for qualification under PPP basis in August. Railway officials said the user fee or station redevelopment fee would be notified before inviting financial bids. "Without the collection user fee, which will be an assured source of income, the project won't be financially viable. The government has made it public that the charges will be notified and it won't pinch the passengers," said an official. CSMT revamp: ‘Successful bidder to be selected in seven months’Sources said the proposal has been finalised and would be placed before the Cabinet soon. Delhi, Mumbai, Chandigarh, Nagpur and Tirupati are some the stations in the first list where the charges would be levied. “Such a good response of top 10 players bidding for the project shows how major railway stations have huge potential to become the hub for economic activities. We also expect a good number of bidders for the New Delhi railway station project,” said the official. To make the CSMT project attractive, the railways has allowed up to 99 years lease for residential or mixed-use format and 60 years for non-residential formats. Around 2.5 lakh square metre space between CSMT and Byculla will be available for commercial development. Of this, 1.4 lakh sq m will be available at CSMT, 80,000 sq m at Byculla and another 30,000 sq m at Wadi Bunder, sources added. There is a plan for a “railopolis”, which will provide a mall-like experience at P D’Mello Road side entry and will be integrated with a suburban platform, an underground parking and an elevated deck to pick up and drop passengers. The Rs 1,642 crore project will include segregation of arrival and departure areas, a disabled-friendly station, better services, an energy-efficient building, and restoring the precincts to the 1930 stature. Lohia said, “Financial bids will be floated in the next three to four months and within seven months for now we will be able to select the successful bidder.” (With Dipak Dash)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mumbai-gmr-adani-godrej-and-seven-others-bid-for-rs-1600-crore-csmt-revamp/articleshow/80295733.cms||Manthan K Mehta
January 16, 2021||India||Got death threats: Lawyer of woman who accused minister Dhananjay Munde of rape||MUMBAI: The lawyer of the woman who has accused minister Dhananjay Munde of rape, Ramesh Tripathi, on Friday submitted a written complaint to Navi Mumbai DCP claiming that he is receiving death threats. “I received a call from a man, who identified himself as Ashok Chate. He threatened to kill me if I pursued the case against Munde,” Tripathi told TOI. He also made a request seeking police security for him and his family.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/got-death-threats-lawyer-of-woman-who-accused-minister-dhananjay-munde-of-rape/articleshow/80295727.cms||---
January 16, 2021||India||Ponzi case: CBI arrests wife of Rose Valley boss||KOLKATA: The CBI arrested on Friday Subhra Kundu, wife of Rose Valley group boss Gautam Kundu and former “employee” of the group’s jewellery business arm, Adrija Gold & Diamond, from her South Kolkata home. The CBI said she was arrested because of her contradictory statements. A team of the agency’s officers arrived at her home at 10 am and questioned her for three hours. Subhra was later taken to the agency’s CGO Complex office. She will be produced in a Bidhannagar court on Saturday and taken to Odisha, where the Ponzi case against Rose Valley was registered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/ponzi-case-cbi-arrests-wife-of-rose-valley-boss/articleshow/80295735.cms||Rohit Khanna
January 16, 2021||India||WhatsApp case: Judge recuses self, slams email on behalf of co||NEW DELHI: A Delhi high court judge on Friday recused from hearing a plea challenging the updated privacy policy of WhatsApp, but also expressed displeasure at the conduct of the social messaging platform. Justice Prathiba M Singh said that her court had received an email on behalf of the global platform stating that she ought not to hear the matter since she had represented them as a lawyer earlier. During the short hearing, Justice Singh took strong objection to the email and said: “I was in any case not going to hear it.” The judge transferred the case to another bench. Additional solicitor general Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, contended that Justice Singh would be a better person to hear this matter because it raised a very important question of law even as senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook and WhatsApp, said that the email was being withdrawn unconditionally. But Justice Singh said the matter appeared to be in the nature of a PIL and directed the registry to list it before an appropriate bench on January 18, subject to orders of the Chief Justice. The petition by a lawyer has contended that the updated privacy policy violates users’ right to privacy under the Constitution and has also claimed that the new privacy policy of WhatsApp allows full access into a user’s online activity without there being any supervision by the government.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/whatsapp-case-judge-recuses-self-slams-email-on-behalf-of-co/articleshow/80295739.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||Veligonda project: Irrigation department completes tunnel 1 work||MARKAPURAM: In a major achievement, the irrigation department has completed the digging of tunnel-I in Veligonda project in Prakasam district. The project could see the light at the end of the tunnel nearly 12 years after the launch of the works. The irrigation department and the project contractor Megha Engineering Infrastructure Limited (MEIL) clinched success on Friday. The determination of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who wanted the first tunnel to be completed ahead of the coming monsoon at any cost, put engineers and technical experts on their toes to complete the work ahead of the schedule. “We are really excited that we could reach the breakthrough point by completing the tunnel-I of Veligonda project. We will now expedite the works to release water to the drought-hit region of Prakasam, Nellore districts from next season itself as per the promise made by the CM,” engineer-in-chief (irrigation) Narayana Reddy told TOI. Considered to be the game-changer of upland region of Prakasam, Nellore and Kadapa districts, Veligonda project works commenced in 2008 when YS Rajasekhara Reddy was chief minister of undivided AP. The project was named after veteran communist leader of the region-Pula Subbaiah, who led the agitations for the project. With the irrigation canal needed to pass through two major hills, the irrigation department had decided to dig out tunnel to take the waters from Srisailam located on the other end of Prakasam district. After finding the digging of tunnel a herculean task, the government imported Tunnel Boring Machine (TBM) from Germany. However, the project works hit a road block following the sudden demise of YSR. Although Chandrababu Naidu inspected the project twice during his term, works did not progress as per the plan. Soon after taking over the reins about 18 months ago, chief minister YS Jagan inspected the project and set the contractors to complete the work by January 2021. “We have completed 3.6 km long tunnel in the last 18 months while just around 0.6km tunnel work was completed between 2014-19,” said ENC Narayana Reddy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/veligonda-project-irrigation-dept-completes-tunnel-1-work/articleshow/80291152.cms||Samdani MN
January 16, 2021||India||Studying anti-love jihad laws of UP, MP: Gujarat||GANDHINAGAR: Gujarat deputy chief minister Nitin Patel said on Friday that the Guj arat government is reviewing laws enacted recently by Ut tar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh against love jihad — forced religious conversion through marriage. Attending a drive of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) to generate donations for construction of the Ram temple in Ayodhya, Patel said the Gujarat government is also mulling a new law against love jihad. “Some people indulge in trapping or alluring or cheating Hindu girls to marry them. But we have seen that in most of such cases, girls regret taking this step as they and their families are never happy in such situations. This also creates a division in society. ... The Gujarat government will take a decision at an appropriate time regarding bringing such a law,” Patel said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/studying-anti-love-jihad-laws-of-up-mp-gujarat/articleshow/80295742.cms||---
January 16, 2021||Vijayawada||CM attends Kamadhenu puja as part of Kanuma celebrations||Guntur: Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy on Friday participated in ‘Kamadhenu puja’ (cow worship) at Narasaraopet in Guntur district to mark the celebrations of Kanuma, the last day of the three-day Sankranti festivities. Clad in traditional silk shirt and dhoti, the chief minister offered prayers to the ‘Go Matha’. He also presented silk robes and garlanded the cow and the calf after the rituals and later offered food to the cattle. The puja was performed to 108 cows at the event. TTD advisor (priest) Dollar Seshadri guided the CM in performing the rituals. The chief minister extended Sankranti greetings to the gathering. “I am happy that TTD is organising Kamadhenu puja in temples across the state. This rich tradition of offering puja to Go Matha should bring prosperity to all,” he said in his brief address. The chief minister also visited the stalls set up by women from self-help groups after the puja. He tasted a few sweets following requests from the women who had made special Sankranti delicacies. The municipal ground venue was decorated with flowers and Sankranti rangavallis. District in-charge minister Cheruvukuvada Sri Ranganantha Raju, home minister Mekathoti Sucharitha, endowments minister Vellamapalli Srinivas, TTD chairman YV Subba Reddy, TTD EO KS Jawahar Reddy and local legislator Gopireddy Srinivasa Reddy accompanied the chief minister to the goshala. Legislators L Krishnadevarayalu, Mustafa, Pinnelli Ramakrishna Reddy, Bolla Bramhanaidu, Sankara Rao, Kilari Rosaiah and Vidadala Rajani were also present. The TTD and endowments department organised Kamadhenu pujas at 2,679 temples in the state on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/cm-attends-kamadhenu-puja-as-part-of-kanuma-celebrations/articleshow/80291167.cms||Samdani MN
