January 17, 2021||Goa||FC Goa look to dethrone ATK Mohun Bagan from second spot||PANAJI: For the entire first leg of the Indian Super League, it looked like the race for the top spot would be between Mumbai City FC and ATK Mohun Bagan. Now, at the start of the second leg, FC Goa have a chance to join. Goa face ATK Mohun Bagan at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda on Sunday, knowing well that a win will push them up to second on the table and provide a chance to spice up the race. In the first leg, it was a late penalty from Roy Krishna that proved to be the difference and gave ATKMB three points. Goa coach Juan Ferrando is a quick learner and should have devised a strategy to outwit the experienced Antonio Habas, who has won the ISL twice. “In the second round, teams are better prepared. But for us it is very important to improve, to change some details in tactics, prepare different plans. In this moment we have more options. At the end, most important is to find best way for the players and the team,” said Ferrando. Before the match kicks off, Ferrando has an important decision to make. The Spanish coach must decide who leads the attack: leading scorer Igor Angulo, who was left on the bench for the last game due to sickness, or the in-form Jorge Ortiz who excelled as a false nine against Jamshedpur FC. “We have a very good squad. I’m happy because we can prepare the team, the game with all the players. In the end, we take the best decision. “It is very Important to have everyone fit, because some players are tired, some players are good. While selecting, most important is to think who will be best to face our opponents,” said Ferrando. ATK Mohun Bagan will have to regroup and focus. Antonio Habas’ side were unbeaten in five games until the defeat against Mumbai which left them five points adrift of the league leaders. Should they lose against Goa, tough questions will be asked of Habas and his star-studded side. “We have to fight. We have to win every game. We are not thinking about the last match. I know that Goa has good players, we also have good players. Now we are ready to fight it out in the 90 minutes in the next match,” said Habas. ATK Mohun Bagan have relied on their defensive prowess led by the central duo of Sandesh Jhingan and Tiri. They have scored only 10 goals - less than any other team in the competition, but have conceded just four, thanks to defensive solidity and the goalkeeping of Arindam Bhattacharya. Against Goa, it will be the strike force that will have to deliver. Krishna and his strike partner David Williams haven’t exactly set the ISL on fire this season, and they will have to get the better of Naveen Kumar. The Goa custodian was in fine form during the last game, despite making his first start after 669 days. This one is sure to keep everyone on the edge.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/fc-goa-look-to-dethrone-atk-mohun-bagan-from-second-spot/articleshow/80306809.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 17, 2021||Goa||It’s tough on the bench, but team matters more: Noguera||PANAJI: It was Alberto Noguera who started it all for FC Goa. When Goa found themselves two goals down against Bengaluru FC in the opener, it was Noguera who provided hope, splitting open the defence with a through ball which Igor Angulo hammered past the goalkeeper. This was just one of the reasons why Goa chose to sign the Spanish midfielder. Having looked at dozens of CVs and videos of footballers from across the world, Noguera seemed to fit the bill perfectly. He could open defences, dribble past players and, more importantly, retain possession. Despite his obvious qualities – he has four assists so far, the highest – Noguera has had to remain on the bench for some games as coach Juan Ferrando tries to get the right balance. Without a quality Indian central defender, Ivan Gonzalez and James Donachie automatically select themselves, while no team can afford to have an overdose of foreigners upfront with Igor Angulo and Jorge Ortiz in fine form. That complicates matters for Noguera. Asked about it during the pre-match briefing on Friday – with Ferrando jokingly excusing himself -- he seemed to take everything in his stride. "Every player wants to play. It’s hard for us to be on the bench, but this is a team and we have to be ready to help," Noguera told TOI. Noguera has made 10 appearances so far, clocking 626 minutes. Other foreign players have had more time on the field, but the Spaniard knows he has to remain in top shape, all the time. "We train everyday as best as we can. We have to be ready every time the coach wants us to play. We are here to help the team," he said. Noguera started the last game against Jamshedpur FC and will look to play an influential role against ATK Mohun Bagan on Sunday. He played every minute of the first leg clash which Goa lost after conceding a late penalty. But having shown much improvement since then, the league champions will hope to do better. "We are fighting for the top position in the league and this is an important match. Right now, if we beat them, we will fight for this position, that's what we are thinking about. Of course, we are in a good position at the moment. We only have to think about us. The position does not matter. What matters is how we finish the league," said Noguera.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/its-tough-on-the-bench-but-team-matters-more-noguera/articleshow/80306687.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 17, 2021||Goa||Mumbai City, Hyderabad FC fire blanks||PANAJI: Mumbai City FC failed to score for the first time in 10 matches and were forced to settle for a goalless draw against Hyderabad FC at the GMC Athletic Stadium in Bambolim on Saturday. Ten points separate the league leaders and Hyderabad on the ISL table, but on the evidence of what everyone saw at Bambolim, there was very little. In fact, Hyderabad had more shots on goal and the better chances with Joel Chianese even missing a one-on-one opportunity with the goalkeeper at his mercy. The draw kept Mumbai at the top of the ladder with 26 points, six more than ATK Mohun Bagan, who can narrow down that gap to just three points, if they get the better of FC Goa on Sunday. Hyderabad are fourth with 16 points from 11 matches. Mumbai coach Sergio Lobera surprised many when he left the influential Hugo Boumous on the bench. The French forward’s absence – believed to be through injury -- was felt as Mumbai missed his unpredictability with the ball at his feet. There was still Adam Le Fondre and Cy Goddard to get the goals, while Bartholomew Ogbeche made a second half appearance. Nothing worked for a team that has scored 17 goals in the last nine matches, even as Boumous watched from the substitute’s bench. Hyderabad did well, and should have picked up more than just a point. Liston Colaco, handed a start, once found goalkeeper Amrinder Singh difficult to beat from a narrow angle. Chianese, though, should have opened the account in the 33rd minute. Mohammed Yasir won the ball in his own half and played a clever lob in the middle for Chianese. Playing a high line, Mumbai were caught off-guard, but Amrinder rescued his side when he spread himself wide to make a fantastic save with his leg, in a one-on-one situation with the Australian striker. That was the best chance of the game for either side. Mumbai introduced Ogbeche in the second half and played with two strikers, but Hyderabad stood firm, throwing a protective shield around goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani who didn’t have to make a save.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/mumbai-city-hyderabad-fc-fire-blanks/articleshow/80306749.cms||Marcus Mergulhao
January 17, 2021||Goa||Expert online workshops to help football coaches||PANAJI: There has been little for football coaches to do on the field during the nation-wide lockdown. Reliance Foundation Youth Sports along with the Association of Indian Football Coaches, though, have ensured the coaches are not left behind. RFYS and AIFC have now teamed up and identified promising coaches from the country to attend a series of online workshops conducted by experts in the field. The workshops will commence from Monday and conclude on Wednesday for the East zone. The three-day course will then be conducted for the South zone from January 25-28, North zone from February 1-3 and finally be held for West zone from February 8-10. Former India player Gautam Ghosh will be among the experts who will conduct the sessions. Ghosh, an Asian Football Confederation A licence holder is also the former coach of the Indian national junior team. He will be assisted by Gumpe Rime who has a varied range of coaching expertise with an AFC A licence and is recognised by AFC as a Level 1 coach educator. Ryan Roy Shah, who holds an AFC C licence besides a C licence from UEFA, will be the third member of this team of educators who will interact with the coaches. “Footballing activities on the ground have been severely impacted due to the Covid-19 pandemic, so an initiative such as this is extremely important to ensure dedicated coaches around the country continue to upskill and improve,” AIFC director Dinesh Nair said. The sessions are ranging from 90 to 120 minutes, giving participants from football institutes, schools and colleges, a detailed insight into various aspects of their role. “Over the last few months, RFYS & AIFC have been at the forefront of ensuring that despite not being able to train and play, players and coaches continue their development through their online initiatives,” said Nair. The workshops will focus on covering the entire gamut of the role of a coach; ranging from the code of conducting their wards are expected to adhere to, to how training sessions should be conducted and how players are best prepared for upcoming matches and for match day. Up to 30 coaches are expected to participate in each workshop and will earn a certification at its conclusion. They will be told what to look out for while scouting, life skills, how to ensure children under their watch are protected and secured as well as the certifications they need to continue to further their own careers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/expert-online-workshops-to-help-football-coaches/articleshow/80306865.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Chargesheet filed against 11 Lashkar operatives||JAMMU: Jammu Police on Friday filed a chargesheet against 11 arrested operatives of a Lashkar-e-Taiba (LeT) terror module. “The module was being operated on the directions of a Pakistan-based LeT handler/terrorist Mohd Amin alias Haroon, who was an active terrorist operating in Doda region and had exfiltrated to Pakistan in 2009,” a Jammu Police spokesperson said. “The case was investigated by an SIT headed by DSP Parupkar Singh. During the investigation, apart from recovering terror funding money amounting to Rs 1,90,700 along with arms and ammunition, 11 accused were also arrested,” the police spokesperson added. The chargesheet was filed in the court of 3rd additional sessions judge Jammu against Mubashir Farooq Batt, Toqeer Ahmad Batt, Mohammad Asif Batt — all from Sazan Doda; Khalid Latief Batt and Gazi Iqbal Batt of Kotal Doda; Tariq Hussain Mir of Tanta Doda; Farooq Ahmad Malik of Doda; Farooq Ahmad Batt of Kathawa Doda (Haroon’s brother); Junaid Aziz Lone of Handwara; Mohammad Hashim Malik of Pattan in Baramulla and Mohabbat Hussain of Chiralla Doda.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/chargesheet-filed-against-11-lashkar-operatives/articleshow/80306882.cms||Sanjay Khajuria
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Despite pressure, CM may retain Bengaluru development||BENGALURU: After expansion of chief minister BS Yediyurappa’s 17-month-old cabinet, all eyes are now on distribution of portfolios to the seven new ministers. The new entrants are exerting pressure on Yediyurappa for portfolios ranging from Bengaluru development to energy and excise. However, the playing field is not restricted to the seven, but also some loyalists in his cabinet, who feel they have been hard done by. “It’s becoming a tough task for Yediyurappa to handle the tussle and therefore he’s seeking a formal approval on portfolio allocation from Union home minister Amit Shah, who is on a two-day visit to the state, to ensure everyone falls in line,” a senior BJP functionary said. As per sources, some big leaders may get less important berths, while new faces could be given greater responsibility. Among the portfolios with the CM, Bengaluru development and energy are said to be the most sought after. New minister Umesh Katti, senior-most MLA in the party, is eyeing the energy portfolio, while Ramesh Jarkiholi has also stepped up pressure on the CM to give him energy in exchange for water resources, which he currently holds. Newly inducted minister Aravind Limbavali, who represents Mahadevapura constituency in Bengaluru, has set his sights on Bengaluru development. The other biggies in the cabinet from Bengaluru, CN Ashwath Narayan and R Ashoka, are also leaving no stone unturned. But grapevine has it that notwithstanding the pressure from new and old ministers, Yediyurappa may retain energy and Bengaluru development. Party insiders indicated that he may part with energy under some pressure but not the latter. “It’s now the most powerful ministry after the CM’s post and home ministry. Yediyurappa wants a complete hold over Bengaluru with the state government mooting the Bengaluru Mission involving about Rs 25,000 crore. With BBMP elections scheduled over the next few months, allotting the ministry at this stage would not have been a politically savvy move as the party needs the support of all MLAs and ministers from Bengaluru to retain power,” sources said, adding that the CM may not want to disturb his new-found loyalist SR Vishwanath, who is currently BDA chairman, by bringing in a new minister. Rumour has it that new minister Murgesh Nirani, who handled the industries portfolio in the previous BJP regime between 2008 and 2013, is demanding the same but is unlikely to get it unless former CM Jagadish Shettar concurs with him. “Yediyurappa may not want to get on the wrong side of Shettar, especially when dissidence is still brewing against the him,” party sources said. There is talk of the home portfolio going to Shettar or R Ashoka along with another minor portfolio, and Nirani getting either industries or revenue. The chief minister may not have a tough time in allocating portfolios to S Angara, a six-time MLA, and MLCs CP Yogeshwar, R Shankar and MTB Nagaraj, though they are hoping to land plum berths. They are more likely to get one of these: excise, small scale industries, planning, information and public relations, backward class welfare, tourism, Kannada and culture, youth empowerment and sports. This apart, the CM has the liberty to withdraw some of the additional portfolios allocated to old-timers. Deputy chief minister Ashwath Narayan currently holds four — higher education, IT & BT, science and technology and skill development. Other secondary portfolios held by other senior ministers include minor irrigation, medical education, horticulture and sericulture, sugar and public enterprise.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/despite-pressure-cm-may-retain-bluru-development/articleshow/80307063.cms||ManuAiyappa Kanathanda
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Karnataka: Month after strike, transport employees’ demands yet to be met||BENGALURU: A month after they called off their strike owing to the government’s promise, over 1.2 lakh employees of the four road transport corporations are still waiting for their demands to be fulfilled. The staff of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Road Transport Corporation (NWRTC) and North Eastern Road Transport Corporation (NERTC) withdrew their four-day stir on December 15, 2020 after the government agreed to fulfil nine of their 10 demands. While the state categorically rejected their request for government employees’ tag, hiking salaries of transport staff on a par with recommendations of the 6th Pay Commission is one of the main nine demands before the government. Soon after the strike was withdrawn, the government set up a committee headed by KSRTC managing director Shivayogi Kalasad to look into the demands. While the panel’s functioning so far is limited to only four meetings, none of the demands has been met. What’s worse, the employees did not get the salary for December and the government released 50% of the month’s payment on January 13 after much persuasion. “We are looking into the demands and studying their financial implications. Deliberations are still on and we will submit an interim report shortly,” said Kalasad. The average monthly pay of the four transport corporation staff put together is around Rs 325 crore. The government has to bear an additional burden of at least Rs 1,560 crore since implementation of 6th Pay Commission recommendations will see a 40% hike in salaries. Sources said the finance department is not in favour of meeting many of the demands, including pay hike, given the near-empty coffers in the wake of Covid-induced economic slowdown. “Increasing salaries on a par with the 6th Pay Commission will of course be a huge challenge. We are in talks with the employees and the hope is that an amicable solution will be arrived at,” said Kalasad. Dismayed by the slow progress, representatives of the employees recently met to discuss the next plan of action. They said another round of agitation can’t be ruled out. “Although they have taken three months to consider the demands, the progress shown in the past one month is not satisfactory. We had a preliminary meeting on Friday. We will convene another one shortly to seek inputs from employees before deciding the further course of action,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, honorary president of Karnataka Transport Employees Union.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/month-after-strike-transport-employees-demands-yet-to-be-met/articleshow/80307073.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 17, 2021||India||Vax Populi: Nation celebrates as it gets the gift of the jab||NEW DELHI: Uttarakhand is dotted with ashrams. And though Shailendra Dwivedi, 41, a ward attendant at the government hospital in Dehradun, hasn’t stayed in any, on Saturday he felt as if he had stepped out of one. Moments after he became the Himalayan state’s first person to be administered the Covid vaccine, he smiled and said, “I feel as if I have come out of an hour-long meditation. I feel refreshed and rejuvenated, ready to take on the pandemic with renewed vigour.” There were loud cheers all around. Some patted his back. As India began vaccinations against a disease that has by now taken over two million lives across countries big and small, the immunisation drive felt more like a festival at many places than a public health project. Across, towards the east, sites were decked with flowers in Bhubaneswar, the tricolor fluttering, balloons bobbing in the winter wind. By 6pm, as many as 13,292 people, against a target of 16,314, had taken the injection in Odisha. Prahlad Suna, 36, a safai karamchari in Sambalpur, said it’s like he’s won the lottery. “This will remain a moment to cherish for life,” he told the others assembled there. “I have done duty at the Covid hospital here and I saw the pain of those suffering.” The local administration didn’t take any chances either. When the Co-Win app developed technical snags, officials quickly contacted intended beneficiaries by calling them and sending text messages individually. “The strategy worked,” additional chief secretary-health, Pradipta Kumar Mohapatra, said. “It took care of absenteeism too.” Far away in Mumbai, Vimla Kharat, 49, had brought along immediate concerns and bad memories. As she thrust her arm forward at KEM Hospital in Parel, flashing through her mind was the family’s Covid-induced upheaval. Her husband battled the virus in June for 40 days, needing ventilator support for the extensive lung damage. Then her daughter fell prey. Both recovered but the trauma remains. “Everyone should take the vaccine,” she said with urgency. Bollywood song turns a sombre mood celebratoryIn Gurgaon, as the PM’s address ended and the local MLA cut the ribbon for the vaccination programme to start, the mood was sombre at the Bhangrola public health centre. Then, all of a sudden, loudspeakers began to blare. Dr Neeru Yadav, the senior medical officer, was standing with a mic. “Come on, play some Bollywood songs,” she said. The song that played was the popular ‘Swag se karenge sabka swagat’. A few gingerly started shaking a leg. But, as so often happens in this country, within minutes the mood turned celebratory. Almost everyone joined in. The dance could well have been called Vaccine-Bhangra. Watch Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 1.9 lakh beneficiaries administered vaccine on day 1||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vax-populi-nation-celebrates-as-it-gets-the-gift-of-the-jab/articleshow/80308442.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Some vaccinate, others vacillate: 53% of those enrolled turn up in Delhi||NEW DELHI: The much-awaited vaccination drive against Covid-19 began in the capital on Saturday, with more than 53% of the health workers enrolled for getting the shots turning up at the 81 vaccination centres spread across 11 districts of Delhi. Officials said 4,319 people were given the vaccine on Day One. The rest of the total 8,117 health workers scheduled to receive the jabs on Saturday did not turn up. Most of the beneficiaries were staffers working at the hospitals where vaccine centres have been set up. Those scheduled to get the vaccine but could not turn up will not be accommodated on the next day. A decision about all those left out will be taken after a review currently planned at the end of the inoculation drive of all enrolled healthcare workers. At most centres, the Covishield vaccine was administered while at some central government hospitals Covaxin was given. Some healthcare workers had apprehensions about lack of safety or efficacy of Covaxin — India’s indigenously developed vaccine — but some of these fears subsided after AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog (along with his wife), took Covaxin at AIIMS. Several top doctors from other hospitals, both private and government, took the vaccine on the first day. A majority of those who received the jabs said they felt good and were happy to be inoculated. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain inspected the drive at Lok Nayak Hospital and said the Covid vaccines were completely safe and asked people not to heed rumours to the contrary. All the vaccination centres were located in government or private hospitals so that adverse reactions, if any, could be swiftly dealt with. Kejriwal said the number of centres will be increased over the days and stressed that people should continue wearing masks and practising social distancing even after vaccination. Health minister Satyendar Jain later inspected the drive at Rajiv Gandhi Hospital and after the conclusion of the vaccination drive stated that the drive was concluded successfully on the first day. After getting the jab, the beneficiaries received a Co-WIN app-generated SMS congratulating them on being vaccinated. They were asked to call the 1075 helpline for any queries and were informed that the vaccination would be complete only after the second dose to be administered after 28 days. The information about the date and time of the second dose will be communicated to the beneficiaries. At many centres, the beneficiaries were seen waiting for vaccination which started after the conclusion of PM Narendra Modi’s speech marking the launch of the world’s largest vaccination programme. At most of the centres, inoculations started after 11am. Nursing officer Rampal Gurjar, 35, posted at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in East Delhi, who was scheduled to receive the first jab at the vaccination centre said he was excited and confident about its safety. “My family members also encouraged me for it. The vaccination will protect me from the coronavirus,” said Gujjar. He reported to work around 8.30am and continued to make arrangements at the vaccination centre because he has been posted in the vaccination team. When the vaccination drive started at 11am, he rushed to the verification room and after vaccination he again started working. Although the option for getting a Covid shot wouldn’t be immediately available to the general population, many Delhi residents have mixed feelings about being vaccinated early. While a section says they would want to get the elderly people in their families vaccinated as soon as possible, others point out that they would wait for one or two months so that results of the first phase of the vaccination become clear. Watch Covid-19 vaccine: 53% of those enrolled turn up in Delhi||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/some-vaccinate-others-vacillate-53-of-those-enrolled-turn-up-in-delhi/articleshow/80308589.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||799 cases pending under scrapped IT Act section||NEW DELHI: At least 799 cases are still pending against people under the scrapped Section 66A of the Information Technology (IT) Act, according to digital advocacy group Internet Freedom Foundation (IFF). The Supreme Court struck down Section 66A in 2015. The findings were published by IFF, in collaboration with Civic Data Lab (CDL), and have been presented through a website zombietracker.in. The website has details of the total cases registered, pending cases and those disposed by the courts in 11 states of the country. The highest number of pending cases under 66A comes from Maharashtra (320), followed by Uttar Pradesh (131) and Jharkhand (118). “We plan to widen our research and include data from other states in the website soon,” said Delhi-based lawyer Abhinav Sekhri. The data for the website was sourced from district courts, Sekhri added. According to the tracker, 1,988 cases were registered under Section 66A of IT Act across 11 states. Out of this, 1,189 cases were disposed, including 236 with verdicts. Cops still book people under Section 66AA section of the website shows that 1,307 cases were registered after the Supreme Court declared Section 66A as unconstitutional, and out of this 570 cases are still pending before several courts. Section 66A, often described as an impediment to free speech, was enacted into the statute through an amendment in 2008. It penalised the sending of “offensive messages” online, but failed to define offensive, which led to its wide misuse. Despite the SC order declaring the section unconstitutional, the police still book people under the section.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/799-cases-pending-under-scrapped-it-act-section/articleshow/80308625.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 17, 2021||India||RTI applicant must disclose interest in seeking info, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has held that an RTI applicant seeking information should disclose his/her interest in it to prevent a “roving and fishing enquiry”. Justice Pratibha M Singh upheld the order of the Central Information Commission to deny material sought by an applicant under the Right to Information Act about appointments to a particular position at President’s Estate in Rashtrapati Bhavan. “This court is of the opinion that whenever information is sought under the RTI Act, disclosure of an interest in the information sought would be necessary to establish the bonafides of the applicant. Non-disclosure of the same could result in injustice to several other affected persons whose information is sought,” the court noted, while also slapping a cost of Rs 25,000 on the applicant. Har Kishan had sought information that included the complete address and father’s name of all those who had been appointed to the post of multitasking staff, and alleged irregularities. Ulterior motives in seeking RTI info, says HCLater a probe was carried out that showed 10 candidates obtained jobs on the basis of fake certificates, and their appointments were terminated, but President's Estate refused to furnish the details sought in the RTI. During the hearing of Har Kishan’s appeal against the CIC order, the HC found that his daughter had also applied for appointment, which he didn’t mention. He also hid the fact that he had himself worked at President's Estate on an ad-hoc basis. "The seeking of the above information, especially after the petitioner’s daughter did not obtain employment, clearly points to some ulterior motives," the court observed. It pointed out that even otherwise "the information sought in respect of the names of the fathers and residential addresses of the candidates is completely invasive".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/rti-applicant-must-disclose-interest-in-seeking-info-says-delhi-hc/articleshow/80308685.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 17, 2021||Business||Capital gains relief rule on flat sales given retro effect||MUMBAI: A recent ruling of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal (ITAT)’s Mumbai bench has come as a relief to taxpayers embroiled in litigation on capital gains arising out of sale of their flats due to the sale price being lower than the stamp duty valuation. ITAT has held that the benefit of a higher tolerance band of 10% for the difference between the sale price of a flat and the stamp duty valuation will apply with retrospective effect. The ITAT bench of vice-president Pramod Kumar and judicial member Saktijit Dey held this benefit would apply retrospectively from financial year 2002-03 (assessment year beginning April 1, 2003) when anti-abuse provisions were introduced in the income-tax Act. The ruling will help pending cases from these years when the acceptable variation rate was much lower or no such leeway was available. Tax experts said several such cases are pending at various levels, especially in larger cities such as Mumbai. To prevent tax abuse and deter the use of black money in property deals, Section 50C was introduced by the Finance Act, 2002. It provided that if the sale consideration claimed to be received by the seller is less than the stamp duty rate, the latter would be considered for determining capital gains. Thus, the quantum of capital gains would be the “higher” stamp duty valuation minus the “indexed” cost of the flat sold. This would result in higher capital gains and consequently a higher tax outgo. To factor the effects of inflation, the Income-Tax (I-T) Act permits application of a cost inflation index to the original cost of the property being sold. To minimise hardships in case of genuine transactions, the Finance Act, 2018, amended Section 50C and provided that no adjustment will be made in cases where the variation between stamp duty value and sale consideration was not more than 5% of the sale consideration. This proviso was further amended by the Finance Act, 2020, and enhanced the acceptable variation rate to 10%. I-T authorities submitted to ITAT that the amendment carried out by the Finance Act, 2018, would come into effect only prospectively from financial year 2018-19. Similarly, the enhanced variation rate will apply from financial year 2020-21. In the case before ITAT, the year covered by the litigation was 2010-11. The difference between the sale consideration as disclosed by the seller, Maria Fernandes Cheryl, and the stamp duty valuation was Rs 4.9 lakh. This was about 6.6% of the declared sale transaction. According to the I-T officer, the tolerance band of 5% and 10% applied only prospectively and did not cover the year under litigation. He accordingly enhanced the capital gains computation. The matter finally reached ITAT. ITAT disapproved of this enhancement and provided relief to the taxpayer. According to ITAT, the proviso amending the variation rate to 10% was curative in nature and must relate back to the date of introduction of the section itself.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/10-price-stamp-duty-relief-from-2002-itat/articleshow/80308811.cms||Lubna Kably
January 17, 2021||World||Norway vaccine fatalities among people 75 and older rise to 29||OSLO: Norway has registered a total of 29 deaths among people over the age of 75 who’ve had their first Covid-19 vaccination shot, raising questions over which groups to target in national inoculation programs. The latest figure adds six to the number of known fatalities in Norway, and also lowers the age group thought to be affected from 80. Until Friday, Pfizer/BioNTech was the only vaccine available in Norway, and “all deaths are thus linked to this vaccine,” the Norwegian Medicines Agency said in a written response to Bloomberg on Saturday. “There are 13 deaths that have been assessed, and we are aware of another 16 deaths that are currently being assessed,” the agency said. All the reported deaths related to “elderly people with serious basic disorders,” it said. “Most people have experienced the expected side effects of the vaccine, such as nausea and vomiting, fever, local reactions at the injection site, and worsening of their underlying condition.” Side effectsNorway’s experience has prompted the country to suggest that Covid-19 vaccines may be too risky for the very old and terminally ill, the most cautious statement yet from a European health authority as countries assess the real-world side effects of the first shots to gain approval. The Norwegian Institute of Public Health judges that “for those with the most severe frailty, even relatively mild vaccine side effects can have serious consequences. For those who have a very short remaining life span anyway, the benefit of the vaccine may be marginal or irrelevant.” Pfizer and BioNTech are working with the Norwegian regulator to investigate the deaths in Norway, Pfizer said in an e-mailed statement. The agency found that “the number of incidents so far is not alarming, and in line with expectations,” Pfizer said. “We are aware that deaths have also been reported in other countries, but do not have full details of this yet,” Norway’s medicines agency said. “There are also differences between countries in who is prioritized for vaccination, and this could also affect the reporting of side effects, including death.” “The Norwegian Medicines Agency has communicated, prior to the vaccination, that when vaccinating the oldest and sickest, it is expected that deaths will occur in a time-related context with vaccination. This does not mean that there is a causal link between vaccination and death. We have also, in connection with the reported deaths, conveyed that it is possible that common and known side effects of the vaccines may have been a contributing factor to a serious course or fatal outcome,” the agency said. Norway’s recommendation doesn’t mean that younger, healthier people should avoid being vaccinated. But it’s an early indication of what to watch as countries begin to issue safety monitoring reports on the vaccines. Emer Cooke, the new head of the European Medicines Agency, has said tracking the safety of Covid vaccines, especially those relying on novel technologies such as messenger RNA, would be one of the biggest challenges once shots are rolled out widely.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/rest-of-world/norway-vaccine-fatalities-among-people-75-and-older-rise-to-29/articleshow/80308821.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Patna: 300-bed Bihta ESIC hospital to function from February 15||PATNA: A government hospital with 300 beds, established by the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) under the aegis of the ministry of labour and employment, government of India, will begin functioning at Bihta from February 15. Also, a medical college attached to this hospital, to be known as ESIC Medical College, Bihta will come up by August. Principal secretary of labour resources department Mihir Kumar Singh said the central government has already applied to the National Medical Commission (NMC) for its approval to start the medical college from the coming academic session beginning August. “There will be 100 seats for admission in MBBS course and the process of advertisement for appointment of faculty members has been initiated,” he said. The decision to start this medical college was taken at a meeting held in the ESIC office, New Delhi, on December 7, he said. After PMCH, NMCH, IGIMS and AIIMS-Patna, it will be the fifth largest hospital in the district to offer free treatment for all diseases and indoor bed facilities. Thus, it would lessen the load of patients on the existing hospitals, added Singh. The state government has already issued essentiality certificate for this institution. Aryabhatta Knowledge University’s acting vice-chancellor SM Karim said the university has issued no-objection certificate for this new medical college and final affiliation would be granted after its approval by the NMC. The medical superintendent of the ESIC hospital, Dr Man Mohan Mishra, said nine operation theatres (OTs) besides indoor facility for all pathological and radiological tests like ultrasound and x-ray have already been developed in the hospital with centralized airconditioning system. The hospital building has seven floors and well connected to Patna-Ara road. Hostels for boys, girls, nursing staff, intern doctors and other faculty members are also completed. Mishra said all the specialities required in a medical college would run there after getting the final order from the central government. There are 16 medical colleges, including 10 government ones, in the state.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/300-bed-bihta-esic-hosp-to-function-from-feb-15/articleshow/80306524.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Drive feels like revenge against infection: Doctor||Among the first few to take the vaccine at Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar was the facility’s acting deputy medical superintendent, Dr Bharati Rajulwala, who like several others have lost dear ones to the pandemic. “My mother -in-law died due to Covid-19 in May. My son who is studying medicine in a different city was also infected. Several doctors suffered personal loss. All this while, we continued to do our duty. The mass vaccination drive feels like revenge against the pandemic,” said Dr Rajulwala. As she sat through her 30 minutes of observation, she continued to work. “It has been a little confusing because we are also preparing for the drive and are beneficiaries today,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/drive-feels-like-revenge-against-infection-doctor/articleshow/80307461.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Low turnout in few districts, no complaint mark Day 1 of vaccination drive in Bihar||PATNA: The grand launch of vaccination drive against Covid-19 at 301 centres across the state on Saturday was successful. At Saran, the exercise was launched at Chhapra Sadar hospital in the presence of DM Dr Nilesh Ramchandra Deore. Shivanand and Aqli Devi, the two sanitary staff of the hospital, were the first in the district to get the vaccine. The immunization hall was decorated with balloons and the beneficiaries were welcomed with roses. Saran civil surgeon Dr M Jha said it would be done on four days a week, except Wednesday and Friday. At Katihar, more than 399 beneficiaries had been vaccinated till afternoon and the figures were likely to reach 630-650 (70% of the target of 900) by 5pm, said district programme manager Manish Kumar. He said initially the number of registered beneficiaries refusing vaccination was very high, but later it was smooth. “We arranged tea for them,” he said. At Begusarai, the drive was launched at Sadar hospital by Union minister and local MP Giriraj Singh. The first one to get the vaccine was Piyush, a local health worker. The hospital premises and the immunization room were tastefully decorated. An observation room was attached to the immunization room. Piyush, after getting the shot, told the minister that he was feeling well and very happy. In West Champaran, altogether 16,858 medical staff are being vaccinated in the first phase, civil surgeon Dr Arun Kumar Sinha said. The drive was launched at Government Medical College, Bettiah, in the presence of DM Kundan Kumar. Eight community health centres have been earmarked for vaccination in the first phase in Sitamarhi. DM Abhilasha Kumari Sharma was present at Sadar hospital on Saturday. At Darbhanga, DM Thiyagrajan SM inaugurated the drive at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital amid festive mood. Dr Sunil Kumar Gupta, skin disease specialist at the hospital, was the first to be vaccinated. Two private hospitals in the town also carried the drive. Altogether 570 health and frontline workers in Nalanda and their 280 counterparts in Sheikhpura districts were vaccinated on Saturday. None of the beneficiaries complained of any complications. Also, 20 of the 70 beneficiaries at Biharsharif based Jeevan Jyoti Super Speciality Hospital and 400 across nine government healthcare centres did not turn up for vaccination. Regarding the low turnout, Nalanda civil surgeon Ram Singh said, “This may be due to some confusion.” At two out of the 14 centres in Gaya district, including Banke Bazar and Amas, the first three to get the vaccine shots were women. Nurse Geeta Kumari, who got the shot at the Red Cross Society, said: “I did not have any problem in getting the vaccine injected. I feel absolutely fine and there is no complication.” In East Champaran, 650 healthcare workers and doctors were vaccinated at nine government hospitals and two private nursing homes, civil surgeon Dr Akhileshwar Prasad Singh said. In Sharan Nursing Home at Motihari, noted surgeon Ashutosh Sharan took the vaccine and said he did not feel anything unusual. “Many people were scared about getting vaccinated, but I volunteered for it to set an example,” he said. At Madhepura, 448 healthcare workers and doctors were administered vaccines at eight centres. Almost 56% of the beneficiaries preferred vaccination on the first day of the drive and reported no complain till late evening. At Samastipur, health workers were vaccinated at 11 centres. No adverse impact of the vaccine was reported by anywhere. A sanitation worker, Mohan, was vaccinated first at Dalsingsarai. Civil Surgeon Dr Satyendra Kumar said 19,477 people will be vaccinated in the district in the first phase. (With inputs from H K Verma, Sanjeev Mishra, Rajiv Kumar, Tirthraj Kushwaha, SK Singh, B K Jha, Farrukh Nadim, Alok Kumar, C B Pandey, D N Saha & S K Jain)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/low-turnout-in-few-districts-no-complaint-mark-day-1-of-vaccination-drive-in-bihar/articleshow/80306471.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||A festival-like atmosphere at vaccination centres in Patna||PATNA: It was a festival-like atmosphere at the health institutes in the city where Covid-19 vaccination began on Saturday. Most centres were decked up with balloons and flowers to welcome the health workers who were inoculated first. While vaccination was done at 300 sites in the state, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and Paras HMRI Hospital were live with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during the official countrywide launch of the drive. Both the hospitals were decorated in white and blue balloons and flowers. Health workers at the hospitals too were excited for a new beginning. Ram Babu, the first person to get vaccinated in the state, turned a “celebrity”. Some IGIMS staff could be seen getting themselves clicked with Ram Babu. Neeraj Kumar, an electrician at IGIMS and his friend Abhimanyu Kumar, were waiting patiently to have a selfie with Ram Babu. Asked if they would post the selfies on social media, the boys laughed. Ram Babu said he had never imagined of meeting CM Nitish Kumar in person and talking to health minister Mangal Pandey over phone. “When health minister talked to me over the phone on Friday, I was surprised. I did not know how to react,” he said. Rita Kumari (23), an IGIMS worker hailing from Manipur, said, “The feeling is altogether different. There is excitement, a bit of nervousness and satisfaction that the vaccine has arrived.” Assistant professor (general surgery) at IGIMS, Dr Deepak Pankaj, who was vaccinated on Saturday, said, “I am absolutely fine. Every vaccine has some effects and even kids get mild fever after vaccination. People should not get scared.” At Paras HMRI, there was a joyous atmosphere. “This is the moment to cheer and celebrate,” said hospital’s brand manager O M Raj. Hospital’s superintendent Dr Syed Asif Rahman, who was also vaccinated on the first day, said, “It is like a festival for us. After almost a year, the day has finally come and we are very happy. Till 1:30pm, 50 people were vaccinated. They are doing fine.” Meanwhile, the vaccination drive remained the talk of the town here on Saturday. People remain glued to their television sets since the morning as PM Narendra Modi launched the world’s largest vaccination drive. They discussed a range of issues, including the expected availability of vaccines for common people. “We are eager to know the dos and don’ts for the vaccine,” said sexagenarian Ashok Singh. Smita Ray, owner of a boutique, said the success of the vaccine is important for people above 50 years of age. “My parents are well above 70 and have weak immune system with pre-existing conditions. I am hopeful that they will be safe after vaccination,” she said. Aditya Mishra, a resident of Kankarbagh, said, “There will be more researches as far as Covid vaccines are concerned. It is just the beginning. We still have a long way to go.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/a-festival-like-atmosphere-at-vaccination-centres-in-patna/articleshow/80306462.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 17, 2021||Goa||Pvt hosps carry out more vaccinations than govt||Panaji: Administration of the Covishield vaccine was higher at the private hospitals on Saturday as a number of healthcare workers at government-run medical facilities shied away from taking the jab. Dona Paula-based Manipal Hospital managed to inoculate 100 beneficiaries despite 11 individuals dropping out at the last minute. According to Healthway Hospitals, 88 staff members got the first shot of the vaccine though the figure released by the government put the number at 62. Concerns about the safety of the vaccine have left many beneficiaries reluctant to get vaccinated. Nurses, healthcare workers and administrative staff, particularly in government hospitals, either did not show up for the nationwide vaccination drive or stepped back at the last minute. At Goa Medical College, 42 healthcare workers got the jab, while at the Hospicio Hospital, North Goa District Hospital, Mapusa, Sub-District Hospital, Ponda, and Sub-District Hospital, Chicalim, 65, 38, 49 and 70 staffers got the injection, respectively. Manipal Hospital initially vaccinated 74 people from their list of 100 beneficiaries, with the remaining either staying absent or being dropped due to pregnancy or other health reasons. To replace the missing numbers, the hospital vaccinated 26 other staffers, including 15 consultants and one resident doctor. “We received guidelines from the nodal officer and state epidemiologist Dr Utkarsh Betotkar at 4pm that other people whose names are on the Covid portal can be vaccinated in place of those who missed the dose,” said chief of clinical services at Manipal hospital, Dr Shekhar Salkar. “After working so hard for months, if 26 people miss the vaccine, it would’ve been a disappointment. So we immediately made calls to various staffers to get vaccinated.” Something similar occurred at Healthway Hospitals. Some healthcare workers remained hesitant to take the vaccine due to doubts about its efficacy. Around 18 other staff members subsequently volunteered to take it. “Goa is one of the states following the protocols, and going by the book and I think the safest place to take the vaccine is in Goa,” said unit head at Healthway Hospitals, Ashwin Furtado. “The people receiving the vaccine today are those working with the hospital, right from surgeons, nurses, admin team, sterilising committees and the housekeeping staff. The main thing is that the vaccine has been delivered the way it was meant to be delivered,” he said. To ensure that the vaccine does not go waste, Manipal Hospital asked its staffers to rush as far as Mapusa to step in and take the jab. “We were overenthusiastic about getting it done. We worked continuously till 7.30pm because we were committed to complete the target,” Salkar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/pvt-hosps-carry-out-more-vaccinations-than-govt/articleshow/80308320.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 17, 2021||Patna||Nitish: Don’t allow visitors at Mahavir Vatika during night||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday asked the forest department officials to not allow visit of people during night hours at the sprawling Mahavir Vatika Biodiversity Park at Madhopur in Chakai block of Jamui district. “Make necessary arrangements for visit of people to this park only during day time,” Nitish told the officials after visiting the Mahavir Vatika. The CM also ordered for more expansion of ‘Mahavir Kund’, a water body at the park so that to store maximum extent of rainwater in the water body. The kund would look more beautiful after its further expansion,” Nitish said and asked the officials to make necessary arrangements to develop it as a habitat for birds. Deputy CM Tarkishore Prasad and water resources minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary accompanied him. Divisional forest officer Satyajeet Kumar informed the CM about different special things of the park. The CM also opened a ‘Sudha parlour’ inside the park. The Biodiversity Park has a variety of forests besides the Ashok Vatika and Rudra forests. It also has a carbon forest and fruit forest.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-dont-allow-visitors-at-mahavir-vatika-during-night/articleshow/80306879.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Patna||Cops probing IndiGo official’s murder from all angles: DGP||PATNA: Describing the murder of IndiGo official Rupesh Kumar Singh as a “tough and complicated” case, DGP Sanjeev Kumar Singhal on Saturday said investigation was being carried out from several angles. Singhal said Singh’s murder was a pure case of contract killing. Singhal issued the statement after holding a meeting with IG (central range) Sanjay Singh, Patna SSP Upendra Kumar Sharma, SPs and other police officers involved in the investigations. Singh (42) was shot dead inside his SUV after he reached his apartment, Kusum Vilas, on Shaknar Path at Punaichak around 7.05pm on January 12. ADG (CID) Vinay Kumar and ADG (operation) Sushil Mansingh Khopde were also present at the meeting which was held at the SSP office near Gandhi Maidan. Police sources said a jeweller and employees of a garment shop in the state capital had been quizzed in the last 24 hours in connection with the case. Sources said Singh had bought branded shirts from the garment shop recently while a white-collar person close to the airline manager had purchased huge amount of gold from the jewellery shop.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cops-probing-indigo-officials-murder-from-all-angles-dgp/articleshow/80306868.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 17, 2021||Pune||Rescued girl escapes from Shivajinagar court||Pune: A 17-year-old girl, rescued from the clutches of flesh trade agents by the Bharati Vidyapeeth police, ran away from the premises of Shivajinagar court on Saturday afternoon. A woman police constable later lodged a complaint with the Shivajinagar police station. Police registered a case under section 363 (kidnapping) of the Indian Penal Code as the girl is a minor. The girl is a native of Solapur. According to Shivajinagar police, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police took three minor girls and a woman to the court premises on Saturday afternoon for hearing of the case. Around 2 pm, the minor girl informed police that she wanted to go to the washroom. “After she did not emerge from the washroom, the woman constable waiting outside raised an alarm,” Shivajinagar police said. “Following this, the police broke open the door, but the girl was not found inside. Police saw an open window and realised that she had run away,” an official said. Police then searched for the girl, but failed to locate her. Later, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police lodged a complaint of kidnapping. In November last year, the Bharati Vidyapeeth police had raided a building at Katraj and rescued a woman and three minor girls from the clutches of flesh trade agents. Police arrested two agents in the case. The woman and the girls were shifted to the observation home in the city, police said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/rescued-girl-escapes-from-shivajinagar-court/articleshow/80307426.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Common people can expect inoculation by March, says Bihar minister||PATNA: State health minister Mangal Pandey on Saturday said Covid vaccines would become available for common people within the next two months. “No official time can be given. Two or three more companies in India are working on developing vaccines. I think more vaccines will be available by the end of March,” Pandey said, adding healthcare workers and frontline workers were being vaccinated in the first phase as they are more vulnerable to the virus. “After these two groups, 27 crore people across the country who fall in the prioritized category, including those 50 years and above and those below 50 but suffering from comorbidties like diabetes, hypertension and cancer, will be vaccinated. After these groups, others will be inoculated. State health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit too said more vaccines would be available for common people soon. “Since beneficiaries are being informed through the SMS, government will have to look for an alternative once the mass vaccination is planned as many in remote villages do not have cellphones. The central government is working on all these aspects,” Amrit said. IGIMS director Dr N R Biswas, who had earlier tested positive for Covid-19, appealed to people to get immunized. “We have heard that for vaccination will be free for three crore population. Even if someone has to pay minimal Rs 100 or Rs 200, he or she should get the vaccine. Even I am ready to take the shot in spite of the fact that I had tested positive for the virus and antibodies were generated by my body,” Dr Biswas added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/common-people-can-expect-inoculation-by-march-says-minister/articleshow/80306417.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 17, 2021||Patna||Decks cleared for recruitment of transgender people in Bihar police||PATNA: Decks have been cleared for the recruitment of transgender people in the state police with the home department forming a policy on the issue and notifying it on January 14 after several rounds of high-level discussion held in the last one month. Once transgender people are recruited, Bihar would be among the very few states to have them in state police. On December 26 last year, TOI was first to report that the government was mulling to raise a dedicated battalion for transgender people. However, in the resolution dated January 14, the department found it not feasible because of their low population ratio. As per the 2011 Census, Bihar had a population of 10.41 crore, including only 40,827 of the transgenders. A battalion needs 1,000 personnel and the government thought it might be difficult to find that that many eligible transgender people for recruitment in police. Hence, the department formed a policy that transgender could now be recruited directly or by routine competitive process in state police. A superintendent of police would be the competent authority for making direct recruitment of a transgender as a constable while a DIG-rank officer would have the power to appoint people from this community as sub-inspectors (SI). The basic educational qualification required for direct recruitment of transgender on both the posts would be guided by rules and regulations of Bihar Police Manual, 1978. The transgender people would also be recruited through competition on both posts for which separate advertisements would be published onwards. One seat would be reserved for transgender from every 500 posts to be advertised for recruitment.  Speaking on the matter, DGP Sanjeev Kumar Singhal on Saturday said transgender people are an integral part of the society. “Government has taken steps for their recruitment in state police with which they would be integrated in the organization. We will do our best for them on the basis of their count in which they would get recruited after examination,” he said. If less number of transgender people are recruited against the reserved posts, then remaining vacant reserved seats for them would be filled by general candidates. The parameters of physical fitness for transgender candidates would be equivalent to those required for female candidates. The minimum age limit for these candidates would be as per those mentioned in the recruitment advertisements, but maximum limit would of those given to the scheduled caste and scheduled tribes. Transgender candidates would require certificate to establish being original resident of Bihar. They would also require certificate of being transgender issued by the competent authority. Bihar Police Subordinate Services Commission would recruit them as SI while the central selection board of constable would recruit them as constables as per police manual. The government took the decision after the Patna high court on December 14 last year asked the home department principal secretary to find remedy for recruiting transgenders in state police. The court was hearing a petition of one Veera Yadav, who questioned why male or female were the only option provided in online form for constable recruitment. Simultaneously, the HC had barred central selection board of constable from preparing the final list of candidates for conducting examination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/decks-cleared-for-recruitment-of-transgender-people-in-police/articleshow/80306592.cms||Debashish Karmakar
January 17, 2021||Pune||CoWIN, digital organiser of vital data, functions at slow pace||PUNE: The CoWIN app - developed by the Centre to track beneficiaries and dosage - appeared to struggle on Day One of the vaccination drive in the region and beyond. The app has four critical modules: a user administrator module, beneficiary registration, vaccination and beneficiary acknowledgment, and status updates. Essentially, the app first registers the beneficiary, sends out an SMS on time and location and then tracks the dosage given at sites. However, on Saturday, the app struggled across the district. Officials at vaccination sites said they had to fall back on paperwork they already had on beneficiaries. In the city, Yerawada-Sangamwadi ward medical officer Maya Lohar said, “The CoWIN application developed technical problems when the vaccination drive started. But that did not affect our our work because we had listed recipients. Details of beneficiaries were later fed into the app to enable text messages. We will also make phone calls to beneficiaries." Pune collector Rajesh Deshmukh said lags in CoWIN did not delay vaccinations as most sites had simultaneous on-paper registrations going. Many sites reported that beneficiaries did not received automated invites via SMSs. Officials said they had to call people on Friday night to ensure good turnout. Deputy director, health Pune region, Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said while the app was "surprisingly functional" in rural areas, vaccinators in urban centres were unable to log in. Hospital authorities at the city’s Bharati hospital said they were asked to stop vaccinating after just five healthcare workers in the morning. Operations resumed with manual verification. Most city sites, including Sassoon General hospital and some primary health centres - at Wagholi and at Baramati - opted for offline registrations after CoWIN went down.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cowin-digital-organiser-of-vital-data-functions-at-slow-pace/articleshow/80308321.cms||Nisha Nambiar
January 17, 2021||Shimla||Himachal Pradesh voters seek curb on corruption||SHIMLA: Transparency in MGNREGA funds and development projects, along with corruption, are the three biggest issues for people in Himachal Pradesh ahead of elections to panchayati raj institutions in the state, according to an online survey. The elections are to be held on Sunday. According to the survey, 82.9% people feel that transparency in spending MGNREGA funds and all other financial schemes at the grassroots level is a major election issue, while curbing corruption and promoting transparency in all kinds of development projects is one of the important issues for 76% people. The survey was conducted from January 13 to 15 to understand what people think about key issues. Panchayat elections will be held on January 17, 19 and 21. The survey comprised 537 respondents in 320 gram panchayats of 12 districts and was conducted by Baldev Singh Negi, project officer-cum-faculty, rural development in the department of interdisciplinary studies, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, and Devender Sharma, an assistant professor of political science at Government College, Sanjauli. The survey found maximum contestants included schemes like education, health, roads, electricity and structural development as election promises. In their manifestoes, contestants tried to attract youth and senior citizens. For youth, contestants promised playgrounds and gyms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/hp-voters-seek-curb-on-corruption/articleshow/80307425.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Check crime in a month or will march to Delhi: Tejashwi Prasad Yadav||PATNA: The leader of opposition in state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav on Saturday threatened to stage a protest with all the MLAs of grand alliance in Delhi if CM Nitish Kumar failed to check crime in the state in a month. Talking to media after writing a letter to CM Nitish, Tejashwi said he, along with the legislators of the opposition alliance, will meet the President of India if criminal activities were not checked within the stipulated time. Referring to the recent killing of IndiGo’s station manager Rupesh Kumar Singh in Patna, Tejashwi said the incidents of murder, rape, kidnapping and extortion have become order of the day. Describing Rupesh’s murder as unfortunate, Tejashwi said even the four-year-old son of the slain manager had no faith in the state police. He also demanded a fair investigation into the ‘role’ of some ministers in the incident. Tejashwi said, “Rumours are doing the round that many ministers are involved in the killing of Rupesh. Their role should be probed to expose the real culprits behind the incident.” Terming the NDA rule as ‘mahajungle raj’, the RJD leader said while people were being butchered across the state, the CM used to recall the previous RJD rule to defend his government. “This is not fair. Instead of recalling the previous regime, he should initiate steps to check crime,” he added. In his letter to CM through email, Tejashwi said he (CM) can’t shirk from his moral responsibility for serving the coveted post. He suggested the CM to post efficient and upright police officers without any bias and considering their affiliation and equation to check crime. He further said if curbing crime was not accorded the top priority, the people of the state will not forgive him and even his name will not find a place in the footnote of the state’s history. Tejashwi, however, assured the opposition’s support to the state government in dealing with criminals with an iron hand. Reacting to Tejashwi’s statement, JD(U) spokesperson Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said the police were competent enough to deal with the incidents of crime. “But RJD and Tejashwi have no moral right to raise questions on the law and order situation in the state. People have still fresh memories of ‘jungle raj’ during the RJD rule,” he added. He, however, claimed that the state stood at 23rd position in the country as far as cognisable offences are concerned. Similarly, Bihar ranked 29th in the incidents of atrocities against women and 33 in the cases of rape in the country. “Yet, the CM has issued strict instructions to top police officers to check crime in the state,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/check-crime-in-a-month-or-will-march-to-delhi-tejashwi/articleshow/80306542.cms||Ramashankar
January 17, 2021||Patna||Nitish inaugurates Bihar’s first bird festival||PATNA: CM Nitish Kumar on Saturday formally inaugurated Bihar’s first state bird festival ‘Kalrav’ at Nagi bird sanctuary in Jamui district, about 200km southeast from Patna. The festival, organized by the state’s environment, forest and climate change department to create awareness among people about birds, especially the migratory birds, will end on Sunday. Spread in an area of 2.1 square kilometres, Nagi bird sanctuary is home to over 133 bird species. There are also a variety of dragonflies, damselflies and butterflies. Addressing a public meeting on the occasion, Nitish called upon the new generation to remain alert and aware towards environment protection. “I am very glad to see this place which is very beautiful and important in the context of environment. This sanctuary is a big habitant of different species of birds. Especially in the winter season, a large number of migratory birds arrive here from other countries,” he said. Nitish also said the state bird festival has been organized for the first time in Bihar. “Henceforth, this festival should be organized every year so that people could be educated and motivated towards protecting the birds,” he said. The CM also said he would visit the sanctuary any day to overview the works being done for development of the bird habitat. On the occasion, the CM also inaugurated a ‘bird awareness centre’ there and inspected a photo gallery on birds. He also viewed, through a telescope, different species of birds at the Nagi dam. A team of ornithologists, who had reached there from different places, demonstrated a migratory bird named ‘Tiktiki’ before the CM. As part of the demonstration, the CM gave a message about protection of birds by symbolically freeing a ‘Tiktiki’. Nitish also inspected a cottage built to mark the first state bird festival. Earlier, he also released a coffee-table book on the Nagi-Nakti bird sanctuary. Deputy CM-cum-environment and forest minister Tarkishore Prasad, water resources, rural works, rural development and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary and the department’s principal secretary Dipak Kumar Singh also spoke on the occasion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/nitish-inaugurates-bihars-first-bird-festival/articleshow/80306527.cms||Madan Kumar
January 17, 2021||Patna||Parties hail launch of vaccination drive||PATNA: Political leaders in the state, cutting across party lines, welcomed the vaccination drive launched at different health facilities across the country on Saturday. They hailed the researchers and scientists for developing vaccines to eradicate Covid-19. Opposition parties like the Congress and RJD, however, said the ruling party leaders should have taken the vaccine first instead of the sanitation workers. RJD spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwary said political leaders and officials in other countries, where the vaccination drive has already commenced, took the doses first to build public confidence. “I am not saying that the vaccine is unsafe. I trust our scientists, but the ruling leaders should have set an example by taking the vaccine jab first,” he said. Congress working president of Bihar Kaukab Quadri said, “It is the hard work and effort of our scientists that the country has got Covid vaccines. However, PM Narendra Modi and other senior leaders of BJP should have taken the vaccine along with the ground level staff and healthcare workers,” he said. BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the opposition parties are behaving in an irresponsible manner. “They want to confuse the people,” he said. Anand appealed to people to come forward and take doses without fear. HAM(S) chief Jitan Ram Manjhi also welcomed the vaccination drive. “The leaders in opposition parties are trying to spread rumours that the vaccines are unsafe. People should trust the country’s researchers and scientists,” he said. JD(U) spokesman Rajiv Ranjan Prasad said all people in state would get the vaccine for free. “CM Nitish Kumar will fulfil the NDA’s poll promise by ensuring free vaccination in the state,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/parties-hail-launch-of-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80306458.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 17, 2021||Kolhapur||Hearing of suggestions on Jan 21||Kolhapur: The state election commission has directed the Pune divisional commissioner’s office to hold hearings regarding the suggestions and objections raised by citizens over ward delimitation and reservation for Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) on January 21. The KMC has restructured as many as 81 wards as per the changes in demography on December 21. The civic body had also set a deadline of January 4 for the citizens and political workers to register their suggestions and objections.Accordingly, the KMC received a total of 60 suggestions and objections. “The divisional commissioner or his representative will chair the hearings, the report of which will be submitted to the election commission for final decision,” Nikhil More, deputy commissioner of KMC, said. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao is expected to ask district collector Daulat Desai to hear the suggestions and objections individually. Since most of the objections have been raised by the same individuals, the hearings are expected to be completed in a day. The objections are mainly related to changes in the reservation and boundary alterations of the wards. Many have claimed that the ward restructuring has to be carried out every 10 years, but this time the KMC has carried out the exercise in five years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/hearing-of-suggestions-on-jan-21/articleshow/80299480.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Magic number in polls dynamic||The magic figure for winning the mayoral election is dynamic. All three main parties TRS, MIM and BJP are keeping their strategy for the election close to their chest. If the total electors come to 190, the magic figure to win the Mayor’s seat would be 96, and it changes as per the total number of voters. For example, if BJP or MIM abstain or boycott the mayoral election meeting, the votes required for winning the Mayor’s seat would come down. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/magic-number-in-polls-dynamic/articleshow/80307427.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||A jab well done: 75% give it their best shot in Uttar Pradesh||LUCKNOW: Nearly 75% of the targeted 31,700 health workers were inoculated against the pandemic infection at 317 vaccination centres across Uttar Pradesh as India launched the much awaited Covid-19 vaccination campaign on Saturday. Almost 55% of them were women. Eastern UP's district Siddharth Nagar was on top, achieving 99% of the targeted vaccination. Baghpat and Ghaziabad followed next with 96% and 95% scores respectively. State capital recorded 70% turnout while Chitrakoot, Firozabad and Maharajganj were at bottom with scores of 41%, 43% and 47% respectively. As per the vaccination data released at 7pm, 22,643 out of 31700 (71%) health workers had been inoculated. However, citing the report updated till 9 pm, health officials monitoring the progress of the coverage said: “Over 75% of the targeted beneficiaries were given the vaccine. The campaign was successful considering that we were anticipating a footfall of about 60% on the first day.” Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath termed it historic. “The vaccine is the final attack on coronavirus infection which changed the course of life of the people,” he said speaking to reporters after taking stock of the campaign activity at Lucknow’s Balrampur Hospital. The CM also congratulated the scientist community for developing the vaccine while reiterating that prevention protocol must be followed till the desired herd immunity is achieved. The CM also urged people to ignore rumours and warned against any attempt to jump the queue. Later, he reviewed the programme and directed officials to ensure that the GOI protocol on the campaign is to be followed in letter and spirit. The drive made a slow start, leaving officials worried but picked up significantly after noon. "Only about 10% of the people had reported till noon. But the next 40% came between 12 noon and 3 pm. In many districts, the drive continued even after the time out. No beneficiary was returned," they said. Insiders revealed that the heath teams recorded the slightest side effects reported during the day. “While 100 cases of adverse events following immunisation (AEFI) were recorded but all belonged to the very mild category and none of the cases required hospitalisation,” said sources. About technical glitches in the CO-WIN app, officials confided that no problems related to the app were recorded but on 26 sites server and connectivity problems led to issues like buffering. The affected districts included Agra, Meerut, Gorakhpur and Kanpur Dehat. In Lucknow, data had to be fed manually to keep the process moving. Health minister Jai Pratap Singh said that the vaccination passed off successfully. “In five districts, Ambedkarnagar, Badaun, Firozabad, Bahraich and Jhansi Covaxin was administered on 11 centers while on the remaining 306 centres, Covishield was used." Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said that the first batch will return for the second dose on February 15 while the formal schedule for rest of the health workers and other priority groups will be issued in a day or two. At the level of the people, staff carrying the vaccination boxes were given a warm welcome with sweets while some sites were decorated with balloons, venerating the historic moment which promises to wipe out the pandemic. At many places, the first beneficiaries became a celebrity almost instantly. While sanitary staff member Rashid, received the first jab at the BHU centre, it was a cook who was first to be vaccinated in Kanpur’s LLR Hospital. At Lucknow’s KGMU hospital, it was a serendipitous moment for a junior assistant, who received the first jab when the first recipient, a doctor, was busy listening to the PM's video address.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/a-jab-well-done75-give-it-theirbest-shot-in-up/articleshow/80308586.cms||Shailvee Sharda
January 17, 2021||Rajkot||Girl abducted in Gujarat's Anjar for Rs 10 crore ransom||RAJKOT: A 20-year-old college girl was abducted allegedly by four persons in a car from the main market of Anjar town in Kutch on Friday evening. The girl, however, was released by the kidnappers on Saturday morning when they became suspicious that the cops were on their trail. The girl Janki alias Janu Udwani had just reached her computer class in the main market of Anjar around 7pm when she was forcefully taken away in a car by four persons. Udwani, a college student in Anjar, lives in Vijaynagar area. The kidnappers called Udwani’s father Mariyani alias Mehul, who is a cutlery trader in Anjar, and demanded a ransom of Rs 10 crore by Saturday morning for Udwani’s release. A worried Mehul informed the police to get his daughter back home safe. Different teams of local crime branch, special operations group, surveillance and local police were formed to track down the girl. When the cops could not find the girl’s location, they decided to lay a trap to nab the abductors. Mehul was asked to meet the accused to pay the ransom amount so that they can be nabbed. As per the plan, Mehul went to Bhuj on Saturday morning. However, the kidnappers became suspicious that the cops will nab them, so they tied Udwani’s hands and legs and dropped her near Hill Garden in Bhuj. “The girl was safely found and was united with her family members. So far, we have learnt that there were four people involved in the crime and they took the girl across places in the car throughout the night,” said deputy superintendent of police D S Vaghela. He added that the girl does not know the places where she was taken. “However, our teams are continuing the investigation by checking the footages of CCTV cameras, mobile phone location among other aspects,” he said, adding that the motive behind the abduction was yet now known.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/girl-abducted-in-anjar-for-rs-10-crore-ransom-released/articleshow/80305645.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar records 239 fresh Covid cases, four deaths||PATNA: With 239 more people testing positive in the last 24 hours, the state’s Covid tally increased to 2,58,528 on Saturday. Four fresh deaths, on the other hand, took the state’s virus toll to 1,453. As per official figures, Darbhanga, East Champaran, Sitamarhi and Vaishali districts recorded one death each on Saturday. According to the daily bulletin of the state health department, 328 Covid patients were discharged from different hospitals and isolation centres in the last 24 hours. The state’s recovery rate stood at 97.93% on Saturday. The number of active cases in the state, on the other hand, stood at 3,889. The number of sample tests per day declined to 86,822 in the last 24 hours from the daily average of 1 lakh to 1.2 lakh. So far, 1,98,18,150 samples have been tested in the state since the outbreak of the virus in March last year. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P) recorded two deaths in the last 24 hours and the victims were a 76-year-old man from Nehru Nagar in Patna and a 75-year-old man from Jalalpur village in Saran. AIIMS-P nodal officer for Covid Dr Sanjeev Kumar said seven patients were admitted to the hospital on Saturday, including some from different localities of Patna like Bhoothnath Road, Digha, Shastri Nagar and Nehru Nagar. Altogether 121 patients were undergoing treatment for Covid at AIIMS-P on Saturday. No new Covid casualty was reported at Nalanda Medical College and Hospital on Saturday. Of the 239 new Covid cases recorded in the state on Saturday, Patna accounted for 100. The district’s Covid tally has now gone up to 51,388. However, with 49,348 recoveries and 401 deaths, there were 1,639 active cases in the state on Saturday. Among other districts, Darbhanga recorded 14 new cases on Saturday, Nalanda 12, Araria 10, Begusarai nine and East Champaran eight.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/bihar-records-239-fresh-covid-cases-four-deaths/articleshow/80306405.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Varanasi||DIO leads drive, 307 vaccinated in Gorakhpur||Gorakhpur: After the address of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the vaccination drive against Covid-19 started at 11.19 am in Gorakhpur district on Saturday. At the Gorakhpur district hospital, the district immunization officer (DIO), NK Pandey, was the first person to get vaccinated. Pandey said the vaccination is fully safe. As many as 307 health workers were vaccinated in Gorakhpur on Saturday, including 52 at BRD Medical College, 43 at the district hospital, 54 at the district women’s hospital, 54 at Sahjanwa health centre, 42 at Campierganj health centre and 62 at Pipraich health centre. The preparations for the inoculation drive started from 8 am on Saturday. CDO Indrajit Singh, DM Vijyendra Pandiyan and city MLA Radha Mohan Das Agarwal also reached the district hospital to ensure the smooth conduct of the vaccination process. The health workers said they did not experience any kind of pain or side effect after getting vaccinated. DM Pandiyan said that the vaccination would help eradicate Covid-19. He advised everyone to take immunity booster after 28 days of vaccination. “We all must follow the Covid protocol even after getting vaccinated in order to bring an end to the deathly virus,” added the DM. At Deoria district hospital, the first person to receive the vaccine dose was ward boy Shyamnand Tiwari. All those vaccinated on Saturday have been called again on February 13 for the next dose. They will receive a message on their mobile numbers regarding the same, said Deoria CMO Alok Pandey.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/dio-leads-drive-307-vaccinated-in-gorakhpur/articleshow/80307564.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Patna||Council bypolls: Shahnawaz, Sahani are NDA nominees||PATNA: The BJP on Saturday named former Union minister and party’s national spokesperson Syed Shahnawaz Hussain as its nominee for the bypolls to two legislative council seats on January 28. The candidature of Shahnawaz, who had earlier represented Kishanganj and Bhagalpur Lok Sabha seats, was announced by the national general secretary of party headquarters (incharge) Arun Singh. Sources in the party said Shahnawaz, who had earlier served as minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee government at the Centre, was made incharge of DDC elections in Jammu & Kashmir where BJP’s performance was satisfactory. VIP chief and state animal husbandry and fisheries minister Mukesh Sahani’s name has been recommended for the vacant second seat. Sahani had unsuccessfully contested the state assembly polls held last year. Sources said both the candidates will file their nomination papers on January 18. The bypolls were necessitated following the election of BJP leader and former deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi to Rajya Sabha and Vinod Narain Jha to the state legislative assembly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/council-bypolls-shahnawaz-sahani-are-nda-nominees/articleshow/80306691.cms||Ramashankar
January 17, 2021||Patna||Officials gear up to identify black spots in Katihar||KATIHAR: Top officials have claimed that Katihar reported lesser number of accidents during the last two financial years and geared up to identify all the black spots in the district. A meeting in this regard was held under the chairmanship of JD (U) MP Dulal Chandra Goswami on Saturday as part of the Road Safety Month which is to be observed from January 18 to February 17. Speaking on the issue of road safety, the Katihar MP said, “The officials have been instructed to identify the black spots in the district and get them rectified. They have also been told to improve signage for motorists and pedestrians on several service and arterial roads.” He added, “The construction of flyovers on NH-31 is on the cards at Kursela and Gerabari in order to minimize accidents and traffic congestion.” According to the official figures, the district reported 189 road accidents in 2019-2020 and 142 in 2020-2021. While Katihar SP Vikas Kumar discussed the role of conducting seminars and workshops on road safety, ADM Vijay Kumar laid stress on identification of all the black spots. “We have chosen four students from each college of the town for being our ambassadors, who will train 20 others and tell them about road safety norms,” district programme officer Kameshwar Prasad Gupta said and added, “Theme-based vehicles and wall murals will disseminate information on road safety. Medical check-up camps will also be conducted for bus, truck and auto drivers during the Road Safety Month.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/officials-gear-up-to-identify-black-spots-in-katihar/articleshow/80306557.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Cold day conditions in Bihar for two more days: Met||PATNA: With maximum temperature falling, cold day conditions were recorded in most parts of the state on Saturday. In its all-India weather bulletin issued on Saturday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said cold day conditions would continue to prevail at isolated places in Bihar over the next two days. The IMD said severe cold day conditions were observed at isolated places in Bihar on Friday. “The maximum temperature was markedly below normal (-5.1 degrees C or less) at many places in Bihar on Friday,” it said. Patna Meteorological Centre, in its daily weather bulletin, stated that shallow to moderate fog was observed at Patna, Gaya, Bhagalpur and Purnia during past 24 hours. Shailendra Kumar Patel, an officer at the local meteorological centre, said moderate to dense fog was witnessed at most places in the state in the last 24 hours. He added partly cloudy skies were also witnessed at some places. “The persistent cloud cover has led to plunge in maximum temperature, which has led to cold day conditions,” Patel said. Cold day condition is declared when minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or low and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature on two consecutive days. Patna Meteorological Centre has predicted that the maximum temperature would remain under 20 degrees C at majority places in the state over the next two days. Minimum temperature, however, hasn’t plunged much. “Minimum temperature is being recorded equal to normal. Though minimum and maximum temperature would surge slightly in the next 24 hours, fog cover is likely to prevail at most places in the state,” he added. Skymet Weather, a private agency, on Saturday reported that there is no possibility of any significant change in the weather of north India for at least one week. During this period, day and night temperatures will remain below normal in most places, including Bihar, it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/met-cold-day-conditions-in-bihar-for-two-more-days/articleshow/80306829.cms||Piyush Tripathi
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||BJP meet today on upcoming polls||HYDERABAD: The executive committee meeting of BJP state unit to be held here on Sunday will discuss a strategy to win the ensuing elections to the two graduate MLC seats, over half a dozen urban local bodies and bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituncy. BJP general secretary and Telangana in-charge Tarun Chugh will attend the meeting and seek the opinions of top leaders and cadre in the respective constituencies and ULBs going to polls.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bjp-meet-today-on-upcoming-polls/articleshow/80307428.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Surat||Fake vehicles loan racket busted in Surat||SURAT: Police busted a gang that adopted an unusual method of borrowing loans and cheating a bank for Rs 8.64 crore on used heavy vehicles that do not exist. They booked 20 accused on Friday for the fraud, while five were arrested on Saturday. The five accused have been remanded to police custody till January 22. Cops arrested Irshad Pathan, his brother Imran, Kapil Kothiya, Shailesh Jadwani and Mukesh Sojitra who along with the 15 others were booked for forgery, cheating and criminal breach of trust with Yes Bank. The complaint was lodged by Sumit Bhosle, risk containment manager of Yes Bank. The fraud was carried out during 2016 and 2018. However, the bank recently unearthed the scam when the accused started defaulting on repayment of loan. The bank later carried out an investigation and found that it is a well-planned fraud racket. Investigation so far have revealed that the accused had prepared forged papers of purchase of trucks and buses of TATA and Ashok Leyland companies. They also prepared forged general insurance papers for these vehicles and got them registered in Arunachal Pradesh (AP) and Nagaland regional transport offices. “In the preliminary investigation we found that it is not required to take the vehicle physically to the RTO for registration. Most of the registration process is done online and the fraudsters took advantage of it,” said a crime branch official. After generating a vehicle registration certificate (RC) on forged papers the accused used it to show a resale in Gujarat. “Police found that a man from Botad in Saurashtra arranged the RC from Nagaland and AP while Irshad used to identify individuals who would be interested in borrowing the loan on forged papers,” said an officer. The RC and other forged papers were sold for around Rs 3 lakh to the loan borrower and using those papers other accused borrowed used vehicle loans of Rs 10 to 20 lakh. Irshad had borrowed loans for 10 buses while the other accused had borrowed loans for one vehicle each. “It is an important detection by police and we took swift actions to nab the accused after receiving information. They are involved in siphoning off public money and police will deal with them strictly,” city police commissioner Ajay Tomar told TOI.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/fake-vehicles-loan-racket-busted/articleshow/80306174.cms||Yagnesh Bharat Mehta
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||Covid-19: Vadodara city gets 100% goal shots on Day 1||VADODARA: Nurses who had handled Covid-19 duties in wards and ICUs on a rotation basis, doctors who were on the forefront of the fight against the pandemic even as members of their own families were battling the deadly virus — were amongst the first to get the shots as Covid-19 vaccination drive began at Central Gujarat’s biggest government hospital – the SSG Hospital in Vadodara on Saturday. SSG Hospital was one of the ten vaccination centres in Vadodara city and district which were abuzz since Saturday morning as politicians, bureaucrats and top officials of city and district’s health department flocked the centres where 100 persons were already identified for inoculation. As soon as Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address via video conferencing ended, doctors and nurses rolled up their sleeves to get the first shots of the Covid vaccine while they were being handed over roses asked to remain under observation for 30 minutes as per protocol while they were constantly facing the glare of cameras. While the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) vaccinated 600 persons achieving 100 % target at six locations in the city, the four centres in Vadodara district recorded 79 % vaccination as 285 persons got vaccinated on the first day. “For the first day, 363 health workers were registered. Of these, 285 got vaccinated. At one private hospital, vaccination was 100 %,” said Dr Uday Tilawat, chief district health officer. The three other centres in the district included a Waghodiya-based private hospital, Varnama primary health centre and Savli community health centre. VMC’s medical officer health Dr Devesh Patel said late on Saturday evening the vaccination had been completed and only some work regarding data entry remained. He added that this was expected to get over soon on Saturday night. Sources said that while the first day of vaccination in the city was a major success, there was no clarity regarding the strategy from Monday. When asked about this, Patel said that they were awaiting further instructions. Earlier, it was planned that the vaccine would be administered at 11 locations in the city but eventually only six locations were finalized. These included government-run SSG Hospital and Jamnabai General Hospital, two private hospitals and two urban primary health centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/vadodara-city-gets-100-goal-shots-on-day-1/articleshow/80306049.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Central Command hospital to serve over 6 lakh||LUCKNOW: The state-of-the-art multispeciality central command hospital expected to be commissioned around 2025 will cater to over six lakh active and veteran military personnel and their families. On Saturday, defence minister Rajnath Singh laid the foundation of the hospital. The ceremony was attended by CM Yogi Adityanath, chief of Army staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane and Lieutenant General Iqroop Singh Ghuman general officer-commanding-in-chief, Central Command. Lt Gen Iqroop Singh Ghuman said, “The hospital will cater to over six lakh active and veterans military personnel and their families. The project was pending for many years. The hospital will have close to 900 beds, including 100 for emergency. The hospital will also be used for clinical and dental training. Currently, 22 Army hospitals and two airforce hospitals in the state handle a large number of patients, including those from Nepal serving in Indian Army or are veterans. The building spread over 40 acre land will be built for Rs 425 crore and will have six blocks of four wings varying from three to nine storeys. “All the blocks will be interconnected with skyways. The complex will also have parking facility for 750 vehicles, besides elevators and ramps. It will house state-of-the-art facilities with all specialties and sub specialties,” a said senior official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/central-command-hosp-to-serve-over-6l/articleshow/80308588.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar: Man killed, woman shot at in Nalanda||BIHARSHARIF: Criminals shot dead one Anuj Singh near Gas Godown on Chandi-Harnaut Road under Kalyanpur police outpost in Nalanda district late on Friday evening. The incident occurred when the victim, a resident of Barah village, was returning home from Narsanda village under the Chandi police station area where he was constructing a house on a controversial plot. Police said a profusely bleeding Singh was taken to Harnaut primary health centre, where he was declared brought dead by doctors. The criminals had pumped three bullets in his stomach and one in his head from close range. A police officer said two empty cartridges and the motorcycle of the deceased were recovered from the place of occurrence. He said the deceased had a criminal record and an old enmity might be the cause behind his murder. He said police investigation will be conducted keeping in mind various angles. In another incident on Thursday night, criminals fired bullets targeting the house of RJD leader Bipin Bihari at Badki Dhawa village under the Ekangarsarai police station area in which the RJD leader’s wife, Khushbu Devi, sustained critical injuries. Khushbu was taken to Ekangarsarai primary health centre from where doctors referred her to Patna Medical College and Hospital. Hilsa SDPO Krishna Murari Prasad, who inspected the place of occurrence, said an FIR had been lodged and raids were on to arrest the criminals.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/man-killed-woman-shot-at-in-nalanda/articleshow/80306499.cms||Farrukh Nadim
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh records less than 400 Covid cases||BHOPAL: After nearly more than six months, the daily Covid-19 caseloads on Saturday dropped below 400. A total of 365 new positive cases were reported on Saturday taking the count of positive cases 2,51,223. Earlier on July 10, only 316 new cases were reported in the state and more than 400 cases were reported thereafter. Apart from the fresh cases, 5 deaths were also reported in the state as per the state health bulletin released by directorate of health services. With these new casualties, death toll due to Covid-19 in the state reached 3,751. The districts where these deaths were reported include one death each from Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Khargone and Rajgarh districts. On Saturday, new cases were reported from 46 of the 52 districts of the state. The districts where no new cases were reported on Saturday include Morena, Neemuch, Tikamgarh, Alirajpur, Ashok Nagar and Burhanpur districts. Of these 46 districts where new cases were reported, fresh cases were reported in double figures from 8 districts. The highest number of cases were reported from Bhopal where 87 tested positive, followed by Indore 43, Gwalior 22 and Betul 17. On the brighter side, 793 people recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. With these new people recovering from Covid-19, count of total people who have recovered so far in the state reached 2,40,948. A total of 23,577 samples were tested on Saturday and out of it 365 tested positive, thus positivity rate—which is number of positive cases out of every 100 samples tested—for Saturday stood at 1.5%. As on January 16, there were 6,524 active cases in the state. GFX VIRAL LOAD City Cases Total +ve Bhopal 87 41480 Indore 43 56969 Gwalior 22 16269 Betul 17 3410 Jabalpur 15 16000 Khargone 12 5324 Ujjain 10 4869 Chhindwara 10 2787||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/after-six-months-daily-caseloads-drop-below-400/articleshow/80307484.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: New water plant to benefit over 2 lakh people in Kanchrapara municipality area||KOLKATA: State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on Saturday inaugurated a drinking water treatment plant at the Kanchrapara trenching ground. The plant, with a capacity of treating 6 million gallons of water per day, was set up by KMDA at a cost of Rs 51 crore. The project would benefit more than 2 lakh people living in Kanchrapara municipality area in North 24 Parganas, said Hakim, KMDA chairman.  Pumping houses have been built at Chaitanya Doba, Halisahar and by the Hooghly. The treated water will be distributed from eight overhead reservoirs. KMDA has been working on a new water supply scheme in the Kolkata Metropolitan Area. On Friday, the foundation was laid for a drinking water supply project, which will benefit more than 10 lakh people living in Mahestala, Budge Budge and Pujali.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/new-water-plant-to-benefit-over-2l-people/articleshow/80306854.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 17, 2021||Pune||58% beneficiaries in PMR take shots after three-hr delay in getting started||Pune: A short 38 days after the first person in the world was inoculated in the UK, healthcare workers across the state stepped out for Covid-19 vaccination on Saturday. Nearly 65% of the 28,500 registered beneficiaries turned up to get the vaccine, senior state health authorities said. The drive was impressive in Marathwada, with Hingoli district reporting 100% attendance, followed by Parbhani and Dhule (97%), Buldhana (96%). Mumbai’s 47% vaccination was the lowest.After a long and hard year of the pandemic where the Pune Metropolitan Region ranks among the worst-hit in the country, and vaccination was expected to cover all the beneficiaries, just 58% of the 3,100 healthcare workers listed for the first day took their jabs. The region comprising rural parts of Pune reported 61%, Pimpri Chinchwad 57%, and Pune city 55% of beneficiaries turning up for the shots. Only Symbiosis Medical College and Hospital in Lavale recorded 100% vaccination. In the Pune division, Solapur district reported 91%, the highest attendance. Solapur district health officer Dr Sheetal Jadhav told TOI, “ We had a series of video conference meetings in addition the one-to-one talks.” A two-hour delay in beginning, and another hour trying to get the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (CoWIN) application to work ate into the 9am to 5pm schedule in the PMR. Some beneficiaries did not turn up, and a small number who came to the sites refused to take the shots. Fifteen of the 31 vaccination sites in Pune district, mostly in urban areas, went offline for registration. Ashish Bharati, head of PMC's health department, said they had instructions to start only after the online registration system powered up. “Some people waited and then left without taking the shots," he added. Later, the manual process sped up the vaccination in the remaining six hours. Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of Pune Zilla Parishad, said the actual drive in Pune rural areas commenced at most centres between 11am and 11.30am. “Vaccinators are experienced. They made up for the lost time," he added. A senior official at one of the centres said they had expected only 20% to 30% vaccination in the first few days. There were slight setbacks. Among the 22 complaints reported in the state, 14 of them minor, a health worker in Wagholi near Pune began shivering, perspiring and grew breathless some 10 to 15 minutes after vaccination. She was taken to a private hospital where doctors said she had been on night duty and had not eaten before taking the jab. Vaccination at this centre halted for nearly 40 minutes.Doctors in Kolhapur, Solapur and Satara said the effects such as “dizziness” were a result of anxiety and did not require any medication. Principal health secretary Pradeep Vyas said, “ The vaccination has received the expected response from the staff and there have been no reports of serious side-effects of the vaccine anywhere throughout the day.” In the city, 470 of the 800 beneficiaries turned out for vaccination at the eight designated PMC centres. Of these, 32 refused the shots. The PMC staff said the delayed start, medical issues and personal reasons kept these beneficiaries away from the vaccination. Eminent physician Vinod Shah, the first person in Pune city to be vaccinated, said he had no side effects. “I can now meet friends, attend to my patients and start my routine. My family says I am more confident after the vaccination,” he added.Each of the eight centres was given a list of 100 healthcare workers in their jurisdiction on Friday night. Jitendra Oswal, deputy medical director of Bharati Hospital, said,"Most of the beneficiaries in our list were our resident and junior doctors. We called and gave them the time after we received the list around 10.30pm on Friday." At the district hospital in Aundh, where Covaxin was used in Pune, inoculation started only after 11am.As many as 456 beneficiaries received the vaccine at eight centres under Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation. Pawan Salve, additional health chief of PCMC, among the first to be vaccinated, said the response will increase in the next week. Of the 1,500 beneficiaries in Pune rural areas, a total of 908 were vaccinated in the 15 centres. District civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar said most of the centres were involved in dry runs. “The staff and doctors had a proper plan for each aspect of the exercise and made up for the delay," he added. (With Inputs from Sandip Dighe, Prasad Kulkarni, Piyush Bhusari & Umesh Isalkar)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/58-beneficiaries-in-pmr-take-shots-after-three-hr-delay-in-getting-started/articleshow/80308309.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Man booked for attempt to extort Rs 6L from widow||Pune: The city police on Thursday booked a man for attempting to extort Rs6 lakh from a widow after threatening to post objectionable clips of her on social media.A case has been registered against the man with the Wakad police station under Section 385 (putting person in fear of injury in order to commit extortion) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Information & Technology (IT) Act. Assistant police inspector Avinash Pawar said, the 34-year-old complainant is a widow. “She came in contact with the man through a matrimonial website around a year ago, ” Pawar added. Pawar said that the man after promising marriage had a physical relationship with the woman. “The man had initially demanded some money from the woman for his business. She had given him Rs50,000 at first. When he started demanding more money, the woman became suspicious of it and ended their relationship,” Pawar said. “For the past few months she was not in contact with the man,” the assistant police inspector added.On Wednesday late evening, the woman received a clip on her cellphone showing her private moments with the man. “The man also called her and demanded Rs6 lakh. He threatened that he would post the clip on social media, if she did not give him the money,” Pawar said.“We are yet to arrest the man,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/man-booked-for-attempt-to-extort-rs-6l-from-widow/articleshow/80307430.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolhapur||Start-up mission launched in Kolhapur||Kolhapur: Renowned scientist Raghunath Mashelkar on Friday inaugurated the Kolhapur Start-up Mission, calling entries from technological start-ups across the country for finding solutions to the civic issues and assist Kolhapur Municipal Corporation (KMC) in implementing the new ideas. The mission is the brainchild of district guardian minister Satej Patil who has been instrumental in setting up Kolhapur Incubation Centre. The centre will tie up with IIT Kanpur to screen the entries and help in the implementation of the best start-up ideas. “The best entries will be screened and awarded Rs 1 lakh for implementation. The issue must be specific to Kolhapur city and must be implemented in the city,” Bandopadhyay said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/start-up-mission-launched-in-kolhapur/articleshow/80299503.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Pune: 32-year-old held on charges of voyeurism and stalking||PUNE: A 32-year-old Upper Indiranagar resident was arrested by the city police on Friday for voyeurism and stalking after a woman masseur at an Ayurveda massage centre in Market Yard lodged an FIR accusing him of taking a video while she was doing her job and seeking sexual favours from her. Senior inspector Duryodhan Pawar of the Market Yard police said, “We have arrested Suresh Mahadik, who is employed with an engineering workshop at Gujarwadi near Katraj, after tracking him down with the help of the mobile number he had given at the massage centre. We produced him before a magisterial court which, on Saturday, ordered his remand in police custody for five days.” Police said Mahadik had gone to the massage centre on Wednesday afternoon. The woman, a local resident, is a trained masseur, and she started giving a massage to Mahadik. However, the latter surreptitiously took a video using his cell phone. Police said the woman alleged in her FIR that Mahadik threatened to make the video clip viral if she did not submit to his demands.  A case has been registered under Sections 354 (C) (any man who watches or captures the image of a woman) & (D) (stalking) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code, besides provisions of the IT Act. “He also followed the woman. He had given his phone number at the massage parlour which helped us in locating him,” Pawar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/32-yr-old-held-on-charges-of-voyeurism-stalking/articleshow/80307454.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Dhavalikar re-elected as MGP prez||Panaji: Maharastrawadi Gomantak Party (MGP) president Pandurang Dhavalikar was re-elected as the party president on Saturday. The election for the central committee was held on Saturday morning. Minutes after getting re-elected as party president, Dhavalikar said that he will contest the next assembly election from Priol constituency. A total 900 voters were eligible to cast their vote to elect 16 central committee members including president, vice-president, working president, secretary and treasurer. Out of 900, 550 MGP members voted in the election from 27 constituencies. The last election to elect the party’s central committee was held in 1998. Besides Dhavalikar, Krishnath Divar has been elected as vice-president, Pratap Phadte as working president, Ratnakant Mardolkar as secretary and Anant Naik as treasurer. Dhavalikar said that the election results indicate that there are no differences within MGP. “The opposition with some members were trying to portray that there is a rift in the party, but this is incorrect,” he said. He also said that as committees were not reconstituted in Canacona, Quepem and Curchorem, party members from these constituencies were unable to vote. Around 27 MGP members had submitted a no-confidence motion against Dhavalikar for holding the post without conducting elections. Dhavalikar has been the party’s president for 10 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/dhavalikar-re-elected-as-mgp-prez/articleshow/80308332.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||CS: Expedite promotions||Hyderabad: Chief secretary Somesh Kumar on Saturday directed all the special chief secretaries, principal secretaries and secretaries to expedite the process of giving promotions to officers and employees in all the government departments from the secretariat to the district level. “Take this task as a top priority and sort out technical issues, if any, in the process of promotions and conduct promotions as per the guidelines,” he said. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cs-expedite-promotions/articleshow/80307429.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: NCLT ticks off banks, endorses liquidator’s role||HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad bench of the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) brushed aside a petition filed by a consortium of lender banks seeking removal of a liquidator in the BS Company liquidation case. The company has Rs 3,000 crore loan dues. A bench of judicial member K Anantha Padmanabha Swamy and technical member Binod Kumar Sinha pronounced the order after hearing the petition filed by IFCI, Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, IDBI, Canara Bank and Laxmi Vilas Bank. The bench wondered as to why the banks were feeling aggrieved along with the defaulter at a time when the liquidator, Yadavilli Sai Karunakar, was trying to dig out the assets of the defaulter to restore to the banks a respectable portion of the Rs 3,000 crore loan arrears. BS Company provides technology and integrated IT solutions. The bench, in its order, endorsed the functioning of the liquidator in the case. “Once the liquidation process is initiated, the lenders have no role to play. They have to remain as a mere group of claimants looking forward to the liquidator to determine their claims,” the bench said. As a liquidator, Karunakar has got powers to seek a thorough probe into the loan fraud perpetrated by BS Company and its old management to unearth a gamut of issues ranging from complacency shown by the bankers and diversion of funds by the old management, the bench said. “The liquidator had a suspicion that the old management and the banks were hand in glove in the misuse of public money,” it said. The Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) of 2016 — under which the liquidator was appointed — was very clear about the role of the liquidator who enjoys the powers to ensure that maximum money is realised through the sale of assets of the company under liquidation. In this whole process, there is no provision that enables the lenders to seek the removal of the liquidator, the bench said. The bench also found no substance in the argument of the banks that the liquidator was crossing his brief and that he was incompetent. The bench said the liquidator’s functioning was very much within the purview of the IBC. On one hand, these banks had written off debts of Rs 944 crore between 2016 and 2019 and, on the other, extended facilities like bank guarantees and letters of credit in the same period. The liquidator felt there was a need to examine these issues, the bench said, finding nothing wrong in his view. Lender institutions were finding it inconvenient when the liquidator was raising questions about the due diligence supposed to be done by the banks at the time of granting loans. “Most of the loans are unsecured. The plant and machinery for whose purchase the loan was availed is non-existent today. The liquidator can take steps to maximise the value of the assets of the company under the liquidation process,” the bench added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nclt-ticks-off-banks-endorses-liquidators-role/articleshow/80307459.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Notification for two graduate MLC seats’ polls likely in February||HYDERABAD: The ruling TRS is likely to go for polls to Greater Warangal, Khammam and other municipal bodies only after the elections to the two graduate MLC seats. TRS sitting MLC Palla Rajeshwar Reddy’s name has been finalised again for the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC seat and an announcement to this effect by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is only a formality, said sources in the TRS. The strategy is that the TRS wants to send positive signals among the electorate of the urban local bodies (ULBs) by winning the Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam seat. The talk in political circles is that the notification for two graduate MLC seats is likely to be issued in the first week of February. However, saffron party leaders said the political scenario has changed after Dubbak and GHMC polls and that BJP will emerge a winner in Nalgonda-Warangal-Khammam MLC constituency too along with retaining its Hyderabad-Rangareddy-Mahbubnagar seat. TRS working president KT Rama Rao held a review meeting with the party leaders of Nalgonda, Warangal and Khammam districts and discussed the strategy to win the seat with a higher majority as it would have an impact on the ensuing elections to ULBs and also bypoll to Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency. Interestingly, neither the TRS, Congress nor BJP has formally announced their candidates for this constituency but sources said senior BJP leader Premender Reddy is most likely to enter the fray on saffron party ticket from this constituency as is the case. The Congress will short-list the party candidates for the seat in a day or two. All the candidates, including Rajeshwar Reddy, Premender Reddy and aspirants from Congress including Ramulu Naik, K Manavath Roy, Dasoju Sravan, Bellaiah Naik, among others, have started their campaign.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/notification-for-2-graduate-mlc-seats-polls-likely-in-feb/articleshow/80307445.cms||Roushan Ali
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||I don’t want to see any of it again: Nurse||When the first vaccine recipient entered the room at Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar, all eyes were on nurse Vidula Gotarane who held the vial in her hand. The Thane resident said she hoped the start of the vaccination drive will be the end of the pandemic. “We have seen the worst when patients would die despite best care. While there were good days when a critical patient recovered, I don’t want to see any of it again. I can’t wait for my turn to get the vaccine,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-dont-want-to-see-any-of-it-again-nurse/articleshow/80307460.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Court lets Bharti Singh de-seal her Andheri property||MUMBAI: A magistrate court on Friday allowed TV comedian Bharti Singh’s plea to de-seal her Andheri (W) property, seized by the NCB, in connection to a drugs case the agency is probing against her and her scriptwriter-actor husband, Haarsh Limbachiyaa. An earlier plea was rejected, but on Friday the court said NCB did not want the premises for investigation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-lets-bharti-singh-de-seal-her-andheri-property/articleshow/80308402.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Tenant verification bill to be placed before House in March||Panaji: To strengthen tenant verification and provide better security to residents in view of large number of tourists who visit the state and migrants staying in rented houses, the law department has vetted the Goa (Tenant and Guest Registration and Verification) Bill, 2021 which would be introduced in the upcoming assembly session that will begin from January 25. The proposed bill provides that landlords who fail to submit information about their tenants could be jailed for one year. A senior officer said that the bill would be placed before the next cabinet prior to introducing it during the assembly session. In July 2020, the state proposed to make the adherence to the tenant verification rule more stringent by introducing a year-long jail-term for landlords who fail to submit information about tenants. Towards this effort, the draft bill has made non-submission of information is a cognisable offence. The bill also settles the ambiguity over the authority charged with acting against violators by empowering police to act against those who fail to provide the necessary tenant information. As of now, the district collector issues an order under Section 144 for tenant verification, and this order remains in force for six months. In the case of existing tenants, the bill says that on commencement of the Act, owners should submit the information within 30 days to the local police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/tenant-verification-bill-to-be-placed-before-house-in-march/articleshow/80308386.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Union jal shakti minister asks Telangana, Andhra Pradesh to submit DPRs||HYDERABAD: Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has sought to remind Telangana and Andhra Pradesh chief ministers (CMs) that the two Telugu states are yet to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of irrigation projects in contention and asked them to take the initiative to submit them. The Union minister, in separate letters to K Chandrasekhar Rao and YS Jaganmohan Reddy, the two CMs of Telangana and AP respectively, reiterated the ministry’s earlier directions to both states for submission of DPRs. Telangana must submit DPR for lifting the third tmc ft of water from Kaleshwaram project, while AP should submit DPRs for Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme to divert over eight tmc ft of Krishna river at Sangameswaram and also for enhancing the water drawal capacity of the Pothireddypadu project to 80,000 cusecs. In the letters, Shekhawat reminded that the CMs had agreed to submit DPRs of all new projects taken up by the two governments at the Apex Council meeting held on October 6, 2020. These DPRs need to be submitted to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Shekhawat also stated that Telangana has not submitted DPR of any of its 15 projects taken up, including seven on Krishna and eight on Godavari rivers respectively. On its part, AP state has submitted one out 19 new projects taken up after bifurcation of the state (combined AP), including 15 in the Krishna and four in Godavari basin. Telangana irrigation department principal secretary Rajath Kumar told TOI that the letter of the Union minister was under examination and the government would soon respond to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/union-jal-shakti-minister-asks-telangana-ap-to-submit-dprs/articleshow/80307468.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Union jal shakti minister asks Telangana, Andhra Pradesh to submit DPRs||HYDERABAD: Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat has sought to remind Telangana and Andhra Pradesh chief ministers (CMs) that the two Telugu states are yet to submit detailed project reports (DPRs) of irrigation projects in contention and asked them to take the initiative to submit them. The Union minister, in separate letters to K Chandrasekhar Rao and YS Jaganmohan Reddy, the two CMs of Telangana and AP respectively, reiterated the ministry’s earlier directions to both states for submission of DPRs. Telangana must submit DPR for lifting the third tmc ft of water from Kaleshwaram project, while AP should submit DPRs for Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme to divert over eight tmc ft of Krishna river at Sangameswaram and also for enhancing the water drawal capacity of the Pothireddypadu project to 80,000 cusecs. In the letters, Shekhawat reminded that the CMs had agreed to submit DPRs of all new projects taken up by the two governments at the Apex Council meeting held on October 6, 2020. These DPRs need to be submitted to Krishna River Management Board (KRMB) and Godavari River Management Board (GRMB). Shekhawat also stated that Telangana has not submitted DPR of any of its 15 projects taken up, including seven on Krishna and eight on Godavari rivers respectively. On its part, AP state has submitted one out 19 new projects taken up after bifurcation of the state (combined AP), including 15 in the Krishna and four in Godavari basin. Telangana irrigation department principal secretary Rajath Kumar told TOI that the letter of the Union minister was under examination and the government would soon respond to it.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/union-jal-shakti-minister-asks-telangana-ap-to-submit-dprs/articleshow/80309701.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Opener for test series||NEW DELHI: Manish Kumar, a safai karamchari at the city’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), became the first one to get the Covid-19 vaccine in the country on Saturday. Kumar, 34, a contractual employee at the hospital, who has been working for eight years, was vaccinated at 11am, just after Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the vaccination programme. “I volunteered to get the vaccine on the first day. Many of my colleagues were scared to take the shot, so I offered to take it first,” he said. In the past 11 months, since Covid-19 broke out in the country, he was at the hospital regularly. “My job is to clean the premises. It wasn’t easy, given the fear of infection, but we couldn’t abdicate our responsibility when so many people were suffering,” he said. The 34-year-old’s mother, Lakshmi Rani, also a safai karamchari at AIIMS, was present at the vaccination centre when Kumar was being administered the vaccine. “I am proud that he became the first one to get the vaccine. I will also take it when my turn comes,” she said. Shokat Ali, one of Kumar’s colleagues, who was with him, said he was hesitant earlier. “Now, I am confident of taking it,” he said. All vaccination centres in the country had a quota of 100 vaccines for the first day. While initially many people scheduled to get the vaccine at AIIMS were hesitant, sources said, at the end 95 of the 100 came forward to take the jab, including the director of AIIMS Dr Randeep Guleria and Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog. Kumar was given the shot before his seniors, and while he was getting the jab, Union health minister patted him. “It was overwhelming to see my son being appreciated by everyone,” Rani said. Till evening, Kumar said he did not have any side-effects. He was administered Covaxin, India’s indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/opener-for-test-series/articleshow/80308322.cms||Durgesh Nandan Jha
January 17, 2021||Goa||Goa: Not just cinema, Iffi inaugural celebrates vaccination drive||PANAJI: Cinema and the Covid-19 vaccine found common ground at the opening ceremony of the 51st International Film Festival of India in Goa, as the event became a celebratory occasion for the launch of the historic inoculation drive. Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar said that while January 2020 saw the first Covid-19 case reported in India, January 2021 marks the beginning of the end of the pandemic in the country. “See the talent, intelligence, and determination of the human race,” Javadekar said. “There was faith that any challenge can be overcome. India will win and Covid-19 will lose. I am already inviting you for the 52nd Iffi in November this year, where you will see the stadium filled to the brim with people, and there will be unending applause ringing through the stadium.” The muted opener had only 300 persons due to guidelines associated with the pandemic. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, I&B additional secretary Neerja Sekhar and festival director Chaitanya Prasad were among others to acknowledge the beginning of the vaccination programme in India. We are starting this year on a very positive note,” Sawant said in his address. "We have received the first batch of vaccines for our frontline workers. From the grand stage of Iffi, I extend my sincere gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for the tremendous efforts to bring India out of the grip of the pandemic and its socio-economic impact. Even as many countries are looking at another lockdown as the only option, our PM has taken up (this) massive vaccination drive.” He added that health and hygiene would receive priority at Iffi 2021 to ensure the safety of participating guests and delegates. Javadekar later announced that from the next edition of Iffi, in November, the entire event would be held with joint investment from the government and the private sector. “Iffi is being organised every year with funding from the government of India and the Goa government. Why is it so?" he asked. "There should be participation from the film industry and other industries as well. The government funds it because it wants to promote art and culture. But it does not mean this is the sole responsibility of the government. That is why I invite private participation, and we will see this from the 52nd Iffi itself.” As Iffi is being held this year in a hybrid format, with films being screened in both physical and online formats, Javadekar opened the virtual ‘Film Bazaar’ this year. While the Union minister urged filmmakers to take up more film shootings within India, stating that the country has 500 sights to delight cinematographers as against Switzerland’s 50, the Goa CM asked the film fraternity to invest in Goa, assuring single-window clearance for projects. As 'International Jury' head for the 51nd Iffi, Pablo Caesar, and this year’s lifetime achievement awardee, Italian cinematographer Vittorio Storaro, among others, participated virtually at the festival, the opening ceremony too ended up a combination of the physical and the virtual. “We are going to set the standard for other festivals on how a physical and online festival can be held simultaneously,” said festival director Prasad, as many international film festivals have faced postponement due to the pandemic. At this festival, which will close on January 24 as per its delayed schedule, there will be over 200 films screened — 119 in the physical format and the rest through Iffi’s own OTT platform. Of these movies, 85 are premieres. “Even as the pandemic has dimmed lights on many events worldwide, Iffi shines bright,” said Sekhar, the additional secretary. Kannada film star and chief guest for opening ceremony, Sudeep, after inaugurating the festival, said, “Let cinema be the new pandemic and let the show go on.” As the neighbouring country of Bangladesh is this Iffi’s ‘country in focus’, Javadekar told the country’s high commissioner to India, Muhammad Imran, who was present as guest for the opening event, that a joint film by India and Bangladesh will be launched soon on the father of the friendly nation, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. Veteran Indian film actor Bishwajit Chatterjee will be given the Indian film personality of the year award this year, which will be presented later around March and not as usual at the Iffi closing ceremony due to the pandemic, Javadekar announced. This year, only 2,200 delegates will participate in Iffi's physical form due to pandemic restrictions, Sawant said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/not-just-cinema-iffi-inaugural-celebrates-vaccination-drive/articleshow/80308349.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 17, 2021||Goa||Goa: Civic polls very unlikely to be held along party lines||PANAJI: The state government may not hold municipal elections along party lines given the fewer electors in wards and people casting votes at a personal level. While BJP state president Sadanand Shet Tanavade said that the party hasn’t taken any decision yet on the issue, a senior minister said, “It is 99.9% unlikely that municipal elections will be held along party lines”. Tanavade also said that they have told chief minister Pramod Sawant to decide on the issue, and that BJP is ready to face elections whatever his decision. A BJP core committee member said that the party thinks voting numbers for municipal election are very small (around 700-1,000) in each ward, and most vote for their relatives or friends. “If the election is held along party lines, it would be difficult for party workers to decide between party candidates and relatives and friends, and there could be confusion,” another core committee member said. With the municipal election likely to held in February-March, BJP has started consultations with its MLAs and ministers to decide on the issue. Most MLAs from muncipal areas have said that they are OK with both. Panaji MLA Atanasio Monserrate said recently that if zilla panchayat elections were fought along party lines, municipal elections should also be fought the same way. He added that conducting civic polls along party lines, as done in larger cities, will be beneficial in the long run.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/civic-polls-very-unlikely-to-be-held-along-party-lines/articleshow/80308348.cms||Murari Shetye
January 17, 2021||Meerut||70-year-old man booked for raping two minors in Meerut||MEERUT: A 70-year-old man from TP Nagar area in Meerut district was booked for allegedly raping two minor children—both aged 6 years. According to a complaint filed by the kids’ uncle, his nieces had gone to the accused’s residence when the crime took place. The matter came to light after the kids returned home crying and narrated their ordeal to their families. Based on the complaint, an FIR under sections of rape and relevant sections of the POCSO Act was registered at TP Nagar police station. According to the police, the accused, now under arrest, has confessed to his crime. He was arrested on Saturday and sent to jail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/70-year-old-man-booked-for-raping-two-minor-children/articleshow/80306202.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Many vaccinate, while some others vacillate: 63% go for it in Goa||PANAJI: A little over 63% of the 700 scheduled to receive the Covid-19 vaccine in Goa for the launch of the nationwide programme showed up on Saturday. Of the seven hospitals in the state that carried out the vaccination, only Manipal Hospital, Dona Paula, managed to inoculate 100 persons, completing its quota by bringing in extra beneficiaries, a health official said. “Some hesitated and dropped out at the last minute, and that was understandable,” a state health official said, denying that beneficiaries weren’t given sufficient notice to present themselves. However, a source said the beneficiary list wasn’t shared by the directorate of health services till 10pm on Friday due to “technical problems”. “The list ought to have been shared at least two days prior to vaccination day, allowing both parties to be prepared,” he said. Also, hospitals were only told they were allowed to get substitute candidates at 5pm on Saturday. “Our prior instructions were that we should strictly stick to the list of beneficiaries shared with us, and vaccinate candidates accordingly,” the source said. “The last-minute directive caught government hospitals by surprise.” Immunisation officer Dr Rajendra Borkar said that no major after-effects following immunisation were reported during the campaign. Persons who received the vaccine were monitored for around 30 minutes before they were asked to go. They are scheduled to get the next dose on February 13. The entire Covid-19 vaccination campaign was monitored under the supervision of the senior-most officials from the directorate of health services. The drive commenced at all seven sites at around 11am, after PM Narendra Modi’s address to the nation. At GMC, the main vaccination site, the programme was launched with the vaccination of a 54-year-old Ranganath Bhojji, a patient attendant. GMC registered 42 persons reporting for vaccination. Dr Jagadish Cacodkar, nodal officer for Covid vaccination, GMC, said that six persons refused to get the jab due to known allergies, and two recipients complained of minor after-effects following the jab. “As many as 52 potential beneficiaries did not report despite three call reminders,” Cacodkar said. The North Goa district hospital, Mapusa, had only 38 beneficiaries show up, the lowest count among the seven sites. Goa has registered 18,277 healthcare workers to be vaccinated in phase-1 of the drive. GMC has a total of 4,000 healthcare workers registered for vaccination, half of them being doctors. At Hospicio, 65 of the 100 registered received the vaccine. Its head of paediatrics, Dr Ira Almeida, was the first to receive it at the hospital. Almeida was instrumental in getting the set-up ready at ESI-Margao, which was the state’s first Covid hospital. She was then unceremoniously removed as nodal officer after serving at the Covid hospital for five months. GMC dean Dr S M Bandekar said getting vaccinated is a voluntary process. “A person will have to register if he/she intends to get vaccinated. A certificate will be provided to each beneficiary post-vaccination. The certificate has a lot of value, especially if one is travelling abroad,” he said. “It certifies that the person cannot be an asymptomatic carrier. Covishield is a very safe vaccine, it’s tried and tested,” he said. “Two doses, with a gap of 28 days between them, will be given. Persons under the age of 18 and pregnant women are exempted. Specialised training was given for three days to all those who are involved in this programme,” Bandekar said. Dr Mohandas Pednekar, the medical superintendent who supervised the vaccination at North Goa district hospital, said each beneficiary was clearly explained the dosage and its purpose. All safety norms are being followed while administering the vaccine, he said. The North Goa sites — Goa Medical College, Healthway Hospital and the North Goa district hospital, apart from Manipal — saw 242 persons get vaccinated, while the South Goa establishments — Hospicio, Margao, and the sub-district hospitals in Ponda and Chicalim — saw 202 get the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/many-vaccinate-while-some-others-vacillate-63-go-for-it-in-goa/articleshow/80308387.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||World seeks plan to conserve IIM-Ahmedabad icons||AHMEDABAD: Welcoming the IIM-A’s decision to withdraw the tender notice for demolishing the student housing facility and proposing a redevelopment plan, a group of about 1,100 signatories have appealed to the institute to draw a comprehensive conservation plan. Representations to the IIM-A have come from 218 universities and 58 countries. The signatories want a conservation plan for the entire campus with the dormitories in it. Last month, the institute withdrew its decision to pull down the structures designed by Louis Kahn after facing national and international outrage. “This overwhelming support speaks to the intangible and collective legacy of IIM-A’s buildings, their place in an important phase of post-Independence institution building across India, and their continued ability to inspire people across the world,” stated the letter dated January 11 and addressed to IIM-A management and the members of its governing council. If done appropriately, the conservation of all of the dormitories will allow for creative repurposing with modern amenities and structural compliance, the letter said. “As further elaborated in our appeal, this would make sense from both a cultural as well as an environmental point of view,” the letter said. “For the most sustainable building is one that has already been built. Including the entire campus in these conservation efforts, while allowing for future densities, can make the IIM-A a global leader in conservation of modernist legacies, and only enhance the worldwide reputation of the institute.” The institute has in the past successfully restored the library building on the campus for which it won an award from Unesco. The restoration work on one of the dormitories —Dorm 15, taken up as a prototype, has also been hailed as successful by the management. The institute, however, claimed that they were ‘unsafe’ after receiving feedback from a third-party structural engineer whose name has not been disclosed. Apart from deans, chairs, heads of departments, professors and PhD candidates, the signatories include three Pritzker Prize winners and hundreds of professional architects across the world, both renowned and emerging. The institute must create a platform for the conservation team of Somaya and Kalappa Consultants and their team of consultants, including Dr Arun Menon (IIT-Chennai), the letter said. The platform can be used to hear and to respond to the key findings of the building committee, especially when these findings reference their work, according to the letter.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/world-seeks-plan-to-conserve-iim-a-icons/articleshow/80306872.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Meerut||Farmers rehearse tractor parade for Republic Day in Shamli||MUZAFFARNAGAR: In a show of strength, a large number of farmers moved their tractors from Bidoli checkpost on Haryana-UP border to Shamli's collectorate in a bid to “rehearse” for Republic Day “parade”, they plan to hold in Delhi. Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) has been mobilizing farmers of UP to come and participate in the tractor parade they aim to take out on Republic Day to put pressure on the central government to withdraw the three controversial farm laws. So far, talks between farmers’ representatives and the government have been locked in a stalemate. State unit spokesperson of BKU Kuldeep Panwar said Saturday’s tractor march was a rehearsal of what is going to happen on Republic Day in Delhi. "We are rehearsing for the parade on January 26. Thousands of farmers with tractors have been called to take part in the rehearsal. We will go to Delhi on January 24 and will join other farmers there,” said Panwar. Gourav Tikait, BKU leader, said, “It is a practice on how tractors will move on the road on January 26. We have to show those who had called farmers anti-nationalist that we are patriots, not Khalistani or Pakistani. We, the farmers and citizen of India, will march with the national flag on January 26.” The rehearsal is being conducted in various districts of Haryana and Uttar Pardesh, said Tikait. At the collectorate inShamli, farmers handed over a memorandum to Sadar SDM. During the tractor rehearsal, traffic jams were reported on several parts of Shamli.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/farmers-rehearse-tractor-parade-for-rrepublic-day-in-shamli/articleshow/80306207.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Governor calls for fresh VC applications for Chisti language university||LUCKNOW: Governor Anandiben Patel as the chancellor of state universities has ‘rejected’ candidates interviewed and shortlisted for the post of vice-chancellor of Khwaja Moinuddin Chisti Language University (KMCLU), Lucknow. In a fresh advertisement issued on January 13, Patel said, applications were invited by an advertisement on August 28, however, none of the applicants have been found suitable for the appointment as V-C. The three-member selection panel was headed by Amit L Jani from Maharshi Panini Sanskrit Evam Vedic Viswavidyalaya, Ujjain; BJP leader Amaar Rizvi (university nominated), and Prof Faisal from Allahabad University. The panel, in two rounds, interviewed 10 candidates. The first set of five candidates had names of Prof Chandana Dey from KMCLU, Prof SP Shakya who is a retired principal from a postgraduate college in Sitapur, Prof Abbas Raza Nayyar from Lucknow University, Prof Mahrukh Mirza who was KMCLU’s vice-chancellor from October 2017 for a period of three years, and Prof Mohd Sharif from Aligarh Muslim University. In the second round, there were five candidates — Prof Syed Ainul Hasan from Jawaharlal National University, Prof Nishi Pandey and Prof Somesh Shukla from Lucknow University, Prof Shabnam Hamid Ansari from Allahabad Univeristy and Prof Bharti Dwivedi from Institute of Engineering and Technology, a constituent college of APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University. Nearly 55 candidates had applied for the VC’s post. With the rejection of all the 10 candidates, the governor has re-invited applications, and set February 15 as the last date for sending applications online in the prescribed format on the website, www.upgovernor.gov.in.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/guv-calls-for-fresh-vc-applications-for-chisti-language-univ/articleshow/80308598.cms||Isha Jain
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Hobbying it up through a pandemic||CHENNAI: In the past year, Sweta Jayaram has attended quilting workshops across the world — there’s the 4.30am class in San Francisco, a favourite, and another 10.30pm class in London. The pandemic, says Chennai-based Jayaram, has rekindled her passion for quilting and the fact that she can work from home has helped her pursue her hobby with greater ease. "I used to find it difficult to attend workshops on premises because of my commute to and from work. I always ended up missing classes. But now, I can attend quilting classes from my favourite artists across the world," says the Bank of New York employee, who over the past year managed to create her first quilt, which she plans to enter into the Quilting Festival. Despite her 12-hour schedule, Jayaram says the flexibility of working from home helped her squeeze in an hour or two every day for quilting. In 2020, the year that forced nations into lockdown, there has been a spurt in the hobby learning segment of the edtech space. Himanshu Periwal, co-founder of Unlu, one of the startups in this sector, says since June, when their platform launched, they have been seeing a doubling in revenues every month. "We have witnessed 20x growth in the past five months," says Periwal. Unlu offers affordable masterclasses in stand-up comedy, sports, cooking and theatre by veterans in the field. Comedy, for instance, is helmed by Bollywood actor Johnny Lever. "Although at a nascent stage, our research shows the hobby learning offshoot of edtech has a market size of 150 million adults. The pandemic has facilitated that growth," says Periwal, adding that Unlu is seeing a number of users from the IT hubs. Edtech startup FrontRow, which also offers a celebrity-driven learning platform and courses that range from acting to sports, launched operations last May, and reportedly raised seed funding of more than $3 million. The founders believe hobby learning is edtech’s next big thing and that a third of the learners actively pursue their hobbies aspiring to become professionals. Quilter Tina Katwal is getting set to work late nights because of interest being shown in her workshops from across the world. "Since we are online, people are not limited geographically. I now have people from different countries wanting to sign up," she says. Artist and teacher Dewakar Chandran, founder of the Life and Art Academy in Besant Nagar, says interest in painting and pottery has grown in the past year, especially among working professionals. "Earlier, interest in art classes was from students. But now the number of adults has gone up. Most find it a great way to de-stress," says Chandran. "And nowadays almost no one bunks a class."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/hobbying-it-up-through-a-pandemic/articleshow/80306869.cms||Kamini Mathai
January 17, 2021||Goa||Thrilled to set an example, say frontline staff||Mapusa: It was the day Nilesh Gadekar had been waiting for ever since the Covid-19 pandemic appeared on the horizon. The 37-year-old Mayem resident has a toddler and elderly parents at home. Every day, his job as a multitasking staffer at the district hospital in Mapusa posed a risk of infection for his family. Nilesh would go to great lengths each day just to ensure he was sufficiently sanitised before meeting his family after work. On Saturday, he became the first to receive the vaccine at the inoculation centre in the district hospital, where he has been working for close to 13 years. “I had no idea I would end up being the first. My friend said as we have been enlisted as beneficiaries, we should take the dose sooner than later and brought me along,” Nilesh said. Two nurses at the hospital, Smita Hajankar and Akshata Ajgaonkar, both of them mothers, were also excited about the drive. Not only were they to administer the first doses of the vaccine on its launch day, they would be receiving it too on Day 1, at the end of their duty hours. “We have been working for years in the hospital’s immunisation section, today it is our turn to receive the vaccine,” Smita said. “We are happy to be an example by receiving the vaccine first. If health workers do not volunteer, then how will others get the confidence.” As the first beneficiary Nilesh arrived, Smita patiently explained that the next dose is scheduled on February 13 and that precautions like social distancing and wearing of mask are to be observed until the second vaccination dose and for another four weeks thereafter. “This is a Covishield dose and your next dose has to necessarily be Covishield,” Smita told the beneficiaries. “After work, I could not enter my house. I would go to the back of the house, take a bath and ensure that I am completely sanitised, only then could I see my four-year-old. I was always worried about my family’s safety. Now, I feel safer after taking the first dose. It did not pain at all. “I did not feel anything unusual during the 30 minutes observation period. I am eager for the second dose now,” Gadekar said. Dr Madhumita Tripathi, a gynaecologist, was the first female to receive the vaccination at the district hospital in Mapusa, on Saturday. Medical superintendent at the hospital Dr Mohandas Pednekar, said it is the first time in 38 years of his service that he is witnessing such an extensive and meticulously planned vaccination drive taking place. “There is a provision for the listed beneficiaries to refuse the vaccine too as some may have allergies, some may be lactating mothers and due to other reasons. We will enter their reason in the system,” Pednekar said. “We have been enlisted first to receive the vaccine and so we will be the first to get immunity against Covid-19 among our family, friends and neighbours. It is our responsibility to get vaccinated and follow it up with the necessary precautions till immunity is achieved and it is our duty to see that we take the second dose on time,” Akshata said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/thrilled-to-set-an-example-say-frontline-staff/articleshow/80308418.cms||Gauree Malkarnekar
January 17, 2021||Goa||Hesitant at first, nurse at Manipal hosp takes first jab||Panaji: Dorothy Theresa Francis, 31, a nurse at Manipal Hospital at Dona Paula, became the first person at the hospital to receive the Covishield vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday. Francis, who received the jab at the hands of her colleague Pratiba Hoskatta, received a round of applause from the gathered doctors and paramedic staff. In an instant, she became the hospital’s first woman, migrant employee and frontline worker to have become a part of the historic vaccination drive. Manipal Hospital, Goa, initially vaccinated 74 people from their list of 100 beneficiaries on Saturday. Many of the Covishield vaccine beneficiaries at the hospital were either absent on Saturday or had to be dropped from the list owing to pregnancy or health reasons. One backed out due to hesitation. The hospital then vaccinated 26 other staffers among which were 15 consultants and one resident doctor to complete the target of 100 doses. Though Francis was among the 100 staffers at the hospital that received the vaccine on Saturday, she spent days assuming she might not receive a dose owing to her status. “I thought I might get the vaccine much later and that the first doses will be given to people of much more experience and higher positions. I was hesitant initially when I was told that I will be the first to receive the dose, but after motivation from my management I went ahead,” she said. After the post-vaccine 30-minute observation period, Francis resumed her duties. Her next and final dose is due on February 13. Originally from Hubballi, Karnataka, the staff nurse has been in Goa from the past eight years, ever since she joined Manipal Hospital in 2012. Since June 2020, she has been roped in at the hospital’s Covid department and has not tested positive. Hoskatta said that she is proud to be the first vaccination officer at the hospital to administer the jab. “This is a happy moment for us to see the vaccine being given,” said Hoskatta.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/hesitant-at-first-nurse-at-manipal-hosp-takes-first-jab/articleshow/80308399.cms||Nida Sayed
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||I thought the vaccine call was a hoax, says Mumbai doctor||A phone call at 11pm on Friday to get vaccinated at BYL Nair Hospital in Mumbai Central the very next morning seemed like a hoax. Masina Hospital surgeon Dr Bomi Pardiwalla’s apprehensions were put to rest, though, right from the moment he entered the vaccination centre. “I was thoroughly impressed with the arrangement. They carried out a simple digital identification, checked my O2 levels and temperature in seconds. The waiting area was comfortable in open air with coolers,” he said, adding the staff was polite and well-trained. “There were computers used at every step. The state government and BMC should be congratulated.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-thought-the-vax-call-was-a-hoax-says-doc/articleshow/80307480.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Meerut||Expelled from BSP, Meerut Mayor and her ex-MLA husband join SP||Meerut: Meerut Mayor Sunita Verma and her husband Yogesh Verma, who were expelled from Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) in 2019, joined Samajwadi Party (SP) in the presence of party president Akhilesh Yadav in Lucknow on Saturday. Apart from the Vermas, four former MLAs, at least six corporators and other local body members from across Uttar Pradesh joined SP at the event. "The Samajwadi Party will move forward with the ideology of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar and Ram Manohar Lohia and consistently work towards building a 'Samajwadi' nation and society," Akhilesh said at the event. Party's district unit functionaries and leaders from Meerut including Akhilesh's close aide Atul Pradhan and district president Rajpal Singh were also present. The switch over was in the pipeline for over a year after their expulsion in 2019. The politician couple were also rumoured to be in touch with BJP, sources said. Yogesh Verma was elected MLA for two terms - 2007 and 2012 - on a BSP ticket and later his wife Sunita won as mayor from the party in 2017. The latest development is seen as a major shot in the arm for the SP in western Uttar Pradesh for consolidation of Dalit votes. Reacting to Saturday's development, Yogesh said, "We have now associated ourselves with an ideology which has been fighting for the cause of weaker sections, poor and farmers." Yogesh, a popular Dalit face in the region, was accused to be the main conspirator of violence during a Dalit agitation in Meerut. Apart from Sunita and Yogesh, former MLAs Vijay Yadav from Moradabad, Dawood Ahmed from Lakhimpur Kheri, Vijay Pal Singh from Bareilly and Shriram Bhartiya from Mirzapur were inducted into the SP's fold.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/expelled-from-bsp-meerut-mayor-and-her-ex-mla-husband-join-sp/articleshow/80306206.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Saline water enters houses in Neura||Panaji: A surging tidal flow entered a house and compounds of a few other houses at Neura, as the influx of saline water increased at high tide due to a broken sluice gate at Mandur. Mandur, a neighbouring village, has a few sluice gates in this riverine area with several criss-crossing water bodies linked to Cumbharjua canal. Tidal action also floods the fields between both villages and beyond. “The water level had been rising since December due to the broken sluice gate. But on Sunday, the inflow of water partly entered our house,” Nonla Sawant, a local resident said. Broken bundhs and sluice gates are a common problem in Neura, Azossim-Mandur and Carambolim, as the main bundh— Ofla-Domzo bundh— on Cumbharjua canal linked to Zuari river has developed a huge breach. The influx of water from the river due to the breach, which has remained unattended for a few years, affects even internal bundhs. Behind the row of houses along the railway track in Neura, the fields have been flooded and residents are now apprehensive about the rising water level during monsoon. “With authorities crying about lack of funds to repair bundhs, we are worried about our houses in low-lying areas,” a resident said. Vast areas in the villages between Agasaim to Corlim in this khazan belt have been flooded for over a decade.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/saline-water-enters-houses-in-neura/articleshow/80308393.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Viral video: Cabbage farmers destroy produce due to low profitability in Haridwar||ROORKEE: Around half-a-dozen cabbage farmers destroyed their produce by driving tractors on their ready crop lying in the fields in Haridwar on Saturday. The farmers alleged that the wholesale rate of their commodity in the market is hardly Rs 2 per kg whereas the input cost is more than Rs 6 per kg. “The extremely low price that we are getting is the reason behind our move to destroy the crop,” said a farmer. He added that thousands of farmers are protesting against the Centre’s agri laws because of low profitability. However, officials of the district horticulture department said that since the farmers had to switch to another seasonal vegetable, they ploughed their lands. Meanwhile, the video of farmers destroying their crop has gone viral on social media. It is worth mentioning that similar incidents are being reported from Roorkee and Laksar regions for days now. In Haridwar district, cauliflower is grown on a total of 487 hectares. The produce is around 10,000 metric tonnes cauliflower.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/viral-video-cabbage-farmers-destroy-produce-due-to-low-profitability/articleshow/80306875.cms||Tapan Susheel
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Field health workers elated at call for shots||Having seen the pandemic up close, health coordinators Anand Kite (33) and Manish Sanas (27) were elated to receive phone calls on Friday night asking them to come in for vaccination. Both are an integral part of the field team of health workers in the K-East Ward (Jogeshwari-Vile Parle East) that has seen the highest number of Covid-19 deaths in the city. Kite said they had spent the past nine months tracing contacts of patients and helping with testing and hospitalisation. Sanas has been involved in pandemic control. “We were first asked to facilitate screening of travellers at the airport and then stamp hands. We have seen the suffering of people.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/field-health-workers-elated-at-call-for-shots/articleshow/80307485.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Meerut||Meerut: GST fraud worth Rs 140 crore unearthed, 2 held||MEERUT: Central GST Meerut has unearthed a case of issuance of fake GST invoices without actual supply of goods and passing on the said fraudulent input tax credit (ITC) to other firms after circulation of invoices through other non-existing firms. In all, the two arrested brothers – Anshul Agarwal and Archit Agarwal, both residents of Moradabad – are charged with issuing fake billing worth Rs 140 crore and taking benefit of Rs 25 crore worth ITC. They have been booked under relevant sections of the GST Act and produced before an Economic Offences Wing court in Meerut. According to officials, the two deal in edible oil. Principal commissioner, CGST, Meerut, Satendra Vikram Singh said, “The brothers, who are in the agro oil business, had started companies where no physical movement of goods used to take place but fake invoices were released against which input tax credit was availed. During the search conducted at 13 premises in UP, Punjab, Haryana and Delhi, various incriminating records, cash Rs 14.99 lakh, accounts, checkbooks of more than 15 non-existent companies were seized.” The two were arrested under section 69 of the CGST Act. Both have been sent to jail for 14 days by the orders of the special chief judicial magistrate. According to officials, the modus operandi involved circulation of fake ITC through a chain of non-existent firms by registering them at non-existing addresses. These firms were subsequently used to issue fake invoices and ITC passed on to existing firms for further utilisation in the payment of GST. One such firm was owned by one of the accused brothers. “The investigations are still on and more revelations will come out in days to come,” said Singh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/gst-fraud-worth-rs-140-crore-unearthed-2-held-as-probe-spans-4-states/articleshow/80306211.cms||Sandeep Rai
January 17, 2021||Bareilly||Camera trap shows injured tiger with deep wounds caused by nylon snare in Dudhwa||Bareilly: Shoddy efforts of UP forest department in rescuing a tiger with a nylon snare entangled around its neck has increased risk to its life. A recent photo of the tiger caught on camera trap in Kishanpur range of Dudhwa tiger reserve (DTR) revealed visible injury marks on its neck. Last year, a tigress with similar injuries had succumbed in the Mailani range of the reserve. Manoj Sonkar, Dudhwa’s deputy director, however, said the tiger is healthy and able to hunt. He told TOI, “The tiger is fine and the red mark around its neck is actually the red nylon wire. It killed a swamp deer recently.” However, an expert in UP forest department told TOI that prevailing low temperature has saved the big cat till now. Otherwise myiasis, an infection caused by maggots, could have occurred with fatal consequences. “The wound around the neck cannot heal on its own as the nylon snare is aggravating it. If maggot infestation starts, then it will be extremely difficult to save the tiger as it cannot even lick its wound.” Forest department had installed camera traps in Kataiya beat of Kishanpur after a poacher, who was arrested on December 17, had revealed that some big animal that got caught in the trap set for a wild boar had broken free. Camera traps later caught a tiger with the snare embedded on its neck. Then, a rescue operation was launched on December 21. Sanjay Pathak, field director of DTR, told TOI, “The tiger is roaming in a 20-square kilometre area, where other tigers are also present. We cannot tranquilize the animal until we are sure it’s the one with the snare. We have also reduced tourism activity in the area to carry out the operation.” When the matter was brought to the notice of principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) PK Sharma, he said, “I was told that the tiger is fine but I will personally ensure that necessary steps are taken to rescue it at the earliest.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/camera-trap-shows-injured-tiger-with-deep-wounds-caused-by-nylon-snare-in-dudhwa/articleshow/80306219.cms||Kanwardeep Singh
January 17, 2021||Varanasi||Covid-19 vaccination drive started at 6 centres in UP's Kashi||VARANASI: With launching of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive by the Prime Minister Narendra Modi through video conferencing, the vaccination against coronavirus infection commenced at the six centres in his parliamentary constituency on Saturday. The first shot of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Sir Sunderlal Hospital of Banaras Hindu University (BHU) centre was given to a sanitary staff Rashid Khan, while a data entry operator of the SPG divisional hospital Ajit Kumar Mishra was the first recipient of the vaccine at the district women hospital. The vaccination drive has been started at six vaccination centres in Varanasi including four in urban areas and two in rural areas. The target was to vaccinate a total of 600 persons at all the six centres on the first day, however, as per the administration 393 (65.5%) persons including 210 males and 183 females turned up for vaccination.. The vaccination drive was also in progress at the DDU district hospital, Heritage Medical College, Kashi Vidyapith Community Health Centre, and Sevapuri Community Health Centre. The vaccination began under the supervision of the district magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma, who was present at the district women hospital. The hall of the hospital was decorated with flowers and colourful balloons. An LED screen was also installed for the PM’s address. The chief medical officer Dr VB Singh and other medicos were also present on the occasion. The drive continued till 5.45pm. At BHU centre, two booths have been created for the vaccination. The medical superintendent Prof SK Mathur said that all the recipients were kept under observation after vaccination. All the recipients will be given the second dose of vaccine after 28 days. Prof Mathur made an appeal to wear masks and follow the Covid-19 protocol even after the vaccination. At the BHU centre, 41 persons including 21 males and 20 females, were vaccinated on the first day. As per the schedule, the vaccination drive also started in other districts of eastern UP including Azamgarh, Mirzapur, Sonbhadra, Ghazipur, Chandauli, Bhadohi, Ballia, Mau and Jaunpur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/covid-19-vaccination-drive-started-at-6-centres-in-kashi/articleshow/80307473.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||UPATS raids at5 locations in Delhi, 3 in UP||LUCKNOW: The Anti-Terrorist Squad of UP Police, carried out search operations at three places in the state andfive places in Delhi on Saturday. Raids were going on till the time of filing of this the story. Inspector general of police, ATS, GK Goswami said a new type of financial fraud was detected in which transactions worth lakhs were done from banks in Delhi without using an ATM card. These transactions were done by using mobile phones. “It also surfaced that these numbers were being operated with fake identity cards,” the IG said. Officials said first searches were done in three districts Sambhal, Amroha and Moradabad of Uttar Pradesh, from where some incriminating documents were recovered. Later, raids were carried out at five places in Delhi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/upats-raids-at5-locations-in-delhi-3-in-up/articleshow/80308522.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bareilly||Rampur admin set to acquire 173 acres of land belonging to Azam’s varsity||Rampur: In another trouble for senior Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Azam Khan, the Rampur district administration on Saturday issued orders for acquisition of 173 acres of land belonging to Maulana Muhammad Ali Jauhar Trust, which is run and owned by Khan’s family.The court of additional district magistrate (admin) JP Gupta ruled that the Trust had violated the state government norms while purchasing the land and ordered the sub-divisional magistrate to acquire the varsity land.Additional district government counsel (civil) Ajay Tiwari said, “The Trust had violated the government order (GO) that permitted it to purchase more than 12 acres only on the condition that it will have to follow rules laid down by the GO. It said the Trust would not buy land belonging to people from SC/ST categories, nor acquire riverbeds or floodplains or any land belonging to Gram Samaj land or a Chak road. But the Trust violated these terms as well as sections of the Uttar Pradesh Revenue Act.”“The court had also issued notices and summons to Azam Khan, the chairman of the Trust earlier, at Sitapur jail but he had refused to receive the notices,” the ADGC said.In January 2020, a revenue board court in Prayagraj had also directed the government to take over around 100 bighas of land in Rampur allegedly purchased from 12 Dalit farmers under coercion. The revenue board had found that Khan had flouted the UP Zamindari Abolition and Land Reforms Act.Khan is the chancellor of Muhammad Ali Jauhar University which is spread over 500 acres and was established in 2006. He is also the chairman of the Trust that runs it while his wife Tazeen Fatma, his two sons are members of the Trust. Azam’s elder sister is the Trust’s treasurer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/rampur-admin-set-to-acquire-173-acres-of-land-belonging-to-azams-varsity/articleshow/80306216.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 17, 2021||Meerut||Muzaffarnagar, first west UP district with bird flu deaths||MUZAFFARNAGAR: This is the first time that avian influenza has been confirmed in west UP by the Bareilly-based Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI). Some 300-odd samples have also been sent from neighbouring Bijnor district, reports of which are awaited. On January 13, a dozen carcasses of crows were found in a cemetery at Kutubpur village under Meerapur police station limits. The samples were sent to the IVRI for tests. Dr VK Gupta, joint director, Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnosis, IVRI, Bareilly, told TOI, "We had received some samples from Muzaffarnagar and they have tested positive for bird flu. This is the first time that bird flu has been detected in the western region." Amit Singh, ADM (enforcement), said, “We are awaiting the official report from Bareilly, an advisory for the public will be issued then. We will seal an area of one-km radius around Kutubpur. Teams will inspect an 11-km area where at least a dozen dead crows were found. We are ready to take all necessary measures in the matter.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/meerut/muzaffarnagar-first-west-up-dist-with-bird-flu-deaths/articleshow/80306212.cms||Mohd Dilshad
January 17, 2021||India||PM hails Covid warriors, scientists, says vaccines will give decisive win||NEW DELHI: The vaccines launched on Saturday will deliver a decisive victory against the Covid pandemic and the prioritisation of health workers is the nation’s tribute to their selfless dedication and the risks they willingly faced, said PM Narendra Modi on Saturday. Launching India’s vaccine drive by addressing health workers in different cities, Modi became emoti-onal, recalling healthcare personnel who succumbed to the virus, never to ret-urn home, pausing before he continued. He also congratulated scientists for coming up with vaccines in record time, saying India’s fight against Covid reflected its resolve, self-confidence and self-sufficiency (atma vishwas aur atma nirbharta). As he has before, the PM urged people not to succumb to propaganda, saying the vaccines approved for use in India are safe and that the government has taken decisions based on the advice tendered by scientists. He flagged the programme with a click of a button followed by a video message playing the Sanskrit chant —sarve bhavantu sukhinah, sarve santu niramaya — (All be happy, All be free of illness). Reiterating his confidence in the two locally-manufactured vaccines – Covishield (developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca) and Covaxin (by Bharat Biotech) – rolled out for the programme, the Prime Minister said the jabs were developed on a technology platform that is “tried and tested”, cost-effective, easy to use and adaptable to Indian conditions. He said the vaccines are not costly and said some being used in other nations were priced at Rs 5,000 a shot and needed storage temperatures of minus 70 centigrade. “These vaccines will give India a decisive victory in the fight against Covid-19,” the PM said, adding that India’s vaccination drive is based on principles of humanity and that those who needed the vaccine the most would get it first. “Those who are most at risk will get it first — doctors, nurses, hospital sanitation workers, paramedics — they deserve it most on priority,” Modi said, as India began the exercise of vaccinating 30 million healthcare and frontline workers. With moist eyes and a lump in his throat, PM Modi remembered the difficult times of 2020 when families were torn apart due the pandemic, and when they could not even offer ritualistic send-offs to the departed. Acknowledging the struggle and contribution of health and frontline workers in fighting the unprecedented challenge thrown by the pandemic, he said these corona warriors gave all to their duty and left their children and families behind to save lives of other people. “Many such people could not return home,” he said, underlining that administering of the vaccine to healthcare workers first is also a mark of respect towards such people from the society. The Prime Minister also cautioned people to ensure that they take both the doses at one month’s gap and urged to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour even after vaccination. “Dawaai bhi, kadaai bhi,” he said. “Don’t make the mistake of taking one dose and then forgetting about dose two and don’t forget coronavirus appropriate behaviour after getting the dose. The patience with which you fought coronavirus, show the same patience during vaccination now,” Modi said. On the first day, Covid-19 vaccine was administered to healthcare workers in 3,352 session sites covering all states and UTs across the country. Health minister Harsh Vardhan also reviewed the day’s activities with health ministers of states and UTs on Saturday evening. The PM said the vaccination drive would go on for long and other countries will benefit from India’s experiences given the size and scale of the exercise. Cautioning people against falling for rumours or propaganda, he said India had a great track record in vaccine production and 60% children of the world get vaccines made in India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-hails-covid-warriors-scientists-says-vaccines-will-give-decisive-win/articleshow/80308832.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 17, 2021||Varanasi||‘Slur’ against Uttar Pradesh CM: HC stays arrest of man||PRAYAGRAJ: The Allahabad high court has stayed the arrest of a man, Neeraj Kishor Mishra, who, while taking part in a protest against Hathras gang rape case, had allegedly said that the ‘chief minister of UP is a man of thick skin’. Hearing a writ petition filed by Neeraj Kishor Mishra of Kasganj district, a division bench comprising Justice Anjani Kumar Mishra and Justice Shekhar Kumar Yadav directed the state government to file its reply in four weeks and directed to list this case after six weeks. The allegation made in the first information report (FIR) was that the incident in respect of rape of a girl had allegedly happened on October 1, 2020 at about 6.00 pm in Hathras district. It is alleged that ‘Balmiki Samaj’ created disturbance by giving speeches by saying that police are inactive and tricky. It is further alleged that during the protest, the petitioner had said that ‘the Chief Minister of UP is man of thick skin.’ The FIR further disclosed that the petitioner was a history-sheeter and his arm licence had already been cancelled. The FIR was lodged against the petitioner on December 11, 2020 under sections 153-B (2) (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration), 505 (2) (statements creating or promoting enmity, hatred or ill-will between classes) of Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Patiyali police station of Kasganj district. During the court proceedings, the counsel for the petitioner submitted that in a democratic country, agitation against a ruling party is the constitutional right of leaders of opposition and, therefore, agitation of the petitioner, on the issue of rape of a girl of ‘Balmiki Samaj’ cannot be termed as hatred or ill-will between different religious racial, hence, no offence under Section 153 -B (2) and Section 505 (2) I.P.C. is made out. While observing that “the matter requires consideration”, the court stayed the arrest of the petitioner but made it clear that it has not stayed the investigation, hence it would go on. The court passed this order on January 11. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/hc-stays-arrest-of-manfor-slur-against-cm/articleshow/80306898.cms||Rajesh Kumar Pandey
January 17, 2021||Allahabad||UPPSC releases exam calendar||PRAYAGRAJ: A total of 16 examinations will be conducted from January to December in the year 2021 by the Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission (UPPSC). The commission has released the calendar of proposed examinations for 2021. The examinations from the Commission will start from January 21 to January 25 with the main examinations of PCS-2020. The commission has formally released the annual calendar of proposed examinations for the year and has also made it available on its official website— http://uppsc.up.nic.in/, informed UPPSC secretary Jagidsh. As per this examination calendar, the examinations to be conducted for selection of candidates for various state-level administrative posts including deputy collector and deputy SP— Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Mains) Eaxmination-2020, commonly known as PCS (Mains)-2020—will be held from January 21 while Assistant Conservator of Forest/Range Forest Conservator Recruitment Exam (Mains)-2021 will be conducted from February 13, 2021. As per the calendar, Examination Officer/Adhishan Adhikari (Screening) Exam-2020 will be held on March 21 while the commission will conduct Lecturer in State Degree Colleges (Screening) Examination-2020 on April 17. Likewise, Principal Garde-2/vice-principal and assistant director (screening) exam-2019 will be held on May 23 while Combined State Agricultural Services (Preliminary) Exam-2020 will be held on May 30. The commission also plans to conduct the Combined State/Upper Subordinate Services (Preliminary) Eaxmination-2021, commonly known as PCS (Pre)-2021, along with Assistant Conservator of Forest (ACF)/Range Forest Officer (RFO) Preliminary Exam-2021 on June 13.The Lecturer (Male/Female) Government Intermediate College Recruitment (Preliminary) Exam-2020 will take place on June 20 while Regional Inspector (Technical) Recruitment Exam-2020 has been scheduled from July 10 even as Unani Medical Officer (screening) Exam-2018 has been scheduled on July 25. Similarly, Review Officer/Assistant Review Officer (Preliminary) Examination-2021 is scheduled to take place on August 1, 2021 while PCS (Main) Examination 2021 will be held from October 3, 20201 followed by Assistant Forest Conservator/Range Forest Officer (Main) Examination-2021 that will kick-start from October 22, 2021. As per the calendar, the Combined State Agricultural Services (Main) Exam-2020 will be held from November 13 while Lecturer Government Intermediate College Recruitment (Main) Exam-2020 will take place on December 4. The last in annual calendar is the Review Officer/Assistant Review Officer (Main) recruitment Examination-2021 that has been scheduled from December 18, 2021.Officials added that calendar lists recruitment exams for e which the requisition details of vacant posts have arrived at UPPSC and other recruitment exams could also be scheduled as per details of vacant posts reaching it and for which separate advertisements would be issued.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/uppsc-releases-exam-calendar/articleshow/80310838.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Lucknow: Privilege to be selected, say health staff after jab||LUCKNOW: For Geeta Devi, a staff nurse at Balrampur Hospital, the day started with an astounding recognition. The otherwise sombre mood in hospital service was overshadowed by excitement and joy that Geeta Devi felt on Saturday when she became the first woman at the hospital to get inoculated against novel coronavirus. In fact, she was also one among the first two women at all 12 healthcare facilities to be immunised on the first day of nationwide vaccine rollout on Saturday. And the push for Geeta Devi (53), a resident of Qaiserbagh, came from her children. “My son and daughter motivated me to get vaccinated as I felt a little anxious a day ago. On Saturday, however, I had goosebumps on being part of this once in a lifetime moment,” she told TOI. “It is a privilege to be the first person in the hospital to get the shot. I will ask my family to get vaccinated as it has no side-effects,” she added. Chief medical superintendent, Veerangana Avanti Bai Women’s Hospital, Dr Sudha Verma was also the first woman to receive the shot. “Even routine immunization leads to certain side-effects and the same will be the case for Covid-19 vaccines. Since all vaccines are foreign bodies, they are bound to cause reactions like mild fever,” she said. Just a few kilometres away, Amar Bahadur (46), a junior assistant at dentistry department of the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), had a serendipitous moment when a lost chance by another recipient gave him the opportunity to become the first recipient of the vaccine at the city’s biggest inoculation centre, KGMU. Head of respiratory medicine department, Prof Suryakant, was the first recipient on the list but when he got busy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s video address, Amar was called in, examined by the staff and given the first shot. “The entire process was smooth. A simple prick and I was vaccinated. It is safe like any other vaccination programme,” said Amar, who is employed at KGMU since 1995. After taking the jab, Prof Suryakant said, “Getting vaccinated serves two purposes. Firstly, it will send across the message that the vaccine is safe and all must get it when their turn comes. Secondly, health workers get protection against infection which increases their confidence and helps them serve people better.” Abdul Qayyum (58), a security guard at Era’s Lucknow Medical College, said: “Jung jeetna hai toh anjaam nahi dekha jaata (If a war is to be won, the outcome is not to be feared). This is war against Covid-19. I was the first one to get the shot. Had I backed out due to nervousness, the morale of others would have shaken too. I felt fine both before and after the inoculation,” he told TOI. Wife of ELMC Chancellor Meesam Ali Khan, Dr Hana Khan, who is also a faculty in the dental department, also got inoculated first at the college. “It feels as if I have got a security shield around my body now. The end of Covid-19 is possible through vaccine only. It is a privilege to be a part of the process on its first day,” she said. (With inputs from Anahita Chauhan, Niharika Ranjan, Yashita Arora)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/privilege-to-be-selected-say-health-staff-after-jab/articleshow/80308593.cms||Vivek Singh Chauhan
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Both vaccines are safe, stop misinformation: Madhya Pradesh CM||BHOPAL: Both the vaccines Covishield and Covaxin are completely safe. I urged the people, public representatives and the media to not allow any misleading information about the vaccine. We all have to work together to make the vaccination campaign successful, tweeted MP chief minister, Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday morning. Prime Minister, Narendra Modi would kickstart the world’s largest vaccination drive. I will also get associated with it from Hamidia Hospital, Chouhan tweeted. Chouhan tweeted on Saturday morning that 4.25 lakh people will be vaccinated in the first phase in MP. It will be first administered to health care workers who saved our lives. First vaccine will be administered to a sanitary worker. It would be respect to his service he offered during corona crisis. Entire country is standing with PM, Narendra Modi. Under his leadership corona was controlled. Now it is time to completely end corona. We all will be part of it and make the drive successful. During the time of the Corona challenge, the prime minister filled the country with new energy and courage. I am confident that we all will meet the target of this largest vaccination drive, CM tweeted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/both-vaccines-are-safe-stop-misinformation-cm/articleshow/80307487.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||‘Husband was on ventilator, so I got a shot’||For 49-year-old Vimla Kharat, getting the vaccine at KEM Hospital, Parel, wasn’t about fulfilling a job requirement or a reason to stay away from work. It was a personal mission. “My husband, who is 53, suffered a lot due to Covid in June. He was in hospital for 40 days and needed ventilator support and has extensive lung damage as well,” said Kharat, who works as a sweeper in KEM Hospital’s plasma centre. She was among the first 10 to get vaccinated at KEM’s second-floor 10-centre hub. The vaccine felt like a pinprick and she had an uneventful 30-minute waiting period thereafter. Kharat said everyone should take the vaccine . “My daughter too got Covid and was in hospital for eight days. The June-July period was difficult for us and nobody needs to suffer like that,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/husband-was-on-ventilator-so-i-got-a-shot/articleshow/80307513.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Allahabad||City fights back against Covid, 425 get first dose of vaccine||Prayagraj: Launching a coordinated effort to fight the pandemic, the health department administered the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine to 425 healthcare professionals — against the earlier target of 600 — on Saturday at six locations in Prayagraj. “Many of the beneficiaries had been posted at the Magh Mela and hence, couldn’t come for the vaccination,” said nodal officer and deputy chief medical officer Dr Rahul Singh. Of the six vaccination centres set up in the city, the highest number of beneficiaries to be vaccinated were at Phulpur community health centre (CHC) (80), followed by Kamla Nehru Memorial Hospital (75), Duffrin Hospital (69), Soraon CHC (69), MLN Divisional Hospital (67) and MLN Medical College (65). The deputy CMO said that, “A 70-year-old matron at Kamla Nehru Hospital Delphi LP was the first to be vaccinated at the medical facility. She has been working as a healthcare professional for 40 years. After getting the shot, she said that she was feeling comfortable and that there was no reason to panic.” Besides her, the hospital’s medical superintendent Dr Krishna Mukherjee (79) was also administered the Covid-19 vaccine. The vaccination drive was launched at 11.10am after Prime Minister Narendra Modi formally launched the vaccination drive across the country via video conferencing. At MLN Medical College, associate professor neurology department Dr Prabhat Singh was the first to get vaccinated. “I feel lucky and happy to be vaccinated against the disease. People across the country have been waiting for this vaccine for a long time and. Once they are vaccinated, people would be able to live freely,” said Dr Prabhat Singh, who was also posted at the Covid ward of the hospital. At Motilal Nehru Regional (Colvin) Hospital, superintendent in-charge Dr Sushma Srivastava was the first to get the jab. “Even if we get vaccinated, we have to follow Covid-19 protocols,” she said. Health department officials said that of the 425 vaccinated, only three beneficiaries had complained of restlessness for a few minutes after getting the shot, but there was no need for medication. The beneficiaries were also given a special card. They would get the second dose of the vaccine after 28 days. Chief medical officer (Prayagraj) Dr Prabhakar Rai said that the Covid-19 vaccination drive was successfully conducted at two CHCs, three government hospitals and one private hospital on Saturday in the city. A six-member team including medical and paramedical staff and, security personnel was deployed at each vaccination centre. “The vaccination exercise was conducted between 10am and 5pm and the names of all beneficiaries were uploaded on the Covid portal. A two-way communication channel along with a CCTV camera set was set up at every site and officials in Lucknow monitored the drive. This was the first time when the vaccination drive was telecast live,” said Rai. The health department had delivered the vaccines to two centres located in rural areas — the CHCs in Soraon and Phulpur — on Friday, while the vaccines were delivered at city-based centres on Saturday morning. Heavy police force kept vigil at the vaccination centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/city-fights-back-against-covid-425-get-first-dose-of-vaccine/articleshow/80306902.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Private coaching classes in Nashik allowed to resume||Nashik: District collector Suraj Mandhare has allowed private coaching classes to resume operations from Friday by following all the Covid-related safety norms.“We have allowed the coaching classes to function where physical gathering of students of classes IX to XII will be allowed, provided they follow the Covid-19 health advisory,” collector Suraj Mandhare said. Speaking to the reporters, Mandhare said the number of patients suffering from Covid-19 is on the decline, while the recovery rate is climbing. “As the lockdown is being lifted in phases, things have slowly started settling down. Schools have also reopened. Also, there was a demand from the private coaching owners and parents for letting the classes open for the benefit of the the children. Thus the permission was granted,” he said. “Parents are now willing to send their children to schools and the attendance have gone up to over 80%. This is an encouraging factor and hence we have decided to allow the coaching classes to start functioning as well,” Mandhare added.Jayant Muley, president of private coaching classes association, said it was a huge relief for all their members. “While the big players could conduct classes online, the major problem was for the small and medium players as they could not cater to the students. The coaching class owners will also get some relief to earn a living as the classes were closed since March 2020 following the nation-wide lockdown,” he saod.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/private-coaching-classes-in-nashik-allowed-to-resume/articleshow/80299546.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 17, 2021||Bareilly||Five of family, aide booked for brutalizing woman for dowry||Pilibhit: Five members of a family and another person were booked by Pilibhit police on Friday for allegedly forcing a 35-year-old woman to drink an intoxicant and assaulting her for dowry. The woman’s jaw was smashed and a leg and right arm were broken. Natthu Lal, the woman’s father, has lodged a complaint with the Shivnagar Colony police station in Pilibhit city. He said married his daughter Kamlesh alias Neha in March 2007 to one Rahul Dev of Udhamsingh Nagar district in Uttarakhand. The latter is presently posted as a pharmacist in the health department in Moradabad. He said he had given Rs 2 lakh cash and valuables at the time of marriage and another Rs 1.5 lakh after her husband and his family members started to torture her for additional dowry, he claimed Lal alleged that his son-in-law was in a relationship with another woman and he used to lash his daughter with a leather belt whenever she objected. On January 13, her husband and his friend forced Kamlesh to drink an intoxicant and after she lost her senses, they beat her up, breaking her bones, he alleged. He brought his daughter back home on January 14 and admitted her to the district government hospital, he said. Shrikant Dwivedi, SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station, said Rahul Dev along with his four family members and his friend had been booked under IPC section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide), 498 A (subjecting a woman to cruelty by husband or his family members) and provisions of the Dowry Prohibition Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/five-of-family-aide-booked-for-brutalizing-woman-for-dowry/articleshow/80306223.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 17, 2021||Bareilly||Doctors in Pilibhit & Bareilly lead by example, take Covid jab to dispel doubts||PILIBHIT/BAREILLY: Doctors and medical officers in-charge at vaccination centres in Uttar Pradesh's Pilibhit and Bareilly were the first to receive the Covishield jab on Saturday to dispel any fear and doubts among the people on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccination programme. Bareilly marked the achievement target at 66.5% with vaccination of a total of 532 beneficiaries at eight centres. The assigned target was 800. While Pilibhit achieved an 88.3% target rate with vaccination of 265 beneficiaries of the assigned 300 health workers. Dr Rajiv Agarwal, the managing director of Sharda Hospital, a private medical institution which had been included in the vaccination drive, was the first to be vaccinated in Pilibhit. Dr Agarwal appealed to people to not listen to any rumours and trust the vaccines which were "absolutely safe and necessary". All preparations were made according to the guidelines in both the districts. A large number of ASHA workers took part in the process on the first day. The administrative officials and the chief medical officers reviewed the situation at the centres and spent considerable time with beneficiaries to boost their confidence. The portal of the Union government was found to be a little slow while feeding the details of vaccinated health workers but it did not disrupt the work flow. Chief medical officer of Bareilly Dr Subhash Kumar Garg and additional chief medical officer of Pilibhit Dr CM Chaturvedi said the next inoculation for Saturday's participants would be on February 15.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/doctors-in-pilibhit-bareilly-lead-by-example-take-covid-jab-to-dispel-doubts/articleshow/80306222.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Link workers, migrants with social security schemes: Uttar Pradesh CM||LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath directed officials on Saturday to link workers and labourers with the Ayushman Bharat Scheme and CM Jan Aarogya campaign to ensure a social security net for them. During review of the implementation of various schemes for labourers and migrant workers who returned to UP last year after Covid-19 lockdown, Yogi said a labour commission had been set up to ensure social and financial security for workers and directed officials to carry out weekly review at district level of the implementation of the commission’s proposals. The CM said schemes like one district one product, Vishwakarma Samman Yojana and the MSME sector would play a crucial role in providing employment to them. The workers should get work matching their interests and skills, he added. In June 2020, the government had set up the Uttar Pradesh Labour (Employment Exchange and Job) Commission to focus on finding employment for lakhs of migrant workers who had returned during lockdown. The government had also undertaken a massive exercise of skill mapping and collected details of lakhs of migrant workers who had returned to UP. The details had been later shared with MSMEs so that they can easily hire people they need.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/link-workers-migrants-with-social-security-schemes-cm/articleshow/80308528.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||34 birds found dead, maximum in Dehradun||DEHRADUN: As many as 34 birds were found dead in four districts of Uttarakhand – Dehradun, Pauri Garhwal, Udham Singh Nagar, and Chamoli — across six forest divisions on Saturday. The maximum of 24 birds — 17 crows, four pigeons, two cranes, and a sparrow — were found dead in Dehradun. Triggering concern among forest officials, a dead owl was found in the protected area of Kedarnath Wildlife Sanctuary on Saturday. Notably, the forest department has already sounded a high alert across all its protected areas in the state as dead birds were found in the Rajaji Tiger Reserve, also a protected area, a few days ago. Meanwhile, no case of bird flu has yet come from the 80 big poultry of the state. Nonetheless, the animal husbandry department remains on alert to trace any possible case of infection. It is worth mentioning that bird flu cases have so far been reported from 11 Indian states — Rajasthan, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Haryana and Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/34-birds-found-dead-maximum-in-doon/articleshow/80306228.cms||Shivani Azad
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Temple funds collection a polarisation move: Akhilesh Yadav||LUCKNOW: Slamming the move of the Sangh Parivar and its frontal organisations to collect public donations for the Ram Temple in Ayodhya, Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said that it was a political programme and political mobilisation to polarise the people to stay in power. “Chanda” collection is an irreligious act ,which was against the religious spirit of “dakshina” (donation) which is doled out voluntarily," he said. Akhilesh Yadav was addressing a press conference at the party headquarters on the occasion of joining of Meerut mayor Sunita Verma, her husband Awadhesh Verma and former MP Dawood Ahmed, all from the BSP. The SP chief said that language and sloganeering being used during this drive is a precursor to their attempt to change the colour of Indian flag. “Having failed on the developmental fronts, law and order and social harmony, the mass collection of donation was in fact a political programme to polarise the people. But now it is too late and the ruling BJP has been exposed as its double engine has stopped to function and deliver the desired results," Yadav said. Talking about the vaccination drive, he questioned why BJP leaders are now shying away from taking the vaccine. Taunting the BJP over the sudden appearance of retired IAS officer A K Sharma as new power centre after he was declared BJP candidate for the council elections, he asked “where are those who used to ask there were five CMs in my government. They are hiding because they have now five CMs and all are squabbling.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/temple-funds-collection-a-polarisation-move-akhilesh/articleshow/80308558.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||226 new Covid-19 cases surface in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand recorded 226 new cases of Covid-19 infection on Saturday. With this, the coronavirus case tally reached 94,691 in the state. Also, four more fatalities pushed the toll of the virus to 1,606. Among the 226 new cases, the maximum of 90 infections were recorded in Dehradun, followed by 40 in Nainital, 31 in Haridwar, 18 in Udham Singh Nagar, 14 in Almora, nine in Tehri, eight in Pithoragarh, six in Chamoli, and two cases each in Bageshwar, Pauri, Rudraprayag, Uttarkashi, and Champwat districts. “We collected 11,424 new samples on Saturday and over 16,500 were tested in the last 24 hours. The infection rate has dropped to 4.7% in January from 5.1% in December. The mortality rate was recorded at 1.7%,” said Abhishek Tripathi, officer of Covid-19 control room. Among the four deaths on Saturday, two were reported from AIIMS Rishikesh while one death each was recorded in Chamoli district hospital and Dr Susheela Tiwari Medical College in Haldwani. The state, so far, has tested 19.75 lakh people since the outbreak of the pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/226-new-covid-19-cases-surface-in-ukhand/articleshow/80306250.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Nashik: Woman booked for misbehaving with police||NASHIK: The city police have booked a 28-year-old woman for allegedly obstructing a police van and abusing police personnel who were taking two people to the police station for violation of norms of the Bombay Police Act. Mumbai Naka police have registered a case against the woman under section 353 (preventing a public servant from the discharge of duties) of the IPC. The incident occurred on Thursday when a couple of people were flying kites dangerously atop a building and shouting, thus disturbing their neighbours. Police said its personnel were on the move throughout the day on the occasion of Makar Sankranti on Thursday to check for violations when they found two people — Sanket Ghate (25) and Rahul Ghate (29) — flying kites on their building, along with small children, dangerously. The police were bringing the duo to the police station for violating section 113 of the Bombay Police Act which states no person shall fly kites so as to cause danger, injury or alarm to any persons or property. “Just when the police team was leaving for the police station, the woman, Sandhya Vijay Salve, obstructed the van and abused and threatened the policemen onboard the vehicle. The woman was warned about her behaviour and even made aware that a case would be registered against her. When she did not cooperate, we booked her under section 353,” said police adding so far, she has not been arrested.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/woman-booked-for-misbehaving-with-police/articleshow/80299562.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Vaxman Rekha: Some wary of going to the other side||NEW DELHI: While the healthcare workers who were the first to receive the Covid-19 vaccination on Saturday were mostly receptive to the idea, common citizens still have mixed feelings about being poked at this stage. While some would want to get their elders given the protective jab as soon as possible to minimise their risk of infection, others want to wait for 1-2 months to see the results of the first phase of vaccination for antibody generation and side effects before they stand in line for the injection. TOI talked to a cross section of Delhiites of all ages and gender to gauge what they were thinking about the vaccination programme. B M Bakshi of New Friends Colony was optimistic. The 83-year-old said he would be willing to get inoculated as soon as the vaccine was made available to people in his age group. “Young or old, all citizens should accept the vaccine happily as it has gone through the necessary checks. I also request the government to make some arrangements for people aged 90+ so that they can receive the dose at home,” he said. Chetan Sharma, 65, a resident of Greater Kailash, however, noted people were still suspicious. “Due to the prevailing atmosphere, I will personally wait for a month to see if people suffer side-effects or if antibodies actually develop,” he asserted. Amisha, 28, too wanted to bide her time. “I was infected as were everyone in my family, so I believe I am immune for a while,” she said. “By the time I get my shot, I will know if the vaccine is a good option or not.” Harjinder Saroha, 49, of Vasant Kunj, will also adopt a wait-and-watch stance. “After seeing the process unroll, the confidence in the vaccine will develop. Right now, it is a bit uncertain and people are still apprehensive,” he said. In a similar tone, Deepali, 29, said, “The vaccines have been developed in haste and I am not sure if they will get the desired result. I am glad the option of getting the shot isn’t open right now. Only if the results prove positive will I get my shot.” And while Prachi, 24, cannot wait to be vaccinated, Kajal, 26, said, “Even if I was eligible to be vaccinated, I wouldn’t go ahead.” Lakshmi Narayan, 49, of Jangpura too hesitated and said he would wait a couple of months to clear the doubts he had about the procedure before getting vaccinated. Shalimar Bagh resident Ritesh Dewan, 34, pointed out that the low availability of the vaccine did not leave any scope for choosing one of your liking. The government should increase the number of vaccination centres in the city, he added. “The young people can still recover from the infection,” Dewan said. “I am more concerned about my 63-year-old mother who has not ventured into the public since March last year. And when the vaccines are available in private hospitals, the government must prevent black-marketing and fleecing of the common citizens.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/vaxman-rekha-some-wary-of-going-to-the-other-side/articleshow/80308403.cms||Paras Singh
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Executive health officer takes stock and shot||As the executive health officer of the city, Dr Mangala Gomare’s first outdoor call of the day was to be present at the BKC centre where the CM was to inaugurate the vaccination drive. But there was a Co-WIN app message asking her to be present for her vaccination at KEM Hospital, Parel. She also had to visit vaccine centres along with senior BMC officials to check the processes and progress. She finally reached the hospital just before closing time around 5pm. Her day didn’t end there: Before BMC called off Sunday’s drive, she and her team were busy generating a list of beneficiaries and their phone numbers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/exec-health-officer-takes-stock-shot/articleshow/80307511.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kanpur||Utilize space to the max: UPMRC MD to engineers||Kanpur: Uttar Pradesh Metro Rail Corporation (UPMRC) managing director, Kumar Keshav on Saturday inspected the priority corridor between Motijheel and IIT-Kanpur and resolved various issues to enhance the speed of the construction work. During his visit, Kumar Keshav advised the Metro engineers to execute the construction work in the high traffic areas of the corridor on priority basis to ensure the least inconvenience to the general public and commuters. Besides this, he also advised the Metro engineers to do further planning of the Metro stations in such a way that the available space can be utilized to the maximum with the objective of providing maximum comfort to the people after the introduction of Metro services. During his inspection, communicating with the UPMRC staff, contractors and general consultant, Keshav said that, “Work on strategies while keeping the target of trial run on the 9-km-long priority corridor by November 2021 in mind.” He added that the preparations for bringing and installing the various key systems - electrical and fire, etc., for Metro operations are in line and the track laying work will also commence soon. In Kanpur, the civil construction work of the priority corridor was inaugurated by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on November 15, 2019 and since then UPMRC’s engineers have been keeping up the pace of the construction work.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/utilize-space-to-the-max-upmrc-md-to-engineers/articleshow/80307330.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Still get shivers on recalling situation last year: Maharashtra CM||MUMBAI: Inaugurating the vaccination centre at the Bandra-Kurla Complex, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday called the rollout of the vaccination drive a revolutionary step. Thackeray said the “corona warriors” had selflessly treated the Covid-19 patients when there was no remedy available and it was only befitting that they were the first ones to be vaccinated. “Those days still give me shivers. The situation was really adverse and grim then. Hospitals were full with Covid-19 patients. A big question before everyone was how to proceed when there was no solution in sight,” the chief minister said. Thackeray said that it was thanks to the efforts of the healthcare workers that hospitals were today lying vacant and Covid-19 cases had dropped significantly. “I hope that the number of Covid care centres without patients increases in the coming days,” he said. On why the state was provided fewer vaccine doses than others like West Bengal, the chief minister said that these issues should not be politicised. “Just as all the people of Maharashtra are equal for me, all the people of the country should be equal for Prime Minister Narendra Modi too and we hope to get the remaining stocks soon,” Thackeray said. He said people should not be concerned about which vaccine they would be administered as both the vaccines had been cleared by the Centre and all things had been kept in mind before approval. On whether the state government would bear the cost of the vaccine for the second phase, Thackeray said that they would wait for the Centre to announce its plans and the state would take a decision accordingly. “We will wait for the Centre to announce their next plan and once their procedure is clear we will take a decision at out end,” Thackeray said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/still-get-shivers-on-recalling-situation-last-yr-thackeray/articleshow/80308447.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 17, 2021||Varanasi||Kashi is nation’s top Smart City in project execution||VARANASI: In a remarkable feat, Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s parliamentary constituency Varanasi has bagged the first position among the 100 smart cities of the country in project implementation on the basis of completed and progressive ongoing projects. Bhopal is ranked second, followed by Surat on third and Ahmedabad on the fourth rung in the list. Two more cities from Uttar Pradesh are in the top 10 of the list, with Agra on seventh and Kanpur on eighth. Varanasi municipal commissioner Gaurang Rathi told TOI on Saturday, “The city has won the distinction of getting top rank for performing well in the execution of development projects. The ranking has been done on the basis of completed projects and progress of ongoing projects.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/kashi-is-nations-top-smart-city-in-project-execution/articleshow/80307578.cms||Binay Singh
January 17, 2021||Kanpur||UP win by 9 wickets in Syed Mushtaq Ali T-20 cricket championship||KANPUR: Opener Karan Sharma and former UP captain Suresh Raina’s unbeaten partnership of 88 runs for the second wicket helped UP in beating Tripura by nine wickets and register its first win in Syed Mushtaq Ali T-20 cricket championship at Alur Stadium in Bengaluru on Saturday. Tripura batting first could muster only 122 runs on the board while losing six wickets in 20 overs. UP managed to score the required runs in 13.1 overs for the loss of just one wicket. UP has 4 points and has just one match left. Punjab is leading group A with 16 points having won all league matches so far. Karnataka is at second position. UP gave its star bowler Bhuwaneshwar Kumar rest and fielded Aquib Khan and the debutant picked one wicket. His new ball partner Mohsin Khan picked two wickets. The two bowlers struck three early blows and reduced Tripura to 3 for 24. Tripura could not recover from the early losses. Milind faced UP bowlers with some confidence and contributed 48 runs in 49 balls before falling prey to spinner Shanu Saini. He hit 2 boundaries and one six. RA Dey, MB Mura Singh and D B Debbarma stuck in the middle for some time but could not score freely. Saini picked two wickets. Abhishek Goswami and vice-captain Karan Sharma opened UP’s innings. Goswami scored 12 runs in 20 balls before edging AS Sarkar to Debbarma. Karan Sharma and Suresh Raina scored freely from the beginning. Karan hammered 68 runs in 36 balls plundering six fours and four sixes. Raina hit 36 runs in 23 balls, scoring four boundaries and two sixes. UP coach Gyanendra Pandey said this win would give confidence to the batsmen and boost the morale of the team. Another victory in the last match would be a big booster before the Ranji trophy matches. Brief scores : Tripura: 122 for 6 (UU Bose 10, Milind 48, RA Dey 11, MB Mura Singh 17, DB Debbarma 14 not out, Aquib Khan 1 for 24, Mohsin Khan 2 for 20, Shanu Saini 2 for 16), UP:123 for 1 (Abhishek Goswami 12, Karan Sharma 68 not out, Suresh Raina 36 not out, AS Sarkar 1 for 29)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kanpur/up-win-by-9-wickets-in-syed-mushtaq-ali-t-20-cricket-championship/articleshow/80307371.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Vaccine only way forward, says senior doctor||Dr. Sanjay Agarwala (65), an orthopedic surgeon and medical director of Hinduja Hospital, waited patiently in the waiting room at the BKC centre on Saturday morning. He was among the first few to turn up at the centre to get a vaccine shot. He said a few of the 2,500 staffers from the hospital who have been registered to receive the vaccine in the first phase were randomly chosen to receive it on the very first day. “I got a call from the BMC to come and take my vaccine. I don’t think there is any reason to be worried. This is the only way forward and everyone should take it,” said Agrawala, adding he has been working through the pandemic and the vaccine will boost the confidence of all medical workers who continue to work for the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/vax-only-way-forward-says-senior-doctor/articleshow/80307556.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Allahabad||Ramayan and Mahabharat are popular in my country: Trinidad & Tobago high commissioner||Prayagraj: The high commissioner of Republic of Trinidad and Tobago Roger Gopaul visited Magh Mela along with his family on Saturday in Prayagraj. In his first visit to Sangam, he met Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad president Mahant Narendra Giri and Swami Vasudevanand Saraswati in their ashram. He arrived in the city on Friday. Gopaul, his wife Anita, sons — Adrian (8) and Brian (6) — offered prayers at the Lete Hanumanji Temple and Sangam. The family also visited the samadhi of Maharishi Mahesh Yogi at Arail. Talking to TOI, Gopaul said, “The epics of Ramayana and Mahabharat are very popular back in Trinidad and Tobago. Hence, I am here with my family to explore the land of my forefathers and give my kids a chance to experience the Indian culture, tradition and values.” Gopaul’s family migrated to the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago in the mid-1800s. “Like these epics, Hanuman is also very popular and many people follow him as is evident by the fact that we have a 85-feet idol of Hanumanji, which is the tallest in the West,” he added. He said that his government was in touch with UP’s department of culture for staging Ramayana shows in Trinidad and Tobago. “My sons are influenced by the life of Shankracharya and as such I wanted to visit the ashram of Vasudevanand Saraswati.” Later during the day, the diplomat and his family headed to Varanasi, where they would be visiting the famous Kashi Vishwanath Temple and would attend the Ganga arti.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/allahabad/ramayan-and-mahabharat-are-popular-in-my-country-trinidad-tobago-high-commissioner/articleshow/80306889.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||‘Vaccine only way forward, side-effects are all hype’||Panaji: Healthcare workers led from the front on Saturday as they enthusiastically volunteered to get vaccinated, setting an example for their staff and the community to follow suit. “This is the way forward. We waited for the vaccine and now it has come. It’s the only way out of the pandemic,” medical superintendent of the South Goa district hospital Dr Deepa Correia Afonso told TOI after getting vaccinated. “At present nobody knows whether there is any other way out. Everyday there are around 100 new Covid-19 infections reported in the state. There’s no better example than us being the first to take the vaccine,” she said. The very first healthcare worker who received the vaccine at South Goa district hospital’s Covid vaccination centre at the T B hospital on Saturday said she did it not just for herself, but for the community. “It’s not only for my personal protection, but for my family, patients and community I interact with. It was a relatively painless procedure. I’m not worried about side effects, they could happen with any vaccine,” nodal officer of the vaccination site and head of paediatrics department at South Goa district hospital, Dr Ira Almeida said. The vaccinator, Almeida said, is the hospital’s experienced auxiliary nurse midwife who has been administering vaccines for years and has been trained in all safe procedures and techniques in giving vaccinations. Another healthcare worker, who was among the first to receive the vaccine, medical officer Arsy Rebello said the benefits outweigh any risks. “There are benefits for me and my family. The side effects are only hype that has been created,” she told TOI. Another senior healthcare worker from Hospicio Hospital, who was vaccinated, said it was “something better than nothing” in these grim times. “I hope I transfer the benefits to my family and hope my vaccination helps them develop herd immunity,” he said. When asked about having to continue to follow all Covid protocols like other non-vaccinated persons despite taking the vaccine, he said, “This is a new way of life. I’ve accepted it”. A young radiographer at Hospicio Hospital, Saish Gurav said he will be relieved after he gets the second dose on February 13. “I used to isolate myself from my family in a separate room as I feared for their safety during the past months. I was very happy to receive the vaccine. My family encouraged me,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/vaccine-only-way-forward-side-effects-are-all-hype/articleshow/80308434.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 17, 2021||Goa||Warrior who served in Covid ward, got sick, is Goa’s first||PANAJI: Ranganath Bhojji had no inkling he would be the first person in Goa to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. On Friday evening, the 54-year-old patient attendant at Goa Medical College (GMC) got a message on his phone that he would be vaccinated the following morning. The out-of-the-blue news wasn’t his first in the past year. In March 2020, he was posted in GMC’s ward 113, the state’s first Covid ward. A few days after he was posted there, he contracted the virus himself, and subsequently recovered. Bhojji worked in the Covid ward for the first two-and-a-half months — the early days, when the word Covid invoked fear. It was also the time when patients were in complete isolation from their loved ones, as family members weren’t permitted in the ward. On Friday, when Bhojji’s phone received the message, he didn’t see it. “But then, my senior called, asking me to report for vaccination,” he told TOI. “I told my family and came here. It’s better to be protected, and everyone should get it.” He will get his next and final dose of the vaccine next months — the second dose is administered 28 days after the first — and knows he still needs to take precautions. Union minister for information and publicity Prakash Javadekar, who attended the launch at GMC, as well as CM Pramod Sawant, presented roses to Bhojji. Even as the light at the end of the tunnel slowly becomes visible, Bhojji reminisces about the early days of the pandemic. He dreaded those days not because he had to work with Covid-19 patients, but because of the separation from his family. “Throughout the period, I lived in a separate room in my house in Soccorro, while my wife, son, parents and other members of the family stayed in another part of the house,” he said. “We didn’t like to wear all that protective gear on duty, as it suffocated us, but we had to out of fear.” The relief at being vaccinated isn’t unique to Bhojji. Ana Fernandes, a GMC matron, said she was “very happy” to be vaccinated. The 59-year-old will continue to use masks and take precautions, lest she pass on the infection to others. “I would advise every citizen to avail of this facility,” she said. “I feel good. I don’t even feel I was given a vaccine shot around half an hour ago. I feel privileged to be in the first lot and to get the vaccine free.” Fernandes said she has come a long way from the initial days of anxiety and stress. “Slowly, we overcame our fears with the determination that we will beat Covid,” she said.”There were ups and downs, but we passed through them, and with the support of the dean, doctors and paramedics we can soon say we have conquered the virus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/warrior-who-served-in-covid-ward-got-sick-is-states-first/articleshow/80308430.cms||Bindiya Chari
January 17, 2021||Goa||From paediatric vaccinator to Covid warrior||Panaji: Administering the vaccine to over 83 healthcare workers till late Saturday evening at TB Hospital in Margao was a novel experience for Milda Mascarenhas, particularly because her subjects are otherwise children. Mascarenhas, who has been inoculating young people up to the age of 16 years, quipped that there was no crying and fidgeting involved among her vaccinees on Saturday. “I was little anxious in the beginning as it (Covishield) is a new vaccine. Now I’m confident,” she told TOI at the end of the day. The attitude of healthcare workers and the fact that none of them complained of any side effects reassured her. Only two experienced minor side effects but didn’t require hospital admission. Like all other vaccinators, Mascarenhas received multiple training sessions and was also handed a list of FAQs to answer any patient’s queries. “As long as our patients are OK, we’re OK,” she said. “I’m grateful I got an opportunity to vaccinate the very first beneficiaries in Goa. If I get another chance, I’ll readily do it again,” she said. Appealing to people to get vaccinated, Hospicio’s medical superintendent Dr Deepa Correia Afonso and nodal officer at the South Goa district hospital’s vaccination site, Dr Ira Almeida, said there was no need to fear. “Mascarenhas is a trained vaccinator who has inoculated thousands of children. It’s not some junior student who is administering it,” Afonso said, while Almeida reiterated that the vaccinator was trained in all safe injection procedures and techniques. “Vaccinate to keep yourself and your nation safe,” Almeida said. “Anyone experiencing any side effects post vaccination can go to the nearest health centre.” Cards distributed to each healthcare worker who was vaccinated had the national level number for grievance redressal, 1075, and the state level number, 104, printed on them. The beneficiaries have already been instructed to take their second dose of the vaccine on February 13. “Although vaccination is purely voluntary, we encourage all healthcare workers and subsequently the whole community to take the vaccine. We have taken it first to motivate our staff,” Correia said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/from-paediatric-vaccinator-to-covid-warrior/articleshow/80308445.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||‘I was excited, family nervous’||Around 6.30am on Saturday, 52-year-old anganwadi staffer Nirmala Pakhale received a call informing her she was on the list of first-day vaccine recipients. While she was excited, her family was nervous. “But I wanted to lead by example,” she said, as she patiently waited for her turn at Rajawadi Hospital in Ghatkopar. Pakhale was among the many anganwadi workers who through the pandemic reached out to children in slums to provide ration and online learning resources.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/i-was-excited-family-nervous/articleshow/80307611.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kochi||KSRTC MD hits out at ‘corrupt’ staff, unions demand apology||Thiruvananthapuram: KSRTC managing director Biju Prabhakar, the sixth official to head the public transporter during the five-year term of the LDF government, has stirred up a hornet’s nest on Saturday by openly criticizing a section of employees for allegedly indulging in corruption and working against the corporation’s best interests. Prabhakar said certain employees who sneaked into the corporation using the influence of various political parties and unions were doing everything else than their official duties. “While some are into farming, growing ginger or turmeric, there are others engaged in some other businesses, including tuitions. I don’t say that all employees are like this. But at least a solid 10% belong to this category,” the MD said, adding that they resist all the earnest efforts taken by the corporation to pull itself out of the quagmire. He said a review of the corporations’ affairs has unearthed serious financial irregularities and there were no expenditure details for Rs 100 crore during the 2012-15 period. Addressing a news conference, purportedly to explain the roadmap being readied to solve the corporation’s financial crisis, the MD said many depots were functioning by virtue of empanelled staff as a good chunk of employees bunk off from their duties. “There are people who tamper with ticket machines. There is corruption in the purchase of spare parts. There is resistance against introduction of CNG buses as it would affect the corruption in fuel purchase,” he said. KSRTC has 7,090 excess staff, he said. “The corporation won’t go for retrenchment of the staff. But steps have to be taken to bring down their numbers in the future. The KSRTC chief office has become the centre of racketeers,” he said, adding that he would call it a day if he fails to implement the reforms aimed at leading the corporation out of the crisis. The pro-Congress union was the first to respond to the emotional outburst of the MD. They took out a march to the MD’s office, demanding an apology from him for “putting the staff in bad light”. INTUC union state general secretary R Sasidharan said the union would organize a state-wide protest against the “anti-employee” stand taken by the MD. CITU leader and MP Elamaran Kareen termed Prabhakar’s statements inappropriate and said he did hope him to correct the same. “There are legal provisions to punish those who bunk their duties or indulge in corruption. Employees are not responsible for KSRTC’s crisis. It’s unfair to call the suffering staff dacoits. Unions would support any plans to make KSRTC profitable,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/ksrtc-md-hits-out-at-corrupt-staff-unions-demand-apology/articleshow/80306286.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||De-addiction centres to come up in 2 cities||Lucknow: As part of the National Action Plan for Drug Demand Reduction Scheme, the state government will open two de-addiction centres in UP, one in Lucknow’s Kings English Hospital and the other in BRD Medical College, Gorakhpur. According to the state prohibition officer, both the centres will have 30 beds each. Besides these facilities, a 10-bed addiction treatment facility centre will also be set up at government hospitals in three other districts. Other than treatment, these centres will provide awareness, identification, consultation and rehabilitation. These centres will also provide training to service providers . “The government is carrying out an awareness campaign against use of intoxicants and is providing free treatment through de-addiction centres. For this programme, the Centre has made a provision of over Rs 6.3 crore in the financial year 2020-21,” an officer said. Currently, 23 de-addiction centres are operational in the state which are being run by NGOs under the prohibition department. These centres provide free service and last year (till Novemeber) at least 1,827 people were treated here. The prohibition department carries out programmes on de-addiction and awareness campaigns. The excise department will launch a drive to create awareness on the ill-effects of alcohol consumption.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/de-addiction-centres-to-come-up-in-2-cities/articleshow/80308529.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi’s air quality severe, fog hits 150 flights||NEW DELHi: The air quality in the city remained in the “severe” category for the third consecutive day on Saturday. The overall Air Quality Index (AQI) was 407. Experts said very dense fog, high moisture content and calm wind affected the dispersion of pollutants. However, AQI improved slightly later in the day with a reading of 393 in the “very poor” category at 7pm. Track the pollution level in your cityDelhi also recorded zero visibility from 1am until around 10am, with over 150 flights delayed in the early hours. Officials said low visibility procedures (LVP) were in place at IGI Airport for at least five hours. Kuldeep Srivastava, scientist at India Meteorological Department and head, Regional Weather Forecasting Centre, said, “Due to very dense fog, the moisture level increased. This made particles heavy and slowed down the dispersion process. Besides, calm winds were recorded from Friday night till Saturday 11am and it led to accumulation of pollutants.” Both Palam and Safdarjung had zero visibility. “It touched zero by 1am and did not improve after that until around 10am, when it started reducing,” added Srivastava. IMD classifies fog as “moderate” when visibility is between 200 and 500 metres, “dense” when it is below 200m and “very dense” when it is below 50m. The minimum temperature was recorded at 6.6 degrees Celsius, one degree below normal, while the maximum temperature was 19.1 degrees Celsius, one notch below normal. At IGI Airport, 80 departures and over 50 flights bound to Delhi were delayed because of the fog, while at least one was cancelled. Around 20 flights were cancelled during the day, but airport officials said this was on account of destination weather. At IGIA, an aircraft can take off with a visibility of 125 metres. This is according to the best international standards applied at airports across the world. “Due to dense fog, only CAT III-A and CAT III-B compliant aircraft and pilots are able to operate. Passengers are requested to contact the airline concerned for updated flight information,” the airport tweeted early on Saturday. Officials said LVP was in place before midnight. It comes into effect when the runway visual range is below 550m. System for Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (SAFAR) said, “Surface winds improved slightly and wind speed is moderate and west northwesterly. Due to slightly better ventilation, marginal improvement in air quality is predicted for Sunday and AQI is likely to improve to the higher end of the very poor category.” The SAFAR forecast for January 18 said AQI would continue to remain in the higher end of the very poor category. “This is likely to be the first extended extreme air pollution event for 2021. Further improvement is expected on January 19 and 20,” it added. Following an increase in PM2.5 and PM10 levels, Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) ordered closure of hot mix plants and stone crushers till January 20. It also directed Delhi Pollution Control Committee to increase the frequency of mechanised cleaning of roads and water sprinkling, particularly on stretches with high dust generation potential. Among the other directions issued by CPCB were standard operating procedures for dust mitigation at construction sites. It also directed agencies to ensure that there was no incidence of open burning of wood, garbage, biomass and industrial waste. Met officials said dense to very dense fog was predicted for Sunday, while the maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 20 and 7 degrees Celsius, respectively. The maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to rise from Monday. The minimum temperature may remain above normal from January 18 to 22.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/hat-trick-of-severe-air-days-halfway-into-jan/articleshow/80308435.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ludhiana||NIA sends more notices, summons Deep Sidhu, Akal Takht ex-jathedar||JALANDHAR: More people, including Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu and former Akal Takht jathedar Jasbir Singh Rode, revealed on Saturday that they had been sent notices by National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with a case registered in Delhi by NIA on December 15, 2020 against Sikhs For Justice under stringent provisions of law, including UAPA and sedition. At least two dozen people in Punjab have been summoned and there is apprehension that the number could go up. All of those summoned have been supporting the ongoing farmers’ agitation. BKU (Rajewal) leader Balbir Singh Rajewal condemned the NIA notices and said people who had been sent notices should not appear before the NIA. He said this would be the first issue the farm unions would take up with the Union government during their January 19 meeting. “These notices reflect that the BJP government is frightened and is now stooping too low to frighten the supporters of the farmers’ protest,” he said while speaking at the Singhu border. Farm leader Baldev Singh Sirsa, who has been participating in meetings with the Union ministers, has also received the NIA notice. Sirsa said it was a clear attempt to intimidate the farmers’ movement and he would not appear before the NIA on January 17 and would first discuss the matter with other union leaders in Delhi. Others who have been sent notices under Section 160 of CrPC to appear before the investigating officer include Gurcharan Singh of Jarikpur village near Rajpura, who treats Beant Singh assassination case convict Jagtar Singh Hawara as his son; Tajinder Singh Randhawa of Amritsar and Gurinder Singh of Mohali, who both work with two web channels; and Jang Singh Ludhiana and social worker Gurpreet Singh ‘Mintu Malwa’ of Jagraon. Initially, four persons had received NIA notices and the matter even figured in the meeting between Union agriculture minister Narendra Tomar and the farm union leaders on Thursday. At least a dozen more people reported that they had been sent the notices by NIA by Saturday. Most of them have been asked to appear before NIA between January 17 and 19. Deep Sidhu’s brother Mandeep Singh had already been sent the notice and the actor also received it on Saturday. The NIA notice mentions that the case has been registered under Sections 124A, 153A, 153B, 120B of IPC and Sections 13, 17, 18, 18B and 20 of the UAPA Act. Apart from SFJ legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, UK resident Paramjit Singh Pamma and Canada resident Hardeep Singh Nijjar have also been named in the case while others are “unknown.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/nia-sends-more-notices-summons-deep-sidhu-akal-takht-ex-jathedar/articleshow/80307576.cms||IP Singh
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmers ‘rehearse’ for rally, attack Centre for summons||Kahnuwan (Gurdaspur): Farm activists, their relatives and friends came out on roads on their tractors, jeeps and other vehicles for a “rehearsal” of their proposed January 26 tractor rally in Delhi. Talking about NIA summons to some people in Punjab, Golden Youth Club president from Phero Chichi village in Gurdaspur district, Pehalwan Satnam Singh Soni, said they knew that the central government would find ways to discourage the farmers from reaching Delhi but they were committed to their cause. Another rehearsal will be carried out at Gurdaspur city on Sunday. “We have appealed everyone who owns a tractor to join farmers’ tractor rally in Delhi,” said farmer activist Gurbachan Singh Chaba. Earlier on January 11, Kisan Mazdur Sangarsh Committee (KMSC)-led farmers had conducted the rehearsal for the tractor rally at Tarn Taran in which hundreds from border villages had participated. In Amritsar, various farmers groups lashed out at International Monetary Fund (IMF) chief Kristalina Georgieva for heaping praise upon the Indian government for taking measures to revive the economy. KMSC state general secretary Sarwan Singh Pandher claimed that the IMF chief had indirectly justified the agriculture laws. “She had praised the so-called monetary and fiscal reforms by the BJP government at the Centre,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmers-rehearse-for-rally-attack-centre-for-summons/articleshow/80307593.cms||Yudhvir Rana
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo reports first case of bird flu death||NEW DELHI: With the death of a brown fish owl — a captive bird testing positive for H5N8 strain of the avian influenza virus —Delhi zoo on Saturday reported its first case of bird flu. Sanitisation efforts have been intensified, with an increase in spraying of lime solutions, virkon-S and sodium hypochlorite across the premises. Delhi zoo houses both captive and free ranging birds, including local migratory waterfowls and waders on its premises. A zoo official said, in addition to precautionary measures, a serological survey had been carried out on January 11, where faecal droppings of free ranging birds and water samples from ponds were collected from different parts of the zoo. “Subsequently, National Zoological Park (NZP) witnessed the death of brown fish owl in its captivity and, therefore, its cloacal, tracheal and ocular swabs was sent to the animal husbandry department for serological examination, which has been found positive for H5N8 Avian Influenza virus under ‘real time RT-PCR’ test done by ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease, Bhopal on January 15,” said the zoo on Saturday. It added that, according to the guidelines issued by Central Zoo Authority, Union environment ministry and the animal husbandry department, surveillance drills and sanitisation measures had been intensified. “Birds in captivity have been isolated and are under consistent monitoring and care for their behaviour and health. Chicken feed to raptors and entry of vehicles inside the zoo had already been stopped, which is being further reinforced and intensified. Movement of staff and workers is also being restricted and regulated,” said the zoo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-zoo-reports-first-case-of-bird-flu-death/articleshow/80308444.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Despite ministers’ assurance, notices continued: Samyukta Kisan Morcha||Bathinda: Farmers’ organisations said that despite Central ministers’ assurances on Friday to look into complaints of notices being sent by NIA to protesters and supporters, such notices continued to be sent to agitators on Saturday. Samyukta Kisan Morcha leaders said, “We condemn serving of these notices and it is hoped that in the coming days legal action will be taken against these notices.” “Morcha leaders have urged the government to make its stand on these notices clear and continued harassment of protesters and supporters will not be tolerated,” farm leader Darshan Pal told TOI. The leaders also said the struggle is intensifying and a bike rally comprising students from 12 states left from Hussainiwala, Punjab for Delhi on Friday. They said support for the movement is also pouring in from other states. Bhavya Kisan Morcha rally was organised from Marine Lines, Mumbai to Azad Maidan by Kisan Alliance Morcha members. Young farmers from Maharashtra and Gujarat are headed to Delhi as part of the Kisan Jyoti Yatra organised by National Alliance of People’s Movements (NAPM). An interactive meeting with farmer leaders and civil society activists was organised in Bangalore by Aikya Horata Samithi and in Bihar, dharna concluded in 20 districts with mass meetings and farmer rallies. In Maharashtra, kisan cadres will go to villages to hold kisan panchayats and for mobilisation for programmes to be held on January 18, 23 and 26 as well as the human chain to be made on January 30 on the martyrdom day of Mahatma Gandhi. These programs are being held under the banner of All India Kisan Mahasabha. Around 1,000 farmers of Kerala Krushak Sangham (AIKS) have travelled from Kerala to join the Shahjahanpur protest site. Farmers and labourers from Rajasthan under the leadership of Majdoor Kisan Shakti Sangthan (MKSS) have also reached Shahajahanpur border. Demonstrations were held in support of farmers protesting at Delhi borders in Ganjam district of Odisha by Odisha Krushak Sabha (AIKS). A Kisan Chetna Yatra that left for Delhi from Odisha received a warm welcome in Bihar.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/despite-ministers-assurance-notices-continued-samyukta-kisan-morcha/articleshow/80307589.cms||Neel Kamal
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Covid restrictions see drop in number of Haj pilgrims this year||Mumbai: The pandemic-induced restrictions and rise in the cost of Haj have caused a steep drop in the number of applicants for the 2021 pilgrimage. Though the Haj Committee of India extended the last date of submission of applications — from December 10, 2020 to January 10, 2021 — it has received less than 60,000 applications, lowest in many years. In contrast, the last five years had seen an overwhelming number of Indians applying for the holy pilgrimage. For Haj 2020, the committee had received 2,13,726 applications while 2,67,261 people applied for Haj 2019, 3,55,604 for Haj 2018 and 4,48,268 for Haj 2017. Haj Committee’s CEO Dr M A Khan cited many reasons for the drop. “Since no pilgrim outside Saudi Arabia went for Haj in 2020 due to the pandemic, many are reluctant to apply this year. Restrictions on age (between 18 and 65), increase in cost of accommodation and travel have also discouraged many people from applying this year,” said Khan. The minimum cost of Haj for a pilgrim has increased from Rs 2 lakh (2020) to Rs 3.3 lakh (2021). However, private tour operators (PTOs) don’t expect a drop in the number of applicants for Haj this year. “Increase in the cost of Haj will not affect PTOs much as the elites use our services. There will be more applicants than the quota allotted to us. If India’s Haj quota is reduced substantially, the PTOs’ share will fall too,” said Yusuf Ahmed Kherada of Al Khalid Tours and Travels. Though Saudi authorities have not announced a Haj quota for this year, a source said the Saudis might allow just 25% of the quota due to Covid. India has a quota of 2 lakh pilgrims. Of this, only 50,000 are expected to go for Haj this year.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-restrictions-see-drop-in-number-of-haj-pilgrims-this-year/articleshow/80308448.cms||Mohammed Wajihuddin
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Farmer leaders say NIA notices ploy to derail stir||Bathinda: The farmer organisations have reacted sharply to the National Investigations Agency (NIA) sending summons to a farmer leader, transporters and performers. They have raised objections to the timing of the notices when the Supreme Court is to hear petition about proposal of the farm organisations to hold tractor march in Delhi on the Republic Day and their talks with central ministers are on. On of those to get notice is Baldev Singh Sirsa, head of one of Punjab-based Lok Bhalai Insaf Welfare Society president. He has been participating in talks with the Union ministers. The NIA has summoned him as a witness for questioning in the case against SFJ’s Gurpatwant Singh Pannu for an alleged conspiracy to create an “atmosphere of fear and lawlessness and to cause disaffection in people and to incite them towards rising in rebellion against the Government of India”. Farm organisation BKU Ekta Dakonda vice-president Manjit Singh Dhaner said the NIA summons to many of those were supporting farmer struggle were ill timed. “These seems a move to intimidate the farmer leaders, but we will not bow before such tactics and are determined for action on January 26,” he added. Farm organisation BKU Ekta Ugrahan secretary Shingara Singh Mann said NIA was trying to put the farmer struggle in bad light. The claims made in the Supreme Court that Khalistanis and anti-national persons have infiltrated the struggle and are funding the protests, were not true, he claimed. “All this points to bigger scheme of things being unfolded by the government agencies to derail the farmer protest,” he alleged. The government had failed to contain the protest as more and more persons from various sections of society were joining in and farmers from various states were heading towards Delhi, said Dhaner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/farmer-leaders-say-nia-notices-ploy-to-derail-stir/articleshow/80307585.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Covid test should be waived for vaccinated passengers: Travel agents’ body||Mumbai: Vaccinated Indians should be given a certificate for proof and date of their vaccination or such information should be linked to their Aadhaar card so that Covid RT-PCR test and quarantine norms can be waived off for them when they travel within India, said Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI). The vaccination drive, which began on Saturday, is being viewed as that much-needed shot in the arm for the ailing travel industry. Vaccinated passengers, say from places like Goa, Delhi should be allowed to enter Maharashtra sans quarantine, TAAI said. Jyoti Mayal, president of TAAI, said that the association has urged the government to set guidelines for vaccinated travellers, issue verifiable certificates and set SOPs. “Every person vaccinated in India must be granted a certificate. Our government should also tie-up with other countries verifying and accepting their Covid vaccine certificates. This will enable vaccinated travellers to resume activities like in pre-Covid times,’’ she said. About inbound travellers, there is no clarity on the entry norms for vaccinated passengers who wish to travel to India, said Mayal, calling for a uniform policy on this matter. Jay Bhatia, vice-president, TAAI, said that they had proposed immediate action so that vaccinated travellers desirous of travelling domestic, international and even inbound to India shall be free from hassles. Last month, global airlines’ trade body, International Air Transport Association (IATA), renewed its call on governments to ensure that employees in the aviation sector are considered as essential workers during the impending Covid-19 vaccine campaign, once healthcare workers and vulnerable groups have been protected. With regards to passengers, IATA said that while a significant majority of international travelers will be willing to get vaccinated, vaccination should not be a mandatory government requirement for international travel. “As the risks of Covid to the local population reduce, imposing requirements on international travelers is not justified. Mandating vaccination would discriminate against those individuals who are not able to get vaccinated due to medical reasons or who are unwilling to do so due to ethical or other concerns. Moreover, such a policy would also risk discriminating against those markets where vaccines may take longer to become widely available,” it said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covid-test-should-be-waived-for-vaccinated-passengers-travel-agents-body/articleshow/80308469.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Hilly Aqua from Aruvikkara planthits the market||Thiruvananthapuram: Government-backed Hilly Aqua brand of packaged drinking water, which played a crucial role in reigning in the rising price of mineral water in the state, will now be produced from state capital too. Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Saturday virtually inaugurated Hilly Aqua’s bottling plant at Aruvikkara here. This is the second plant of Hilly Aqua in the state, the first being in Thodupuzha. The chief minister said the government would think about increasing the production at the bottled water plant as the demand rises. The government launched Hilly Aqua through Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation (KIIDC) at a price of Rs 13 for a bottle of one litre when private brands were charging Rs 20 for the same. The acceptance of Hilly Aqua among people forced the private players to cut down their prices. The CM also said providing clean drinking water to all is on the priority list of the government. Jal Jeevan Mission is implemented with an aim to establish drinking water supply to all households. Minister for water resources K Krishnan Kutty said KIIDC must look into the possibilities of reducing the price of 20-litre jar from the existing Rs 60. He said the price must be fixed in proportion to the production cost. Ever since LDF government came to power, around 11.5 lakh households were provided with water-supply connections. The government was trying to complete 15 lakh connections before the tenure of this government is over, he said. Aruvikkara MLA K S Sabarinadhan carried out the first sale by selling a bottle to Kudumbashree district mission coordinator K R Shaiju at the Aruvikkara plant. The fully automated plant at Aruvikkara has three production lines. While one is for 20-litre jars, the other two are for bottles ranging from 500ml to 2 litres. The 20-litre production line is capable of producing as many as 2,720 jars of packaged drinking water on a day. The plant is also equipped with most modern machinery and labs to ensure quality. The water from KWA water-treatment plant is packaged at the bottling plant after stages of filtration such as sand filtration, carbon filtration, micron filtration, ultra-filtration and ozonisation (the process to regulate the oxygen content in the water).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/hilly-aqua-from-aruvikkara-planthits-the-market/articleshow/80306310.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||‘IMF supports laws, will protest against it’||Bathinda: Claiming that the International Monetary Fund (IMF) was supporting the recent agriculture marketing laws in India, farm organisation BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) has announced to burn its effigies at Delhi border and across Punjab on January 19. The farm organisation has also accused the Narendra Modi government of “acting on the diktats of IMF, World Bank and multi-national companies to provide favour to corporates”. IMF communications director Gerry Rice had said on Friday that the farm laws brought by the Indian government had the potential to be a significant step forward for agricultural reforms. The farm organisation claimed it was the fallout of economic liberalisation started in 1991 and it was being taken forward by Modi government which was either locking up the public sector institutions in the country or handing these over to corporates as is seen the part of railways and airports going into private hands. BKU Ugrahan president Joginder Singh Ugrahan told TOI: “When a senior official of IMF completely supported the farm laws, we were not surprised at all as we knew that sooner or later it would happen. Narendra Modi is working as per the wishes and fancies of the such agencies, like the World Trade Organisation and IMF. This government is taking directions from such institutions for the benefit of chosen corporate houses and it not ready to listen to the screaming voices of millions farmers. We have decided to burn effigies of IMF on January 19, the day the central government has fixed the 10th round of talks with farm groups.” “A day prior to that, we will protest at the native villages of BJP leaders Surjit Kumar Jayani and Harjit Singh Grewal, where women will take the centrestage,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/imf-supports-laws-will-protest-against-it/articleshow/80307596.cms||Neel Kamal
January 17, 2021||Amaravati||PM invokes Gurajada, drives home ‘country before self’||Vijayawada: Many people in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were taken by surprise on Saturday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi quoted famous Telugu poet and reformist, Gurajada Apparao, in his address to the nation while launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Modi, while emphasising the need for working for the general good of all, recited the oft-quoted verses from Apparao’s poem, ‘Desabhakti’, published in 1910. “Sonta labham konta manukuni... Porugu vaaniki todupadavoi… Desamante matti Kaadoi Desamante manushuloi (Help others while shunning selfishness, as a nation is made up of people but not soil),” Modi said in his speech. ‘Desabhakti’, originally titled ‘Desamunu Preminchumanna’ (Love your country) was once suggested as the National Anthem. Many literary giants including Sri Sri had batted for Apparao’s poem as the national anthem. They were of the view that it had high literary and patriotic value. Sri Sri in his autobiography ‘Anantam’ even wrote that Gurajada’s patriotic song should have been the National Anthem. He said Gurajada’s song was more inclusive and superior in literary value. Another noted poet, C Narayana Reddy, also took the same stand. Author N Venu Gopal, who wrote a book on this song alone, said that Gurajada’s works did not reach the then national leadership during his time. His works were recognised after the 1950s, but by then the National Anthem had been selected. Also, many in the Congress leadership at the time saw Gurajada as a communist. Rachapale Chandra Sekhar Reddy, who extensively researched Gurajada’s works, said that there was a feeling among the Telugu literary circles that it should have been made the National Anthem. His work depicts the true spirit of secular India as he spoke about universal brotherhood, he said. Among the several works of Gurajada are the poems ‘Puttadi bomma poornamma’, ‘Kanyaka’ and ‘Subhadra’. The house in which the poet lived in Vizianagaram has been converted into a museum by the district authorities and his great grandson Gurajada Venkateswara Prasad was appointed its manager. The descendants of the poet have a foundation named after him. Gurajada died in Vizianagaram on November 30, 1915. - Inputs by Sushil Rao||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/pm-invokes-gurajada-drives-home-country-before-self/articleshow/80308493.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Frontline workers get the feel of being celebrities||NEW DELHI: Manish Kumar has been an anonymous sanitation worker all these years. On Saturday, he had his moment in the limelight, becoming the first citizen of Delhi to be administered the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS, in the presence of Union health minister Harsh Vardhan, no less. The 33-year-old’s humble reaction after the shot was to say that he would now be able to work without fear of infection. Like him, most others who were early in line to receive the long-awaited injection felt humbled to become the first in their institutions to be given the jab. The frontline health workers getting the Covid vaccination at the 81 special booths in the capital included doctors, nurses, paramedical staff and hospital employees, all from diverse backgrounds but each with a significant role in Delhi’s battle against Covid in the preceding year. At GB Pant hospital, the vaccine was a mental balm for Shulchan Kataria, deputy nursing superintendent with over 30 years of experience. “We’ve been working through the pandemic and we have worried about ourselves after seeing so many people dying around you. Some days were really stressful, and I have been marvelling at how soon the protective vaccine arrived. never have imagined I would get it this early,” said Kataria, who defied her father’s circumspection to take the shot. Some of these first among equals said they felt humbled and proud and appealed to everyone to get vaccinated whenever possible. Jingam Karlo, 23, staff nurse at Medeor Hospital in Qutub Institutional Area, was “proudly among the first to be vaccinated”. She exulted, “I am feeling completely fine. I request everyone to take the vaccine, be safe and make others safe.” At Max Hospital in Saket, nursing official Ashutosh Kumar, 31, a native of Rajasthan, recalled the anxiety of his family last year: “When Covid broke out, I sent my parents back home to avoid exposure and infection,” said the early recipient of the vaccine. “Since then I have been living alone, but now having got the jab, I can go home without fear.” For nursing officer Rampal Gujjar, 35, at Lal Bahadur Shastri Hospital in east Delhi, Saturday was when he became a celebrity. He reported for work at the vaccination centre at 8.30am and continued to look after the arrangements there. Immediately after getting the shot, TV journalists scampered to get his interview while the photographers snapped away. After 30 minutes in the monitoring room, he immersed himself in work. Biji Tomy, 48, nursing officer at Lok Nayak Hospital too, was cautioned by his family about taking the vaccine. “I told them not to worry as the vaccine was safe,” he smiled. Like him, Dr Pragya Shukla, 43, head of clinical oncology, at Delhi State Cancer Institute, did not hesitate to take the first jab either, “to give a positive message to staff and people”. Dr Vikas Dogra, head of pulmonology, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital, Tahirpur, echoed her, saying the inoculation was an important step in boosting the morale of workers and encouraging them to do the same. Dogra, who was the nodal officer of the Covid ward at the peak of the pandemic, spent six months away from his infant daughter. “I chose to stay at the hospital to keep my family safe. I finally met my daughter a few days after her third birthday,” Dogra said. In Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital in west Delhi, the first recipient of the vaccine was Dr Aparajita Bhuyan from the department of anaesthesia. Belonging to a family of doctors and having been on Covid duty for most of the months since its outbreak, she expressed happiness at being among first recipients of the protective shot in Delhi. “My husband sent me a message wishing me good luck,” she smiled. “We all have survived the pandemic even when it was at its peak and all of us have worked hard to save lives.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/firsts-among-equals/articleshow/80308452.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Worth the vial: Goa can finally breathe easy||PANAJI: In a move to instil confidence about the safety of the Covid-19 vaccine, senior doctors were among the first in line in Goa as the historic nation-wide immunisation drive kicked off on Saturday. Doctors said the benefits of the vaccine far outweigh the risks involved and that the vaccine plays a crucial role in curtailing the spread of the deadly virus. Nodal officer of the vaccination site and head of the paediatrics department at Hospicio Dr Ira Almeida, was the first to step up for the jab at the TB Hospital in Margao. At Healthway Hospitals, it was medical superintendent and nodal officer for the Covid ward, Dr Noel Britto. “We getting vaccinated puts a lot of confidence in others. Adverse reactions following immunisation are very less,” said Britto. “In the benefit-to-risk ratio, if one looks at it, the benefit is very high so why not go for it.” At Manipal Hospital, 16 doctors stepped up to receive the vaccine after 11 beneficiaries backed out and 12 beneficiaries were ruled out due to medical reasons. Many doctors who got the first shot said they hoped to build up confidence among those reluctant to get inoculated. “I urge people not to have any doubts about this vaccine. We should be able to curtail the spread of the coronavirus with it,” said chairman of Healthway Hospitals and neonatologist Dr Virendra Gaonkar. “I have been practising for more than 30 years as a paediatrician and I feel this vaccine is very safe and each and every person who is eligible for it must take it.” Healthcare professionals were seen counselling and supporting vaccine beneficiaries to fearlessly take the jab and not to get misguided by speculation circulated on social media platforms. Patients were screened before they were taken in for the vaccination, with their medical history being recorded, including food allergies. Once cleared, the beneficiaries were verified using the Aadhaar authentication protocol.Emergency crash carts were kept in the observation room to immediately assist those who got the shot. “The main intention is safety,” said the unit head at Healthway Hospitals, Ashwin Furtado. “The vaccine is developed by reputed companies and we aim to deliver it in the safest way. We are prepared for every eventuality.”With the smooth rollout of the vaccine, doctors expect to ramp up the immunisation program in the coming weeks, with 300-400 more people being vaccinated at each immunisation centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/senior-doctors-step-up-for-jab-lead-from-front/articleshow/80308481.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||New infections in Maharashtra drop to 2,910, fatalities rise to 52||MUMBAI: Maharashtra on Saturday added 2,910 Covid-19 cases and 52 fatalities, taking the case tally to 19,87,768 and the death toll to 50,388. The daily cases reported a dip, while deaths reported a slight increase in the state. The plateau in the daily count of Covid-19 cases between 500 and 600 continued in Mumbai, with 571 patients registered as positive. With eight deaths, the daily death count continued to be below 10 for the third consecutive day. Of the eight dead, seven had co-morbidities and were over 60 years of age. The city’s safe run continued with the number of positive patients (571) registered on Saturday being lower than the total number of patients discharged (700). The city’s recovery rate improved to 94% even as the doubling rate increased to 392 days over the last week. Among the various civic wards, C ward in south Mumbai had the best doubling rate of 767 days as against ward T, which had 280 days. Of the 12,236 beds for Covid care, only 30% of the beds were occupied. Around 56% of the ICU beds were vacant. “The Covid situation is under control. We believe the daily number of cases won’t breach 700,” said additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani. The BMC managed 16,805 Covid tests between Thursday and Friday, despite the focus on vaccination, and the positivity rate was lower than 5%. Kakani said as the vaccination drive progressed, the results, such as further drop in cases, would be apparent in 45 days. Health minister Rajesh Tope said that the vaccination drive across the state went off smoothly without any major adverse incident. He also said that he will take up the issue of providing the remaining doses to the state with the Centre soon. The number of active cases in the state reported a dip. There were a total of 51,965 active cases in the state, of which 6,966 were in Mumbai. A total of 3,039 people were discharged, taking the total discharges to over 18.8 lakh and the recovery rate to 95%. Kalyan-Dombivli has not reported a single death due to the coronavirus for six days. The city last reported two deaths on January 10. On Saturday, 106 new Covid-19 patients were reported, taking the tally to 59,000. The toll stood at 1,118. In Thane, 99 new positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 57,258. Two Covid deaths took the toll to 1,284. In Navi Mumbai, 84 positive cases were reported, taking the tally to 52,138. One death was reported, taking toll to 1,075. Panvel reported 44 new cases, taking the tally to 28,247. With no death reported, the toll remained at 619.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/new-infections-in-state-drop-to-2910-fatalities-rise-to-52/articleshow/80308480.cms||Bhavika Jain
January 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Criminal involved in many cases held||Thiruvananthapuram: A dangerous criminal who was recently involved in an armed robbery in a jewellery showroom at Channankara was arrested by Kadinamkulam police on Saturday. Police identified the accused as Vishnu alias Thamburu, 22, of of Mundanchira near Kadinamkulam. Police said the accused was nabbed when he was spotted by the cops during a vehicle inspection. Vishnu, who was riding a motorcycle, tried to escape after abandoning the vehicle, when the cops signalled him to stop. However, the policemen chased him down and took him into custody. The accused was caught by a team comprising sub-inspector R Ratheesh Kumar and civil police officers Dileep Kumar, Manu and Anil Kumar. They were conducting vehicle inspection at Mundanchira junction on Sunday morning when Vishnu landed in their custody. According to police, Vishnu was the mastermind of the armed robbery in the jewellery showroom a month ago, in which his gang carried out the robbery after terrorising the staff by hurling explosives at them. Police had arrested two of his accomplices a few days ago. Besides this, Vishnu was an accused in numerous cases recorded at Kadinamkulam, Mangalapuram, Kazhakootam and Chirayinkeezh police stations.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/criminal-involved-in-many-cases-held/articleshow/80306335.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bareilly||UP: Man booked for sending obscene videos, pictures to girls on mobile phones||PILIBHIT: A 30-year-old man was nabbed by the cybercrime branch of the Pilibhit police on Friday night for sharing “obscene videos and pictures messages” to girls on their mobile phones. The police action came after one of the victims filed a written complaint against the Mohammad Taslim of basher Khan locality. According to police, Traslim, who is a TV mechanic, used to collect mobile numbers of girls from Facebook and Whatsapp groups. He had obtained the sim card on a fake ID. SHO of Pilibhit Kotwali police station Sharikant Dwivedi said the accused has been booked under section 294 (doing obscene act publicly) of the IPC and 67 of the Information Technology Act. “He has been sent to jail,” the SHO added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bareilly/man-booked-for-sending-obscene-videos-pictures-to-girls-on-mobile-phones/articleshow/80306336.cms||Keshav Agarwal
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||New terminal at Rajahmundry airport soon||RAJAHMUNDRY: A new integrated domestic terminal will come up at Rajahmundry airport as part of its expansion and upgradation plans. The new terminal building, which will be built at a cost of Rs 135 crore, will have all modern facilities including aero bridges and will be able to handle 1,400 passengers (700 arrivals and 700 departures) at a time. An automated vehicle parking management system has also been installed at the airport which is expected to help in reducing congestion in front of the terminal building. Signages have been placed for smooth operation of the vehicle parking system. Additionally, no vehicle would be allowed to park in front of the terminal building. Rajahmundry airport has been witnessing significant growth in terms of passenger footfall over the last six months — from 7,700 in July 2020 to 28,900 in December 2020. There are daily flights to Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Chennai from Rajahmundry. From March 28, there will be new flights to Tirupati and Visakhapatnam. The airport has also obtained a DGCA licence for handling wide-bodied aircraft such as Airbus 321 and Boeing 738.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-terminal-at-rmundry-airport-soon/articleshow/80306329.cms||Samson Raj
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Minor hiccups due to app glitches at Hyderabad's Narsingi centre||HYDERABAD: The Covid-19 inoculation process suffered minor setbacks on Day 1 at Narisingi rural health centre due to glitches in the Covid Vaccine Intelligence Network (Co-WIN) application, developed by the Union government for real-time monitoring of the vaccine rollout. Officials said that there was a delay in starting the vaccination process as they had to manually conduct the process after the Co-WIN app failed to update the names of the beneficiaries. “Initially, there was a little delay because the names of some beneficiaries who were already registered were not updated in the app. So, we decided to manually complete the registration process and then go ahead with the vaccination as usual. It took us some time, but we were able to finish the exercise at 4pm,” said M Srinivas, health extension officer at Narsingi rural health centre. “There were also several other healthcare workers who were coming forward to get themselves registered to get the vaccine. While we are taking their details manually for now, we are sure that the minor glitches in the app will be fixed in one or two days,” said Srinivas. All the 30 beneficiaries who were registered were vaccinated here on day 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/minor-hiccups-due-to-app-glitches-at-narsingi-centre/articleshow/80308483.cms||Moulika.KV
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Euphoric day for us, says surgeon||Orthopedic surgeon Sameer Usman got a message from the Co-WIN app around 9am on Saturday about being selected for Covishield vaccine at KEM Hospital, Parel. “As the hospital is close to my home and today being Saturday, I decided to come here,” he said. The 36-year-old doctor is attached to the Sportsmed Clinic set up by one of the pioneers in sports medicine in India, Dr Anant Joshi. “It is a euphoric day for all of us that the mass vaccination drive has started,” he said. “The vaccine is the culmination of efforts made by experts from multiple disciplines. It is a great effort,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/euphoric-day-for-us-says-surgeon/articleshow/80308284.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Man tries to break open Vastrapur ATM||AHMEDABAD: An attempt was made to break an ATM of the State Bank of India in Vastrapur on Friday night. The thief, whose face was obscured with a white handkerchief, did not manage to steal the cash. Vastrapur police registered a case under Sections 380, 427 and 511 of the Indian Penal Code against an unknown person and are hunting for him based on CCTV footage from the ATM booth. According to the FIR lodged by the manager of the bank, Manish Dave, he was informed of the attempted theft at the ATM of the bank located on Drive-In Road. The complainant stated that the front box of the ATM was broken and the door at the side of the ATM machine was also tampered with. “ The thief could not cut open the ATM and steal the money,” said a police official. The complainant stated that when they checked the CCTV footage, they saw a man with his face covered with a handkerchief, wearing a winter cap, a grey and while T-shirt and blue jeans trying to break into the machine with a screwdriver. Vastrapur police officials said they are trying to identify the thief and are examining persons who targeted ATMs earlier.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/man-tries-to-break-open-vastrapur-atm/articleshow/80306957.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||‘It’s a day to serve Covid-19 warriors who served nation’||Nagpur: Dr Sangita Khandait Balkote, in-charge of the NMC’s Pachpaoli Sutika Gruha (women’s hospital), underlining her emotion said it’s a day to serve Covid warriors who were at the forefront of the battle against the virus as the historic vaccination programme began nationwide on Saturday. Out of the 100 slated to get the Covidshield vaccines, 59 turned up on day one till 5pm at the Pachpaoli centre. The drive would now resume at 9am on Monday at the centre which wore a festive look with rangolis, balloons and flowers. Amid an overwhelming moment, health officials reminded the masses and also their beneficiary colleagues to follow Covid norms of social distancing, wearing masks and sanitization despite kicking off the immunization drive. Dr Dipankar Bhivgade, zonal medical officer of Ashinagar zone, who was the first to get the shot followed by Dr Balkote and others, turned nostalgic recalling the early days of his fight against the Covid. “We used to be apprehensive regarding Covid while engaging in contact tracing, quarantining and getting someone admitted,” said the alumni of Government Ayurvedic College who joined NMC after passing out in 2004. He also fondly shared how his wife, Dr Smita, and seven-year-old daughter Maulya were concerned throughout the day but egged him on to take the shot. “Today, we are feeling much safer after getting the dose. Covid warriors should come forward to take the shot. It’s safe. I did not experience any issues after taking it,” he said. Dr Bhivgade reminded citizens that following Covid norms still remains a top priority. Dr Vaishali Mohkar, reproductive and child health officer (RCH) with NMC, who was the third to get the shot, said she had performed caesarean deliveries of Covid mothers safely. “We feel elated,” she said. “We should now remain focused on Covid behaviour and norms too,” she added. The NMC is learnt to have hand-picked jabbers at every centre, including Pachpaoli, where Rajni Meshram and Rajashree Fule administered the first dose. The young nurses, with five years of experience, were overwhelmed by the occasion. “We have been groomed in counselling, administering the dose and also packaging the vaccine as per the laid down norms,” said Meshram. “Our team (first jabbers) is already into immunization drives for other diseases,” she added. The centre spared three pregnant women from turning up for the vaccine dose. Around 10 claimed to be out of town while a couple of them had symptoms.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/its-a-day-to-serve-covid-19-warriors-who-served-nation/articleshow/80306955.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Pay & skip quarantine: Cops bust scam at Mum airport||Mumbai: Sahar police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old sub-engineer and two accomplices for their alleged role in collecting Rs4,000 from each flyer arriving at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) who wanted to skip mandatory instituti-onal quarantine. Police seized Rs 1.4 lakh cash, 200 Saudi Riyals, a fake rubber stamp of home quarantine, few letterheads with stamp and signatures of doctors from some top private hospitals in the bag of Dinesh Gawande (35), who was posted by BMC at the airport since December 23 and had to check flyers from Dubai, Kuwait and US at P6 on Friday. Police are probing if officials helped Gawande to get the bribes and the number of flyers he cleared with fake documents. If found guilty he can be imprisoned for seven years. Gawande’s luck ran short he barged into a toilet and returned with a bag after pushing aside a lady from the housekeeping staff who was walking in around 5.50am. “The woman complained to CISF and MIAL officials after she suspected Gawande, who claimed he was helped by Ashraf Sarang (41) and Vivek Singh (32) from the airport’s duty-free shop in making fake health certificates. The trio was booked under IPC sections for violation of prohibitory orders, cheating, forgery, counterfeiting a mark used by a public servant and under Epidemic and Disaster Act. They are in police custody till January 19,” a Sahar police officer said. Officials, on a tip-off from the woman, checked Gawande’s bag and found a huge amount of cash along with fake documents like a fake home quarantine rubber stamp ‘Proud to protect Mumbaikars Home Quarantine Till’it, fake signatures and stamp of doctors on four letterheads of Tata Memorial Hospital, three letterheads of Asian Heart Institute and two of a doctor of Care Medical Centre.  “Gawande admitted he was collecting bribes. His bank account will be checked. He shared the money with Sarang and Singh,” said a police officer. Singh’s lawyers Prabhakar Tripathi and Saurabh Mishra requested the court for judicial custody as the accused did not have any role in the case and he went with his team leader to assist him. Full report on www.toi.in||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pay-skip-quarantine-cops-bust-scam-at-mum-airport/articleshow/80308497.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 17, 2021||Kochi||Kerala: No. of profit-making PSUs declines||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The number of profit-making state public enterprises has come down from 47 to 43 in the 2019-20 financial year, according to the performance analysis report tabled in the assembly on Friday. However, the total loss of PSUs has come down during the period. The report said that the total loss of state PSUs has reduced by 23.9% to Rs 1,650.7 crore as against Rs 2,168.8 crore during the corresponding period in the previous year. As on March 31, 2020, the total financial investment in public sector enterprises in the state was Rs 63,084.5 crore. The year’s investment recorded a 10.4% increase in investments. The maximum investment was in KSEB, Rs 22,443.4 crore, amounting to 35.6% of total investments in 105 public enterprises. This was followed by Kerala Water Authority at Rs 16,912.9 crore (26%) and the third was KSRTC with Rs 8,642.1 crore (13.7%). The financial infusion into all other investments were less than 5% of the total investments. As many as 43 enterprises that reported profits made Rs 666.1 crore in 2019-20 against the total profit of Rs 1,231 crore posted by 47 enterprises in 2018-19. Kerala State Financial Enterprises was the top profit-making enterprise in 2019-20, contributing Rs 202.7 crore (30.4%) of the total profit earned by all state PSUs. This was followed by Kerala State Beverages Corporation Ltd with profit of Rs 180.8 crore (27.2%). Travancore Cochin Chemicals Ltd is the distant third profit maker with Rs 41.8 crore (6.3%). The top loss-making units are KSEB, KWA, KSRTC, KTDFC, Kerala Textile Corporation Ltd, Kerala State Cashew Development Corporation, Malabar Cements. Based on data provided for the review, KSEB’s net loss for 2019-20 stood at Rs 514.7 crore, which is 77.5% higher than previous year’s loss. The total income of the company has marginally increased by 5.1% and the total expenditure too increased by 6.6%. The net loss incurred by KWA in 2019-20 was Rs 398.6 crore. KSRTC’s net loss in 2019-20 was Rs 243 crore. The transport corporation recorded a drop of 13.9% in operational revenue in 219-20 as compared to the previous year. Employee expenses and power and fuel charges account for 78.4% of the total expenditure incurred by the corporation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/no-of-profit-making-psus-declines/articleshow/80306360.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Surat||Three dupe diamond unit owner of Rs 5 crore in Surat||SURAT: Three businessmen were booked for allegedly cheating a diamond polishing unit owner of Rs 5.40 crore in Varachha on Saturday. The accused — Tansukh Vaniya, Dinesh Chodvadiya and his son Kishan — purchased high value diamonds from diamon unit owner Jayraj Jodhani but did not make the payment. The accused disappeared closing their office recently after which Jodhani filed a police complaint. The investigation has been transferred to the Economic Offence Cell (EOC). The accused initially purchased diamond worth Rs 2.70 crore in January 2020 and made payment of Rs 58 lakh within the credit time limit. Despite several reminders they did not make the remaining payment. In June, the accused assured Jodhani of payment and placed another order for diamonds worth Rs 3.25 crore for a Dubai based jewellery firm. The accused got the delivery of the diamonds but did not make payment. Meanwhile, in October the accused closed their office and disappeared. Police are investigating if the accused have duped other diamond businessmen in the city.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/three-dupe-diamond-unit-owner-of-rs-5-crore/articleshow/80306177.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||IIM-V at six: Vizag’s premier business school carves niche for itself||VISAKHAPATNAM: The foundation stone for Indian Institute of Management- Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) was laid at Gambheeram on January 17, 2015 and classes at the premier business school commenced on September 21, 2015. From trying to find a footing in the initial days to emerging as a widely preferred management institution, IIM-V has come a long way over the last six years. At the moment, works for the permanent campus are going on at pace and students are expected to shift to the new campus by December when the academic block and the hostels would be ready. The premier business school will celebrate its foundation day on January 17, Sunday. Owing to ever-increasing demand, IIM-V has seen a four-fold increase in intake for its flagship Post Graduate Programme (PGP) over the last four years. The institute launched doctoral programmes two years ago to ensure for students a training ground for scholarly research. The institute has also rolled out executive programmes. Recounting the six-year-long journey, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said that the institute has already carved out a niche for itself in the comity of IIMs, crossing several milestones and maintaining a distinct lead. “IIM-V is the only IIM in the country to offer a specialised MBA programme in digital governance and management in blended learning mode, under the aegis of and sponsored by the Union ministry of electronics and IT (MeitY). It’s the fifth IIM in the country to get the TIDE Centre to promote tech entrepreneurship. For our run-away success, due credit must go to our mentor institute IIM-Bangalore and its faculty,” said director Prof Chandrasekhar. IIM-V’s permanent campus, currently under construction, has got the GRIHA-5 Star Master Plan (Large Development) Rating, the director said while adding that IIM-V is the third IIM to get this recognition after IIM-Kozhikode and IIM-Udaipur. “The institute is consistently recording top placements. It has hosted the largest cohort of women entrepreneurs after IIM-Bangalore in the first edition of the Women Start-up Program. The institute has conducted several management training programmes for personnel of various elite organisations and institutions from across the country,” Prof Chandrasekhar further said. He added that IIM-V is currently delivering the first-ever certificate programme in R&D Management for scientists of Naval Science & Technological Lab; DRDO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/iim-v-at-six-vizags-premier-biz-school-carves-niche-for-itself/articleshow/80306345.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Watch shop steal on Ahmedabad's CG Road: Gone in 20 minutes||AHMEDABAD: After the theft of items worth Rs 45 lakh at Payal Jewellers in New Ranip a week ago, another heist, worth Rs 24 lakh, has taken place at a watch showroom, The Golden Time, at Swastik Crossroads in Navrangpura early on January 14, while the city was celebrating Uttarayan. Police sources said a gang of five thieves, who were caught on a CCTV camera in the shop, raised the shutter, and one member entered. The theft was executed in about 20 minutes. Navrangpura police registered a complaint late on Friday evening. Police sources said the thieves who were waiting outside hid themselves under a bed sheet. Deputy commissioner of police, Zone 1, Ravindra Patel, said that one thief entered and got his hands on 60 expensive watches, worth a total of Rs 25 lakh, after which the gang fled. According to the complaint lodged by the floor manager of the showroom Rasiklal Shah, there are about eight employees in the shop. Police sources said according to the complaint, they had closed the shop on the night of January 13, 2021 and when they opened the shop on the morning of January 16, they found the front shutter of the shop raised and the lock on the door behind the shutter lying open. DCP Patel said as mentioned in the FIR, when they entered the shop they found that the thieves had not touched showcases in which watches of less price were kept but only touched the showcase in which expensive watches were kept. “They decamped with 22 such expensive watches” added Patel. Additional commissioner of police, Sector 1, Rajendra Asari, said they are identifying the gang based on the footage. “The gang seems to be from outside the state. We have informed our counterparts in UP, Bihar, Maharashtra and MP about the theft,” Asari added. From the footage, it seems the gang recceded the shop and chose Uttarayan day as there would be no commuters on the road. “Five people are seen in winter clothes climbing down the stairs to the showroom. Two of them take a bedsheet and with it hide the person who raises the shutter and opens the lock on the wooden door behind the shutter,” Patel said. Police sources said they are recording the statements of shop workers. “We don’t know if an insider is involved,” a senior police official said. The theft came to light on Friday morning, but police registered the complaint only in the evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/watch-shop-steal-on-cg-rd-gone-in-20-minutes/articleshow/80306974.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Visakhapatnam: Skill development programme to train fellows for 76 districts||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Indian Institute of Management, Visakhapatnam (IIM-V) would soon launch the Mahatma Gandhi National Fellowship (MGNF) programme under the aegis of the Union ministry of skill development and entrepreneurship. IIM-Visakhapatnam is one of the few IIMs to get this prestigious programme. The nearly Rs 6 crore capacity-building-cum-consultancy project from the ministry involves training 76 functionaries (fellows) in public policy and skill development and to enable them to work as an understudy to the collector and the district magistrate in 76 districts across the country. MGNF is a two-year academic programme with an in-built component of on-ground practical experience with the district administration. It seeks to impart training in a blended academic programme that provides both academic inputs and requires a field immersion at the district level. The key objective of the programme is to understand and contribute to the creation of a district level ecosystem to support skill development. Speaking to STOI, IIM-V director Prof M Chandrasekhar said the fellows would be paid by the Union government a monthly stipend of Rs 50,000 in the first year and Rs 60,000 per month in the second year. Prof Chandrasekhar added that IIM-V would soon receive the communique regarding the exact states allocated to IIM-V. “Being another prestigious project awarded to the institute, it would help IIM-V to contribute in its own modest way to Atmanirbhar Bharat (self-reliant India). The faculty would guide the fellows in achieving the pre-set objectives of the programme at the field level,” said Prof Chandrasekhar. In the course of their training, the fellows will work under the close supervision of state skill development missions and will spend time and effort in understanding skilling challenges and gaps in the district. They are expected to enrich skilling programmes by bringing in fresh thinking to local planning, execution, community interaction and outcome management. Designed under the Skills Acquisition and Knowledge Awareness for Livelihood Promotion (SANKALP), the fellowship is expected to address the challenge of non-availability of personnel for implementation of various programmes at the national, state and district levels.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/skill-devpt-prog-to-train-fellows-for-76-districts/articleshow/80306365.cms||Umamaheswara Rao
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||249 fresh Covid-19 cases, one death in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana recorded one death and 249 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the overall number of fatalities due to the virus to 1,575. There are 4,273 active cases in the state. Of the 249 cases tested positive on Friday, 54 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 10 from Rangareddy district, 17 from Medchal Malkajgiri and remaining 168 are from other districts. Of the total number of fatalities due to Covid-19, 55.04% had co-morbidities and 44.96% died due to the virus. On Friday, 417 patients recovered, thereby improving the recovery rate to 97.99%. So far, 74,28,389 samples have been tested in Telangana in all, of which 2,91,367 tested positive and 2,85,519 have recovered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/249-fresh-covid-19-cases-one-death-in-t/articleshow/80308507.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Nurse, 68, oldest healthcare worker to get vax in Goa||Panaji: A 68-year-old nurse who works as the transplant coordinator at Healthway Hospitals was one of the oldest healthcare professionals to receive the vaccine against Covid-19 on Saturday. Thrilled on being part of the historic immunisation drive, Benedita Godinho said she would celebrate by attending the International Film Festival of India (Iffi) and by going out for dinner with her family. Winner of the Woman of the Year award in Goa in 2015 for her work with people living with HIV/AIDS, Godinho said she was excited ever since she found out her name was on the list of 100 people who would receive the vaccine at Healthway Hospitals. “It is very exciting that I have received the vaccine and I will advise everyone to take it. You have to be proud of it to receive it,” said the Panaji resident. Dr Mahesh Naik, 67, a consultant with the hospital, is the second oldest to receive the dose. Godinho used to work with the AIDS centre at Bambolim and after retirement, moved to Healthway Hospitals. So excited was she after receiving the Covid vaccine that she made plans with her siblings to go out to dinner. “I come from a big family with 13 members and will also go for Iffi with my brothers and others,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/nurse-68-oldest-healthcare-worker-to-get-vax-in-goa/articleshow/80308512.cms||Newton Sequeira
January 17, 2021||Kochi||Commission tells KAU, teach RTI Act to registrar, deputy registrar||T’PURAM: State Information Commission (SIC) has directed Kerala Agriculture University’s (KAU) vice-chancellor to make necessary arrangements to teach the registrar and deputy registrar about the provisions in the Right to Information (RTI) Act. Information commissioner K L Vivekanandan, in his order, asked KAU to contact Institute of Management in Government to arrange class for the officials. The directive comes in the wake of blatant disregard by the duo towards the applications submitted under RTI Act. In Nov 2020, former chief information commissioner Vinson M Paul had, in a similar case, directed the then Kerala University VC to make arrangements for teaching its registrar and joint registrar about the provisions in RTI Act. The commission issued the order after university’s professor K D Prathapan filed a petition. He had, submitted a request to KAU information officer (deputy registrar) seeking details of an inquiry KAU had conducted in a matter in which he was also a party. When the commission sought explanation from the deputy registrar on the complaint submitted by Prathapan, the deputy registrar informed that all details were already given to Prathapan. When the commission tracked the communication between the petitioner and the information officer, it was found that the deputy registrar had prepared a backdated report and posted the same in the address of the petitioner after the commission sought an explanation from the official. Moreover, the official refused to divulge the details sought by the petitioner by citing RTI Act Section 8(1), which, had no relevance to the information sought by the petitioner. The official not only refused to divulge details within prescribed time, but also tried to misinterpret the provisions of the Act to deny the information sought by the petitioner, the commission observed. “The registrar justified the act of the deputy registrar. This show how ignorant these two important officials are about RTI Act. It’s a concern that senior officials in universities have utter disregard for RTI Act,” Vivekanandan concluded. Both officials were told to file objections, if any, with regard to the order of the commission.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/commission-tells-kau-teach-rti-act-to-registrar-deputy-registrar/articleshow/80306401.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Thane||89 accused in Palghar lynching case granted bail||MUMBAI: The Thane special court on Saturday granted bail to 89 people who are accused in the April 2020 Palghar lynching case, in which two seers and their driver were killed by a mob in a village in Kasa, Palghar district. Arguments on their bail applications were heard by district Judge S B Bahalkar on January 6. They were released on a bail of Rs 15,000 each and surety. Special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde had then told the court that the accused seeking bail were present at the crime scene on April 16, 2020, but had played no active role in the crime. The Kasa police had filed a case of murder and other sections against a mob of over 500 unidentified people from the tribal villages in Kasa. Most of those arrested were from the Gadchinchale village in Kasa, where the lynching had taken place. Of the 246 accused, 115 are already out on bail. There are 16 minors who were arrested in the case, of which nine are out on bail. Advocate for the accused Amrut Adhikari had maintained that those seeking bail were arrested based on their cellphone locations at the time of the crime.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/89-accused-in-palghar-lynching-case-granted-bail/articleshow/80308517.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Leading in Covid fight, GMCH embraces Covaxin||Nagpur: Dr Reena Rooparai’s name was not first in the list of 100 to be vaccinated at the government medical college and hospital (GMCH), on Saturday, yet she reached the centre before others and became the first to get the jab. The vaccination drive kicked off at GMCH, the largest government medical set up and the torch bearer in Covid-19 treatment in the district, with Rooparai the 41-year-old assistant professor in department getting the dose. After staying under observation for half an hour, she went back to work. “The only scare was of the prick, I had not taken any injection recently, so was a little apprehensive about the pain, but the nurse did a fine job,” she said after coming out. By the time Rooparai remained in the observation room, senior doctor from the bio chemistry department Dr Bhalchandra Murhe got the shot. GMCH had set a target vaccinating 100 persons on the first day. The first list included all doctors and 56 of them turned up on Saturday. The target is to get other 5,000 GMCH staffers which include medicos and other employees vaccinated. Each day 100 persons will be given the jab, said a source. Soon the room was full of doctors waiting for their turn as the team did the initial screening handing the consent form to be signed by them. GMCH is among the six hospital where the doses of Bharat Biotech made Covaxin are being administered. A consent form has to be signed before getting this vaccine as its trials are not complete yet. “There was no prior intimation about which vaccine will be allotted to the hospital. It was known only at the last moment that the GMCH will be getting Covaxin. The exercise to register names for the vaccination drive had ended much before that. The allotment off type of vaccines was done directly by the government,” said deputy director health services, Dr Sanjay Jaiswal. The doses were injected by a senior nurse. “I am proud indeed to be part of the event. I am sure vaccination will also bring down the number of patients, ultimately redoing the load on hospitals across the country,” she said. “None complained of pain, I am used to the job since last 28 years,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/leading-in-covid-fight-gmch-embraces-covaxin/articleshow/80306960.cms||Shishir Arya
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Ex-cop helps agencies extract deleted chats||MUMBAI: With digital forensics becoming an integral part of investigations, top central agencies have turned to a former city policeman for electronic forensic analysis and digital evidence probe in high -profile cases such as Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and the drugs case involving Bollywood celebrities. Former assistant police inspector Makrand Wagh, an electronic engineer, is helping the NCB, ED and other agencies extract WhatsApp chats, images, emails, data and documents from mobile phones and laptops. Officials say that under Section 65 (B) of the Indian Evidence Act, electronic data retrieved by a competent and certified agency is admissible in court. In Rajput’s case, Wagh said his firm had extracted and analysed data from 120 devices. When the NCB began probing the narcotics case, many more devices were sent to him by the anti-drugs unit. Wagh, who had worked in the crime branch and the anti-terrorism squad, quit Mumbai police in 2017. During his stint with the Mumbai police, Wagh picked up skills in electronic forensic analysis and digital evidence investigation. “I figured that there was a big technological gap in the capabilities police had. I decided to fill this gap,” he said, explaining how he started his firm with his brother Santosh, also a former Mumbai cop. “We now have assignments from the ED, NCB and even Mumbai police and GST departments,” he said. Speaking about e-evidence, Wagh said, “Even WhatApp chats deleted five years ago can be retrieved. In today’s times, your data is your enemy. In the drugs case, we retrieved 15 lakh images and chats.” He also trains policemen from the cybercrime investigation cell and provides cyber security to corporates. “There is a lot of pendency in state-run forensic laboratories and firms like ours give quick, accurate results,” he said. His Andheri laboratory has 18 employees, many of whom have worked with the Directorate of Forensic Science Laboratories at Kalina. “We retrieve, process and then analyse hundreds of TBs of data. Images like those shared on WhatsApp are encrypted. So, they have to be first extracted and then decrypted to make them visible. Data integrity has to be intact before they are presented as electronic evidence,” Wagh explained. NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede said the firm helps his team with digital forensic analysis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/ex-cop-helps-agencies-extract-deleted-chats/articleshow/80319966.cms||Chaitanya Marpakwar
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Former ISRO chief to address GTU convocation on January 18||AHMEDABAD: Leading scientist and former chairman of Indian Space Research Organisation Krishnaswami Kasturirangan will deliver the convocation address at Gujarat Technological University on Monday, the university announced on Saturday. The tenth convocation of the varsity will be held at Mahatma Mandir and attended by Governor Acharya Devvrat and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani, among others.More than 1 lakh graduates are expected to be conferred with degrees and diplomas by Kasturirangan who is presently the chancellor at Central University of Rajasthan and NIIT University. As many as 133 gold medallists and 51 scholars will be conferred with degrees at the occasion, the varsity said in its media statement. Over 1,06,511 graduates who passed out from around 500 colleges affiliated with GTU will be awarded degrees, diplomas and other honours, it said. For the first time, those who have completed their startup projects have been selected for gold medals. Winners of gold medals and those who have completed their PhDs will be awarded in offline function at the Mahatma Mandir.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/former-isro-chief-to-address-gtu-convocation-tomorrow/articleshow/80306980.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||Cold feet, illness among reasons behind no-shows||Panaji: A number of no-shows were recorded at Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state on Saturday. These included those who wanted to take the vaccine but were out of station, those who were unwell with flu-like symptoms or diarrhoea, pregnant women, those who were pregnant at the time of submitting their names but who had now delivered and were lactating, those who were unsure about their pregnancy status, those who were just recovering from Covid-19 and those who had allergic reactions to drugs and a history of allergies. They were registered as ‘rejections’ under the guidelines, while those who developed cold feet and refused to take the vaccine were registered as ‘refusals’. Many healthcare workers across the state were kept in the dark until late Friday night and were caught unawares upon their names appearing in the list of the first 100 beneficiaries. When those on the list didn’t make it to their respective vaccination centres on Saturday, other healthcare workers volunteered to be vaccinated. Spot registrations were initially not allowed, but hospitals were permitted later in the day to replace those who didn’t turn up with other healthcare workers willing to be vaccinated. A total of 83 healthcare workers, with doctors leading from the front, got the first dose of the Covishield vaccine at the TB Hospital in Margao. These included 52 doctors, 19 nurses and 12 technicians and other staff. After they were given the first dose, they received a system-generated SMS congratulating them for being “successfully administered with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine” with the timing, date and name of the vaccinator as well as the 1075 helpline number for any queries. Not all received the SMS with the correct time of vaccination, however.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/cold-feet-illness-among-reasons-behind-no-shows/articleshow/80308524.cms||Lisa Monteiro
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Phone stolen, engineering student tracks thief in Ahmedabad||AHMEDABAD: When someone’s phone gets stolen, they usually file a police report and leave it upon the gods to retrieve the phone. Not Darshankumar Makwana. Instead of letting fate do all the work, the 20-year-old engineering student tracked down the thief and handed him over to the cops. The incident happened on January 14. Makwana is a second-year student of BE at L D Engineering College. “Since colleges were closed due to Covid-19, Makwana, a native of Rajkot, came to Iskcon temple in Kathwada to serve pilgrims. He stayed at the guesthouse in the temple. On January 14, around 5 pm, he woke up from an afternoon nap only to realise that his mobile phone had been stolen. He informed the temple authorities about the theft,” said Inspector V D Zala of Nikol police station. Zala added, “He got the temple authorities to check CCTV footage of the temple and found that a man dressed in saffron shirt and white trousers had entered his room around noon and exited it with the phone in his hand.” “The temple authorities went there and recovered the phone. They then called up the police and handed over the accused,” added Zala.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/phone-stolen-engg-student-tracks-thief/articleshow/80306964.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||IGGMCH dean Ajay Keoliya first to take shot in city, 36 more vaccinated||Nagpur: Dr Ajay Keoliya, dean of Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH), Nagpur, was the first person to be administered dose of Covishield vaccine in city as well as the hospital. Later, 36 more health workers comprising doctors, nurses and attendants took the jab in the day. Twenty women and 17 men were vaccinated at IGGMCH, officials said. Of the 100 beneficiaries scheduled for Saturday, seven doctors and nurses refused to take the jab. Fifty-four either said they were out of station or on duty and hence could not come. At 10.45am, Keoliya arrived at the special immunization room in the community medicine department where the vaccination programme is being held. Surgery department Dr Sunil Lanjewar accompanied Keoliya. Within 5 minutes, Keoliya was vaccinated and asked to proceed to the observation room. The dean termed it as a big moment for all at the hospital. “We thank the government for keeping health workers on priority. The vaccine has been prepared through scientific research and after thorough trials. We should have no doubts about it,” he said. After Dr Lanjewar, department head and professor Dr Ashok Jadhao were the next to be vaccinated by 11am. Some curious low risk staff members also turned up outside the vaccination room and inquired if their name was listed. Immunization staff told them they can get the jab only if they received any message. Associate professor Dr Jyotsna Deshmukh and assistant professor Dr Nisha Agrawal monitored the process to ensure a smooth roll out. Dr Deshmukh, who is nodal officer for the drive, said a list of 100 front line workers has been finalized and they would be vaccinated during the day. “Around 15 to 20 people will get the jab in an hour. Only the first person takes more time before the activity picks pace,” said the department head Dr Jadhao. The vaccination room had a separate entry and exit but rarely used as there was no crowding at all. Two residents doctors were deployed in the observation room where beneficiaries waited for 30 minutes after receiving the shot. The flow of beneficiaries remained abysmal. The poor show forced immunization staff doctors to call up the beneficiaries and encourage them to come. Dr Jyotsna said those who missed will have to register again in case they wish to take the shots.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iggmch-dean-ajay-keoliya-first-to-take-shot-in-city-36-more-vaccinated/articleshow/80306970.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Possession date binding on builder: RERA tribunal||MUMBAI: ‘Possession’ of flat doesn’t mean ‘fit out possession’ under RERA. Ruling on the sanctity of the ‘specified date’ of possession, Maharashtra Real Estate Appellate Tribunal asked a builder to refund with interest money paid by two buyers who withdrew from a project three months after delivery of their flats was due. The tribunal held that the promoters of Palava Lakeside in Kalyan failed to hand over possession of two flats by February 28, 2018, as mentioned in the agreements for sale (AFS) and thus allottees were entitled to withdraw and get refund with interest. “Section 18 of RERA is absolute on the point of ‘specified date’ mentioned in the agreement for giving possession” and not on any “grace period” mentioned in the agreement, said the tribunal in its judgment. It added that permitting possession beyond the specified date “would lead to disastrous consequences, rendering the agreed date of possession as specified in the AFS irrelevant”. Two buyers had filed a complaint initially before MahaRERA. Their 2014 agreement promised possession for fit-outs by February 2017 and within a year the final possession with occupancy certificate but with a grace period of a year. Since the project was incomplete when the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act took effect on May1, 2017, the promoters registered the project under RERA. In May 2018, with no possession given, the buyers decided to withdraw and demanded refund with interest and compensation. They invoked section 18(1) of RERA which provides for refund with interest and compensation for builder’s failure to hand over possession of flat by the date specified in the agreement. In March 2019, MahaRERA held that section 18 was not attracted to their case as the promoter said that part OC was received for the project in May 2018, before the complaint was filed. The authority said that once the project was complete, section 18 would not apply. MahaRERA also advised the buyers to take possession of flats when ready. Aggrieved, the buyers went in appeal before the appellate tribunal. On January 12, 2021, tribunal members Sumant Kolhe (judicial) and S S Sandhu, in concurrent but separately reasoned findings, held that the MahaRERA order was not sustainable under law. Significantly, the tribunal said, “Possession as contemplated under section 18 of RERA is not ‘fit out possession’. There is no such concept under RERA or even Maharashtra Ownership of Flats Act. The builder denied any delay and argued that hence withdrawal from project could not be permitted. Section 19(10) of RERA mandates offering physical possession with OC to a purchaser, who is then obliged to take delivery within two months. The tribunal noted that the builder offered possession with OC to the buyers, on June 21, 2018, hence there was a “delay in handing over possession”. Besides, said the tribunal, “Once it is evident that promoters failed to give possession by the ‘specified date as mentioned in the agreement’, promoters are not entitled for extension” on the basis of any clause of ‘grace period’ in the AFS. The buyers had claimed the ‘fit-out and grace clauses’ in agreement were ‘one-sided’; the builder denied it. But the tribunal in its order said, “These clauses substantiate the charge of allottees that promoters got one-sided agreements executed.” In his separate reasons, Sandhu also said that if MahaRERA’s order is accepted it would “lead to chaos and no allottee would be able to seek reliefs under section 18 (1) if possession is given… much beyond the date specified”. “Legislature never intended such consequences for allottees, while framing the social welfare legislation of RERA,” he said. The tribunal directed refund of amounts paid by the buyers with interest of 2% more than the SBI rate, as provided under RERA. The buyers claimed Rs 25 lakh in compensation too. The tribunal didn’t grant it but gave them liberty to file an independent petition for compensation before an adjudicating officer under RERA.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/possession-date-binding-on-builder-rera-tribunal/articleshow/80319987.cms||Swati Deshpande
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Meet the ward boy is opener for Bhopal ‘test’ series||BHOPAL: A sense of relief was in the air as the first shot of the coronavirus vaccine was administered to healthcare worker Sanjay Yadav at the Hamidia hospital here in the state capital on Saturday. Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) vaccinator Amita Jain administered the first shot of Covishield vaccine to Yadav. It came minutes after the virtual launch of Covid-19 vaccination programme by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Yadav is contractual employee and ward boy at Hamidia hospital. “I am confident others would also come out and take the vaccine like me. I feel completely normal,” he said. Before the vaccination, his vitals, including blood pressure was monitored. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan congratulated Yadav on getting the first vaccine shot. Medical education minister Vishwas Sarang and health minister Prabhuram Choudhary were also present at the vaccination centre. Later, Haridev Yadav, a security guard working in Bhopal’s JP Hospital was administered the vaccine. “Despite the arrival of the vaccine, keep wearing masks,” said Chouhan. “There is a set protocol on who would get the vaccine and when. Being the CM, I will adhere to the national guidelines and get vaccinated when my turn comes,” he said, when asked about when he would get his vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/meet-the-ward-boy-is-opener-for-bhopal-test-series/articleshow/80307000.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Lawyer, aide dumped mishap victim on highway?||Mumbai: A lawyer and his assistant who dumped a man on the highway after running their car over him in Vasai on Sunday, had offered to take the victim to hospital when a crowd gathered. They have been booked for attempt to murder. Birendra Mishra (34), from Mira Road, and his assistant, Varsha Mishra (18), who ran over Indresh Yadav (24) near Madhuvan in Vasai (E) on January 10, instead dumped him at Sasunavghar on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway, around 15km away from the accident spot. They were arrested two days later, after their car was tracked down using CCTV footage. Rajesh Yadav told TOI his brother, being treated at a private hospital in Jogeshwari, had suffered severe head and lung injuries, a broken rib and damage to his eyes. “If the accused rushed him to hospital, my brother’s condition would not have worsened. We suspect they threw him out of a moving car, which caused further damage,” said Rajesh. Varsha, a Vasai resident, was taking driving lessons from Birendra when she lost control of the car and rammed it into Indresh from the rear. Indresh was helped by passers-by. The crowd turned violent but he offered to take the victim to hospital, an eyewitness told police. Indresh’s cellphone was found at the spot where he was dumped. Rajesh said that his brother recalled being hit by a car driven by a woman. He lost consciousness and regained it at Orbit hospital at Mira Road, where he was initially admitted. Indresh, who works at a medical store in Bhayander, stays with his brother in Vasai. The family is running from pillar to post arranging for funds for his treatment. “How could the lawyer and woman be so inhuman? My brother is struggling for life,” said Rajesh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lawyer-aide-dumped-mishap-victim-on-highway/articleshow/80307241.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Gurgaon||The v-shaped recovery is here||GURUGRAM: The first day of the Covid-19 vaccinations saw scores of frontline workers queuing up at inoculation centres across the city to get shots of the serum that will help them take the first step back towards normalcy. But Saturday did not begin like the most awaited day in more than a year should. The launch of vaccinations to protect from a pandemic that has upended lives like nothing else did not trigger a rush to inoculation centres in the city, quite contrary to the sense of relief and enthusiasm associated with the vaccine rollout. The dichotomy played out through the day. Doctors and frontline workers who got inoculated exuded confidence that a return to normalcy was in sight. Equally, many remained apprehensive about the vaccine themselves and stayed away. The city’s vaccination target for the first day was 600 – 100 at each of the six centres – but with the turnout crawling along till afternoon, text messages went out to more recipients not on the original schedule. Simultaneously, vaccine administrators called up the frontline workers registered for Saturday’s inoculations to coax and counsel them to come. Till 4pm, 408 individuals turned up to take the vaccines shots. The double booster of texts and calls showed its impact on the vaccinations in the latter half of the day. Government data showed Gurugram ended up exceeding the target by eight (101% coverage, inoculating 608 people). Palwal, Panchkula and Rewari followed with 95% coverage. Haryana’s overall coverage for Day 1 stood at 78% of its target (5,907 out of 7,533). Gurugram was the only district in the state that ended the day with a 100% score, though not the way it had planned to. “We spoke to the central government and the Haryana government and decided to send texts to more than 60 people from each booth (centre) after 1pm. We got a response after 4pm and we could achieve our target by the end of the day,” said Dr MP Singh, the nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccinations in Gurugram. Additional chief secretary (health) Rajeev Arora told TOI, “Despite being the first day and starting late due to the inauguration, other formal events and handling a new software, we were able to achieve a high number.” Vaccinations began at 11.10am, soon after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address, and 47-year-old Radha Chaudhary was the first to get the shot. The sanitation worker was at the Wazirabad booth set up inside a government senior secondary school. Next in line was Gurugram’s chief medical officer, Dr Virender Yadav. Although an interactive communication facility was in place for two-way communication with the PM, no calls were made to the centre. The other centres were at Chauma, Bhangrola, Daultabad, Medanta and SGT medical college. Soon after getting the jab, the CMO appealed to everyone to get the vaccine. “It is safe and will help us develop immunity against the virus. People should follow all protocols even after getting the shots, as it will take some time to develop immunity. We have set up teams to follow up on those getting the shots.” Yadav issued a public appeal to guard against misinformation on the internet. “People should refrain from spreading rumours,” he said. Till 4pm, just 45 of the 100 intended recipients had got the vaccines. According to officials, vaccinators and supervisors made many calls to those on the list and while some cited personal reasons for not turning up, others said they were travelling. “We contacted everyone. But many refused to get the vaccine. The reasons were superfluous. It seemed they are scared,” said Dr Ashima Sheoran. Nodal officer Singh, who also took the vaccine at Wazirabad, said, “Although this (taking the shot) is voluntary, we are sensitising people and asking them to get the dose because it is the need of the hour.” Many ASHA and ANM workers also got the vaccine. “I have been part of many Covid surveys. I believe the vaccine will increase immunity,” said Shikha, an aganwadi worker. Two people were turned away from a centre as they had recently given birth. One of them, Dr Anjul Rao (29), said, “I am lactating. I hope to get the shot in six months.” At Chauma, where Covaxin was administered, only 24 people turned up till 1pm. “We called up those on the list. While some said they were on the way but never turned up, others did not give any reason,” said Dr Naman Sharma, medical officer, urban primary health centre (UPHC), Chauma. Dr Bindu Yadav, a World Health Organisation-designated officer, visited the centre and spoke to those who had taken the shots. Vinay Kumar, pharmacy officer at the Chauma centre, said: “People are apprehensive. My wife and my father asked me not to get the shot. But I was prepared.” At Medanta, vaccinations started after CM Manohar Lal Khattar addressed doctors. Medanta chairman Dr Naresh Trehan was the first to get the shot. Soon after him, Dr Sushila Katariya, director and head of the department of internal medicine, got the vaccine. “It is safe and people should get the jab. It is a product of research and it has undergone clinical trials. I got vaccinated and I am fine, that means the vaccine is safe,” Dr Trehan said. Other than Chauma, all other centres used Covishield, the vaccine developed by Oxford AstraZeneca. Dr Katariya, who treated the group of Italians who had tested positive last March, appealed to people to follow all protocols even after getting the shot. “People should continue Covid-appropriate behaviour after getting vaccination,” she said. At Bhangrola, an Anganwadi worker said she wanted to spread awareness. “I want to take the shot so I can educate people about the vaccine,” said Pankaj Kumari, who reached the booth in her official dress (red sari). She said her children had asked her to take a picture so they could upload it on social media. Maya Devi, an ANM worker who had tested positive for Covid in August, sounded equally excited. “This is our victory over Covid-19. This is a historic day and I am glad to be part of it,” she said. Poonam, an ANM worker, said her husband, an ambulance driver, and two children had Covid. “We were waiting for this day,” she said. At SGT, most people who got the jabs were employees. Surgeon Dr Shyam Singhla was the first. “There is apprehension about the vaccine. But I had no such doubts. Being a doctor, I am sure about its efficacy,” he said. Housekeeping staff member Pintu, who was next in line, said he was happy to get it. “We should thank scientists for making it possible,” said the 37-year-old. About 12 km away in Daultabad, mostly Asha and Anganwadi workers got the jabs at a centre set up in a government primary school. “The process went off smoothly,” said Amarjeet, an Anganwadi worker who was among the first few in the queue. Two people complained of uneasiness and nausea after taking the shots. They were kept under observation after which they left the booths. What happens to those who missed out on Day 1?Those who did not turn up or were turned away for some reason will be registered for vaccinations again, officials said. It will be done through the CoWIN portal. “We have listed in the portal the names of those who did not turn up. A text message will be sent to them later. Our teams will also try to sensitise them to get the vaccine,” said Dr Virender Yadav, the CMO.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/the-v-shaped-recovery-is-here/articleshow/80308527.cms||Ipsita Pati
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||40-yr-old gets life term for raping toddler||Kota: A POCSO court in Jhalawar on Saturday convicted a 40-year-old man to life term in jail till his natural death for raping a three-and-a-half-year-old minor girl in a village under Manhorethana police station area over two years ago. The POCSO court also slapped a penalty of Rs 20,000 on the convict.The POCSO court no. 2 in Jhalawar convicted Jankilal Lodha (40), a resident of Peepalheda village in Chipabarod area in Baran, to life imprisonment till natural death in jail, said public prosecutor Lalchand Meena. The court also imposed a penalty of Rs 20,000 on the convict, he added.Lodha on October 10, 2018, tempted the minor rape survivor while she was playing with other kids outside her house during the noon hours and took her to an isolated place where he raped her and left her bleeding, he added.On the report by minor survivor’s father, police lodged a case of rape under Section 376 of IPC and sections of POCSO Act in Manhorethana police station and initiated investigation, the public prosecutor Lalchand added.The POCSO court judge Aneesh Dadhich held Jankilal Lodha (40) guilty under sections of IPC and POCSO Act and convicted him to life imprisonment in jail till his natural death under section 5M/6 of POCSO Act, Lalchand said.The statements of at least 15 witnesses were recorded during the trial and 21 documents were produced before the court, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/40-yr-old-gets-life-term-for-raping-toddler/articleshow/80306998.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Stolen mobiles worth Rs 47L recovered, 3 held||Jaipur: Alwar police on Saturday cracked the case of theft at a mobile shop in Bhiwadi on December 28. They have arrested three accused out of nine involved in the robbery from India-Nepal border in the nick of time before they crossd over into the foreign territory. Reportedly, all accused have been traced to Bihar. The stolen items were estimated to be worth Rs 47 lakh including iPhones and digital watches. Bhiwadi SP Ramamurti Joshi said that based on the initial inputs collected through CCTV footage the teams were rushed to Delhi to keep a watch on the Bihar-bound buses and trains. The forensic and cyber teams tracked their identities and modus oprendi which was similar to Belwa-Gedasehan gang involved in similar robberies across the country. "Based on the inputs from inter-state agencies, the police teams reached their village and confirmed that they were involved in the case. Police chased them for 10 days and was missing them by a whisker," said Joshi. Considering that they sold stolen mobile phones in Nepal, a special team was deputed at the border. Since police were after the accused they didn’t get a chance to sell the items in the market or smuggle them to Nepal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/stolen-mobiles-worth-rs-47l-recovered-3-held/articleshow/80306995.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Despite being on watchlist, RBI to continue intervening in forex market||Mumbai: The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) will continue to intervene in foreign exchange market despite being on the currency manipulator watchlist, governor Shaktikanta Das indicated on Saturday while delivering the Nani Palkhivala lecture in Mumbai. According to Das, given the uncertain global economic environment, emerging markets have no recourse but to build their forex reserve buffers even at the cost of being included in currency manipulators list or in the monitoring list of the US Treasury. The governor’s statement comes in the wake of the US adding India to its currency watch list for intervening to support the dollar despite the country turning a current account surplus. RBI added over $100bn to its reserves in 2020 after negative interest rates in several global markets resulted in global capital flooding Indian markets. Das warned that while the medium-term growth outlook is positive, domestic financial markets must be prepared for sudden stops and reversals, should the global risk aversion factors take hold. Going forward, the central bank’s focus would be on ensuring the stability of banks and other lenders, external sector stability and fiscal stability. He urged the government to set up a roadmap for fiscal discipline. “It becomes imperative that fiscal roadmaps are defined not only in terms of quantitative parameters like fiscal balance to GDP ratio or debt to GDP ratio but also in terms of measurable parameters relating to the quality of expenditure, both for center and states,” said Das. Pointing out that the rush of capital into Indian markets is an outcome of accommodative liquidity conditions created by regulators globally, Das said that the rise in forex reserves are now 18.4% of import cover and 236% of short-term debt. “Sound external sector indicators augur well for limiting the impact of spillovers of possible global shocks and financial stability concerns as investors and markets are credibly assured of the buffer against potential contagion,” said Das. The RBI governor added that the global financial crisis of 2008 had demonstrated that sufficient capital adequacy of lenders cannot stave the crisis caused by global capital flows. “while micro-prudential regulations would help determine the strength of a financial entity, they have to be complemented with adequate macro-prudential regulations and anti-systemic risk measures. Preserving systemic stability thus emerged as the cornerstone of central bank policies,” he said. During the current crisis, RBI’s response has been to mitigate the impact of the pandemic through loan moratorium and standstill arrangements. It also ensured that there was adequate liquidity for stressed sectors by releasing close to Rs 12.8 crore or 6.3% of GDP. Subsequently, it brought in place a mechanism for resolving loan defaults on account of the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/despite-being-on-watchlist-rbi-to-continue-intervening-in-forex-market/articleshow/80308643.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Lawyer and aide dumped mishap victim on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway?||MUMBAI: A lawyer and his assistant who dumped a man on the highway after running their car over him in Vasai on Sunday, had offered to take the victim to hospital when a crowd gathered. They have been booked for attempt to murder. Birendra Mishra (34), from Mira Road, and his assistant, Varsha Mishra (18), who ran over Indresh Yadav (24) near Madhuvan in Vasai (E) on January 10, instead dumped him at Sasunavghar on Mumbai-Ahmedabad national highway, around 15km away from the accident spot. They were arrested two days later, after their car was tracked down using CCTV footage. Rajesh Yadav told TOI his brother, being treated at a private hospital in Jogeshwari, had suffered severe head and lung injuries, a broken rib and damage to his eyes. “If the accused rushed him to hospital, my brother’s condition would not have worsened. We suspect they threw him out of a moving car, which caused further damage,” said Rajesh. Varsha, a Vasai resident, was taking driving lessons from Birendra when she lost control of the car and rammed it into Indresh from the rear. Indresh was helped by passers-by. The crowd turned violent but he offered to take the victim to hospital, an eyewitness told police. Indresh’s cellphone was found at the spot where he was dumped.  Rajesh said that his brother recalled being hit by a car driven by a woman. He lost consciousness and regained it at Orbit hospital at Mira Road, where he was initially admitted. Indresh works at a medical store in Bhayander.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/lawyer-aide-dumped-mishap-victim-on-hway/articleshow/80307708.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||AIIMS docs take aim at Covid-19 with Covishield||Nagpur: Doctors at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) displayed their human side while being administered a jab to fight Covid-19 virus during the vaccination drive here on Saturday. All of them were excited after finding their names in the list. They even happily displayed their coupons while queuing for the vaccination. However, when their turn came and the nursing officer was filling up the syringe, apprehension was palpable on faces of some medicos. A few of them even closed their eyes in fear while the needle was piercing their hand. Those clicking their photos on mobiles needed to tell them to keep open their eyes for a good pose. After the vaccination, they were told to take rest in an adjacent room for about 30 minutes, to observe whether they face any side effects or adverse reaction. Once out, they were seen relaxing and cracking jokes with their colleagues over a cup of tea and happily flashed victory signs. They also clicked each other’s photos while being vaccinated and were seen sharing them on the social media platforms. On the first day, about 100 doctors were listed for vaccination from which 70 had taken a jab till evening. Many of them admitted that they were a bit apprehensive in the beginning. Earlier, the vaccination facility was inaugurated by AIIMS director Maj Gen Dr Vibha Dutta in presence of other senior colleagues. The first jab was administered to senior administrative officer, Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, followed by academic dean, Dr Mrunal Pathak. Both told TOI that being seniors, they decided to take a lead to instill confidence among others , particularly their junior colleagues, to ally their apprehensions regarding the Indian made vaccine Covishield. “My objective was to remove any misconceptions from the minds of health care staff, who’re our corona warriors dealing directly with the Covid-19 affected patients,” he says. Echoing his views, Dr Pathak adds, “Everyone should come forward voluntarily to get the vaccine to prevent from getting infected from the deadly virus. It’s totally safe for everyone.” After both completed their process, their colleagues in waiting along with the director and other staff welcomed them with claps. Nursing officer Ramya P, who administered the first few shots to medicos, says they were given training at Government Medical College and Hospital and also at AIIMS in this regard. “We were also provided online training,” she added. Registration in-charge Dr Harshanand Popalwar adds that all their 750 staff members, including doctors and nursing staff, would get the vaccine in about eight days. “All of them will be provided with second dose of Covishield in four to six weeks.” In the afternoon, World Health Organisation (WHO) surveillance officer, Dr Mohammed Sajid, also visited the premises to take stock of the situation and spoke to the coordinators. “We had received the first consignment of 1,000 doses. Our team was also trained in using CoWin app. We had made full preparations for this day,” AIIMS representative Sonakshi Jyrwa said. “For few days, we will administer vaccines from one room till we complete our 750 staff. Later, we will open the adjacent room, once common people would start coming in,” nursing coordinator Mahendra Pal Singh adds. Throughout the day, the security guards were seen instructing the staff on maintaining social distancing and wearing masks.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/aiims-docs-take-aim-at-covid-19-with-covishield/articleshow/80306993.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||1 dead as city bus turns turtle at 22 Godam Circle||Jaipur: One person was killed and two others critically injured after a city bus turned turtle at 22 Godam Circle at 9am on Saturday. The incident occurred after the bus hit a car ahead of it on the flyover. The driver lost control of the bus which swirled before it overturned. The deceased was identified as Kishore Dhanka of Ganpati Vihar while driver Wahid Khan of Pathano Ka Rasta and passenger Deepak Meena were critically injured and admitted to SMS Hospital. The traffic police and locals present on the spot rushed to save passengers in the bus. "The bus was evacuated and those injured including the driver were rushed to SMS Hospital in the ambulance and by the locals in their vehicles," said SHO of accident police station Shiv Dayal. "When the accident took place, the bus had 11 passengers. Eight of them were discharged after first aid in the hospital," said Dayal.He informed that the city bus was plying on route no. 29 from Sodala to Rambagh. Police have filed a case of rash driving against the driver. The younger brother of the deceased said, “My brother was a daily wage labourer and was on the way to work at Lal Kothi in the bus.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/1-dead-as-city-bus-turns-turtle-at-22-godam-circle/articleshow/80307005.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh hits a 6! Out of every 10 volunteers, 6 turn up||BHOPAL: An impressive six in ten people who got an SMS to get vaccinated turned up in 52 districts of Madhya Pradesh. The state recorded 63.6% of coverage across 150 vaccination booths. In plane numbers, 9,543 out of 15,000 got vaccinated on Day 1 of the drive on Saturday Dindori district covered 93% of its vaccination target while Dhar and Shahjapur were equally notable with about 80% -- 251 and 248 people out of 300, getting vaccinated. In urban areas, Jabalpur had the most remarkable turnout. Jabalpur which reported the first Covid-19 patient, vaccinated 570 of the 700 (81%) identified people. Rewa had a target of 800 vaccinations for the day. The coverage was limited with 365 health workers turning up for vaccination. Seoni reported 48% and Sidhi completed 49% of the targeted vaccinations. In the state capital, against the health department target of 1200 vaccinations, the most anywhere in MP, there was 58% turnout. 700 vaccine doses were administered to people. AIIMS Bhopal and EME military hospital, reported a 100% turnout. However, in many locations across the 12 vaccination sites in Bhopal, people who got the vaccine dose were not scheduled to get the vaccination until late evening, sources said. Till late night on Friday, health department were working on the beneficiary list. “Some of us were working till 1.30 am on Friday night. The main issue is the software integration. Everyone needs to be on the same page. It is not an election where voting percentage matters. We have to remember that vaccination is voluntary,” said a senior health official.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/mp-hits-a-6-out-of-every-10-volunteers-6-turn-up/articleshow/80307006.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Sanitation worker at Gandhi gets Telangana’s first Covid vaccine shot||HYDERABAD: When sanitation worker, S Kishtamma, showed up at work on Saturday morning, little did she know that she’d become the first person to be administered the Covid-19 vaccine in Telangana. The 42-year-old staff of Gandhi Hospital was initially slotted to get the vaccine shot on Monday. “When I came to the hospital this morning, I was surprised to know that I would be the first one to get it...I was a little nervous initially...But I am feeling absolutely fine now,” Kishtamma told TOI after stepping out of the observation room. The leader of the sanitation workers union has been employed at Gandhi Hospital for 14 years and has worked in the Covid-19 ward since the start of the pandemic. Her family, though, was apprehensive about her being on the beneficiaries’ list and even discouraged her from taking the vaccine. “I did not opt for the vaccine myself, it was the hospital authorities’ decision to enroll me. But my children weren’t very comfortable with me getting vaccinated in the first round. They asked me to wait for some time,” said the mother of three who decided to go ahead with it, nonetheless. “I have no ailments or co-morbidities. And despite working in the Covid ward, I did contract the virus. Neither did anybody else from my family, even though two of my children are in public service,” Kishtamma said, claiming that her non-vegetarian diet is the secret behind her good health. Apart from being happy for herself, the Dammaiguda-resident said that her getting vaccinated will encourage other sanitation workers to take the jab. “Many of them are still scared because of what they have been hearing, about side-effects, from people around them. After seeing me go through with it without any complications, I am sure they’ll be more confident about getting vaccinated,” said Kishtamma. The sanitation worker was among the 30 Covid warriors who were vaccinated at the hospital on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sanitation-worker-at-gandhi-gets-ts-first-vaccine-shot/articleshow/80308560.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Alwar: Missing teen found dead in Bhiwadi||ALWAR: A 13-year-old boy who was missing since January 7 was found murdered in Bhiwadi police station area in Alwar on Saturday. The deceased Aman was the son of Rajesh Kumar, who is disabled and runs a tea shop in Bhiwadi. Kumar filed a police complaint on January 8. Aman was the only child of Rajesh who is shaken after he heard the news of his son’s death. The report says that he had been searching the boy on his own in the entire area on his tricycle looking in every nook and corner in the town. "He has been running from pillar to post holding the picture of his son but neither he nor the police could trace the boy," said a social activist who was helping Kumar in finding his son. SP Bhiwadi Ramamurti Joshi said that they are probing the case from all angles. "The case is being investigated and soon the culprits will be behind the bars," said Joshi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/missing-teen-found-dead-in-bhiwadi/articleshow/80307002.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Sub-engineer held with Rs 1.4 lakh, fake quarantine stamp, hospital letterheads||MUMBAI: Sahar police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old sub-engineer and two accomplices for their alleged role in collecting Rs4,000 from each flyer arriving at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) who wanted to skip mandatory institutional quarantine. Police seized Rs 1.4 lakh cash, 200 Saudi Riyals, a fake rubber stamp of home quarantine, few letterheads with stamp and signatures of doctors from some top private hospitals in the bag of Dinesh Gawande (35), who was posted by BMC at the airport since December 23 and had to check flyers from Dubai, Kuwait and US at P6 on Friday. Police are probing if officials helped Gawande to get the bribes and the number of flyers he cleared with fake documents. If found guilty he can be imprisoned for seven years. Gawande’s luck ran short he barged into a toilet and returned with a bag after pushing aside a lady from the housekeeping staff who was walking in around 5.50am. “The woman complained to CISF and MIAL officials after she suspected Gawande, who claimed he was helped by Ashraf Sarang (41) and Vivek Singh (32) from the airport’s duty-free shop in making fake health certificates. The trio was booked under IPC sections for violation of prohibitory orders, cheating, forgery, counterfeiting a mark used by a public servant and under Epidemic and Disaster Act. They are in police custody till January 19,” a Sahar police officer said. Officials, on a tip-off from the woman, checked Gawande’s bag and found a huge amount of cash along with fake documents like a fake home quarantine rubber stamp ‘Proud to protect Mumbaikars Home Quarantine Till’it, fake signatures and stamp of doctors on four letterheads of Tata Memorial Hospital, three letterheads of Asian Heart Institute and two of a doctor of Care Medical Centre. “Gawande admitted he was collecting bribes. His bank account will be checked. He shared the money with Sarang and Singh,” said a police officer. Singh’s lawyers Prabhakar Tripathi and Saurabh Mishra requested the court for judicial custody as the accused did not have any role in the case and he went with his team leader to assist him. “Police are alleging Singh is in BMC, which is false. He worked at the duty-free shop. The quarantine seal is applied at the lobby of arrival hall, that is first an immigration check is done and thereafter Customs check, and then the BMC counter,” said Tripathi. Police recorded statements of flyers Khan Javid Nawab from Andheri (W), Shaikh Shakeel Salim and Khan Arbaz Sattar from Malad (W), Harie Rio John from Nerul (E) and Shaikh Shakir Sakur from Nashik, who flew from Dubai and Kuwait, and said Gawande collected Rs4000 from them. BMC on Friday suspended Gawande.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/fake-quarantine-stamp-letterheads-of-top-hosps-seized-from-bmc-sub-engineer/articleshow/80307245.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Bhopal: A day of excitement for doctors & volunteers at jab centre||BHOPAL: Vaccination for Covid-19 started at Pandit Khushilal Sharma Ayurvedic Medical College on Saturday. The atmosphere at the institute was happy and all those volunteering for the vaccine shot were excited. The doctors and medical staff took a group photograph before starting the vaccination. A list of 100 volunteers, all associated with the institute, was shortlisted for first phase of vaccination. The first vaccine was administered to a professor at Khushilal College, Dr Nitin Marwah at 11.11 am. Second vaccine was administered to Dr Hariprakash Sharma, third to Dr Sanjay Shrivastava, fourth to Dr Rajesh Bhavsar and fifth to Dr Deepshikha Singh. The institute had started preparations since morning. First, registration of the volunteers was conducted at the institute after which they were sent for vaccination. Before administering the vaccine, nurse informed the volunteers about the vaccine and its effects. After administering the vaccine, the volunteers were asked to sit in the observation room for around half an hour. The college comes under ward-29 so the field medical workers (ASHA) were included in the volunteer list. They were also given the responsibility of vaccination process. Asha workers including Deepmala Choudhary, Asha Burman, Asmita Salve, Ranjana Bagre and others said that they were on duty.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/a-day-of-excitement-for-docs-volunteers-at-jab-centre/articleshow/80307007.cms||Sudeept Mishra
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||A rosy welcome for vaccine recipients at Daga Hospital||Nagpur: At first sight the decked up entrance of the pandal resembled a budget wedding venue with floral and rangoli decorations around it. But a look at the display board above the pandal, and the design of rangoli makes it clear that this is a centre for Covid-19 vaccine. Daga Memorial Hospital (DMH) is a state run hospital which caters specifically to women and children, and is one of the designated vaccination centres in Nagpur city. Dr Madhuri Thorat, medical superintendent of DMH, says decorations at the centre were done to have a ‘feel good’ factor. “Those who come for vaccination must not feel that it’s a routine medical exercise. It’s a very special day for India and we at DMH are fortunate to be part of this special occasion,” said Dr Thorat. Dr Sanjeev Dhawad, administrative officer at DMH, spearheaded the decoration plan. “We all thought it would be better to deck up the place on day one,” said Dr Dhawad. Vaccine recipients were welcomed with roses to add to the ‘festive’ mood around. At least for day one, there were no strangers at the centre because all vaccine recipients were healthcare workers from DMH. Dr Sanjay Karpate, DMH vaccination centre in-charge, said, “They are all our staff, right from doctors to nurses. All frontline workers are proud to taking part in a historic vaccination campaign. Entire 2020 has gone in fighting off the virus and this vaccine is now our biggest ally in 2021 and beyond.” Multiple training sessions and dry runs of the vaccination process seem to have worked as roll out happened like clockwork. At 11.20am, the first vaccine shot was given to Dr Sandhya Dange, additional civil surgeon at DMH. “I wish to tell everyone that they must not be afraid. All concerns over the vaccine have been answered by medical professionals and I hope that with us (healthcare workers) taking the first shot, common folks will gain confidence,” said Dr Dange. Nita Murarkar, staff nurse at DMH, gave that first jab. “For the last 15 years I have been doing this, so the vaccination process itself is not new nor challenging. But still we have undergone a lot of training as even I can’t remember seeing such a massive scale immunization process ever,” said Murarkar. Dr Sanjay Deshmukh, whose turn to take the shot came around noon, said he felt like being part of a greater cause. “This is surreal. It’s not just any vaccine shot we are taking, rather it’s a message being given to the entire country. We have come a long way since last year when this virus appeared and today marks the beginning of our aggressive response to that,”said Dr Deshmukh. Immediately after the vaccination shot, he goes across the hall to the observation room. Here cardiologist Dr Avinash Arke is ready with his team and the entire set up to handle any emergency. “Reactions, if at all, can happen within the first 30 minutes. We have a well-established standard operating procedure to deal with any incident,” said Dr Arke. DMH has converted a paediatric OPD unit into a vaccination centre. Dr Vineeta Jain, senior paediatrician at DMH, said, “We have shifted the operations to another part of the hospital. It’s all operating smoothly as everything had been pre-planned.” FIRST DAY, FIRST SHOW * Centre name: Daga Memorial Hospital * First vaccine: Given at 11:20am * First beneficiary: Dr Sandhya Dange, additional civil surgeon * First nurse to give vaccine: Nita Murarkar, staff nurse * Vaccinations on day 1: 53/100||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/a-rosy-welcome-for-vaccine-recipients-at-daga-hospital/articleshow/80306997.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Covid-19: Inoculation in Secunderabad from January 18||SECUNDERABAD: The first phase of the Covid-19 vaccination programme will begin on January 18 in the Secunderabad Cantonment. About 1,057 health workers will be inoculated in this phase. The health and sanitation wing of the Secunderabad Cantonment Board (SCB) in coordination with the Telangana medical and health department have made arrangements. Inoculation will begin at 9am on Monday at the Bowenpally Government High School, two government dispensaries at Picket, Trimulgherry and two private hospitals. “We have made all the necessary arrangements like waiting halls, observation chambers. The first novel coronavirus case was identified at New Bowenpally. As per the government directive, we have selected health staff who are the frontline warriors during the pandemic,” said M Devender, senior superintendent, SCB (SWM). TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inoculation-in-secbad-from-mon/articleshow/80308587.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kochi||Sister Abhaya case: Inquiry by higher courts will reveal truth, says church||KOCHI: The synod of the Syro-Malabar church has expressed concerns over the way in which some media outlets and organizations have been allegedly targeting the Church in the wake of the verdict in the sister Abhaya case. In a statement, the Church said though it accepts the CBI court’s verdict as a community that believes in the probity of the judicial process of the country, the difference of opinions on the conclusions of the verdict raised by learned and reputed jurists, forensic experts and criminal lawyers have to be considered seriously. The synod further stated that the Church hopes that examination of the verdict by higher courts will reveal the truth. The first summit of the 29th Synod of the Syro-Malabar church which began on Monday entered its final session on Saturday. As many as 63 bishops attended the synod presided over by cardinal George Alencherry. The synod, which was hosted via video conferencing, was held over the past six days from 5pm to 7pm and church sources said if all matters on the agenda are discussed, the synod would be declared concluded on Saturday itself. Cardinal George Alencherry, archbishop Antony Kariyil and curia bishop Sebastian Vaniyapurackal attended Saturday’s session from the church’s Mount St Thomas headquarters .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/inquiry-by-higher-courts-will-reveal-truth-church/articleshow/80306418.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Time lost due to glitches in CoWIN application||Nashik/Auranagabad/Kolhapur: With the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination programme rolling out on Saturday, there were reports from across the state about technical glitches in the Co-WIN app that delayed the process of inoculating the first batch of beneficiaries. The CoWIN app has been developed by the Union government for verification of the beneficiaries. At many places the officials had to fill out offline forms for the verification of the beneficiaries. According to Raghunath Bhoye, civil surgeon of Nandurbar, the app was working smoothly at the district civil hospital when the vaccination drive started at 10.30am. “After som etime, the app was either not opening or was taking 20-25 minutes to open. Later, we had to start the verification process offline to prevent further delay,” said Bhoye. Medical superintendent of NMC, Bapisaheb Nagargoje, admitted that the staff of Nashik Municipal Corporation had problems operating the app. “The functioning of the app was erratic till around 2:30pm. But thereafter, it was smooth,” he said. District health officer Kapil Aher pointed said the application was giving problems while feeding the data. “In the morning, things were okay. But, during noon, reports started emerging from Chandwad and Niphad that the application was down. We were given a Google spread sheet to upload the data. The data was fed into the system later as and when the app responded,” said Aher. In Marathwada, 40 vaccination centres were identified to administer the shot to the beneficiaries. Health officials refused to comment on the app stating that the technical glitches neither delayed nor affected the overall vaccination process anywhere. The situation was no different in Kolhapur. Umesh Kadam, dean of Seva Hospital, asked the vaccinators to start the registration manually till the portal resumed to work smoothly. The portal continued to respond intermittently till afternoon and started running smoothly around 5pm. However, by then, very few beneficiaries were left for the vaccination. Most of the beneficiaries were Asha workers who claimed that they did not receive a message about the vaccination drive. They claimed that hospital authorities asked them not to line up at the vaccination site as only those who had registered through the portal and received a text message were to be given the vaccine. Milind Pore, district health officer of Sangli, said they faced administrative and technical problems on day one. “We have identified these problems and will address them.” Considering the mounting complaints about the issues related to the application, the state government issued a communication on Saturday asking the health authorities to fill offline forms for the verification of the beneficiaries. Instructions have also been issued to upload the data online as and when the portal functions smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/time-lost-due-to-glitches-in-cowin-application/articleshow/80306554.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||10 months after Covid outbreak, vaccination drive begins in state||Nashik: Almost 10 months after the outbreak of the Covid pandemic, the vaccination drive took off on Saturday with more 50% of participation in different districts of Maharashtra. The vaccination centres in the districts were decorated with rangoli and balloons, where the staff welcomed the beneficiaries who risked their lives during the Covid situation. As many as 68% of the total 4,000 beneficiaries in the five districts of north Maharashtra — Nashik, Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar — took the Covid vaccine. Of the 4,000 health workers, who were supposed to get the jab, over 2,145 turned up at the various centres. The remaining beneficiaries skipped taking the vaccine for various reasons like a sudden death in the family, some had health issues like blood pressure, comorbidity, etc. Some also refrained from taking the shot out of fear. The most impressive performance was registered in Dhule district, where 97% of the total 400 beneficiaries took the jab. “In the first phase of the vaccination, our district has stood second among all districts in state. We were in touch with our beneficiaries and had been counselling them about the utility of getting the vaccine,” said Vishal Patil, the Dhule district Covid coordinator. The vaccination drive began in all the five districts in an upbeat mood with guardian ministers of districts like Jalgaon and Nandurbar visiting the session sites. Divisional commissioner Radhakrishna Game inaugurated the vaccination programme after “Dhanwantari puja’ at the district hospital. PB Gandal, the acting deputy director of health, Nashik, said, “Saturday was the first day and we are likely to see better turnout in the next couple of sessions.” Nashik district collector Suraj Mandhare, police commissioner Deepak Pandey and others lead by Game spoke to the first beneficiary at the vaccination centre and congratulated him. About 1,100 skip vaccine drive in Marathwada  Of the listed 2,000 beneficiaries in the Aurangabad circle of the health department, comprising four districts, 495 beneficiaries did not take the vaccine, while in the Latur circle, which also comprises four districts, 595 beneficiaries did come. As per the SOP, each of the vaccination booths was supposed to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries. Apart from the health authorities, a dedicated team of World Health Organisation, led by Dr Sayyed Mujib, monitored execution of the drive . In Aurangabad district, of the 1,000 listed beneficiaries, 647 took the jab while out of 400 beneficiaries listed in Jalna and Parbhani, only 287 and 371 took the jabs, respectively. Hingoli turned out to be the only district where all the 200 listed beneficiaries took the jab In Latur, of the 600 people, 379 turned up while 213 people of the 300 listed in Osmanabad took the jab. In Nanded 252 people received the vaccine of the 500 while of the 500 people in Beed, 491 turned up for vaccination. Only 52% turnout in Kolhapur district  Around 52% of beneficiaries from Kolhapur district showed up to get shots at 11 vaccination centres. The district health administration was expecting at least 100 beneficiaries, mostly the health care workers., at each centre. However, by the end of the drive, 570 people turned up. Kolhapur city witnessed a low turnout of beneficiaries. Of the 500 expected beneficiaries, 183 turned out to receive the jab. All those turned out have been asked to show up again after 28 days to get the second dose of the vaccine. A total of 86 beneficiaries turned up at Seva Hospital for vaccination followed by Gadhinglaj rural hospital where 82 people showed up as against the expected turnout of 100 beneficiaries. Around 60% turnout in Satara and Sangli In Satara district, 68% of health care workers participated in the vaccination drive while Sangli district reported 51 % participation till the evening. Solapur district, however, reported 91% of participation. In Sangli district vaccination drive was inaugurated by district guardian minister Jayant Patil. The drive was launched in Satara, Phaltan, Koregaon, Karad, Wai, Patan and Dahiwad in Satara district. District guardian minister Balasaheb Patil sense the relief among the health care workers because of vaccination. In Solapur city, the vaccination campaign was kicked off by urban development minister Eknath Shinde.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/10-months-after-covid-outbreak-vaccination-drive-begins-in-state/articleshow/80306546.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Seven AEFI cases in Madhya Pradesh, no one severe||BHOPAL: Seven frontline workers in Madhya Pradesh who took the coronavirus vaccination on Saturday were reported for adverse events following immunisation (AEFI). One person was categorised as ‘serious’ but the rest recovered and were permitted to go home, according to health department officials. “No death or any deformity was reported. All are expected to make a full recovery,” said a health official. AEFI on day one of coronavirus vaccine in the state stood at 0.083% (out of 9,543 vaccinated). The level of sickness rate for other immunisations in the state is much higher, 1.6%, according to the techno-economic assessment of Electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN). AEFI is categorised into three categories, namely, minor, serious and severe. None of the seven frontline workers were severe. The person who required hospitalisation is said to be a in his 30s. He developed chest pain and an ECG was conducted. As a precautionary measure, he would be in hospital for the night, a health official said. He developed adverse reaction in 45 minutes after the administration of Covishield. Two of the AEFI were reported within 15 minutes of the vaccination, while four reported side-effects and discomfort within 30 minutes in the observation room. One person reported swelling after three hours. He was near the vaccination centre at that time and was admitted for medical check-up. It is also learnt that one person who reported AEFI did not take his diabetic medication in the morning. Two people had a history of COPD. The reporting of AEFI through surveillance and action for events following vaccination (SAFEVAC) has been integrated with the Co-WIN software. Every AEFI is to be reported as per protocol.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/seven-aefi-cases-in-mp-no-one-severe/articleshow/80307013.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||No bail for Pratap Sarnaik ‘aide’ in Tops Grup laundering case||MUMBAI: A special PMLA court on Saturday rejected the bail plea of Amit Chandole, alleged aide of Shiv Sena MLA Pratap Sarnaik. Chandole was arrested by ED last year in a money-laundering case against private firm Tops Grup. ED alleged Sarnaik has been receiving cash as “kickbacks” from the firm through Chandole.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-bail-for-sarnaik-aide-in-tops-grup-laundering-case/articleshow/80307768.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: ‘Could you please repeat?’ Co-Win fails to win hearts||BHOPAL: Covid-19 Vaccine Intelligence Network or Co-Win browser interface went online on Saturday. Excited people vying to register for the vaccine were faced with an pre-recorded AI chat interface. For every query the chat interface repeated only on answer ‘I dont quite understand. Could you please repeat that? You can also connect the Co-Win Call Centre Helpline 1075 for any further assistance!’, said Kamlesh Shrivastava, an IT professional. He is one of thousands who wish to register for the vaccine. He explained that Co-Win Helpdesk, which is a chat interface lacks human interface. “Generally after a few basic queries, chat assistant answers the query. In the case of cowin.gov.in/home it is not working,” he said. Co-Win has been developed as an extension of the existing electronic Vaccine Intelligence Network (eVIN) module for it to be a comprehensive cloud-based IT solution for planning, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation of Covid-19 vaccination in India. The Co-Win system is an end to end solution that has utilities for the entire public health system from national up to the vaccinator level. The system allows for creation of users (admins, supervisors, vaccinators), registration of beneficiaries (bulk upload and individual registration), facilities/planning unit and session sites followed by planning and scheduling sessions and implementation of vaccination process, according to government guidelines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/could-you-please-repeat-co-win-fails-to-win-hearts/articleshow/80307015.cms||Jamal Ayub
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: PM’s ‘don’t jump queue’ remark has Eatala Rajender rethink||HYDERABAD: State health minister Eatala Rajender decided against taking the vaccine on Day 1. He said that his decision followed Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s directive to allow healthcare workers to take the shot in round 1. The minister, meanwhile, visited the Gandhi Hospital to take stock of the vaccination programme at the hospital. Speaking to media at the hospital, he clarified that although he had said he would take the vaccine during the launch, he later went by the PM’s suggestion to states to prioritize healthcare workers. While stressing on the need to take the vaccine, he urged people to continue taking all precautions even after taking the jab. “The antibodies for the virus do not develop after the first dose. It will only begin developing 42 days after taking the vaccine. Also, we do not know how effective and for how long the vaccine will be effective. Hence, it is essential that people continue to take all Covid-19 precautions including hand hygiene, social distancing and wearing of masks,” said the minister. The minister said that the implementation of the vaccination programme in the state is as per the directives of the Centre. “The first to be vaccinated will be healthcare workers and front-line workers including sanitation staff, police and municipal corporation staff.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/pms-dont-jump-queue-remark-has-eatala-rethink/articleshow/80308597.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Vijay Sethupathi cuts cake with machete, cops mull criminal case||CHENNAI: The city police are considering registering a criminal case against Vijay Sethupathi after visuals of the actor wielding a machete to cut his birthday cake went viral on social media platforms. The 43-year-old later issued a statement apologizing for the incident which he said occurred at a shooting spot three days ago. Police said they are considering legal experts. The celebrations involving the actor, who is elated after the box office success of his latest Kollywood movie ‘Master’ also starring Vijay, also included film director Ponram and a few assistant directors. Though the event was held indoors with limited attendees, a video of the ‘cutting’ was leaked on social media and soon sparked a big debate, with many people saying it set a poor example. In his statement issued later, Vijay Sethupathi expressed regret. He said he had agreed to use the machete as it plays a vital role in his upcoming film with Ponram, but admitted that it was the wrong thing to do. “After many well-wishers told me this would set a bad example for the common people, I am issuing this statement. I vow to be more cautious in future,” he said. But the storm triggered by the incident continues to rage. Many say that the city police, who had earlier arrested a few rowdies, small-time anti-social elements often termed ‘Pullingos’, lawyers and even newly married man for such celebrations, should use the same yardstick whule dealing with the present case. Karthikeyan, an advocate practising in the Madras high court, said, “The law is equal for all. Police should register a case against Vijay Sethupathi for using a machete to cut his birthday cake.” Since 2018 when rowdy Binu Pappachan celebrated his birthday by cutting a cake with a machete at a farmhouse and was arrested, such celebrations have become common, say activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/sethupathi-cuts-cake-with-machete-cops-mull-criminal-case/articleshow/80307014.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Jaipur: Six arrested for looting Rs 10 lakh from dairy booth owner||JAIPUR: Jaipur police on Saturday solved the mystery behind the loot of Rs 10 lakh from a dairy booth owner-cum-collector Rajesh Saini in Pratapnagar area on January 11. Police have arrested six accused Praveen Pipliwal, Lalit Mishra, Kamal Tinkar, Bharat Teckwani, Samir Khan and Rajat Singhal while the two main kingpins—Sahil Bhatnagar and Nitin are yet to be arrested. In a press conference, Abhijeet Singh, deputy commissioner police, Jaipur (East), said that that accused had planned the incident in Agra. “The accused knew that Saini goes to the bank to deposit the collection almost every day and the route he follows was also known to him. They divided among themselves into three to four teams – one accused job was to watch the movements of Saini. Another team was waiting for him in the car owned by one accused on the wrong side of the road. Two more accused on the bike to provide back up support to the accused in the car. The accused in the car were informed of the Saini’s location through WhatsApp and the moment they see him coming they hit him and ran away with the bag,” said Singh. The car got damaged in the accident and they parked the car in a garage at Gonar road for repair. The accused went to Agra to divide the share among themselves. Police have recovered the car used in the incident and Rs 5 lakh out of the total money claimed by Saini. Officials said they activated their informers who in turn gave the lead that a car which met with an accident has come for repair at Gonar Road garage within hours of the incident. “The car turned out to be the one we were looking for and helped us in reaching out to the accused,” said police.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/six-arrested-for-looting-rs-10l-from-dairy-booth-owner/articleshow/80307020.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Culling not needed if wild birds are found infected||Nashik: Ahmednagar district reported its first confirmed case of avian influenza has after the sample of a dead crow tested positive for the infection. The report was generated by the ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Disease Laboratory in Bhopal. “We had two cases in two different villages — 60 hens dying in Midsangvi of Pathardi taluka and a crow and pigeon dying in the Bhangao village of Srigonda taluka. Only the crow’s sample confirmed the infection,” said Sunil Tumbhare, the animal husbandry officer of Ahmednagar. He said the animal husbandry team has already surveyed both the areas where the dead birds were found and an alert was sounded. “The biosecurity measures were carried out at both the locations to ensure that the infection, if any, does not spread to nearby places,” said Tumbhare. The animal husbandry department, meanwhile, has also renewed the guideline on the culling of birds. “The new guidelines state that if wild or migratory birds (not the ones in captive or reared for human consumption) test positive for the infection, then biosecurity measures should be followed. The area should be declared an álert zone’. No culling of birds is required in this case. However, confirmed infection among captive birds or poultry merits the place to be declared a ‘culling zone’,” assistant commissioner of Nashik G R Patil said. The renewed guideline comes as a huge relief for poultry farmers as it prevents unnecessary culling of their birds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/culling-not-needed-if-wild-birds-are-found-infected/articleshow/80307016.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Over 30% give Covid vaccine a miss||HYDERABAD: Several registered beneficiaries stayed away from taking the jab on day 1 of the vaccine roll-out, compelling authorities to fill the gaps with the next line of beneficiaries at the last minute. While most missing names were replaced eventually, about 300 spots remained vacant till the end. Some beneficiaries that TOI spoke to, confessed they were scared and could not muster the courage to go ahead with it. “I have two comorbidities and am scared about the outcome. Even my family discouraged me from taking the vaccine and asked me to quit my job if required,” said one of the absentee beneficiaries at the Dr Paul Doss Maternity Hospital, speaking on condition of anonymity. Around 10 anganwadi and asha workers at the centre, refused to take the vaccine. “In fact, until four days ago, we had only two-three beneficiaries who were on board. Most of them felt that these are some kind of untested vaccines and they are being administered it as part of clinical trials” said Dr M Raja Rao, superintendent of Gandhi Hospital. He added: “Then I met the class IV workers union, nurses union and doctors unions and explained to how this vaccine has completed stage three of trials and what these trials are. Eventually, on Friday night we had 50 beneficiaries willing to take the shot.” Authorities said all those who failed to show up will need to give an explanation, in writing, for dropping out. “At our centre, there were about 10 beneficiaries who did not turn up. Some of them even switched off their mobile phones so that we could not contact them. Even out attempts to reach a few of them at their homes, went in vain,” said a source at the vaccination centre in King Koti Hospital adding, “There were some who turned up at the hospital but could not be convinced to take the jab, despite doctors and other beneficiaries encouraging.” At the Osmania General Hospital (OGH), officials had to make impromptu changes to their list and replace 11 ‘missing’ beneficiaries with those slotted for vaccination next week. “There was some hesitation among beneficiaries and some of them did not turn up for the launch. However, they will also be covered in the subsequent days. We will counsel them and get them vaccinated as well,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director of public health, Telangana.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/over-30-give-vaccine-a-miss/articleshow/80308603.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||AAP exhibition in Dehradun on state of govt schools||DEHRADUN: Following the conclusion of their ‘Selfie with School’ campaign, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has put up an exhibition in Dehradun displaying photos showcasing the ‘poor condition’ of the state government schools in Uttarakhand. The party members have claimed that these photos were clicked by the residents of different localities. Sanjay Bhatt, party spokesperson, said, “Tall claims made by the ruling BJP government regarding high standards of education in the state don't hold any substance. The photos of the schools displayed in the exhibitions clearly suggests that the chief minister hasn’t done any work in this area. Children from weak financial backgrounds are suffering greatly because of this negligence.” Recently, Aam Aadmi Party leader and Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, during his visit to Dehradun, was kept waiting on stage as Uttarakhand minister Madan Kaushik didn’t turn up for a debate with him over development-related issues in the state. Sisodia, during his first visit to Dehradun last year, had asked the Trivendra Singh Rawat-led BJP government to list “five development works undertaken in its tenure so far”. It is worth mentioning that AAP supremo Arvind Kejriwal has announced that the party will fight the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand. He added that AAP will contest on all 70 assembly seats in Uttarakhand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/aap-puts-poor-condition-of-govt-schools-on-exhibition-in-doon/articleshow/80306457.cms||Mohammad Anab
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 13-year-old goes for a walk with pet, found dead||CHENNAI: A 13-year-old boy who went for a walk with his pet at Urapakkam on Friday was found dead in a canal on Saturday. Police identified the deceased as Mukesh Kumar, a Class VIII student at a Tambaram school.  Police, quoting his parents, said the boy took his dog out for a walk after his online classes ended for the day. However, his parents Ponnurangam, 50, and Leelarani, 42, grew worried when the dog returned to their house at Swami Vivekanandar Nagar at Mannivakkam near Urapakkam alone. They immediately launched a search for the boy along with some neighbours. As the search proved futile, Ponnurangam lodged a missing person complaint at the Otteri police station. A case was registered and officers began searching for the boy. Meanwhile, a few Guduvancherry residents on Saturday morning informed police about a body found floating in a canal. The canal is about 3.5km from Kumar’s home. A team from the Guduvancherry police station rushed to the place and recovered the body, which was sent to the Government Hospital in Chengalpet for autopsy. On information from the Guduvancherry team, the Otteri police informed Ponnurangam and asked him to check if the body was that of his son. The family later confirmed that it was Kumar’s. Police are now probing if the boy slipped and fell into the canal, which was flooded after the recent rain. Further investigations are on.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/13-yr-old-goes-for-a-walk-with-pet-found-dead/articleshow/80307028.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ajmer||Illicit liquor: 1,600 litres spirit, three burners destroyed in Ajmer||AJMER: Two teams of district excise department on Saturday raided the foothills of Boraj and destroyed 1,600 litres of spirit and three burners used for preparing illicit liquor. When the raid party reached the spot, the accused fled from the scene. Looking to the incidents of deaths in Bharatpur due to illegal hooch, a team of district excise department raided the foothills of Boraj on a tip-off. The team recovered three burners and wash filled in drums for preparing liquor. People who were working on the site fled away in hills when the team reached. The team destroyed the burners and the drums. They also carried out search in nearby villages to identify the accused. The accused use the foothills of Aravallis in Boraj, Masuda and old Beawar to prepare illegal liquor because these places are isolated and they get water and wood for burner. Officials said that they are keeping vigil in these places and also trying to identify the gang engaged in this racket. The department became alert after the incident in Bharatpur where seven people died after consuming illicit liquor. Sources said that Jaipur headquarters directed all the districts to identify such gangs and act against them to stop such incidents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ajmer/illicit-liquor-1600l-spirit-three-burners-destroyed-in-ajmer/articleshow/80307038.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Man wanted for Pune firing held||Aurangabad: Aurangabad city police in the wee hours of Saturday arrested a 28-year-old man wanted by Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionorate on the charges of making a futile bid on the life of a private executive in Sangvi. The suspect has been identified as Sunil Hiwale of Selu in Parbhani district and currently residing in N 98 H of Shri Krushnagar of Aurangabad city. It was a team led by assistant inspector Rahul Suryatal who nabbed the suspect while he was moving around the Baba Petrol Pump area. The officer said that the Pimpri Chinchwad police have been informed about the same and the process of handing him over to the them is under way. A 30-year-old man from Old Sangvi on Saturday night had a narrow escape when an unidentified person shot at him from a very close range. The bullet passed through the muscles of the victim Vijay Solanki’s neck and hit at his cellphone. Following the incident, a case of an attempt to murder was registered with the Sangvi police again the unknown person.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/man-wanted-for-pune-firing-held/articleshow/80307053.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 17, 2021||Kolhapur||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310276.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310278.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Covid restrictions force ICF to slash production by 50%||CHENNAI: The pandemic and the associated restrictions have reduced by almost 50% the number of coaches made at Integral Coach Factory (ICF). The curbs have also affected the extent of outsourcing followed in the production process. The factory will be making only around 2,000 coaches in the 2020-21 financial year. The factory used to make around 4,000 coaches a year. The factory did not make Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) sleeper class coaches while only a few LHB AC coaches were manufactured this year though it has a capacity to make more than 300 coaches per year. A majority of the coaches made were self-propelled ones like MEMU. "The target has been scaled down because of the low demand and also because of the thinking in the railway ministry that rolling stock should be made largely by private manufacturers. It looks like railway-owned factories will be making self propelled rakes which are ideal for use on short inter-city routes," said a source. Besides, the requirement for LHB coaches for railways has also come down. Most of the ICF-design coaches have been replaced and not many trains were operated for most part of 2020 because of the shutdown. "The production numbers were good till February 2020 when the factory made around 3,900 coaches. Production target for 2020-21 was reduced and manufacturing slowed down because of the restrictions that prevented use of full strength of employees," said an official. Nevertheless, ICF made 91 self-propelled coaches, nine rakes of energy efficient MEMU in a record 21days, two rakes of self propelled accident relief train, one self propelled inspection car, one diesel electric tower car, eight rakes for Kolkata metro rail, two Vistadome coaches for tourist routes in December 2020. The Covid-19 restrictions also changed the pattern of manufacturing that was being followed at ICF. Outsourcing work was reduced considerably and most of the manufacturing work of shell, components, furnishing and other work were done inside the factory using railway employees. In the pre-Covid-19 days, almost all parts of the coaches except wheels and axles were made by private firms because ICF was not able to speed up production to meet the target which used to be increased every year. "We are now trying to reduce outsourcing because work needs to be assigned to railway employees so that they will not be affected when production is low," said another official. Nevertheless, it looks like ICF will be making fewer coaches in the future as the capacity of ICF and Rail Coach Factory (RCF) in Kapurthala will be shared by a new factory that is coming up in Latur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/covid-restrictions-force-icf-to-slash-production-by-50/articleshow/80307055.cms||V Ayyappan
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Relieved now that I am vaccinated: ANM||HYDERABAD: Shunned by villagers when she contracted Covid-19 in July 2020, B Nirmala (37) was one among those vaccinated on Day 1 of the rollout. Sharing her ordeal with TOI, Nirmala, a ANM at Narsingi rural health center, said that she now feels relieved as she – or her family - will not need to go through the rough times again. “I had to face a lot of problems when I tested positive for Covid-19 last year. The villagers did not let me step inside the village even to meet my family. They also put up a fence around my house and asked me not to enter the village. I am just very relieved that now that I am vaccinated, I will not have to face a similar situation in my life again,” said Nirmala, trying to control her tears.  The 37-year-old who is a resident of Chilkur village has been working as a secondary ANM in the rural health center from past eight years. Already exhausted physically and mentally after being denied entry into the village, Nirmala said that her hardships did not end there. “I had to walk back nearly 15 to 20 kilometers to the health center in Narsingi as no one from village wanted to give me a lift. As part of my job during the pandemic, I used to go to the houses of Covid-19 positive patients to tell them about diet, health and sanitisation. But when it happened to me, the entire village had turned their back on me,” she said. G Teja, another ANM worker at the health center said, “As healthcare workers, we face many problems in the society. Most of us living in rented houses were asked to vacate just because we were working in a health center and doing our jobs. I am going to get vaccinated on Monday and I am very happy that we are given the first priority.” It was Teja and another healthcare worker at Narsingi rural health center who helped Nirmala. They took her to Telangana Institute of Medical Sciences (TIMS) in Gachibowli for treatment where she stayed for two weeks until she tested negative.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/relieved-now-that-i-am-vaccinated-anm/articleshow/80307079.cms||Moulika.KV
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310280.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||BJP forms 5-member panel for 2022 Uttarakhand polls||DEHRADUN: In view of the forthcoming assembly elections in Uttarakhand, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has formed a five-member committee to chalk out poll strategies. The committee will be led by Naresh Bansal, BJP's Rajya Sabha member from Uttarakhand. BJP state media in-charge Manveer Singh Chauhan said that the committee was formed by the party’s state president Banshidhar Bhagat. “Besides Bansal, state general secretary (organization) Ajay Kumar, Kuldeep Kumar, Suresh Bhatt, and minister Dhan Singh Rawat are the other four members of the committee,” said Chauhan. Meanwhile, Geeta Thakur, a senior Congress leader who was the vice-president of the Social Welfare Monitoring Committee in the Congress Government, took membership of BJP on Saturday. She took the membership of the party in the presence of senior BJP officials, including state in-charge Dushyant Kumar Gautam, and state co-in-charge Rekha Verma. To recall, Thakur had left the BJP for Congress in 2016.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/bjp-forms-5-member-panel-for-2022-ukhand-polls/articleshow/80306459.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310282.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310284.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Thane||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thane/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80310283.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Covaxin turnout on par with overall numbers||MUMBAI: Six centres in Maharashtra where the Bharat Biotech vaccine Covaxin was administered in a ‘clinical trial mode’ saw a surprising 64% turnout on Saturday. A total of 386 beneficiaries took the vaccine out of the 600 who were lined up for Saturday. Low turnout in some places was attributed to the failure of the Co-Win app to send out automated messages in time. The only centre in Mumbai where Covaxin was given – JJ Hospital in Byculla – saw the poorest response with only 39 healthcare workers coming forward to take it. In contrast, the district hospital in Amravati had all 100 beneficiaries showing willingness. Covaxin has been in controversy after it was granted emergency use approval before completion of phase III trials. Beneficiaries were made to sign a consent form that they were knowingly taking a vaccine that was still under trial and would receive a compensation in the event of an adverse reaction. Government Medical College in Solapur reported 60% vaccination. Pune’s Aundh district hospital, where officials were expecting a high refusal rate, had 60 walk-ins by 5pm. Doses were extracted from three vials. At Aurangabad, 74 of the 100 registered beneficiaries took the vaccine, including 32 doctors. State immunization officer Dr D N Patil said percentage of inoculation with Covaxin was in line with the overall vaccination figures in the state (66%). “None of the centres reported much resistance… We also didn’t notice any side-effects in any,” he said. JJ Hospital in Mumbai had the lowest turnout of 39, most of them staff of the hospital led by acting dean Dr Ranjit Mankeshwar, who took the first shot at around 11.30 am. Among those who got vaccinated were heads of departments. A senior doctor, on condition of anonymity. said the poor turnout could be because automated messages on the Co-Win app reached beneficiaries after midnight. “A list of 200 were drawn up and some received calls as well. Another batch of 100 received messages from the Co-WIN app. There was a bit of a confusion,’’ said a state government official. Incidentally, the JJ centre was hastily set up three days back after the state decided on six Covaxin inoculation points in Maharashtra. Moreover, the process took a while as each beneficiary had to spend time at the pre-vaccine desk to sign a consent form (unlike for Covishield vaccine) and have blood pressure, pulse oximeter and temperature readings taken. Dr Jagannath Dixit, nodal officer from Aurangabad, said most recipients had come with the knowledge that the vaccine was given to more than 27,000 during trials. “In addition, they read the factsheet and made the choice,” he said. He added that the centre has 1,800 doses more that would suffice to vaccinate 900. Beneficiaries have also been given an adverse event following immunisation form, which they have to fill up and return in seven days. “They will be followed up for 28 days over phone calls by Bharat Biotech and us,” he added. (Inputs by Pune bureau)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/covaxin-turnout-on-par-with-overall-nos/articleshow/80308605.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Aurangabad will no more starve for funds: Aaditya Thackeray||AURANGABAD: Pledging his support for all-round development of Aurangabad, state minister for tourism, environment and protocol Aaditya Thackeray said that the city would no more starve for funding. “The state government will ensure necessary fund flow for Aurangabad to ensure that no development work lags behind. The transformation of Aurangabad remains top priority for us as we are carrying out a micro-planning for development,” he said while inaugurating a shopping complex and sports ground in the TV centre area of the city. Referring to the garbage issue faced by Aurangabad in the past, Thackeray said that the city would overcome such hurdles in effective disposal of municipal solid waste in the next six months. “The garbage issue cannot be handled effectively without the participation of citizens. Every resident of Aurangabad must ensure waste segregation at source in the form of dry and wet garbage,” he said, seeking public support for keeping Aurangabad clean and tidy. The waste processing unit of 150 metric tonne at Padegaon, a dedicated cycle-track at Kranti Chowk, Bio Methanation project for wet waste and UNDP dry-waste centre at Kanchanwadi and Control Centre and Master System Integrator at police commissionerate were some of the key projects that witnessed inauguration in presence of Thackeray and other Shive Sena leaders on Saturday. Later in the evening, Thackeray held ‘Development Dialogue’, an interactive session with selected representatives from different sections of the society. Meanwhile, youth wing of BJP tried to stage a protest at TV centre ahead of the scheduled visit of Thackeray over the posters put up by the party allegedly being removed. Police personnel present on the site prevented the agitation from getting flared up further.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/aurangabad-will-no-more-starve-for-funds-thackeray/articleshow/80307066.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||69.3% health care workers vaccinated against Day 1 target for Vidarbha||Nagpur: The Covid-19 vaccination programme kicked off amid a celebratory mood at 56 centres in 11 districts of Vidarbha on Saturday. According to official data, 3,881 (69.3%) registered health care workers took the jab as against the target of 5,600 for Day 1. No Adverse Event Following Immunization (complications after vaccination) was reported, claimed deputy directors of health services Dr Sanjay Jaiswal (Nagpur division) and Dr Rajkumar Chavan (Amravati division). As per guidelines, policeman/security guards/nuisance detection squad personnel checked whether the name of beneficiary entering the centre was in the list. Then, one of the four vaccinators checked temperature and oxygen saturation level and asked the beneficiaries to be seated in the waiting room.The second vaccinator did verification of documents and in Co-WIN application. The third vaccinator administered 0.5ml vaccine to each health care worker in vaccination room. Then, the beneficiaries were asked to wait for 30 minutes in observation room after taking the shot. Their health was monitored during this period. Vidarbha registered higher percentage than state (64%). In Amravati division, 1,732 of 2,200 (78.73%) health care workers were vaccinated while 2,149 of 3,400 (63.21%) took the shot in Nagpur division. In Nagpur rural 72.7% health care workers were inoculated as against 54% in city. Municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B said the lower percentage in city could be due to reasons like pregnancy, not reaching the centre on time, health issues, not being in town etc. IGGMCH registered a very low turnout of 37/100. Here, seven health care reportedly refused to take the vaccine. Similarly, nine workers refused to take the jab at Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital and two at Daga Hospital. In Amravati division, vaccination went on till 6pm or beyond in few districts. Beneficiaries were administered Covishield vaccine at 54 centres while Covaxin was administered at GMCH, Nagpur, and Amravati district general hospital. According to Amravati district civil surgeon Dr Shyamsunder Nikam, all 100 beneficiaries including me took the jab. “There were no apprehensions about Covaxin,” he said. At GMCH, Nagpur, only 53 of targeted 100 beneficiaries were covered. TOI on Friday had reported about apprehensions among GMCH staff about Covaxin. Dr Sanjay Jaiswal said, “There were no issues. I personally visited and ensured vaccination.” Instead of 24 hours as stated by the Centre, 500 beneficiaries in the city received messages on Co-WIN only in the wee hours on Friday. Instead of slots, Co-WIN generated random timing of 9am to 5pm for all. In majority of the districts, selected health care workers did not get messages. Officials had to contact them on phone. Due to random timing generated by Co-WIN, health care workers arrived at centres as per their convenience. As a result, none of the centres could gauge how many can be vaccinated in an hour. Majority of beneficiaries in city received messages post-vaccination. It didn’t happen in other places in the region as process was conducted on paper and not in Co-WIN. Health officials got a go-head at 10.45am even as many were watching PM Narendra Modi address at specially installed TV screens. Preparations at Pachpaoli centre, which was selected for inauguration in Nagpur district, started at 8am. Guardian minister Nitin Raut and mayor Dayashankar Tiwari launched the drive from here at 11am. Divisional commissioner Sanjeev Kumar, municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B, additional municipal commissioners Jalaj Sharma, Ram Joshi, Dr Jaiswal, chairman of NMC health consultative committee Virendra Kukreja, NMC chief medical officer Dr Narendra Bahirwar, medical officer Dr Sanjay Chilkar, Dr Vijay Joshi and others were present. IGGMC dean Dr Ajay Keoliya was the first to get vaccinated at the hospital. He was followed by surgery department head Dr Sunil Lanjewar and head of community medicine department Dr Ashok Jadhao. Junior resident-III Dr Priti Tiwari administered the doses. NMC Ashi Nagar Zone medical officer Dr Deepankar Bhivgade was the first to be administered the vaccine at NMC Pachpaoli centre. Zonal medical officer of Satranjipura zone Dr Minakshi Mane, Rajni Meshram and Rajashri Fule, both nurses for five years and others, were administered the doses. In Daga hospital, the first recipient was Dr Sandhya Dange, the additional civil surgeon at the centre. Staff nurse Nita Murarkar, who has been a health worker for the last 15 years, was the vaccinator. In AIIMS, Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, medical superintendent was the first to get vaccinated. Nursing officer Ramya was the vaccinator. At the Government Medical College, Dr Reena Ruprai, a 41-year-old assistant professor, was the first to get the Bharat Biotech Covaxin. She was followed by Dr Bhalchandra Murhar who is the 59-year-old professor of biotechnology in the GMC. The third was Dr Mukesh Waghmare, 43. Ruprai said she had faith in the Bharat Biotech vaccine and would be going to work after the 30 minute observation ends. Tiwari said, “City was fed up with year-long pandemic. Health care workers served patients risking their lives. They also toiled hard to break the chain of coronavirus. Vaccine has been made available in India after a wait of year. We are proud of it. Today is the happiest day for all. I congratulate all officials and workers.” Radhakrishnan said, “Health Care workers will continue to get vaccine in phase-I. In city, 22,500 health care workers are registered for vaccine.” According to CEO of Nagpur Zilla Parishad Yogesh Kumbhejkar, Nagpur rural has received 17,600 doses that will be administered in 15-16 sessions/days in a month. “Vaccination was successful at seven centres,” he said. There were reportedly a few complaints about minor complications post-vaccination. Two felt giddy in observation room at Pachpaoli centre and were given ORS. After few minutes, they were reportedly stable. NMC Ashi Nagar Zone medical officer Dr Deepankar Bhivgade described it as mere ‘anxiety attacks’. “The very thought that they were being administered the Covid vaccine could have played up on their minds but we counselled them out of it son,” he said. At AIIMS, some doctors complained of itching, giddiness and pain. The hospital management had made preparations in the adjacent room to handle such cases. One of them, Dr Nishu Khemka, was advised to take rest for some time after she complained of itching at the injected point with pain, said doctors who attended her. However, she recuperated in just about 15-20 minutes and walked out of the chamber. Many others complained of pain after receiving the jab. When TOI asked them about it, they said it were minor after effects and there was nothing to worry. The NMC had delivered Covishield vaccines to Pachpaoli Women’s Hospital, AIIMS, IGGMCH and Daga Hospital and Covaxin vaccine to GMCH on Friday. Also, syringes were distributed in sufficient numbers. Vidarbha had registered 6,789 deaths and 2,63,838 positive cases in last 10 months. The fatalities and positive cases in Nagpur district are highest compared with remaining 10 in Vidarbha. Nagpur district has registered 4,058 deaths and 1,29,866 positive cases.Vaccination will resume on Tuesday. In the district, it will later be held on Monday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. Vaccination of 1,55,546 health care workers registered from the region is pending.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/69-3-health-care-workers-vaccinated-against-day-1-target-for-vidarbha/articleshow/80307024.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 17, 2021||Pune||Bird death count over 5,000 in Maharashtra, 982 died on Saturday||PUNE/THANE: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Beed, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples in Yavatmal district were also found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. In Pune, the district collector has declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. Orders have been issued on culling, disposal of birds (in infected zone) and poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner. A fresh set of bird samples sent from Thane and neighbouring cities in the district tested positive to a preliminary test of avian flu conducted by the state lab in Pune following which surveillance measures are likely to be stepped up, said officials. Meanwhile, the volume of wild birds spotted dead in various parts of Thane city continued to rise with 41 fresh cases reported on Saturday including a pond heron, parakeet, 22 pigeons, 15 crows and a sparrow. The total number of birds found dead in the city till date is 394, said municipal officials. “One crow each, from Thane city, Ambernath and Shahpur tested positive while one poultry bird among three found dead from a Kalyan farm tested positive. Luckily, three poultry birds among the 134 found stashed in gunny bags in Mumbra have tested negative,” said Dr Vijay Dhumal, deputy municipal commissioner, animal husbandry department, Thane.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bird-death-count-over-5000-in-state-982-died-yesterday/articleshow/80307841.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Complete pending Kumbh works at the earliest: Uttarakhand CM tells officials||DEHRADUN: Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat reviewed the ongoing projects at Haridwar for Kumbh 2021 on Saturday. In the reviewing meeting, attended by top state authorities and Kumbh Mela officials, Rawat directed them to complete the remaining works at the earliest. All the works which are permanent in nature are to be completed by January end, he said. The CM maintained that the quality of works has to be ensured and authorities need to keep a tab on the development of all the projects. For Kumbh, a large-scale public awareness drive also needs to be organised, said Rawat. For cleanliness, he asked the authorities to run awareness drives and even take the help of social organisations and locals. He categorically asked the authorities to ensure the compliance of social distancing norms and wearing of masks for Kumbh. Deepak Rawat, mela adhikari, told the CM that the majority of works which are permanent in nature have been completed and the remaining would be completed soon. He added that maximum projects related to roads and bridges have been completed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/complete-pending-kumbh-works-at-the-earliest-cm-tells-officials/articleshow/80306461.cms||Kautilya Singh
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||‘Neither Covaxin nor Covishield is time-tested’||Nagpur: “So we are the official guinea pigs,” a doctor quips to his colleagues as they wait at government medical college’s (GMC) vaccination centre. The medicos quickly clarify that it was just a joke. “There is a little apprehension because of the first time, nothing else,” says another doctor who got the jab. GMC is the only centre in the district where Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin is being administered. GMC begins with vaccinating its doctors. Those taking doses of Covaxin have to sign a consent form. The form also has a clause that in case of a severe adverse effect, the person will be compensated by the company. This is the protocol normally followed during drug trials, and not vaccination. No forms need to be signed for doses of Covishield — the other vaccine. It is also mentioned in the form that the recipients will have to continue taking precautions as the phase-3 trials of Covaxin are still not over. The other government institute, Indira Gandhi Medical College (IGGMC) has doses of Covishield. By the end of the day, 53 get vaccinated at GMC as against 37 at IGGMC. The doctors who turn up at GMC say they have no apprehensions about Covaxin. They quickly sign the form; many of them read it as they wait in the observation room after getting the shots. They state that even if the drive is indirectly an “extended trial”, they have no worries. “The first two phases are already over and the third, too, is nearing completion. Any vaccine takes at least two years to prove itself completely. Seen from that prism, even Covishield is recent,” the doctors say. “The first two phases of Covaxin trials have been successful and in the third phase, out of 25,000, shots have been administered to 21,000 participants. Nothing adverse has been reported. So we need not worry about getting the doses,” says Dhananjay Selukar, a urologist who is here to get vaccinated. “It must be realized that this is an emergency situation. Even if certain steps are pending clearance, this has to be taken as a vaccination drive, not a trial,” a senior doctor waiting in the observation room after getting the shot says. Dr Shirish Gulhane, a neurosurgeon, espouses similar views. “One has to wait for at least five years to collect enough statistical data on a vaccine’s impact. This has not happened for Covishield either,” he asserts. “Covaxin is different from Covishield. The former contains dead virus, which, I believe, is safer. In any case, it can certainly reduce the intensity of infection,” says Dr Sailesh Gahukar, another vaccine recipient.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/neither-covaxin-nor-covishield-is-time-tested/articleshow/80307054.cms||Shishir Arya
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Covid-19 vaccination drive begins in US Nagar||RUDRAPUR: Joining the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive on Saturday (January 16), the Udham Singh Nagar district administration also kicked-off the exercise by inoculating Dr Harendra Malik, assistant chief medical officer. The district has been allotted a quota of 8,680 ampoules of vaccine and local officials aim to inoculate 3,906 health care workers in the first phase. Dr Malik said that a total of 265 health workers were vaccinated in the district on day 1 of the drive. Among these, 50 health workers were given vaccine doses in Rudrapur, 76 in Kashipur, 59 in Bajpur, and 80 in Khatima. “As per the standard operating procedure, all these people will be vaccinated again after 28 days,” he said. “No one was reported to display any side effects due to the vaccine. About four hundred health workers were enlisted to be vaccinated at four centres on the first day. However, some of them couldn't make it to the centres as they were out of town. They will be vaccinated in the coming days,” added Dr Malik. Meanwhile, Ranjana Rajguru, district magistrate, who monitored the vaccination drive at the Jawaharlal Nehru district hospital in the city, said, “A team of health department officials, sector and zonal magistrates, and officers of various departments have been deputed for the vaccination drive. Ambulances have also been arranged at all the centres to provide immediate health services to any person complaining of any reaction after vaccination. Awareness campaigns are also conducted at police station levels regarding vaccination.” She said that the officers have been directed to take stringent actions against those spreading rumours about the vaccine. “We have divided the district into two zones and the officers will be visiting vaccination centres to monitor the drive,” the official added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/covid-19-vaccination-drive-begins-in-us-nagar/articleshow/80306466.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Bird flu detected in Beed, nearly 2k hens being culled||Aurangabad: The process of culling around 2,000 hens was undertaken on Saturday at Lokhandi-Sawargaon village in Ambajogai taluka of Beed district, around 220 kilometers from here, following deaths at poultries due to avian influenza. Beed district collector Rahul Rekhawar said the village has been declared as an infected zone for bird flu and the sale of poultry products in and around 15 nearby villages from Ambajogai and Kaij talukas has been banned as a precautionary measure. “The exhibition of poultry products in these areas through fair or weekly bazaars is also banned till further notice. Poultry farm owners and other villagers have been asked to report any death of hen or other bird in their vicinity to the nearest gram panchayat or related local self-governing body or veterinary authorities,” he said. Earlier, 11 crows were found dead at Mugagao village in Patoda taluka of Beed district. The samples of three of these birds were sent to Bhopal lab for testing and bird flu was confirmed as the cause of death. Besides Beed, Parbhani and Latur districts from Marathwada have also reported bird flu deaths. Notably, Murumba village from Parbhani district had registered the first case of bird flu in Maharashtra on January 10.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/bird-flu-detected-in-beed-nearly-2k-hens-being-culled/articleshow/80307080.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Moral responsibility to set example: Nurse at Kondapur district hospital||HYDERABAD: About three months after recovering from Covid-19, T Rajani, a nurse at the Kondapur district hospital, became one of the 30 recipients of the vaccine, on Saturday. While performing her regular duties, Rajani was infected with Covid-19 in September, last year. “After testing Covid-19 positive, I was in home isolation for 17 days. Once I completed the quarantine period, I rejoined duty but was always scared of being reinfected. Now after taking the Covid-19 vaccine, I feel safe,” said Rajani who has been associated with the Kondapur hospital for 13 years now. She said that it felt like a moral responsibility for her, as a nurse, to set an example for others by taking the vaccine. Soon after taking the shot, on Saturday, Rajani resumed her day-to-day duties at the Kondapur hospital. I was kept under observation for 30 minutes and I am having no issues such as itching or any other side effects. Many people are scared and sceptical to take the vaccine||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/moral-responsibility-to-set-example-nurse/articleshow/80307081.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 17, 2021||India||Pay and skip quarantine: Cops bust scam at Mumbai airport||MUMBAI: Police on Friday arrested a 35-year-old sub-engineer and two accomplices in Mumbai’s Sahar for their alleged role in collecting Rs 4,000 from each flyer arriving at Chhatrapati Shivaji International Airport (CSIA) who wanted to skip mandatory institutional quarantine. Police seized Rs 1.4 lakh cash, 200 Saudi riyals, a fake rubber stamp of home quarantine, few letterheads with stamp and signatures of doctors from some top private hospitals in the bag of Dinesh Gawande (35), who was posted by BMC at the airport since December 23 and had to check flyers from Dubai, Kuwait and US at P6 on Friday. Police are probing if officials helped Gawande to get the bribes and the number of flyers he cleared with fake documents. If found guilty he can be imprisoned for seven years. Read AlsoMinor glitches in Co-WIN but drive completed successfully, says government“No major glitches were noticed. Almost all functions were smooth. We are constantly looking at the operations to ensure that the platform is ready to bear a major user-load that will be there once it opens up for others,” an official said.Gawande’s luck ran short when he barged into a toilet and returned with a bag after pushing aside a lady from the housekeeping staff who was walking in around 5.50am. “The woman complained to CISF and MIAL officials after she suspected Gawande, who claimed he was helped by Ashraf Sarang (41) and Vivek Singh (32) from the airport’s duty-free shop in making fake health certificates. The trio was booked under IPC sections for violation of prohibitory orders, cheating, forgery, counterfeiting a mark used by a public servant and under Epidemic and Disaster Act. They are in police custody till January 19,” a Sahar police officer said. Read AlsoVax Populi: Nation celebrates as it gets the gift of the jabBy 6pm, as many as 13,292 people, against a target of 16,314, had taken the injection in Odisha. Prahlad Suna, 36, a safai karamchari in Sambalpur, said it’s like he’s won the lottery. This will remain a moment to cherish for life, he told the others assembled there.Officials, on a tip-off from the woman, checked Gawande’s bag and found a huge amount of cash along with fake documents like a fake home quarantine rubber stamp, fake signatures and stamp of doctors on four letterheads of Tata Memorial Hospital, three letterheads of Asian Heart Institute and two of a doctor of Care Medical Centre. “Gawande admitted he was collecting bribes. His bank account will be checked. He shared the money with Sarang and Singh,” said a police officer. Read AlsoFlyers skirt travels to avoid institutional quarantine in MaharashtraDubai-based working professional Rahul Dalwale stands out in the crowd of flyers having second thoughts about their visit to the city after the state government made institutional quarantine mandatory for people coming from the Middle East.Singh’s lawyers Prabhakar Tripathi and Saurabh Mishra requested the court for judicial custody as the accused did not have any role in the case and he went with his team leader to assist him. Police recorded statements of flyers Khan Javid Nawab from Andheri (W), Shaikh Shakeel Salim and Khan Arbaz Sattar from Malad (W), Harie Rio John from Nerul (E) and Shaikh Shakir Sakur from Nashik, who flew from Dubai and Kuwait, and said Gawande collected Rs4000 from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pay-and-skip-quarantine-cops-bust-scam-at-mumbai-airport/articleshow/80309024.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Bihar: 62% of first phase beneficiaries get vaccinated on Day 1||Patna: On Day One of the world’s biggest vaccination exercise, Bihar saw nearly 62% of the total registered beneficiaries get the shots against Covid-19. The state accounted for the fourth-largest number of people vaccinated in the country, charting up 9.5% of the total vaccinations carried out across India on Saturday, according to figures provided by state health department principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit. According to the health department, 18,122 beneficiaries got vaccinated at 301 sites against 29,240 people, who had registered on the Co-WIN mobile app, which is 61.9% of the total registered beneficiaries. The attendance in the districts was much higher compared to the urban centres, including state capital Patna. The vaccination drive in Bihar was launched at the India Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) here on Saturday in the presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar and health minister Mangal Pandey. An IGIMS sanitation worker, Ram Babu, got the first shot, followed by ambulance driver Amit Kumar. “Vaccination against Covid-19 has begun in the state, and just like the rest of the country, Bihar is fully prepared to carry out the drive successfully,” CM Nitish told media persons after launching the vaccination drive at IGIMS. The vaccination process began in the CM's presence after which he handed over a red rose and an acknowledgement letter to the initial beneficiaries. Elaborating on the overall turnout for vaccination in Bihar, health department special secretary Manoj Kumar told TOI, “Today was the first day so people were a little hesitant and some skipped the vaccination. Also, a technical glitch with the Co-WIN app resulted in some people receiving the SMSes informing of their schedule late. But by the second half of the day, the turnout increased and nearly 62% of the people got the shots.” Health department officials said the turnout in district hospitals and rural areas were better than government medical colleges and hospitals in the city. However, the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) was the exception, which had 100% turnout. “Most of the medical colleges and hospitals had less than 50% turnout, while district hospitals had nearly 80 to 90% turnout. For instance, at the Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) at Patna, only 27 people came for the vaccine on the first day,” a health department official said. Health Minister Mangal Pandey called it a historic day. “We all have been waiting for this day and I am happy that the moment is here. When history gets written, 2020 will be known for the pandemic and 2021 for the vaccines made by our scientists. The time has come when we will be taking an indigenous vaccine, unlike earlier when we had to wait for other countries,” Pandey told reporters. The health minister recalled the fear and panic, which the entire world faced for the last one year, and how Bihar, which got its first few cases in March, followed by a big leap in July and August, tackled the situation. “I remember, initially 48 samples were sent to Pune for the test, but now we have over 150 testing centres here. How can we forget the situation in June and July, when there were over 23,000 active cases, and now with a 97.7% recovery rate, we have less than 4,000 active cases,” he said. Pandey appealed to people to follow all precautions after getting their vaccination. “Those who have got the vaccine today will be given another shot after 28 days, and after getting the second shot, antibodies will be generated in their body in the next 14 days. Hence, we have to be cautious,” he said Principal secretary (health) Pratyaya Amrit said everything in the vaccination process was being minutely monitored to iron out the glitches if any. “This is the day to admire and respect all those who have toiled hard in the fight against Covid-19 pandemic. It is a great motivation for us,” Pratyaya added. The state also registered 16 to 17 cases of Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI), wherein people showed mild symptoms, including fever. In one case, a compounder of the Kejriwal hospital in Muzaffarpur felt uncomfortable but was allowed to go after a few hours. A doctor from the same hospital said, “He had come without food and complained of giddiness. But there was no serious issue. He was a bit panicked and was discharged within a few hours.” Most healthcare workers, who are being vaccinated in the first phase, are eager and excited to be immunised. An attendant in the ophthalmology department of IGIMS, Devendra Kumar, recalled the horrifying scenes they had witnessed when Covid-19 affected a large number of people and took many lives. “We have seen people crying and not allowed to even see their loved ones after death. Even we were worried about our family members because after working in the hospital, we used to stay with them. Now at least after getting the vaccine, our family members will also be safe,” said Devendra, who got a message on his mobile regarding the slot of his vaccination, along with two phone calls from the health department on Friday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/62-of-first-phase-beneficiaries-get-vaccinated-on-day-1/articleshow/80307083.cms||Sheezan Nezami
January 17, 2021||Trichy||Move to start leisure boat rides in Trichy Mavadikulam tank||Trichy:As the public works department (PWD) has completed the beautification of the Mavadikulam tank, the largest waterbody in Trichy city, Kilakurichi panchayat that shares the tank’s boundary with the corporation has mooted a proposal to launch leisure boating in the tank. Although a major portion of the tank is in Trichy Corporation, the villagers of Kilakurichi panchayat have bought a couple of paddle boats at a cost of Rs 1.75 lakh. However, permissions required to operate boat rides are yet to be obtained.Mavadikulam tank in Ponmalaipatti in ward 31 of the corporation is fed by the New Kattalaimettu canal that branches off from the Cauvery. The PWD completed beautification work, which included the construction of retaining wall for 210 metres and pedestrian platforms spending Rs 1.92 crore from mines fund. Water level is at the brim in the tank with substantial rainfall and the daily inflow of 300 cusecs of water from the Cauvery. Meanwhile, the villagers of Kilakurichi that has more than 2,000 families mooted boating rides as a recreational activity. The panchayat chief has requested PWD’s permission for the move. Panchayat president K Josephine’s husband K Jayaraj along with Trichy Iyarkkai Arvalargal Sangam has bought two paddle boats that can accommodate four people each. “We can employ workers and maintain boating service if PWD is reluctant. Life jackets were also purchased, permission is awaited to operate boats,” Jayaraj said. The tank is accessible to the residents of the corporation and Kilakurichi village. “The bottom surface of the tank is uneven, illegal soil mining has left many deep pits in the tank. Permission should be given after scrutinising the safety aspects,” K C Neelamegam, a resident, said. Water is filled up to around 80% of the tank’s storage capacity (25 million cubic feet), and the water level is expected to be the same for a few more months. “Maximum depth of the tank is only four feet. The district administration and fire service department have to take a call on allowing boat rides,” a PWD official said. Meanwhile, PWD has proposed to extend the retaining wall of the tank for 200 metres more at a cost of Rs 65 lakh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/move-to-start-leisure-boat-rides-in-trichy-mavadikulam-tank/articleshow/80307857.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Stop saying vaccine brought by BJP: Uttarakhand CM at launch||DEHRADUN: “People questioning the credibility of the Covid-19 vaccine, saying it has been brought by BJP and therefore they don’t trust it, should stop creating confusion,” said chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat at the vaccine launch at Government Doon Medical College on Saturday. Rawat added that should ‘such people’ need it, they will receive the state government’s support. The CM also requested those who received the shots on Saturday spread the word about it. “Yeh nahi chalega ki hum BJP ki vaccine nahi lagayenge. Bharat me bana teeka trained aur experienced scientist ne bnaya hai aur sabko lagana chaiye,” Rawat said. According to director of National Health Mission (NHM) Dr Saroj Naithani, 2,276 people in Uttarakhand had received the vaccine, against the target of 3,182. “We have managed to administer the vaccine to 72 per cent of the targeted beneficiaries. Of the 28 per cent who didn’t take the shots, 15 per cent fall under counter indication (they suffer from comorbidities, are pregnant or lactating mothers). The rest 13 per cent didn’t turn up at the vaccination centres,” said Dr Naithani. “No one has shown any adverse symptoms after being vaccinated in India. We aim to administer the vaccine to 50,000 healthcare workers in phase one. They will receive the second dose in the next 28 days. Anti-bodies will start to form 15 days after both doses are administered,” said the CM. He added that Uttarakhand had asked for 20,000 additional doses of the vaccine on account of the Maha Kumbh to be held in a month.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/stop-saying-vaccine-brought-by-bjp-its-safe-and-every-one-should-take-it-cm-at-launch/articleshow/80306468.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Health workers in Hyderabad overcome Covid vaccine blues, take first shot||HYDERABAD: For head nurse Joy Mercy of Wanaparthy, the question in front of her was: “Do I take the Covid-19 vaccine or not?” She asked her family. They said if she was eligible to take, she should go for it. After a health check-up, she was told that she could take the vaccine. “When I was still nursing doubts, my superiors clarified all doubts. I took the vaccine and I am happy I did that,” Mercy, who works in the government hospital at Wanaparthy, told STOI. A nurse for 23 years, Mercy was the first to take the vaccine. She had no side effects. Putta Srinivas, director, Government Medical College and Government General Hospital (GGH), Mahbubnagar, was also the first to take the vaccine. “I took the vaccine to build confidence among the staff and general public so that they will also opt to take it,” he told STOI. In Nizamabad too, health workers were happy that they took the vaccine. A Covid warrior herself, she had tested positive for coronavirus and recovered later. “Bilkul (absolutely) no tension,” a health worker said. R&B minister V Prashanth Reddy cut a ribbon at the GGH Nizamabad where the vaccine was administered. He along with district collector Narayana Reddy put the indelible mark on those who took the vaccine as per the guidelines. A health care worker, Jayamma, was the first to take the vaccine at the PHC at Narsingi in Rangareddy district. She had no hesitation in taking the vaccine. “I took the vaccine to show to people that they should not hesitate to take it,” Jayamma said. Sanitation worker Murali was the first to take the vaccine at the govt hospital in Asifabad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/health-workers-overcomevaccine-blues-take-first-shot/articleshow/80307085.cms||Ch Sushil Rao
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Telangana: Beneficiaries with co-morbidities muster up courage||HYDERABAD: As the state began the vaccination drive to inoculate people against Covid-19, STOI spoke to a few beneficiaries with co-morbidities who were first in line to get the vaccine on Saturday. A healthcare worker at Government Chest Hospital, G Ravinder, (46) said, “I have been suffering from blood pressure and diabetes for a very long time. Although I did not contract Covid-19 till now, there was always a fear that in case I test positive, it might not be very easy to overcome the virus. Now, I am happy I don’t have to worry about it.” Ravinder added, “I was very apprehensive about the adverse reactions that might show up after I take the shot but with the encouragement of our senior healthcare workers and the government, I decided to go through the process.” Similarly, Dr Mahboob Khan, superintendent of Government Chest Hospital, who is also suffering with hypertension and diabetes said, “I am humbled and elated to take the vaccine on the first day. Even people with co-morbidities don’t have to be scared about taking the vaccine. Most of us, especially those in the healthcare sector, were pained to see so many people suffer during the pandemic. It is a relief that we have a vaccine against coronavirus now.” I was in two minds about getting the vaccine on the first day until I stepped out of the house in the morning. I was very apprehensive about the adverse reactions||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/beneficiaries-with-co-morbidities-muster-up-courage/articleshow/80307082.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Amaravati||Less than 50% AP women have access to cellphones||VIJAYAWADA: A recent report by the Internet and Mobile Association of India’s (IAMAI) revealing Andhra Pradesh’s poor interent penetration of 31% may come as a surprise to many men but not to women. A major contributing factor behind low internet penetration in the state is the low access to mobile phones among women. According to phase-1 of the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5), only 48.9% women have mobile phones. In terms of women’s access to mobile phones in the 22 states and Union territories surveyed in the first phase, Andhra Pradesh ranks second-lowest after Gujarat, leading by just 0.1%. The breakup of the state average shows that only 40.9% of women in rural areas have access to mobile phones though this proportion in urban areas is considerably higher at 67.4%. However, AP stands fourth-lowest when it comes to women with access to mobile phones in urban areas compared to the 22 states and UTs. The state fares worse when it comes to mobile phone access in rural areas, ranking third-lowest with Tripura and Gujarat occuping the second-lowest and lowest spots, respectively. However, compared to NFHS-4, women’s access to mobile phones increased by 12.7% in the state. Experts said these statistics reflect the lack of women’s empowerment in a digital world. The survey was conducted among women aged between 15 to 49 years under the ‘women empowerment’ category. The first phase of the NFHS-5, however, includes only 22 states and Union territories. The survey is yet to be completed in 17 states/UTs, which includes states with larger territory and population such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha. NFHS-5 fieldwork in Andhra Pradesh was conducted between July 2, 2019 to November 14, 2019 by Sigma Research and Consulting Private Limited. Information was gathered from 11,346 households, including 10,975 women and 1,558 men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/less-than-50-ap-women-have-access-to-cellphones/articleshow/80309877.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Less than 50% AP women have access to cellphones||VIJAYAWADA: A recent report by the Internet and Mobile Association of India’s (IAMAI) revealing Andhra Pradesh’s poor interent penetration of 31% may come as a surprise to many men but not to women. A major contributing factor behind low internet penetration in the state is the low access to mobile phones among women. According to phase-1 of the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5), only 48.9% women have mobile phones. In terms of women’s access to mobile phones in the 22 states and Union territories surveyed in the first phase, Andhra Pradesh ranks second-lowest after Gujarat, leading by just 0.1%. The breakup of the state average shows that only 40.9% of women in rural areas have access to mobile phones though this proportion in urban areas is considerably higher at 67.4%. However, AP stands fourth-lowest when it comes to women with access to mobile phones in urban areas compared to the 22 states and UTs. The state fares worse when it comes to mobile phone access in rural areas, ranking third-lowest with Tripura and Gujarat occuping the second-lowest and lowest spots, respectively. However, compared to NFHS-4, women’s access to mobile phones increased by 12.7% in the state. Experts said these statistics reflect the lack of women’s empowerment in a digital world. The survey was conducted among women aged between 15 to 49 years under the ‘women empowerment’ category. The first phase of the NFHS-5, however, includes only 22 states and Union territories. The survey is yet to be completed in 17 states/UTs, which includes states with larger territory and population such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha. NFHS-5 fieldwork in Andhra Pradesh was conducted between July 2, 2019 to November 14, 2019 by Sigma Research and Consulting Private Limited. Information was gathered from 11,346 households, including 10,975 women and 1,558 men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/less-than-50-ap-women-have-access-to-cellphones/articleshow/80306541.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Less than 50% AP women have access to cellphones||VIJAYAWADA: A recent report by the Internet and Mobile Association of India’s (IAMAI) revealing Andhra Pradesh’s poor interent penetration of 31% may come as a surprise to many men but not to women. A major contributing factor behind low internet penetration in the state is the low access to mobile phones among women. According to phase-1 of the National Family Health Survey-5 (NFHS-5), only 48.9% women have mobile phones. In terms of women’s access to mobile phones in the 22 states and Union territories surveyed in the first phase, Andhra Pradesh ranks second-lowest after Gujarat, leading by just 0.1%. The breakup of the state average shows that only 40.9% of women in rural areas have access to mobile phones though this proportion in urban areas is considerably higher at 67.4%. However, AP stands fourth-lowest when it comes to women with access to mobile phones in urban areas compared to the 22 states and UTs. The state fares worse when it comes to mobile phone access in rural areas, ranking third-lowest with Tripura and Gujarat occuping the second-lowest and lowest spots, respectively. However, compared to NFHS-4, women’s access to mobile phones increased by 12.7% in the state. Experts said these statistics reflect the lack of women’s empowerment in a digital world. The survey was conducted among women aged between 15 to 49 years under the ‘women empowerment’ category. The first phase of the NFHS-5, however, includes only 22 states and Union territories. The survey is yet to be completed in 17 states/UTs, which includes states with larger territory and population such as Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha. NFHS-5 fieldwork in Andhra Pradesh was conducted between July 2, 2019 to November 14, 2019 by Sigma Research and Consulting Private Limited. Information was gathered from 11,346 households, including 10,975 women and 1,558 men.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/less-than-50-ap-women-have-access-to-cellphones/articleshow/80309876.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Court accepts closure in Chhota Rajan case||MUMBAI: A special CBI court on Saturday accepted a closure report submitted by the investigating agency against gangster Chhota Rajan in a 20-year-old extortion case filed by a city builder. Others arrested in the case were acquitted or discharged earlier, and only one accused was sentenced to six months’ imprisonment. Builder Haresh Matani had no objection to the report. “There is insufficient material or substance brought on record by prosecution to proceed against Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan and Pavankumar Sharma. Therefore, for want of sufficient material, closure report of CBI against the accused needs to be accepted,” the court said. Lodged in Tihar jail, Rajan is serving a life sentence for the 2011 murder of journalist J Dey. He was deported from Bali in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-accepts-closure-in-rajan-case/articleshow/80308622.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Rajkot||Three fishing boats gutted at Mangrol jetty||RAJKOT: Three fishing trawlers were gutted and two were damaged beyond repair as a fire broke out at the new jetty in Mangrol town of Junagadh district on Friday night. One of the boats parked at the jetty suddenly caught fire which spread further to four more boats parked close by. The fire was so massive that fire fighters from Chorwad, Keshod, Junagadh and Veraval had to be called in to douse the flames. Three boats were completely damaged while fire in two other boats were doused before they were gutted. Sources said that the salvaging activity continued till early Saturday morning. Fire officials are investigating the cause of fire.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/three-fishing-boats-gutted-at-mangrol-jetty/articleshow/80305660.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Rescued in Oct from Tadoba, tiger cubs shifted to Gorewada||Chandrapur: Two tiger cubs rescued from Khadsangi range in the buffer zone of Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) around two-and-a-half months back were finally transferred to Gorewada zoo on Saturday. A TATR team under the supervision of Dr Kundan Podchalwar, the veterinary doctor in charge of the transit treatment centre (TTC), shifted the tiger cubs — both female — to Gorewada zoo in the afternoon. Three emaciated cubs, a male and two females, were found abandoned by their mother in Khadsangi range in the final week of October last year. The male cub, rescued on October 28, had died of exhaustion and hunger, while the other two were brought to TTC the following day. The female cubs survived. “The cubs were extremely weak and exhausted due to prolonged separation from their mother. We treated and nurtured them at TTC, and both have recuperated and grown strong,” said Dr Podchalwar, who took care of their treatment and recovery. As TTC has no permanent facility to house wild animals for a long period, TATR authorities were pressing the case for their transfer to Gorewada zoo with higher authorities. “We received the transfer orders for both the cubs on Friday from PCCF (wildlife) and immediately arranged for their transfer. A team with the veterinary officer of TTC took the cubs to Nagpur in separate cages and safely delivered them to the authorities of Gorewada zoo on Saturday,” deputy director, TATR (buffer), Guruprasad told TOI. Search operation for the mother tigress went on for weeks in the forests of Khadsangi after rescue of the cubs, but proved futile. As the tigress was missing, the authorities proceeded with shifting the cubs to Gorewada zoo and the task was accomplished on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/rescued-in-oct-from-tadoba-tiger-cubs-shifted-to-gorewada/articleshow/80306860.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Tiger relocated from Corbett traced in western Rajaji||DEHRADUN: Two days after the forest department authorities claimed that the missing male tiger, which was relocated from Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) to Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) on January 9, has been found in the RTR, the officials on Saturday said that the big cat will not be radio-collared again. “We will not radio-collar the tiger again. Radio-collaring was not mandatory while relocating tigers. It was our plan ‘B’ and we had sought the nod for the same from the NTCA. Besides, radio-collaring is not very useful as it gives information after 48 hours,” said DK Singh, RTR director. It is worth mentioning that the forest department of Uttarakhand had taken permission from the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) to radio-collar each of the tigers to be shifted from CTR to western Rajaji so that their movement and behaviour could be studied by the scientists. Earlier on Thursday (January 14), the CCTV captured the images of the tiger and officials also claimed that it preyed on a sambar deer. Subsequently, it was seen moving around in the forest. The five-year-old tiger had dropped its radio-collar in the enclosure meant for it and fled on Tuesday, triggering panic among the forest officials. “The CCTV images captured on Thursday showed that the big cat has comfortably settled in western Rajaji and on Friday, we saw its pug marks too. We are hopeful that both the female as well as the male big cats would soon acclimate themselves to the new landscape of Rajaji,” said JS Suhag, chief wildlife warden of the state. Following the entire episode, the forest authorities are constantly patrolling western Rajaji. The forest authorities of nearby Dehradun and Haridwar divisions have been put on alert. The Motichur range of the reserve has also been shut for tourists. TOI has also learnt that tourists were moved to Ranipur from the Motichur range. Also, the lower staff of the reserve has been ‘warned’ to not disclose any location-related information of the tiger with any outsider, including media persons. “A warning letter has been issued to all the rangers of the reserve to not disclose the location of the tiger for its safety. The NTCA has recently asked us to keep their location secret,” added Singh. The western Rajaji is now home to two tigresses and a tiger. Three more tigers are yet to be translocated from the CTR. Notably, a female tigress, around 18-year-old, is still missing from the reserve.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/tiger-relocated-from-corbett-traced-in-western-rajaji-wont-be-radio-collared-again/articleshow/80306470.cms||Shivani Azad
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Burglars steal cash, ornaments worth Rs 3.5 lakh||VADODARA: Burglars decamped with cash and ornaments worth Rs 3.5 lakh from a house on Bil Road sometime between January 14 afternoon and Friday afternoon. The owner of the house Arpit Patel, who works in a pharmaceutical company, had gone to his native place Gambhira village in Padra taluka along with his wife Ameysha to celebrate Uttarayan. When the couple returned home on Friday afternoon, they found the main lock of the house broken. On checking, Patel did not find anything unusual in the living room. But when he went inside the bedroom, the safe was broken and all valuables were lying scattered across the room. Gold and silver ornaments worth Rs 3.4 lakh locked in the safe were missing. Thieves also took US $150 from the safe. Police said that the stolen US currency was equivalent to Rs 10,500. Later, Patel lodged a complaint of burglary at Manjalpur police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/burglars-steal-cash-ornaments-worth-rs-3-5l/articleshow/80306041.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Surat||ASI kills self at his home in Bhilad||SURAT: A 55-year-old assistant sub-inspector (ASI) posted in Bhilad police station, a bordering police station, consumed some poisonous material to end life on Saturday morning. Body of Ratilal Patel was found in his residential quarters in Bhilad police line just behind the police station he was posted. Considered to be very sincere and polite, Patel was transferred to Dharampur a few days ago as per his request. However, Patel did not go to job on Saturday and all calls to him by his colleagues went unanswered since the morning. Police checked at his residence and found it locked from inside. Police broke open the door at around 12 pm and found his body but no suicide note in the house. Patel lived alone in the quarters as his family lives in Dharampur. He was last spotted entering his house at around 10 am. Police suspect that Patel consumed some poisonous material to kill himself. Sources in police informed that Patel had developed a dispute with some colleague in his police station and was under pressure. He was posted as crime writer head, who is supposed to maintain papers and registers related to criminal records of the police station. “Valsad police lost a family member and the suicide will be investigated thoroughly. A deputy superintendent is carrying out an investigation in the suicide,” said Rajdeepsinh Zala, superintendent of police, Valsad.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/asi-kills-self-at-his-home-in-bhilad/articleshow/80306299.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||‘Expecting pandemic to end with vaccine roll out is too optimistic an assumption’||Professor Dr Sanjay Zodpey, an epidemiologist and physician, is vice-president at the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi. He is also the director of the Indian Institute of Public Health, New Delhi. National president of the Indian Association of Preventive and Social Medicine is another feather in his illustrious cap. Zodpey completed his medical education — MBBS, MD and PhD from Government Medical College, Nagpur. He worked as professor at the department of preventive and social medicine, faculty in the clinical epidemiology unit and vice-dean at GMCH, Nagpur. In November 2020, he featured in the prestigious ‘World Rankings of Top 2% Scientists. In an exclusive interview to TOI, Zodpey spoke at length about the vaccine roll out.Excerpts...Q. Is the Covid-19 pandemic going to end with the roll out of the vaccine?A. The vaccine will be a useful addition to the existing public health interventions for Covid-19 control. An aggressive vaccine roll out among the health care and frontline staff followed by the vulnerable groups and ultimately the general population is a sound strategy prioritizing those at highest risk of disease and adverse outcomes due to the disease. However, expecting the pandemic to end with the vaccine roll out is too optimistic an assumption. We will be able to deliver the vaccine to the entire population only over next several months. Hence, I think the Covid-19 pandemic is not likely to end in the immediate time frame. We are witnessing higher case-loads in UK, mainland Europe as well as in the United States. Japan and Thailand have also seen a high number in the past couple of months. Vaccination against Covid-19 will certainly help in controlling new cases of the disease globally over the next few months. However, from the disease transmission perspective, even in the presence of vaccine, there is still a possibility of transmission among the unvaccinated, susceptible population until high vaccine coverage is achieved.Q. What are the advantages and disadvantages of the vaccine?A. The vaccine is a biological substance designed to protect humans from infections caused by bacteria and viruses. Vaccination is a simple and effective way of protecting people against harmful infectious diseases before they come into contact with the disease agent. Vaccines have been used in disease control since a long time and they use the body’s natural defences to build resistance to specific infections and strengthen the immune system. In that sense, vaccines provide several advantages since they induce a protective biological response in the body. Vaccines are tested for their efficacy and safety before they are licenced for use. So, when a vaccine is available in the market, we are certain about its ability to prevent the disease. For injectable vaccines, injection safety as a part of the vaccine administration is also equally essential. We are lucky to have a vaccine available against this virus (SARSCoV-2). There are generally no disadvantages except may be that insufficient coverage of any vaccine may provide false a sense of security at the population level. Other than that, there may be minor discomforts such as pain at the injection site related to immunisation, headache, myalgia etc.Q. Is there any scientific study that this virus is going to continue for some years like the swine flu which lasted 2-4 years?A. The magnitude and scale of the pandemic is unprecedented in modern times. With the availability of the vaccine, we hope to shorten the duration of the pandemic. But this will be known only over time about how long it takes all the regions of the world to be free of this disease. We also know that some infectious diseases have zoonotic origins, means they have come from animals and are now endemic and prevalent in human population. Hence, it is possible that this new virus may establish an endemic equilibrium in human population infecting susceptible persons now and then.Q. Is there any prediction of a second wave like Nagpur district witnessed in August and September which was termed as the first wave?A. Any infectious disease transmission is a dynamic process and hence it is not possible to predict this aspect with certainty. During the last peak, Nagpur witnessed more than 1,500 cases per day for few days. Our current numbers are in the range of 300 to 400 per day. However, as the pandemic has taught all of us across the world that the health systems and the general population have to maintain all the caution and adhere to all guidelines to keep the infection in check. We all know that large level population mixing such as large gatherings, especially in closed spaces (crowded environment) because of whatever reason may lead to increase in the disease transmission and ultimately increased hospitalisation and deaths. At the global level, the presence of the new mutation in UK and South Africa has stretched the situation. In India, we have not seen such an impact as yet.Q. What are the threats of the mutated variant of Covid which had emerged in the UK?A. As per the latest information-based whole genome sequencing, epidemiology and modelling, the mutant threat which has emerged in the UK has altered the ‘transmissibility’ of the virus. This has made the Covid-19 virus more easily transmissible for the affected case to their contacts. The more transmissible the virus, the easier it is for the virus to spread among people and populations. However, there is no evidence that this variant is more likely to cause severe disease or mortality and investigations to decipher these aspects better are under way. This mutant form of the virus is definitely a threat to control efforts at the global level and its spread in the UK has necessitated greater restrictions in movement. The Government of India is taking all necessary steps in this regard through enhanced surveillance, especially in foreign travellers and their contacts. From the prevention and control of the Covid-19 perspective, irrespective of the variant under consideration, the control measures remains the same – that is - wash your hands, wear a mask, avoid closed and crowded places.Q. You have observed Nagpur district’s efforts to contain Covid-19. What are your views about the implementation of interventions?A. The administration has performed commendably well till now. There was a significant scale-up of the testing infrastructure to detect cases. Widespread efforts were taken towards making hospital beds available for patients who needed them. Logistics and supplies to counter the pandemic were made available proactively. At the same time, there were efforts towards raising public awareness about the disease and its effects as well as the immediate steps to be taken in case someone is suspected to be infected with the virus. Leadership of city medical colleges worked closely with the divisional, district and Nagpur Municipal Corporation administration and demonstrated exemplary efforts in containing the pandemic. Aggressive testing, containment strategy (isolation of cases and quarantine of contacts), clinical care of symptomatic and Covid safe behaviour were the hallmarks of pandemic control in the district.Q. What needs to be done to control cases and deaths in Nagpur district?A. The answer is simple. The administration will have to maintain the same level of efforts towards minimizing the impact of the disease. The same level of vigilance at the population level will have to be sustained. The health workforce is tirelessly engaged since the last ten months. We have to overcome the challenges of fatigue among health workers, which is not something that is unique to Nagpur alone. At the same time, we will have to keep the disease under surveillance, ensure prompt testing and access to appropriate care on diagnosis. In addition, it is important for the citizens to follow general guidance on personal protection such as use of masks, maintain physical distancing, avoid crowded places, closed spaces and maintain proper ventilation at homes and work places.Q. Ten months down the line, the social stigma of Covid-19 continues to prevail among people. What should be done?A. Fear and stigma among people arise from misconceptions about the disease and consequences. This needs to be addressed through a clear, accurate and easily available information source. The health ministry has undertaken several initiatives to dispel erroneous notions. Unfortunately, many misconceptions circulate in social media, which is counter-productive. All of us should act as responsible citizens and check facts before forwarding any such messages. A locally relevant communication campaign can be re-launched if the stigma persists in the population.(Note: Views expressed in this interview are Dr Sanjay Zodpey’s)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/expecting-pandemic-to-end-with-vaccine-roll-out-is-too-optimistic-an-assumption/articleshow/80306772.cms||Anjaya Anparthi
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Vaccine drive starts enthusiastically||Amravati: District Programme Officer Ajay Sakhare and medical officer Ujjwala Mohod became the first beneficiaries as the Covid vaccination drive got off to an enthusiastic start in the district on Saturday morning. Total 500 healthcare workers were administered the vaccine at two centres in the city and three in the district today. Each centre had registered a hundred health care workers for vaccination. The centres were District General Hospital and PDMC in the city, Sub District Hospital at Achalpur, Rural Hospital at Teosa and Primary Health Center at Anjangaon.Bari. Today's 500 beneficiaries will be given the second dose 28 days later, civil surgeon Dr Shyamsundar Nikam said. In the first phase, 16,262 health care workers will be vaccinated, he added. Initially, the district received 17,000 doses of Covishield and later 2,000 doses of Covaxine, exclusively for district general hospital. These Covaxine doses were administered to the beneficiaries at general hospital here, Nikam said. There was enthusiasm among doctors, nurses and health workers as the drive started at the district general hospital's nursing school premises. Guardian Minister Yashomati Thakur, MLA Sulbha Khodke, MP Navneet Rana, mayor Chetan Gawande and collector Shailesh Naval visited the centre and congratulated the health workers. Naval said that the remaining vaccination drive in the first phase would be completed as per government instructions. Besides visiting the two local centres, Naval also paid a visit to the Achalpur Centre. IMA President Dr Anil Rohankar , former ministers Dr Sunil Deshmukh and Dr Anil Bonde and PDMC hospital staffers got themselves vaccinated at the PDMC Centre. ZP Medical Officer Dr Dilip Ranmale said that vaccination process passed off smoothly at Anjangaon Bari and Teosa centres too.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/vaccine-drive-starts-enthusiastically/articleshow/80306991.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Many take vaccine shots in Wardha||Wardha: The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination campaign was launched in the district on Saturday in the presence of MP Ramdas Tadas at the civil hospital. Dr Sunita Dixit, a paediatrician, was honoured to be the first beneficiary of vaccination. MP Tadas congratulated her with a bouquet. District Civil Surgeon Dr Sachin Tadas, District Health Officer Dr Ajay Dawale, District Immunisation Officer Dr Vijay Jangle and doctors and nurses of the hospital were present on the occasion. A health officer has been appointed in each district to ensure that the vaccination drive is carried out properly. Dr Vijay Doiphode will supervise the drive. After the vaccination, Dr Dixit said, “I am happy to be the first beneficiary of the vaccine while it has given me confidence of working again as a corona warrior.” The vaccination drive was completed at the district civil hospital, Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Science (MGIMS), Sewagram, Acharya Vinoba Bhave rural hospital (AVBRH), Sawangi (Meghe), sub-district hospital at Arvi and Hinganghat and rural hospital at Selu. The vaccinated included 600 persons till 5pm on Saturday. “It is great day for MGIMS and we are excited to participate in the vaccination drive against COVID-19,” said Dr Arjun Jakasania, assistant professor of community medicine. ‘We are monitoring the beneficiaries for any possible side effects,” said Dr Samir Yelwatkar, assistant professor of medicine and nodal officer of the vaccination drive. MGIMS is one of the six centres the in district. Dean, Dr N M Gangane, said, “We are taking all the safety measures and adhering to the guidance suggested by the union ministry of health and family welfare. We have included our residents for the initial roll out of the vaccine. The next list of beneficiaries will be generated by the Co-WIN app,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/many-take-vaccine-shots-in-wardha/articleshow/80307019.cms||Balwant Dhage
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Most vaccinate, others vacillate: 92% of those enrolled turn up in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Telangana began its pushback against the relentless march of the Covid-19 pandemic on Saturday with most of the first list of health workers getting vaccinated against the virus. The government had identified 4,296 beneficiaries for the first day and 3,962 turned up at the 139 centres across the state. Among the beneficiaries who were administered the first dose of Covishield vaccine were doctors, nurses, auxiliary nurse midwives (ANMs) and sanitation workers . While there were no major cases of side effects, 11 beneficiaries reported mild adverse events following immunization (AEFI) reactions like pain at the site of the vaccination, giddiness and sweating. As many as 334 beneficiaries developed cold feet as they did not show up to get vaccinated. Health officials however said they were happy that 92% of them took the shot and that they will try and convince those who were dithering. Districts like Adilabad, Jangaon, Jayashankar Bhupalpally, Jogulamba Gadwal, Karimnagar and Nagarkurnool among other vaccinated most of the beneficiaries, but others like Siddipet, Narayanpet, Ranga Reddy and Suryapet could not find up to 40 beneficiaries each. Last minute adjustments were made to fill up empty slots. “The 11 people who had developed reactions will be closely monitored for a few days. These reactions are common for all vaccines. There is a possibility of fever and minor reactions the evening after the vaccination. We have advised them to call 104 in case of these issues. However, there have been no serious reactions,” said Dr G Srinivasa Rao, director public health, Telangana. Speaking about hesitation in some beneficiaries, he added, “They want to check the performance of the vaccine and then take it. They will be persuaded and vaccinated as well. All the beneficiaries have to be covered for the drive to bear fruit.” State health minister Eatala Rajender clarified that those who have been vaccinated do not have immediate protection against the coronavirus. “Twenty-eight days after the first dose, another dose is required to be taken. The antibodies develop only after 42 days of the initial dose. Also, people need to take all Covid precautions even after taking the shot. Let’s not lower our guard just yet,” he said. Minor glitches in operating the CoWIN software were noticed at several locations. Superintendents of Chest Hospital, Area Hospital, Golconda, director, Institute of Preventive Medicine, Dr K Shankar and director of medical education Dr Ramesh Reddy took the vaccine on Saturday, while public representatives from across the state participated in the launch of the inoculation programme at various vaccination sites. Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy and Rajender participated at the Gandhi Hospital while state municipal administration and panchayat raj minister K T Rama Rao participated at the launch at Tilak Nagar urban primary health centre. As many as 179 private hospitals have been earmarked for vaccinations and the number of centers would be increased from Monday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/most-vaccinate-some-vacillate-in-t/articleshow/80307858.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Simhachalam RHCs beat 2019 routine immunisation numbers in 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM: While almost all services took a hit as a result of the pandemic, 12 sub-centres under the rural health centres (RHC) in Simhachalam overtook the routine immunisation numbers in 2020 compared to the year before. Birth doses of BCG-DPT, OPV, Hepatitis-B were higher at these centres in 2020 compared to 2019 as per the findings of Andhra Medical College (AMC) community medicine department. These numbers have been a result of multi-purpose health workers (MHW), who despite the pandemic, have carried on vaccination and awareness drives, urging locals to get infants inoculated. “The study was conducted in Simhachalam RHC comprising 12 sub-centres with a total population of 1.05 lakh. Nine regular multipurpose health workers (MHW) were assigned to these sub-centres. When we compared the January-December 2019 and 2020 data, we noted that more immunisation was carried out in 2020 despite the hiccups in the initial months due to lockdown and pandemic,” said Dr P Rashmitha Priyadarsini who carried out the study under the guidance of AMC community medicine head of department, Dr B Devi Madhavi. Dr Priyadarsini informed that while 1,412 BCG-DPT-Hepatitis B vaccines were given in 2019, 1,559 vaccines were administered in 2020. Doctors noted that MHWs had to faces various hurdles such as lack of public transportation, community stigma, vaccine hesitancy among others while delivering immunisation services. “MHWs also worked towards awareness generation and involving the local community about health education, antenatal care while also making arrangements and allotting time slots for immunisation... They also battled their own issues such as leaving their children or the elderly at home, virus stigma among neighbours, a lack of off days, attending Covid duties,,” said Dr Madhavi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/simhachalam-rhcs-beat-2019-routine-immunisation-nos-in-20/articleshow/80306571.cms||Sulogna Mehta
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Vaccination drive begins for Indian Navy health workers||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Covid-19 vaccination programme for healthcare workers of the Indian Navy commenced at the INHS Kalyani on Saturday. The vaccine was administered to 40 persons among whom were doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, ward sahayaks, and medical attendants in coordination with district health authorities. The vaccination drive was launched by Commanding-in-Chief Vice-of Eastern Naval Command, Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain. Staff at the INHS Kalyani have undergone rigorous training to conduct an incident-free vaccination drive. A reporting mechanism for real-time monitoring of the programme and side-effects has been established. All service personnel are expected to be vaccinated over the next few months. In another development, ENC chief Vice-Admiral Atul Kumar Jain reviewed the operational preparedness and combat-readiness of the Eastern Fleet. During the review, force protection against asymmetric attacks, weapon firings, anti-submarine drills were demonstrated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vaccination-drive-begins-for-indian-navy-health-workers/articleshow/80306552.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Modi allowing capitalists to enslave common man, farmers: Thorat||Nagpur: State Congress president and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of allowing capitalists to enslave the common man and farmers. He was speaking at the party’s ‘Speak up for Kisan Adhikar’ (farmers’ rights) programme in Nagpur. Thousands of Congress workers and farmers took out a tractor rally to protest against the Centre’s farm laws and hike in fuel prices. They held demonstrations outside the rear gate of Raj Bhavan, the official residence of Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari, who is in Nagpur since the last couple of days. The protest was to be held in Mumbai, but the venue was changed to coincide with Koshyari’s visit to Nagpur from January 12 to 17. Vehicular traffic was affected as police closed several roads connecting busy areas like Sadar and Civil Lines, including Old Katol Road Chowk, Japanese Garden Square and Chhaoni road, from early morning. A huge posse of policemen was also deployed to maintain law and order at the protest site. The various warring factions within the city Congress also joined the protest extending their support to the agitating farmers and demanding repeal of the contentious farm laws. Thorat said the rally was part of the party’s plan to gherao governors across the country to extend its support to the agitating farmers. “We were supposed to organize the protest on January 15 but it was postponed due to the gram panchayat elections across the state,” he said, adding, “We urge the governor to inform the central government about the Congress party’s views regarding repeal of the three laws.” Citing examples, Thorat said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government had waived off farmers loans when it came to power in the state in 2019. He said the coronavirus outbreak and the resultant lockdown had hit the dairy sector hard and almost 10 lakh litres of milk was going unsold as the rates per litre was very low. However, the state government procured the milk through milk cooperative societies at Rs25 per litre and the stock was used to make milk powder. Thorat said the party is waiting for a signal from the party high command in New Delhi for intensifying their protest against the new farm laws. Congress is the only party in the country which worked for betterment of farmers, added Thorat. District guardian minister Nitin Raut lauded city Congress chief and MLA Vikas Thakre for organizing the rally within a short time. Thakre said the central government is against farmers and added that the new laws will favour two industrialists — Reliance Industries chairman Mukesh Ambani, and Adani Group chief Gautam Adani. Raut claimed the pressure of the public agitation would be such that the government would finally be forced to withdraw the three laws. “The Congress will not relent till the Modi government withdraws the farm laws. These laws are meant not to help the farmers but to finish them off to pave the way for industrialists,” said woman and child welfare minister Yeshomati Thakur. Maharashtra ministers Vijay Wadettiwar, Sunil Kedar among others addressed the rally which was attended by thousands of Congress workers and activists.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/modi-allowing-capitalists-to-enslave-common-man-farmers-thorat/articleshow/80306824.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Covid vaccination gets moderate response on first day||Chandrapur: The Covid vaccination drive that kicked off on Saturday received a moderate response (54%) on the first day. Medical superintendent of Chandrapur GMCH, Dr Bhaskar Sonarkar, became the first beneficiary to be vaccinated by Covid-shield dose. The vaccination launching programme was held in the presence of ZP president Sandya Gurnule and MLA Kishor Jorgewar at the immunization centre at GMCH. The vaccination drive started simultaneously at six immunization centres. However, the response at the rural vaccination centre was poor, while the urban centres in Chandrapur city fared comparatively well. Official sources in the health department informed that immunization to 100 persons as per the immunization centre was planned on the first day. However, as most of the doctors and medics registered for vaccination were on duty for the drive, they failed get their doses. Some comorbid beneficiaries were spared from the vaccination on the first day as a precautionary measure, while others preferred to wait and did not turn up at the vaccination centre out of fear of adverse effect. The drive started at 10am and concluded at 5pm. Centerwise figure of vaccination is GMCH- 40%, Bramhapuri rural hospital- 40%, Warora sub-district hospital- 57%, Rajura sub-district hospital-40%, UPHC Balaji ward- 79%, UPHC Ramngar-76%. Officials said that the relay of messages and phone calls to the beneficiaries for vaccination were glitch-free. There was no case of adverse effect following immunization (AEFI) was registered during the day. Health department has decided to hold the vaccination henceforth on Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday. In all, 16,259 front line health workers are going to be inoculated during the first phase of the drive, which is likely to take nearly two months.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/covid-vaccination-gets-moderate-response-on-first-day/articleshow/80306952.cms||Mazhar Ali
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||100 colleges in Telangana accredited by NAAC||HYDERABAD: Barely 100 colleges in Telangana are now accredited by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) and the validity of 64 colleges expired over the last 12 months. Some of them were to be assessed in 2019-2020 but the NAAC peer team visit was postponed owing to the Covid-19 situation. As per the NAAC data, there are 164 accredited colleges in Telangana, of which accreditation of 37 colleges expired in 2020 and accreditation of another 27 will expire between January and March 2021, further reducing the number of accredited colleges in the state. The UGC has made it mandatory for all higher education institutions to secure NAAC accreditation with a minimum score of 2.5 by 2022. With the pandemic delaying the assessments by almost a year, many colleges in Telangana are expecting to complete the accreditation process this year. “Since the government has made it mandatory to secure NAAC accreditation, we had submitted our documents in February 2020. We were expecting the NAAC team to visit last year itself. But due to Covid-19, the peer team couldn’t visit. Now we expect them to come for inspection in the next couple of months,” said B Madhava Reddy, principal, G Pulla Reddy College of Pharmacy, which has applied for NAAC for the first time. In the last year, only 30 colleges were inspected by the peer teams of NAAC. No inspections were scheduled between April and September 2020 due to Covid-19 induced lockdown. Peer team visits are now scheduled in eight colleges, of which six are government owned.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/100-colleges-in-state-accredited-by-naac/articleshow/80307087.cms||Preeti Biswas
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Bullets recovered from forest in Telangana||HYDERABAD: Vikarabad forest officials recovered a magazine of bullets in Yalal forest area. It is suspected that unidentified persons who may have come for hunting left the magazine. District superintendent of police M Narayana said that they are clueless as to whom the magazine belongs to. In the last week of December, villagers alerted forest officials that few persons had come on a bike carrying weapons. When officials started to search the area, they came across a magazine of bullets two days later in the forest area. Forest officials said the magazine was later handed over to the Vikarabad district police, who are tight-lipped about the seizure.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/bullets-recovered-from-forest/articleshow/80307113.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||No culling of birds required if wild or migratory birds found infected||Ahmednagar district reported its first confirmed case of avian influenza after the sample of a dead crow tested positive. The animal husbandry department has renewed guideline on culling of birds. “If wild or migratory birds (not ones in captive or reared for human consumption) test positive, biosecurity measures must be followed. The area should be declared an ‘alert zone’. No culling of birds is required in this case. But confirmed infection among captive birds or poultry merits the place to be declared a ‘culling zone’,” assistant commissioner of Nashik G R Patil said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/no-culling-of-birds-required-if-wild-or-migratory-birds-found-infected/articleshow/80307888.cms||Abhilash Botekar
January 17, 2021||Trichy||40 years on, rainwater fills Teppakulam tank in Trichy||Trichy:Unprecedented rainfall in January has filled up Teppakulam tank near the Rockfort hillock, one of the major landmarks of Trichy city. The incessant rain has submerged a portion of Maiya Mandapam (centre hall) at the centre of the tank, which happened about 40 years ago. The five-acre Teppakulam tank that belongs to Thayumanaswamy and Uchchi Pillaiyar temples was leased to Trichy Corporation (previously municipality) for a period of 99 years in 1949. The 137 mm rainfall Trichy received since the beginning of the month and the rain during the previous months have filled the tank situated between Nandhikoil Street and College Road. Apart from the rain that lashed over the surface area, a few buildings around Teppakulam equipped with rainwater harvesting (RWH) infrastructure have diverted the surplus rainwater to the tank. “The last time we saw rainwater recharging the entire tank was in 1981. Temple workers had to discharge the surplus water manually so that the Maiya Mandapam can be used to place idols during the float festival,” Aravanai Selvan, a retired HR&CE staff of Rockfort temple said. Usually, float festival (Theppa Thiruvizha) in Teppakulam tank is celebrated only after the corporation fills the tank with Cauvery water sourced from Kambarasanpettai collector well. However, this year, rainwater is enough to host the festival without relying on the Cauvery water, temple employees said. The annual float festival of Arulmigu Thayumaswamy temple at Rockfort complex here is being celebrated between March and April. Meanwhile, many commercial establishments skipped installing RWH infrastructure owing to space constraint, local people opined that the corporation can promote RWH among them on NSB Road, College Road and Nandhikoil Street by using Teppakulam as a common storage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/40-years-on-rainwater-fills-teppakulam-tank-in-trichy/articleshow/80307885.cms||Deepak Karthik
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Inter-state gang busted, 6 burglars held||HYDERABAD: A nine-member inter-state gang involved in several house burglaries and bike thefts was busted by the Abids police in coordination with Task Force sleuths on Saturday. Police have arrested six burglars and seized 23 bikes, six grams of gold, a kg silver and several gadgets from their possession. Hyderabad police, said Wajeed, Babu Rao, both residents of Bidar in Karnataka, Shaik Sonu, a native of Uttar Pradesh and presently working in Bidar, Abdul Sameer, Mohammed Sameer, both residents of Vattepally in Hyderabad, and Ismail, a resident of Karimnagar, were arrested. Three more accused — Shahid, Ameer, both residents of Bidar, and Iliyas, a resident of Tolichowki — were absconding. “Till now, the accused were involved in 26 offences in Hyderabad, Cyberabad, Rachakonda and Sangareddy police limits. During the daytime, they take rest. After committing the offence, the stolen bikes and property was sent to Bidar, Karimnagar and Nizamabad for disposal,’’ Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said. TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/inter-state-gang-busted-6-burglars-held/articleshow/80307088.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Some vaccinate, others vacillate: 74% of those enrolled turn up in Rajasthan||JAIPUR: Covid-19 inoculation drive kicked off with an encouraging start as 73.8% of the healthcare workers registered to receive vaccine on the launch day of the drive got the shot. However, Co-WIN software remained non-functional for a long time because of which the health department had to conduct the immunisation drive offline.  The health officials alleged that since the software stopped, most of the beneficiaries did not receive the message for vaccination and so did not turn up. While the expected turnout was pegged at 16,613, as many as 12,258 got vaccinated in the state on Saturday. Among those, 21 beneficiaries showed symptoms of some reaction following immunisation. “They reported anxiety following the vaccination but were allowed to go after becoming stable,” said Dr Laxman Singh Ola, director, family welfare. Meanwhile, a lot of registered health workers skipped the vaccination session and opted out. In Jaipur, of the 2,100 registered workers, 1,303 got vaccinated, which was only 62% of the target. “The day was quite encouraging for us as we conducted the vaccination programme at 21 centres in Jaipur. We faced some difficulties in organising the vaccination drive online as software remained out of service at some sites. At those places, we organised offline vaccination,” said Dr Narrottam Sharma, chief medical health officer, Jaipur. The achievement of targets varied from district to district. While two districts Bundi and Ajmer saw 100% turnout, two others Alwar and Jodhpur crossed the 100% mark. Alwar achieved 114.5% of the target and Jodhpur 100.8%. Jaisalmer achieved only 36%, the lowest in the state. Among the vaccination sites, a lot of them reported 100% turnout. These included Bhilwara’s Mahatma Gandhi District Hospital (MGDH). Hospital’s principal medical officer Dr Arun Gaur said, “At the hospital, 79 men and 21 women were registered and all of them got vaccinated.” Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “The vaccination was conducted at 167 sites across the state and it will continue in the same way for the next two-three days. After 28 days, the beneficiaries will be given the second dose of the vaccine.” He said that after completion of the first phase, frontline workers, central government employees, revenue department employees will be vaccinated and in the third phase, above 50 years and those having co-morbid conditions will get the shot.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/some-vaccinate-others-vacillate-74-of-those-enrolled-turn-up-in-city/articleshow/80307886.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Trichy||Tourist spots remain deserted on Kaanum Pongal owing to curbs||Trichy: In a departure from the usual festivities on the occasion of Kaanum Pongal, the celebrations on Saturday were rather muted with the popular picnic spots in Trichy district remaining deserted. Anticipating large crowds on the occasion, the district administration had closed all the popular tourist destinations during the Pongal holidays to prevent a spike in Covid-19 infection.Mukkombu, the iconic park situated on the bank of river Cauvery that attracts lots of tourists, was deployed with police personnel to turn away the visitors. “Despite the announcement from the district administration that the park was out of bounds for people during Pongal holidays, some locals turned up at the spot. However, we did not allow anyone to access the park,” an official with PWD in Mukkombu, said.Earlier, the district administration had instructed all tourist destinations to remain closed from January 15 to 17. The Kallanai dam (Grand Anicut) had also seen a drastic fall in visitors, owing to the restrictions. The butterfly conservatory in Srirangam and most parts of the Cauvery river bank remained deserted due to the curbs.However, most of the temples saw a substantial footfall including Woraiyur Vekkali Amman temple and Samayapuram Mariamman temple. Left with limited options for an outing, a section of families opted to watch films in cinema halls. However, the unavailability of tickets due to the heavy rush disappointed many of them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/tourist-spots-remain-deserted-on-kaanum-pongal-owing-to-curbs/articleshow/80307889.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||N Mum Aerocity to be developed with global FSI||Aerocities around the world are built with a focus on a particular sector while some serve as transit destinations. Cidco officials said to enable a conducive urban design form and make the aerocity a benchmark for development in the country, it will be developed with a global floor space index. The Navi Mumbai Aerocity will also offer a central command-and-control operation to manage all utilities. More importantly, utilities will be laid through tunnels to avoid digging of roads. The concept plan has been finalised and a detailed master plan along with a detailed design of the facilities will be taken up shortly. While development of the infrastructure is likely to commence soon, Cidco is looking at various options and revenue models for the aerocity. For instance, Delhi International Airport had awarded rights for development of aerocity land to a realty firm with an arrangement for an annual lease and one-time payment. While Cidco looks at ensuring development of the aerocity in sync with completion of the development of the international airport and MTHL, it has initiated promotion of the project to create awareness among prospective firms about the benefits of locating their businesses in it. Meanwhile, Cidco is also looking at right market conditions for a global auction of its corporate park in Kharghar, close to the upcoming international airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/n-mum-aerocity-to-be-developed-with-global-fsi/articleshow/80308641.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Juna akhada seers stage protest at Mela office||HARIDWAR: Seers of Juna akhada, the biggest naga sanyasi akhada, staged a protest at the Kumbh mela office alleging that the administration was not taking the Kumbh mela preparations seriously. They claimed that seers of the Juna akhada would start arriving from next week but the mela administration has not completed the work so far. Even the 'peshwai' (procession) routes are in poor condition, they said. International president of Juna akhara Shri Mahant Prem Giri told TOI, “Ramta Panch (a group of saints) of Juna, Agni and Aahvan akharas will enter the city on January 25 with religious flags from Bijnor side, but mela administration did not complete the work so far. Our Peshwai route is also in poor condition. Neither the government nor the mela officer is taking Kumbh mela seriously. We cannot tolerate this type of casual approach.” To pacify the anger of the seers, deputy mela officers reached to talk with them on Saturday and inspected the Kumbh work sites of Juna akhara. Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “All important Kumbh related works are going on and must be completed before the entering of Ramta Panch saints of juna akhara.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/juna-akhada-seers-stage-protest-at-mela-office-over-kumbh-work-delay/articleshow/80306490.cms||MS Nawaz
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Minor girl’s family kills her 16-year-old lover in Jaisalmer||JAISALMER: A 16-year-old boy was allegedly killed by the family members of his lover, also a minor, when he had gone to the latter’s house to meet her, about 15km from Jaisalmer at Dabla village on Friday evening. The body, after post-mortem by the medical board, was handed over to the family members on Saturday. Police have arrested one and detained another person in the case. Search is on for other accused named in the case. Father of the deceased is a lawyer. The boy, Parth Swami, studying in Class X in Jaisalmer, was in love with a minor girl. SP Ajay Singh said that Parth went to meet his lover at Dabla village. After some time, her relatives came home and saw the duo at home. This enraged them and they allegedly thrashed the boy and murdered him with sharp weapons and threw the body away. He said that on getting information, Kotwali police reached the spot and kept the body at the mortuary and sealed the house. Police recovered sharp weapons at the spot. Based on the names given by the boy’s family, police started the search for the culprits and lodged a case. The boy’s family members created commotion outside the mortuary demanding arrest of the culprits. Police persuaded them and assured them of arresting the remaining culprits soon. Jitendra Swami, father of the deceased, had gone to court and when he returned he found his son lying in a pool of blood, SP Singh said. SP said accused Rajendra Singh (21) who is the cousin brother of the girl, said that the boy was flirting with his sister and so he murdered the boy in rage.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/minor-girls-family-kills-her-16-year-old-lover-in-jaisalmer/articleshow/80307890.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: Two spectators gored to death in Sivaganga ‘manjuvirattu’||MADURAI: Two elderly spectators were gored to death at a ‘manjuvirattu’, a banned bull chasing sport that happens on open grounds unlike jallikattu, in Sivaganga district on Saturday. Of the 50 tamers and spectators who suffered injuries at the event at Siravayal village in the district, 13 were referred to Sivaganga medical college hospital after their condition turned serious. S Bose, 62, of Periyamachipatti, and C Periyakaruppan, 80, of Kallipattu, were rushed to a nearby hospital after they were attacked by bulls but doctors declared them brought dead. Nachiyapuram police have received separate complaints. Though Siravayal, situated near Tirupattur, is known for its traditional manjuvirattu, the event was banned after jallikattu protests in 2017 and uproar over the danger it posed to people. The district administration, however, has been conducting jallikattu with all mandatory precautions. On Saturday, while just 120 bulls and 82 tamers took part in jallikattu, 250 bulls took part in manjuvirattu that happened near the jallikattu venue. Incidentally, Tirupattur MLA K R Periyakaruppan and Sivaganga MP Karti P Chidambaram were present at the jallikattu. In manjuvirattu, hundreds of bulls called ‘kattumadu’ are released in an open ground and chased by spectators. On Saturday, the bulls ploughed through the crowds scattered all around the venue and attacked elderly people who were stunned to see the raging beasts. Until a few years ago, a brass bell used to be tied around the neck of the bull with a towel. People would tame the bulls for the towel and bell. But nowadays it is not tied and bulls are chased away and tamed only for fun. Bull owners, tamers and spectators visit Siravayal from districts such as Dindigul, Madurai, Pudukottai and Trichy apart from Sivaganga for the event.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/2-spectators-gored-to-death-in-sivaganga-manjuvirattu/articleshow/80307891.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Agra||Visibility almost zero as dense fog grips Agra region||AGRA: A dense fog that virtually reduced visibility to zero engulfed Agra region on Saturday morning. It was clammy as 97% relative humidity was recorded in Agra and surrounding districts. However, in the afternoon, the sun came out bringing relief to the people. People bundled up in woolens as Agra registered a maximum temperature of 21.2 degrees Celsius which was one degree less than normal. At 7.3 degrees Celsius, minimum temperature remained 2 degrees below normal. A cold breeze at a speed of 12 km per hour swept through the region. A dense fog also prevailed in both Meerut and Bareilly regions in the morning. However, Meerut was colder than Agra, recording a maximum temperature of 16.7 degree Celsius, six degrees below normal, and a minimum of 5.7 degree Celsius, two degrees below normal. Temperatures in Bareilly were a notch higher than Meerut with a minimum of 6 degrees Celsius and a maximum of 19 degrees Celsius. The weatherman attributed the cold in the plains to rain and snowfall in Himalayan region. This could push the mercury level to drop below 3 degrees Celsius over the next four days, he predicted. The region would continue to witness dense fog in the morning and evening and high humidity for the next four days. Temperatures were likely to rise by end of next week. Following the dense fog, traffic movement on highways and major roads remained affected till the afternoon. Around dozen trains were delayed. Poor visibility upset tourists who had come to see the Taj Mahal in the morning as they could not see the the mausoleum properly let alone take photographs. In the evening, Agra Municipal Corporation (AMC) set up gas heaters at over a dozen places in the evening. Some people were seen sitting around bonfires to warm themselves. Civic body team shifted street dwellers to shelter homes. On Saturday, the air quality (AQI) index in Agra was recorded at 365 or "very poor" category, by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). Particulate matter 2.5 (with diameter less than 2.5 micrometres) remained a prominent pollutant in the city of Taj. (With inputs from Ishita Bhatia from Meerut and Kanwardeep Singh from Bareilly)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/visibility-almost-zero-as-dense-fog-grips-agra-region/articleshow/80305961.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Vaccine will restore confidence among people: Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope||AURANGABAD: Stating that the coronavirus pandemic had delivered a severe blow to the society and forced various hardships on people, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said the government’s vaccination drive would help restore some confidence among people. “The vaccine will reach the common people also soon. The government is making all efforts to make the vaccine available to even the poor and needy at affordable prices or free of cost,” he said while speaking during the Covid vaccination drive at the district civil hospital in Jalna, around 50km from Aurangabad, on Saturday. Tope said around 8 lakh frontline health workers across Maharashtra have been registered as early beneficiaries of the Covid vaccine and all of them should take the necessary shots without any apprehensions. “If frontline health workers undergo the vaccination pro-actively, it will send a strong positive message to the society and others will also take the vaccine in the near future without any fear,” he said, adding that vaccines against Covid-19 are safe and introduced after a range of trials. Responding to a media query about when the vaccine against Covid-19 will actually be rolled out for the common public, Tope declined to commit to any particular time frame. “The early phase of immunizing frontline health workers, including doctors and paramedical staff, is expected to get over in the next few weeks. The necessary arrangements are going on in full swing to reach out to masses with the vaccine. That day is not far,” the health minister said. Dr Padmaja Saraf and Dr Sanjay Jagtap from the district civil hospital of Jalna, along with ambulance driver Amol Kale, were the first ones from the district to get the Covid vaccine shots. Speaking on the occasion, Saraf said the pandemic situation produced some heart-wrenching incidents while offering healthcare to patients.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/tope-vaccine-will-restore-confidence-among-people/articleshow/80306494.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Non-Sena politicians in Aurangabad upset over not getting vax drive invite||Aurangabad: Elected representatives from many political parties strongly objected to the district administration and the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) failing to send an official invite to them for attending the inauguration of the Covid-19 vaccination drive.Accusing the AMC, the district administration and the Shiv Sena of ignoring non-Sena people's representatives, the MLAs, MP and MLC from the other parties skipped the official programmes — including the inauguration of the command and control room at the CP’s office in the evening.Earlier in the day, BJP MLA Atul Save and Rajya Sabha MP Bhagwat Karad voluntarily went to the Bansilalnagar-based vaccination booth and publicly questioned the officials for failing to follow the protocol about invite them.Later Save told TOI: “I am going to raise a legislative assembly question (LAQ) against the administration and the AMC for making it an ‘only Shiv Sena’ event. The programme by guardian minister Subhash Desai and tourism minister Aditya Thackeray was intentionally designed to overlap with the PM’s launching of the vaccination drive.”He also alleged that no proper arrangements were made to relay the PM’s address to the nation at the vaccination booth in Bansilalnagar. He said AMC administrator Astik Kumar Pandey and the ministers skipped the inauguration of the nationwide drive and instead attended other programmes.MP Karad added: “There was absolutely no preparation by the AMC and the district administration. We inquired with the AMC and found that the drive was taking place at Bansilalnagar, where there was just one computer, which too was facing technical problems. As a result, we could not witness the PM’s address to the nation. This is absurd. We condemn the act of ignoring people’s representatives for such important events.”The politicians in the city also accused the state government of “selling old wine in new bottle” by re-inaugurating works that were announced, and even sanctioned, by the previous government.MP Imtiaz Jaleel said, “No protocols were maintained during the day-long event. Attempts were made to make it appear as if the Shiv Sena had personally funded all the projects, and not the state government. However, the facts remain that majority of the works inaugurated on Saturday were either already announced, or were sanctioned earlier.”Congress city-district president Hisham Osmani too expressed reservations about the protocol followed by AMC and said that he would raise the issue with the higher-ups. “Considering the recent experiences, we feel the AMC is working only for one party,” he said. NCP office bearers too confirmed that they were not invited to the vaccination drive. However, a senior NCP leader said: “Today MP Supriya Sule was in the city to felicitating MLC Satish Chavan, and even if they had invited us, it would not have been possible to attend it.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/non-sena-politicians-in-aurangabad-upset-over-not-getting-vax-drive-invite/articleshow/80306497.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Smart city command & control room inaugurated||Aurangabad: The command and control room of the Aurangabad City Smart City Development Corporation Ltd was inaugurated on Saturday by minister for environment and tourism Aditya Thackeray on the premises of the Aurangabad city police commissionerate. The formal inauguration of the well-equipped control room was done in the presence of guardian minister Subhas Desai, Aurangabad commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta and Aurangabad smart city CEO Astik Kumar Pandey. As a part of the project, 700 high-resolution cameras have been installed at 418 places in the city. The set up will have two command centres and 17 visual centres. It has about two dozen screens installed with 9x3m video wall and multiple three-monitor systems. The command and control room will receive live feed of all CCTV cameras and is expected to help the city police not only detect offences but also improve the conviction rate.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/smart-city-command-control-room-inaugurated/articleshow/80306501.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Trichy||Rain damages 5,000 acres of samba paddy crop in Trichy||TRICHY: With over 5,000 acres of samba paddy crops damaged in the recent rain in Trichy district, minister for backward class and minority welfare S Valarmathi visited various parts of the district on Saturday to assess the damage. Over one lakh acre of samba paddy has been cultivated in Trichy district during the 2020-21 season. Of the total area, 30,000 acres were ready for harvest. During the recent rains, farmers lost 5,000 acres of paddy crops in 13 blocks in the district. Based on the farmers’ appeal, minister S Valarmathi along with agriculture officers inspected the affected fields in Esanaipatti, Panchapur, Kallikudi, North and South Poongudi, Navalur Kuttappattu, Thayanur. M Jayaseelan, rural district secretary of CPM has appealed to provide compensation for cotton crop also. In a statement he said that hundreds of farmers have raised cotton in Manapparai, Thuraiyur, Musiri, T Pettai, Pullambadi, Vaiyampatti and Marungapuri which have been affected severely due to rain. Meanwhile in Thanjavur, director of horticulture department and monitoring officer of Thanjavur, Subbaian said that assessment of crop damage would be completed in a couple of days. Samba paddy crops were cultivated in around 3.38 lakh acres in Thanjavur district and large areas of paddy fields were ready for harvest. But the crops have been affected by the recent incessant rains. Similarly, 2,385 acres of groundnut, sesame and black gram crops have also been affected. Details of the total damage will be ready in a couple of days. Beyond the disaster fund, equivalent relief has been provided to farmers,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/rain-damages-5000-acres-of-samba-paddy-crop-in-trichy/articleshow/80307897.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||CM Nitish Kumar assures all help to Bihari diaspora in US||PATNA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday assured the Bihari diaspora living in America that he would take Bihar to the new heights of development and prosperity with their help, advise and expertise in various sectors. The CM was interacting online with the diaspora at a session organized by Bihar-Jharkhand Association of North America (BJANA) in collaboration with the Consulate General of India, New York and Bihar Foundation. A visibly happy CM also promised them that his office would have regular interactions with the diaspora through Bihar Foundation. The top state bureaucrats would be present to take note of the suggestions and implement them, he said. “I assure you that we will cooperate with you in your endeavours and remove all the loopholes, whether it is provision of land for industries or sanction of schemes in a time-bound manner. We are a family and we need your help,” said Nitish. He highlighted the development works of his government in various sectors and mentioned the efforts made to promote ecotourism, girls empowerment, building bridges, flyovers, international museum, nature safari, glass skywalk and quake resistant buildings in the state. Nitish admitted that Bihar was still backward in industrialization. However, he expressed confidence that with their active support, new industries would come up. He told them how Bill Gates was highly impressed with the Jal, Jeevan, Hariyali scheme launched by the state government. State chief secretary Deepak Kumar informed the diaspora about the various schemes and changing picture of Bihar and promised to incorporate their suggestions in the development projects. Former minister Sanjay Jha, principal secretary to CM, Chanchal Kumar and other officials were also present. Consulate General of India in New York Randhir Jaiswal, who belongs to Hajipur, said Bihar was everywhere in the USA and Biharis are always connected to their motherland. BJANA president Avinash Gupta conducted the session and vice-president Anurag Kumar proposed a vote of thanks. Among others who extended their suggestions included Ajay Singh, Sanjay Gupta, Alok Kumar, Ashok Ramsaran, Paritosh Vajpayee, Rohit Singh, Ajay Jha, Sanjay Rai and Nitesh Kumar, all having roots in Bihar. They praised Nitish for the works his government has done for the state’s growth and development.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/cm-assures-all-help-to-bihari-diaspora-in-us/articleshow/80307182.cms||Faryal Rumi
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Only med students with 40% permanent disability can seek transfer: HC||Nagpur: Upholding the rule laid by Directorate of Medical education and Research (DMER), the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court rejected a student's plea making it clear that only those having permanent disability of over 40% can be permitted to take a college transfer. A division bench comprising justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote also advised MCI, now known as National Medical Commission (NMC), to frame specific guidelines for its definition of “genuine grounds” under which medicos seek transfers to other colleges. Petitioner Manali Barde had sought her transfer from Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) at Akola where she is pursuing MBBS course to GMCH Nagpur on the grounds that she’s suffering from allergic bronchitis with chronic bronchial asthma. She sought relief on Clause 13(a) (ii) of the DMER brochure where it was mentioned that students could be transferred to other colleges only if they fulfil criteria of 40% disability. She initially applied to DMER, but her application was rejected on grounds that she failed to apply in prescribed format and since the process of transfer for 2019-20 batch had already been completed, she can’t get any relief. After DMER rejected her plea, she challenged its Clause 13(a) (ii) stating that it was contrary to its earlier regulations. The judges clarified that DMER’s rules were based on Section 2 (Zc) of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016 and, therefore, has a statutory backing to it. “MCI regulations would demonstrate that it’s only on a 'genuine ground', subject to availability of vacancy in college, where migration is sought, and upon fulfilling other requirements laid down in regulations could migration be permitted,” the HC said. Explaining definition of “genuine grounds” as defined by MCI, the judges said if left unfettered, uncontrolled and undefined, it has the capability of great misuse and abuse. “For what one person may consider it to be a genuine ground, may not be so, in the eyes and perspective of another, reasons being varied, depending upon the viewpoint of the person considering the expression.” They added that as MCI regulations are applicable throughout the country, each state government/university/institution, would be entitled to frame guidelines for grant of no objection certificate or migration, subject to the provisions of the regulations. “This would automatically lead to different guidelines, being framed by different state governments/ universities/ institutions, thereby leading to a lack of uniformity in the policy of migration.” The judges advised MCI to define and set the parameters or criteria of the expression “genuine grounds” as occurring in its regulation, to have uniformity for its application throughout the country. “It would not only avoid contrary meanings, but would also save students from vagaries of litigation and time spent on pursuing them, which could be beneficially spent in pursuit of a profession for which they’re preparing themselves. We hope that appropriate steps would be taken in this regard by MCI as soon as possible,” the bench said. What HC said * DMER’s rules based on Section 2 (Zc) of Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act * MCI to frame specific guidelines for its definition of “genuine grounds” * MCI to define & set parameters or criteria of expression “genuine grounds” * If left unfettered, uncontrolled & undefined, it has capability of great misuse & abuse||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/only-med-students-with-40-permanent-disability-can-seek-transfer-hc/articleshow/80307181.cms||Vaibhav Ganjapure
January 17, 2021||Nashik||2 hurt in car-container crash, one booked||Nashik: Two people sustained injuries after a container dashed into a car on the Rahud ghat on the Mumbai-Agra highway near Chandwad on Saturday morning. A case has been registered at Chandwad police station. Pravin Patil (45) from Nashik city, who was driving the car, and the driver of the container, who hails from Ajmer, Rajasthan, have sustained injuries in the accident. Police have booked the driver of the container for rash driving. According to police, Patil was driving his car towards Malegaon on the Mumbai-Agra highway. While he was passing from Rahud ghat, Patil had to reduce the speed of his car at a speed breaker. The container driver was not able to control the speed of his vehicle on the slope of the ghat area and rammed into Patil’s car. Police naik Raju Gaikwad from Chandwad police station said, “Patil’s left shoulder got dislocated in the accident. He could have suffered grievous injuries had it not been for the airbags in the car.” The container that was laden with some machines fell on the middle of the road . “We removed the driver who was stuck in the driver’s cabin. He was removed within minutes of the accident,” said constable D B More. The vehicular traffic on the Malegaon side of the highway had to be diverted on the adjacent road for about an hour until the car and container were pushed on one side of the road. One lane of the road remain blocked till evening.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/2-hurt-in-car-container-crash-one-booked/articleshow/80306509.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Agra||ED team quizzes 3 PFI men, including journo, booked for sedition||AGRA: A two-member team of Enforcement Directorate (ED) reached Mathura district jail on Saturday for recording the statements of a Malayalam journalist and two others, associated with the Islamic Organisation, Popular Front of India (PFI), and its students’ wing, Campus Front of India, who were arrested for allegedly being part of an internationally-funded “conspiracy” to stoke caste riots in UP in wake of the Hathras gang rape. Senior superintendent of Mathura district jail, Shailendra Maitrey, told TOI that two assistant directors from ED — Vinay Baliyan and Pavnish Singh Sirohi – questioned the three of the four suspects, booked under sedition charges, for almost 3 hours after getting permission from additional district and sessions judge (first) Anil Kumar Pandey. The four – Siddiqui Kappan (41), a journalist with a Malayalam-language news site in Delhi, Atikur Rahman (28) of Muzaffarnagar, Masood Ahmad (28) from Bahraich and Aalam (37) from Rampur – are presently lodged in Mathura jail. However, the ED team questioned only three persons, excluding Aalam, a driver. All of them were taken into police custody during a check near the Maant toll plaza on Yamuna Expressway last year on October 5. Two days later, an FIR was registered against them at Maant police stations after a close examination of “evidence” — six smartphones, a laptop and pamphlets of ‘Justice for Hathras Victim’ — had “revealed that the men were going to Hathras to disrupt peace. According to the FIR, the four are associated with people who tried to incite riots and disrupt peace … “It has been learnt that they were using foreign funds to create disharmony. The money was not collected by fair means and a website was used by them to incite violence... Carrd is a tool for creating single-page websites, set up in 2016 and very popular in the US, especially picking up after the BlackLivesMatter protests.” Meanwhile, UP police’s Special Task Force (STF) has filed a second application in the court to bring PFI students wing leader Rauf Shareef, who was arrested in Kerala by Enforcement Directorate in connection with a case of funding and stirring up protests after the assault and death of a 19-year-old girl in Hathras, to Mathura from Kerala. According to district government counsel Shivram Singh Tarkar, the permission has been granted by the additional district judge’s court and he will be produced in the court on February 1.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/ed-team-quizzes-3-pfi-men-including-journo-booked-for-sedition/articleshow/80305977.cms||Anuja Jaiswal
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Anugraha director held in Rs 450cr cheating case||Mumbai: Police on Thursday arrested Paresh Kariya (50), director of Anugraha Stock and Broking Pvt Ltd, for his alleged role in a Rs 450-crore cheating case. Over 350 investors told police they were cheated. Anugraha, with around 30,000 clients, has been dealing in shares for 15 years and has several sub-brokers. In September last year, economic offences wing (EOW) had registered a case of criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against Karia and several others. Kariya was remanded to police custody till January 21. A team led by senior inspector Rajesh Kelwe is probing two cases against Kariya and others. On September 9 last year, EOW registered a first case against office-bearers of Anugrah and Teji Mandi in connection with a Rs 8-crore breach of trust case. After the first FIR, EOW put a lien of Rs 450 crore on an account belonging to a company which was a clearing house for Anugraha. Soon after investors learnt about the case, more complaints poured in and the total amount is around Rs 450 crore. Kariya told police he suffered a loss of Rs 600 crore and hence could not return the money. NSE had earlier suspended the brokerage firm’s operations in futures and options (F&O). Kariya had also been trading in F&O on behalf of clients. Kariya had pledged his clients’ shares worth more than Rs 100 crore to get margin of trading. Some shares were purchased from money given by the complainant. He told police the clearing house squared up his pledged shares and sold them at lower prices during this time. But he did not inform clients about the losses, said the officer. In the second case, at Juhu police station, the complainant told police that he and his relatives had invested Rs 36 crore with Anugraha. Police said he was taken to Anugraha by sub-broker, Teji Mandi Mandi Analytics. He approached police after he did not get his profits and the principal amount back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/anugraha-director-held-in-rs-450cr-cheating-case/articleshow/80307247.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 17, 2021||Trichy||Cracked weigh balance vent to be replaced at Mukkombu||TRICHY: Officials from the Public Works Department (river construction division) in Trichy have commenced the process of replacing weigh balance vent established at the 15th shutter of Mukkombu barrage, built across the Cauvery river in Trichy, after it developed a crack a two days ago. A small crack was found in weigh balance vent constructed during 1977 using reinforced cement concrete (RCC) at the shutters 15 and 4 last week. Now it has been decided to replace with a steel one, an official said. “Already a few of them had been replaced with steel. Now the works to replace vent number 15 is on. It has been proposed to replace number 4 within a couple of months. All the weigh balance vents will be replaced with steel soon,” a senior official from the PWD department said. Now 12,127 cusecs of water are being released in Cauvery river from the barrage for delta irrigation. There is no problem in releasing water in Cauvery. All the precautionary measures have been taken to ensure the protection of the shutters, officials further stated. It is to be noted that construction a new barrage at the cost of Rs 387 crore across the Kollidam River replacing the old one in Mukkombu is under progress. Out of 45 shutters, the piers along with shutters from 6 to 14 were washed away on August 22, 2018, due to heavy water flow.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/trichy/cracked-weigh-balance-vent-to-be-replaced-at-mukkombu/articleshow/80307932.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Firm director held for role in Rs 450 crore cheating case||MUMBAI: Police on Thursday arrested Paresh Kariya (50), director of Anugraha Stock and Broking Pvt Ltd, for his alleged role in a Rs 450-crore cheating case. Over 350 investors told police they were cheated. Anugraha, with around 30,000 clients, has been dealing in shares for 15 years and has several sub-brokers. In September last year, economic offences wing (EOW) had registered a case of criminal breach of trust and criminal conspiracy against Karia and several others. Kariya was remanded to police custody till January 21. A team led by senior inspector Rajesh Kelwe is probing two cases against Kariya and others. On September 9 last year, EOW registered a first case against office-bearers of Anugrah and Teji Mandi in connection with a Rs 8-crore breach of trust case. After the first FIR, EOW put a lien of Rs 450 crore on an account belonging to a company which was a clearing house for Anugraha. Soon after investors learnt about the case, more complaints poured in and the total amount is around Rs 450 crore. Kariya told police he suffered a loss of Rs 600 crore and hence could not return the money. NSE had earlier suspended the brokerage firm’s operations in futures and options (F&O). Kariya had also been trading in F&O on behalf of clients. Kariya had pledged his clients’ shares worth more than Rs 100 crore to get margin of trading. Some shares were purchased from money given by the complainant. He told police the clearing house squared up his pledged shares and sold them at lower prices during this time. But he did not inform clients about the losses, said the officer. In the second case, at Juhu police station, the complainant told police that he and his relatives had invested Rs 36 crore with Anugraha. Police said he was taken to Anugraha by sub-broker, Teji Mandi Mandi Analytics. He approached police after he did not get his profits and the principal amount back.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/firm-director-held-for-role-in-rs-450cr-cheating-case/articleshow/80308028.cms||Mateen Hafeez
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||HDFC Bank quarterly profits jump by 18%||Mumbai: HDFC Bank has reported its highest ever quarterly net profit of Rs 8,758 crore for the three months ended December 2020, an increase of 18% from Rs 7,416 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. The bank’s deposits grew 19% at Rs 12,71,123 crore from Rs 10,67,433 crore while advances grew 15% at Rs 10,82,324 crore. Following the increase in business, the bank’s net interest income rose 15% at Rs 16,317 crore from Rs 14,172 crore in the corresponding period last year. The bank’s provisions for the quarter, including for bad loans, was up 12% at Rs 3,414 crore. The bank’s non-interest income, which includes commissions and fees and profits from bond trading, rose 11% to Rs 7,443 crore from Rs 6,669 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. Even as the business grew by over 15%, the bank managed to curtail its operating expense growth to 8.6% at Rs 8,574 crore. The gross and net non-performing assets of the bank stood at 0.81% and 0.09% respectively. The bank said that the restructuring proposals it received under the RBI’s Covid resolution framework amounted to only 0.5% of advances.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/hdfc-bank-quarterly-profits-jump-by-18/articleshow/80308660.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Juna akhada seers stage protest at mela office over Kumbh work delay||Haridwar: Seers of Juna akhada, the biggest naga sanyasi akhada, staged a protest at the Kumbh mela office alleging that the administration was not taking the Kumbh mela preparations seriously. They claimed that seers of the Juna akhada would start arriving from next week but the mela administration has not completed the work so far. Even the 'peshwai' (procession) routes are in poor condition, they said. International president of Juna akhara Shri Mahant Prem Giri told TOI, “Ramta Panch (a group of saints) of Juna, Agni and Aahvan akharas will enter the city on January 25 with religious flags from Bijnor side, but mela administration did not complete the work so far. Our Peshwai route is also in poor condition. Neither the government nor the mela officer is taking Kumbh mela seriously. We cannot tolerate this type of casual approach.” To pacify the anger of the seers, deputy mela officers reached to talk with them on Saturday and inspected the Kumbh work sites of Juna akhara. Additional mela officer Harbeer Singh told TOI, “All important Kumbh related works are going on and must be completed before the entering of Ramta Panch saints of juna akhara.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/juna-akhada-seers-stage-protest-at-mela-office-over-kumbh-work-delay/articleshow/80306548.cms||MS Nawaz
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||100 sovereigns of gold stolen from businessman’s house||Coimbatore: Burglars decamped with 100 sovereigns of gold ornaments from a locked house on Dr Rajendra Prasad Road at Tatabad on Saturday.House owner C Karthik, a businessman, had left for Bengaluru with his family on Thursday.Pushpa, a domestic help, reached the house on Saturday around 10am to find the main lock broke open. She alerted Karthik, who informed the Coimbatore city police. Police suspect the burglars opened the main lock using an iron rod and opened the bureau containing the ornaments using the keys left by the family.Deputy commissioners of police G Stalin and E S Uma visited the crime scene. A sniffer dog was also pressed into service. The burglars had sprinkled egg curry masala in the house so that sniffer dogs won’t be able to follow their trail, a police officer said.Fingerprint bureau sub-inspectors and forensic science experts also inspected the crime scene. Some fingerprints were lifted from the house.Karthik’s mother Chitra, who is staying on the ground floor of the house, said she didn’t notice anything unusual. “I was speaking to my relatives till 12am on Saturday. I did not hear any sound from the first floor.”Two special teams have been formed to nab the burglars, police commissioner Sumit Sharan said. “They have collected CCTV footage from the area.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/100-sovereigns-of-gold-stolen-from-businessmans-house/articleshow/80307997.cms||A Subburaj
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||2 DMK men arrested for defamatory FB posts||Coimbatore: The rural police arrested two DMK cadres on Saturday for posting derogatory message on their Facebook pages linking deputy speaker Pollachi Jayaraman’s son to the Pollachi sexual assault case. The arrested people were identified as K Nagaraj, 31, of Alagappa Layout in Pollachi, deputy secretary of DMK Pollachi urban murasoli mantram and B Sudarshan, 24, of Anna Nagar at Rasakkapalayam near Pollachi, a DMK member.“Nagaraj posted a photo of a man and woman on his Facebook page and claimed that the man was the son of Jayaraman and linked the photo to the Pollachi sexual assault case. Sudarshan posted a photo of Jayaraman and his son and used derogatory words against Jayaraman,” said R Sathishkumar, district joint secretary of the AIADMK south rural district informational technology wing.Based on his complaint, Pollachi east police registered a case against the duo under sections 294 (b) (sings, recites or utters any obscene song, ballad or words in or near any public place), 417 (punishment for cheating) 504 (intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace ), 505 (1) (b) (with intent to cause, or which is likely to cause, fear or alarm to the public, or to any section of the public whereby any person may be induced to commit an offence against the State or against the public tranquillity) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation of the Indian Penal Code.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/2-dmk-men-arrested-for-defamatory-fb-posts/articleshow/80308015.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Don’t lower guards even after vaccine: Jalgaon GMCH dean||Nashik: Dean of Jalgaon government medical college hospital (GMCH) Jayprakash Ramanand set an example by being the first beneficiary in the district to take the Covishield vaccine on Saturday. District guardian minister Gulabrao Patil, district collector Abhijit Raut, district superintendent of police Praveen Mundhe and other GMCH functionaries were present when the vaccine shot was being administered to Ramanand. “I have very happy that the vaccination programme has finally kicked off. There is nothing to worry about while taking the vaccine shot. I remained in the observation room for 30 minutes. I did not face any health issues after taking the jab,” said the dean. When Ramanand had taken charge as the dean of Jalgaon GMCH in June last year, the reputation of the hospital had gone for a toss after an elderly Covid patient’s body was recovered from the hospital’s toilet. The woman was reportedly missing for five days. Such was the reputation of the GMCH that no Covid-19 patient wanted to get admitted there for treatment. The state government brought in Ramanand, who worked overtime to streamline things at the hospital. He coordinated with district collector Abhijit Raut to ensure that Covid-19 patients received proper treatment and care at the hospital. According to Ramanand, people must continue to adhere to the Covid-19 safety protocols like wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, washing hands etc even after getting inoculated. “We should not lower our guards even after being vaccinated,” said Ramanand.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/dont-lower-guards-even-after-vaccine-jalgaon-gmch-dean/articleshow/80306555.cms||Ranjan Dasgupta
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||City doc first to get Covishield jab||Coimbatore: Press photographers were jostling for her attention when Dr V Booma, head of the paediatrics department at Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), got her Covishield jab. Her excited grin, though hidden behind the mask, was visible in her eyes.The minute Booma was done, CMCH dean Dr P Kalidas sat down to become the second person in the district to receive the vaccine. The next 38-odd beneficiaries got their jabs within the next 90 minutes. The mood in the observation room was mostly celebratory, with the beneficiaries casually sipping the ORS drink they were offered and posing with the placard saying ‘I got the vaccine against Covid-19’.After posing for photographs, beneficiaries expressed relief at getting the vaccine. “I am excited and proud to be the first beneficiary. As I treat several children, I believe vaccination is the only answer to prevent the spread of this deadly virus. The whole world has been trying to treat this virus with medicines and it doesn’t seem to be working. Prevention of such viruses is always better than cure,” said Booma.“I am relieved that the chances of me infecting my patients will reduce drastically or become nil after I get the two doses, and as long as I take precautions like wearing masks and practicing social distancing,” she added.Booma and her husband Dr Venkatesa Mohan, a paediatric surgeon in the hospital, who happened to be the fifth beneficiary, were seen taking selfies holding the placard.Though the vaccine is administered through muscular injection, most doctors said the jab did not hurt at all. “I had volunteered to be a part of the Tamil Nadu government’s vaccine trials, but they wanted only Chennai residents,” said chief of the nephrology department at CMCH Dr Prabhakaran. “I am extremely happy and relieved to finally get the vaccine.”Kannamma Subramanian, a sanitary worker at the Covid-19 ward for the last six months, said she was told only in the morning that she was selected for vaccination. “But I was happy and excited to take the shot along with the doctors. I feel much safer now working with Covid-19 patients,” she said.Hospital administrative staff Udhaykumar, who often got exposed to Covid-19 patients wearing only a mask, said he would not have to worry much after the second dose. “Many Covid-19 patients come and meet the dean through our office, without revealing that they are infected. I used to get scared of being infected. Now, I am not scared anymore,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/city-doc-first-to-get-covishield-jab/articleshow/80307999.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Patna||Lawyer found murdered in Bihar's Vaishali||PATNA: A practising lawyer’s body was found riddled with bullets inside his car near Chakumbar chaur on Jandaha-Mahua main road in Vaishali district on Saturday morning. The deceased, identified as Shiv Ranjan Jha (48), was a native of Mehatthi village under Tisiauta police station area in Vaishali. His residence-cum-office is on the SDO Road at Hajipur. Police said Jha left his Mehatthi residence at around 7.30pm on Friday for his Hajipur residence where he lived with his family. Mahua police station SHO Krishnanand Jha told TOI over phone that the lawyer had a licensed revolver and it was recovered from his car. “He was shot in his right temple. He was wearing seat belt,” he said. The SHO said some of the villagers first spotted the car with a body inside on the roadside and informed police. Tisiauta police station SHO Nityanand Prasad, who also reached the spot, said Jha’s car was parked on the roadside. “The engine was off but ignition keys were inside the keyhole,” he said. Vaishali SP Maneesh said police were investigating the case from murder as well as suicide angles. He said the car was not on the route between Mehatthi and Hajipur. He said police came to know that Jha had been frequently visiting Mehatthi from Hajipur for the last three to four days. He said ballistic and fingerprint experts were roped in for detailed scientific investigation. “Experts have collected fingerprints from revolver and its trigger as well as other parts of the body,” he said. The SP said forensic experts told the police after initial investigation that there were some human remains visible on the revolver’s barrel.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/patna/lawyer-found-murdered-in-vaishali/articleshow/80307205.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: No operational hiccup, target achieved on Day 1||KOLKATA: All the four private hospitals in Kolkata that took part in Covid vaccination on Saturday recorded a 100% attendance even as a couple exceeded the target. One had to nominate some new beneficiaries to step in for those who couldn’t turn up. Each had lined up 100 recipients on the first day and none reported any operational hiccups. Despite some apprehension about the vaccine’s safety, none of the recipients had any initial adverse impact. At AMRI Hospitals’ Dhakuria unit, the process rolled off the immediately after the vaccines arrived at 8.15am from the Borough VIII storage centre and they were soon unboxed and put into the storage facility till the actual inoculation started exactly at 10.45am. Critical care RMO Bipasha Seth was the first at the hospital to receive the shot. She was followed by 50 nurses, more than 25 residential medical officers (RMO) and 25 from other departments, including the front desk, administration and housekeeping. The final recipient count was 110. “We had invited more than a hundred to make sure we reach the number. Eventually, all had turned up,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. At Peerless Hospital, the inoculation got off to a slow start with the count touching 55 by 3pm. Subsequently, the hospital stepped up its effort and got those on the list to queue for the shot. The hospital ended with a count of 101. “We had had sent a list of 240 staffers — including doctors, nurses, paramedical and support staff — to the health department out of whom 100 got the vaccine today. On Monday, we will line up the next 100 from our approved list,” said Peerless Hospital CEO Sudipta Mitra. Peerless staffers who received the shot went back to work. “They were happy and relieved to get the vaccine and returned to work with a lot of enthusiasm,” said Mitra. At RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS), 110 received the shot, including 30 doctors, 35 nurses, 13 paramedics, 12 administrative staffers and 10 housekeeping and security staffers. “None of our recipients reported any ill effects. They were observed for 45 minutes at the observation room,” said RTIICS zonal director R Venkatesh. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital, too, had a full attendance with several senior medics, including Mahesh Goenka and Shyamasis Banerjee, receiving the shot. The hospital inoculated 108. “I resumed my indoor duty shortly after receiving the shot,” said Banerjee.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/no-operational-hiccup-target-achieved-on-day-i/articleshow/80306570.cms||Prithvijit Mitra
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Vaccine drive picks up pace after a slow start||KOLKATA: The Academic Building in Medical College & Hospital, Kolkata, the venue for the vaccination drives, was a hub of activities since early on Saturday morning. Security guards cordoned off the sprawling building and verification desk was set up outside where credentials of the beneficiaries who started arriving by 9.30am were verified. Apart from the verification team, four other teams were deployed at various points to assist doctors, nurses, security guards and other health workers who arrived to receive the shot. The auditorium was converted into an observation centre for those getting vaccinated on Saturday. Nirmal Maji, Trinamool MLA and the president of the West Bengal Medical Council, was the first to receive the jab at 11.05am. “This is the beginning of the end of this pandemic, which has unleashed so much fear and harm,” said MSVP Indranil Biswas. At SSKM Hospital, Raja Chowdhury (32), a group D staffer and a Covid survivor, was the first in the queue at SSKM Hospital, turning up at the vaccination site half an hour before his designated time of 10.30am to ensure he got the first shot of the vaccine at the hospital. “I contracted the infection on July last year and had to be hospitalized for 14 days. But I came out of the disease and resumed working as a frontline worker in our hospital. Now that I have taken the vaccine, I feel a lot safer,” said Chowdhury. While the initial response seemed a bit slow, there was a steady rise in the number of recipients as the day progressed and many people who were not enlisted in the first day list also took a shot on Saturday. At ID Hospital, the authorities ensured that all the 100 beneficiaries turned up for vaccination on Saturday. A few health workers who were not willing to get vaccinated were given the choice to opt out. Principal Anima Haldar received the first jab. “It is a proud moment for all us and a tribute to the scientists who have developed the vaccine,” said Haldar. Nurse Dipanita Paul was the first one to take the vaccination at Calcutta National Medical College. “When I was told that I am going to be one of the beneficiaries, it made me emotional,” said Paul. At the five KMC health clinics designated as vaccination sites, group D staff were among the beneficiaries who received the vaccine on the first day.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vaccine-drive-picks-up-pace-after-a-slow-start/articleshow/80306563.cms||Zeeshan Javed
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||‘I feel extraordinarily energetic, like I’ve meditated at an ashram’||Dehradun: Shailendra Dwivedi, 41, a ward attendant at the Government Doon Medical College Hospital in Dehradun, became the first person in Uttarakhand to be administered the Covid vaccine on Saturday. Soon after receiving the shot, Dwivedi told assembled mediapersons that he was feeling “very energetic and healthy.” “I feel as if I have come out of an hour-long meditation at an ashram. I feel refreshed and rejuvenated and ready to take on the Covid pandemic with renewed vigour," Dwivedi, a Class IV employee of the state health department, told the mediapersons amidst loud cheers. Dwivedi had been working in the Covid ward of the hospital since March last year and said that he had seen up close the trauma that Covid-infected patients and their families had to undergo, especially in the early phase of the pandemic when not much was known about the disease. “I feel very happy that now, we have a vaccine to protect us from the disease and feel extremely lucky I got a chance to be the first to take the vaccine,” he added. Chief minister Trivendra Rawat who was there at the hospital to flag off the vaccination drive also met Dwivedi and congratulated him for becoming the first in the state to be inoculated. It wasn’t a day off for the ward attendant though. After being kept under observation to check for adverse reactions to the vaccine, and giving interviews to mediapersons, he was back on duty at the hospital. At AIIMS Rishikesh, the first person to get vaccinated was Meena Kumari, a housekeeping staff member working in the Covid ward. The mother of three, who never went to school, said that what made her volunteer for the vaccine, was the ‘pain, grief and trauma’ she had witnessed in the Covid ward. “I am grateful to God that no one in my family was ever infected but I have seen this disease so closely that I want it to go away from our society forever. I readily agreed to get vaccinated without any second thoughts. If people working in hospitals will not get vaccinated, then how will people outside get the confidence?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/i-feel-extraordinarily-energetic-like-ive-meditated-at-an-ashram/articleshow/80306008.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Sanitation worker 1st to get vax in hospital||Nashik: Sanitation worker of Nashik civil hospital Milind Pawar (36), who took up the risky task of packing bodies of Covid patients, was the first recipient of the Covid-19 vaccine at the Nashik civil hospital. “I am very happy the Covid-19 vaccine is finally available to us. I am extremely thankful to the administration. Like me, I wish everyone gets this vaccine administered at the earliest. The vaccine is our shield against the infection,” said Pawar. He said after the outbreak of the pandemic, he was very scared of contracting the infection as it could lead to his family and friends contracting it. “At the peak of the Covid outbreak, I wrapped four to five bodies per day, which was not a good sight. But health workers cannot run away from their responsibilities,” said Pawar. “I have an 8-year-old son, wife and elderly parents. The fear of passing on the infection was always there. But the hospital administration took every care about our well-being,” he said. Pawar said though he got an SMS about the vaccine on Friday night, he had not seen it and came to duty as usual when he learned that he had to take the vaccine. My reaction on taking the dose of vaccine was broadcasted on television channels, which made my family and friends were happy.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/sanitation-worker-1st-to-get-vax-in-hospital/articleshow/80306562.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||30 arrested for illegal gambling||Coimbatore: The city police raided Rain Tree Country Club at Sarathy Nagar in Singanallur on Friday evening and arrested 30 people for gambling. Police seized Rs 55,640, cards and tokens from the gamblers.A team led by Singanallur police inspector Rajkumar arrested 26 people for playing rummy. Four people were arrested for allowing gambling at the club.Deputy commissioner of police G Stalin said the club has got approval only for recreation. “Police teams are closely monitoring clubs that are violating rules,” he said.TNN||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/30-arrested-for-illegal-gambling/articleshow/80308058.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Court accepts closure in Rajan extortion case||Mumbai: A special CBI court on Saturday accepted a closure report submitted by the investigating agency against gangster Chhota Rajan in a 20-year-old extortion case filed by a city builder. Some others arrested in the case were acquitted or discharged earlier, and only one accused had been sentenced to six months’ imprisonment then. Builder Haresh Matani gave his no-objection to the report. “There is insufficient material or substance brought on record by the prosecution to proceed against Rajendra Sadashiv Nikalje @ Chhota Rajan and Pavankumar Sharma. Therefore, for want of sufficient material, the closure report of CBI against the accused needs to be accepted,” the court said. Lodged in Tihar jail, Rajan is serving a life sentence for the 2011 murder of journalist J Dey. He was deported from Bali in 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/court-accepts-closure-in-rajan-extortion-case/articleshow/80308107.cms||---
January 17, 2021||World||Britain invites G7 leaders to Cornish resort for June summit||LONDON: Britain announced plans to hold the first in-person meeting of the G7 in nearly two years in June, inviting the leaders of major developed economies to a picturesque seaside village to discuss rebuilding from the pandemic and climate change. Prime Minister Boris Johnson says he wants to use Britain's presidency of the G7 to forge a consensus that the global economy must recover from the Covid-19 crisis in a pro-free trade and sustainable way. "Coronavirus is doubtless the most destructive force we have seen for generations and the greatest test of the modern world order we have experienced," he said in a statement. "It is only right that we approach the challenge of building back better by uniting with a spirit of openness to create a better future." Britain has suffered badly during the health crisis, with the highest death toll in Europe of more than 88,000 people. But, while a third wave of the virus causes more than 1,000 deaths per day, the country is leading the way on vaccinations having been the first in the world to authorise their use, and hopes to have much of the population protected within months. Last year's G7 meeting, due to be hosted by US President Donald Trump, was cancelled due to the pandemic, meaning the leaders of Britain, Germany, France, the United States, Italy, Japan, the European Union and Canada have not met in person since the 2019 meeting in Biarritz, France. The Sunday Telegraph newspaper said the British government hoped the event would be the occasion for US President-elect Joe Biden's first trip to Europe after he becomes president on January 20. "I don't think he will visit anywhere else before the G7, except possibly Canada," the newspaper quoted an unnamed British government source as saying. Johnson has also invited Australia, India and South Korea to attend. The summit will take place in the tiny resort of Carbis Bay in Cornwall, southwest England - an area now most famous for its beaches and surfing but also home to fishing fleets and once an important mining area. "Two hundred years ago Cornwall's tin and copper mines were at the heart of the UK's industrial revolution and this summer Cornwall will again be the nucleus of great global change and advancement," Johnson said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//world/uk/britain-invites-g7-leaders-to-cornish-resort-for-june-summit/articleshow/80309074.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Fear & anxiety keep many away from vaccine booths||Nashik/Aurangabad/Kolhapur: The nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive that started on Saturday received mixed response from the frontline health workers and some districts in the state reported below-expected turnout of beneficiaries. More than 50 health workers in three districts of the Nashik division — Nashik, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon — refused to get the shots apprehensive of the after-effects. These beneficiaries were among those who were supposed to get inoculated in different vaccination centres of these three districts. Nashik civil surgeon Ratna Raokhande said of the 463 absentees in the district, about 5% were apprehensive about getting the vaccine. That is why they did not show up at the centres. “Though such beneficiaries did not have any other genuine problems, they refused to come to the booths for inoculation. Our staff had spoken to some of them over the telephone and tried to convince them. But, they simply refused,” said Raokhande. Nashik Municipal Corporation’s medical superintendent Bapusaheb Nagargoje said, “Several beneficiaries who didn’t turn up for vaccination at the civic body’s three centers were not keen on getting the shots as they were afraid. But things will hopefully gradually improve,” said Nagargoje. Similar views were echoed in Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts. While Jalgaon collector Abhijit Raut said around 8% of the 257 absentees in the district didn’t turn up for the jabs as they were afraid, civil surgeon of Ahmednagar Sunil Pokharna said around 5% of the over 320 absentees did not take the vaccine due to fear and anxiety. The situation was similar in Kolhapur district too. According to district health officer Yogesh Sale, since the vaccination was voluntary, many did not show up. “As per our information, many people abstained due to the fear associated with the vaccine. There are other reasons as well. Some were already unwell and they preferred to stay home,” said Sale. Similarly, a considerable number of listed beneficiaries in Marathwada skipped the drive. Health authorities blamed reports on social media including the one from Norway which stated that 23 people died within days of taking the Covid-19 vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/fear-anxiety-keep-many-away-from-vaccine-booths/articleshow/80306577.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Vax mission launched, vaccinators await turn||KOLKATA: Moumita Mondal, a 33-year-old public health nurse who vaccinated 98 persons at a stretch at SSKM Hospital on Saturday said the experience was one of a kind, but that she was glad that not even one recipient complained of any illness or uneasiness later. “I am thankful to the authorities for choosing me as a vaccinator and I am glad that none complained about my job today. It was a one of kind experience vaccinating my colleagues and seniors, but everyone was very cooperative. I am all geared up for the coming week,” said Mondal, who will continue to act as the vaccinator for four days next week as well. Vaccinators who worked on the first day will get their own shots some time later. SSKM authorities said they have a team of 12 vaccinators ready for the entire phase considering that the four vaccination booths at the hospital will start to operate in tandem eventually. Like SSKM, other hospitals have lined up their teams of vaccinator officers who will be on the roster during the various vaccination sessions in the days to come. “I am satisfied that Day One of the vaccination programme went smoothly. We had been waiting for this vaccine. I hope the rest of the vaccination programme too goes well and the beneficiaries get some protection from the virus,” said Santa Ray, vaccinator officer at Infectious Diseases and Beliaghata General Hospital who shared the task with Tripti Roy, another nurse. At MR Bangur Hospital, the authorities have kept two vaccinators on rotation for a week. “The vaccinator who was on duty on Saturday will continue to be on the job next week as well. The following week, another vaccinator will take over the task from her,” said a senior official of the hospital. The vaccinators lined up for the next week said they are all geared up to take over the job. “On Saturday, I had a close look at the entire vaccination process. We have been through multiple phases of training and Saturday’s first hand experience has made me more confident for when I will be put on the job sometime later,” said one of the nurses at SSKM Hospital who will take up the job of a vaccinator at a later stage of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/vax-mission-launched-vaccinators-await-turn/articleshow/80306582.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Selfies, cheers and smiles of hope outside vaccination centres||Dehradun: Enthusiastic health workers as well as doctors were seen clicking selfies with vaccine doses and posing outside the vaccination centres as the vaccination drive kicked off in Uttarakhand on Saturday. For many of them, it was a day they had been waiting for a long time. “The vaccine has come as a ray of hope and will surely end our almost year-long struggle with the pandemic,” said Sudha Kukreti, senior pharmacist at Government Doon Medical College & Hospital (GDMCH) who was greeting everyone entering the vaccination point set up at the hospital with a big smile while periodically raising slogans like ‘Corona ko bhagana hai toh vaccine lagana hai.’ For Sunita Das, emergency in-charge at GDMCH, getting the vaccine shot was an emotional moment as she had not only got infected with the disease but had also infected her entire family. “Since I am among the first persons to attend to patients coming in a serious condition in the hospital, I had contracted Covid in November last year,” she told TOI, adding that “it was because of me that my 16-year-old son and 6-year-old daughter caught the infection.” “Now, I hope we all will get rid of this virus with vaccination,” she said. Dr Anurag Agarwal, nodal officer of Covid 19 at GDMCH --- who had been overseeing Covid treatment at the state capital’s biggest government hospital--- also got the vaccine shot. “Even though I am diabetic, I took the vaccine and all my parameters are normal. We are fighting against the deadly virus for almost a year now. When the vaccine is finally here, why to wait? Also, when senior staff members take the initiative to get vaccinated, it gives strength and motivation to juniors and the public too,” said Dr Agarwal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/selfies-cheers-and-smiles-of-hope-outside-vaccination-centres/articleshow/80306024.cms||Ishita Mishra
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Flower vendors allowed to resume business at Coimbatore flower market||COIMBATORE: Following the state government’s decision to reopen schools for Class X and XII students from Tuesday, the city corporation on Saturday decided to shift the flower vendors, who had occupied the Devanga Higher Secondary School premises, to the flower market on Mettupalayam Road. The vendors are likely to resume their business at the market from Sunday. After closing the market due to lockdown, the corporation had moved the vendors to the school premises in June as it was difficult for customers to maintain physical distancing. As many as 144 vendors had been selling flowers from the school premises. “As the school will reopen on Tuesday, permission was given to the flower vendors to move back to the flower market on Mettupalayam Road. They were directed to vacate the school premises within a day,” corporation commissioner P Kumaravel Pandian said. Joint secretary of the Kovai District Flower Merchant Association Durai welcomed the move. “Flower vendors are happy with the corporation’s decision. They will unload sacks of flowers from other districts at the market from Saturday night. The market can accommodate as many as 193 shops.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/flower-vendors-allowed-to-resume-business-at-city-flower-market/articleshow/80308070.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Relay Kumudhan Nagar main road, residents tell corpn||Coimbatore: With the incessant rain turning Kumudhan Nagar main road, which connects Vilankurichi main road with third bus stop at Cheran Maanagar, sludgy and unusable, residents have demanded the city corporation to relay the road at the earliest.Pointing out that the city corporation had dug up the road to lay drinking water pipelines and provide household water connections about 10 months ago, N R Ravisankar, president, Consumer Awareness and Protection Association, said, “After the work, they just covered the dug-up area, instead of relaying the road. Now that the road is filled with sludge following the continuous rainfall, the road has become unmotorable.”According to him, the 40ft-wide road usually sees heavy vehicular movement with a large number of people travelling between Vilankurichi road and residential areas such as Kumudam Nagar and Cheran Maanagar. “As potholes are filled with rainwater, motorists can’t get any idea of their depth and two-wheeler riders often fall down while negotiating them.”Another resident, A C Aravind Gupta, said the road had become slippery and difficult to use, especially when one was in a hurry. “A few months ago, the city corporation had relaid the interior roads at Kumudam Nagar.”Ravisankar said they had made several representations to the civic body to restore the road, but to no avail. “The corporation should give priority to restore the main roads.”When contacted, city corporation officials assured to relay the road as early as possible.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/relay-kumudhan-nagar-main-road-residents-tell-corpn/articleshow/80308060.cms||Nivedha Selvam
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||‘Co-WIN to guide beneficiaries to vax centres’||As Jharkhand awaits the nationwide role out of the vaccination programme with bated breath, enthusiasm and curiosity, TOI’s Gaurav Pandey speaks to Dr Ajit Prasad, the nodal officer for the inoculation drive in Jharkhand on the benefits and the structure of campaign. What will be the dosage and the schedule of the vaccination for each person? Each person will be administered the same vaccine after a gap of 27 days; i.e. if a person has been vaccinated on Saturday he/she will be called for the second dose on February 13. It will be a continuous process just like regular vaccination drives, but won’t be held on Saturdays and Sundays when routine immunization drives will be held. How is the data of those who have registered for the vaccination shots being managed? How will beneficiaries be informed about which centre to visit and the reporting time? The Co-WIN software is the only management tool for this drive which will have all relevant details from the real-time information of vaccine stocks and their storage temperature to individualised tracking of beneficiaries for the vaccine. The software will assist the programme managers across all levels through automated sessions about registered beneficiaries, their verifications and will also schedule inoculation. SMS reminders will also be managed by the software. It will also help beneficiaries to report adverse events following immunisation. How will each vial of the vaccine be used? We will be using Covishield, a recombinant Covid-19 vaccine based on viral vector technology, as an intramuscular injectable. Each vial has 10 doses and each beneficiary will be administered a 0.5ml dose on zero and the 28th day. The vaccine is completely safe as it has been approved after proper trials and we hope this will help us in defeating the pandemic. Several healthcare workers are hesitating to take the vaccine shots and re wary about the efficacy. What efforts has the government taken to bust myths? We have been conducting counselling sessions for our health workers who have been disseminating the message among the masses. We have also conducted widespread information, education and communication (IEC) across the state on the benefits of the vaccine through hoardings and posters at all important locations. We have also reached out to the masses through modes of mass communication. There is no word of caution regarding the vaccine, but as per the Union government’s directive, people of 18 years old and above will be immunised and pregnant and lactating women have been kept out of the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/co-win-to-guide-beneficiaries-to-vax-centres/articleshow/80292039.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||One with history of allergy in hosp for observation||Kolkata: Fourteen healthcare workers who received the Covishield vaccine on Saturday reported uneasiness during the mandatory observation post immunization. Of them, only one — a 25-year-old nurse with a pre-existing drug allergy — had to hospitalized. Doctors said her condition was stable. The nurse, Pinki Sur, who received the vaccine at BC Roy Children’s Hospital, began to shiver while waiting in the observation room. Doctors immediately transferred her to NRS Medical College & Hospital and admitted her to the critical care unit. Her blood test was found to be normal and her oxygen saturation was 100%. A three-member doctors’ team attended to her. “She is stable and doing fine. But we have decided to keep her under observation for two days,” one of the doctors said. According to state health services director Ajoy Chakraborty, Sur’s husband had said she had various drug allergies. In the other cases, all were allowed to leave within 30-90 minutes of feeling better. Most of them complained of headache. Chakraborty also pointed out that reports of just 14 cases of adverse event following immunization (AEFI) on a day when 15,707 health workers were vaccinated pegs the ratio to less than 1:1,000. “AEFI is a normal occurrence for any vaccination. What is heartening is that our surveillance team has spotted all. It also shows that Bengal has one of the best AEFI surveillance networks. We will continue to remain vigilant in the days ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-with-history-of-allergy-in-hosp-for-observation/articleshow/80306576.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Poor turnout, technical glitches mark day 1||Coimbatore: Only 72 of the 400 targeted health workers were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the district on day one of the vaccination drive on Saturday.Health department officials attributed the poor turnout to unwillingness of many health workers to take the shot on the first day, technical glitches that CoWIN app developed and exclusion of many registered and willing beneficiaries for vaccination on day one of the drive.It is to be noted that people, who are registered for the vaccination, would receive an SMS with time slot and place and could get vaccinated only on the day that is allotted to them.Dr G Ramesh Kumar, deputy director of public health, confirmed that many registered people were not willing to take the vaccine on the first day. “We did not want to compel them. The CoWIN app also threw many glitches and we couldn’t retrieve the names of 259 health workers who had expressed complete willingness to take the vial on the first day.” According to sources, 40 health workers took the vaccine at the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), 24 at the Pollachi District Headquarters Hospital, six at the Nallatipalayam primary health centre and another two at the government hospital at Mettupalayam.At the CMCH, where municipal administration minister S P Velumani inaugurated the vaccination drive at noon, majority of the 40 beneficiaries were doctors and postgraduate students posted at the pediatrics department and Covid-19 ward. “Thirty of them were doctors and the remaining 10 were sanitary workers and administrative staff,” a source said.None of the 72 health workers, who took the vaccine, have reported any side-effects, including fever and body pain, so far. The first beneficiary in the district was Dr V Booma, head of the pediatrics department at the CMCH, while it was M Selvi, a nurse who handled all vaccinations in the government hospital, who administered the first vaccine.“I am proud to be the first beneficiary. This vaccine and immunity it provides me, gives me the confidence that I will not get infected and in turn infect my patients, many of who are neonates,” said Dr Booma, who is also the vaccination nodal officer at the CMCH.All the 72 would receive SMSs, reminding them to take the second dose after 28 days, Velumani said. “No one under 18 would be vaccinated. We have taken steps to ensure the same,” the minister said.Health department officials are, meanwhile, extremely careful in ensuring only willing people without too many comorbidities or complications are selected for vaccination.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/poor-turnout-technical-glitches-mark-day-1/articleshow/80308059.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Coimbatore||Dengue: City corporation officials on high alert||COIMBATORE: Just when the city seemed to be returning to 'normalcy’ by containing Covid-19, it has come under the risk of dengue outbreak. In the past week alone, two dengue cases were reported from Nanjundapuram. City corporation officials have sprung into action by removing mosquito breeding grounds and spraying mosquito insecticide on the streets. Medicines, including ORS sachets, are being distributed to family members of the affected and neighbours. Residents of Sripathy Nagar said they were surprised to see corporation officials initiating mosquito control drive in their area all of a sudden. They didn’t know one of the residents on 1st street had tested positive for dengue on January 11 and was admitted to a private hospital at Neelambur.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/coimbatore/dengue-city-corpn-officials-on-high-alert/articleshow/80308083.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||‘Can’t reduce trains’ speed from 100 kmph to 50 kmph in RTR’||DEHRADUN: The Railways has turned down Rajaji Tiger Reserve (RTR) administration’s request to not raise the speed of trains passing through the reserve from 50 kmph to 100 kmph, saying it is ‘not feasible.’ On January 7, the RTR administration had voiced its concerns on the railways’ decision to increase the speed of 18 pairs of trains plying between Haridwar and Dehradun on a 52-km track that passes through RTR. Railway authorities have, however, agreed to keep the speed 35 kmph on an 18 km stretch, which has been identified as sensitive by both the forest department and railways, between 8pm to 6am, as has been the norm since 2016. In its letter to the railways, RTR had flagged a number of concerns. Officials of the reserve had said that the near-negligible train movement during the lockdown had led to a mild change in the behaviour and movement of animals, who had started moving on train tracks more often. Also, the officials pointed out that a tiger and tigress which have recently been translocated to the reserve from Corbett Tiger Reserve (CTR) have no concept of avoiding rail tracks as there are none in CTR. Director of RTR DK Singh told TOI that National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA) officials have also said that they will request the railway ministry to slow down the trains while passing through the reserve. Singh added that RTR authorities had again written to the railways on Friday to keep the speed of trains at a bare minimum. The divisional railway manager of Moradabad railways, Tarun Prakash, said that he had requested RTR authorities to “review their request” as slowing down the trains would not be possible. “The RTR as well as the railways has all protection arrangements in place, including a ranger chowki, a well-connected network of frontline forest staff that coordinates with railway teams as well as a honeybee repelling system for jumbos,” Prakash said, adding that plying trains at slow speed will hit the “section capacity” (less trains would have to ply on those tracks). “On one hand, the state government asks us to increase the number of trains for Kumbh and on the other, its own department asks us to reduce the speed of trains which would lead to reduction in number of trains. These are contradictory requests,” Prakash said. When asked about the second request made on Friday by RTR, Prakash said he hadn’t received it. In its letter, the RTR had also pointed out to the railways that the Uttarakhand high court had in 2016 ordered the speed to be 30 kmph through national parks. Also, the National Board for Wildlife (NBWL) had fixed the speed of trains at 35 kmph speed at night and 40 kmph during the day through reserved forests in 2015. In his response, Prakash said, “It’s not required for cars, bikes, trucks or buses to move at a slow speed through RTR; why must only trains regulate their speed?”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/cannot-reduce-speed-of-trains-passing-through-forest-from-100-kmph-to-50-kmph-rlys-denies-rtrs-request/articleshow/80306035.cms||Shivani Azad
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Alert zones declared in areas with bird flu deaths||Nagpur: Bird deaths continued to be reported in Vidarbha. In Nagpur district there have been 205 deaths of poultry birds followed by 90 in Yavatmal, Wardha (45), Gadchiroli (23) Chandrapur (19), Amravati (7) and four in Gondia. Sample of one more peacock that died in Yavatmal tested positive for the highly pathogenic H5N1 strain of bird flu virus. At the same time, samples of poultry from Akola and Amravati have tested negative, says the daily report released by the animal husbandry department. Alert zones have been declared in the areas were deaths have happened, said animal husbandry department officials. Officials said even as the initial reports of the western regional disease diagnostic laboratory were negative in some cases, farmers need not be rest assured till the final results are out from the National Institute of High Security Animal Disease. Apart from poultry, other birds have also been found dead. These include three in Yavatmal and one in Wardha. The department is keeping a separate count of crows’ deaths. As on Friday 11 crows have been found dead in Yavatmal, six in Wardha, two in Gondia apart from one each in Buldhana and Yavatmal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/alert-zones-declared-in-areas-with-bird-flu-deaths/articleshow/80307193.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||'I’m fine, waiting for the next shot'||I took the vaccine shot around 11.30am on Saturday and I am waiting for my next dose. Despite not having the slightest discomfort, I did go through the half-an-hour mandatory observation as a protocol. Post this, it is back work in PPE, which has become a part of our lives for almost 10 months now. I headed straight to the Covid ICU of our hospital to check on the patients like any other day. Around 4pm, I left the ID Hospital campus, but only to visit a senior doctor admitted at a New Alipore hospital. The doctor is a non-Covid patient suffering from another infectious ailment. For a change, I engaged a driver on Saturday as I knew that my day was going to be hectic and driving on my own was not wise. On reaching home late in the evening, more than me, my wife was excited and happy. I have not been able to give much time to my family these few months. For last 10 months, I have been continuously attending to Covid patients without any break. I miss my academic activities and spending time with my family. I hope the vaccine gives me a breather. Those who are skeptical about the vaccine may have their reasons. But for me, I will be waiting for my next dose in the hope that the vaccine will finally provide a breather to all of us from the virus. (Yogiraj Ray, an infectious diseases specialist who had been at the forefront from beginning of the pandemic, spoke to Sumati Yengkhom)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/im-fine-waiting-for-the-next-shot/articleshow/80306590.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||Nashik ENT surgeon 2nd to get vaccine shot at civil hospital||Nashik: Dr Sanjay Gangurde, an ear nose and throat (ENT) surgeon attached to the civil hospital, was the second person to take the Covid vaccine at the hospital. Dr Gangurde, who was the additional chief surgeon at the civil hospital, Nashik, during May 2020, had contracted the infection while performing his duties.“Since it was dedicated Covid hospital, all of us were busy screening patients, some were even in the Covid wards, few others at other services. I tested positive and was symptomatic,” the doctor said. He was mildly symptomatic and was in home isolation. “Taking the shot in the arm, the only thing on my mind was the ‘vaccine’ is finally here to the protect citizens against the infection that had brought the world to a standstill due to the lockdowns. I am completely fine and sure this will protect us against Covid,” said Gangurde.He advised people to go ahead with the vaccination that has been launched by the Government of India.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/nashik-ent-surgeon-2nd-to-get-vaccine-shot-at-civil-hospital/articleshow/80306586.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Senior doctors lead from front, allay adverse impact fears||KOLKATA: Waiting for his turn at the vaccination centre at NRS Medical College on Saturday, 85-year-old senior physician Sukumar Mukherjee said, “Age is just a number. One needs to have the will. This vaccine proved its safety. If people are worried about the side effects, I say Covid is much more dangerous.” The medic was among the few prominent medical practitioners who received the shot on the first day of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout. While waiting for his turn, the octogenarian sat in front of the conference room, virtually interacting with the team at Nabanna on the vaccination programme. “I hope more healthcare workers come forward to get vaccinated in the next sessions. The healthcare system has to go back to normal. This vaccine could help us achieve that. I am happy that the health department asked me to be part of the rollout,” said pulmonologist Dhiman Ganguly. Along with Mukherjee and Ganguly, senior doctor Deepak Ghosh, IMA Bengal Secretary Santanu Sen and Medica Group of Hospitals chairman Alok Roy were among the 68 who took the shot at NRS Medical College on Saturday. “Starting from healthcare workers, the vaccination should reach the community level. Therefore, it is important for all to take the shot as and when their turn comes so that the community as a whole is protected,” said senior clinical pharmacologist Santanu Tripathi who was vaccinated at the School of Tropical Medicine. Gastroenterologist Mahesh Goenka who got the vaccine at Apollo Gleneagles Hospital along with wife Usha, a senior radiologist, said he was getting lots of discouraging messages on Friday night. “There is some myth about side effects. But I did not even feel slight discomfort. I am back to work. Now I am waiting for the next shot,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sr-doctors-lead-from-front-allay-adverse-impact-fears/articleshow/80306587.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||V-day turns a photo opportunity for netas in Sagar||BHOPAL: Day one of Covid-19 vaccination was like a festival or an event in Sagar and a photo opportunity for the politicians. A pandal was erected to hold the inaugural function where local BJP MLA lit a lamp and inaugurated the vaccination ‘ceremony’. As a class four employee of the hospital Raju Valmik was administered the vaccine, there was a large crowd present inside the room forgetting the social distancing norms. The crowd including BJP MLA Shailandra Jain, divisional commissioner, the district collector, district administration personnel, health department officials, two cops and media persons. Raju Valmik and other employees who were to be administered vaccine waited for the dignitaries. The MLA garlanded them before the vaccination started. Shailandra Jain stood just behind Valmik when someone reminded, “vidhayak ji ka photo nahi aa raha, vidhayak ji thoda side mein ho jaaeeye ”.( MLA is not coming in the photo frame, please move a little bit.). The MLA obliged the lensmen and adjusted his position behind Valmik. Soon a nurse appeared and administered the vaccine and people clapped. Valmik, the class four employee of the hospital, was overwhelmed by the VIP attention and the camera crews surrounding him. “I am happy that I am the first person. I am proud to have served the nation”, he said. At the outset, the inaugural function went on for about an hour when the MLA , the divisional commissioner, the district collector among others addressed the gathering. The MLA said,” it is going to be the end of the dark chapter of corona.” There were two big screens at the pandal— one aired the prime minister’s address before the vaccination drive kicked off in the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/v-day-turns-a-photo-opp-for-netas-in-sagar/articleshow/80307218.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||TV show talent manager dies in bike mishap in Mumbai||MUMBAI: A 25-year-old talent manager of Bigg Boss 14 was killed in a road accident after she fell under the rear tyre of a vanity van as her bike skidded near Sahakari Bhandar, outside Film City, in Goregaon (E) around 12.30am on Friday. Pista Dhakad and her colleague were riding back home after wrapping up a shoot of the show’s Weekend Ka Vaar episode. Dindoshi police arrested the vanity van driver, Arun Pawar (55). Dhakad was taken to hospital where she was declared brought dead, while her colleague Gidwani was injured. Senior inspector Dharnendra Kamble said Dhakad tried to overtake the van but her vehicle skidden due to oily water on the road that leaked from a BMC garbage vehicle. “Dhakad was returning to her Kandivli (E) home. She is survived by her parents with whom she resided,” said Kamble. Pawar was booked under Indian Penal Code sections 279 (rash driving) and 304 (A) (causing death by negligence). He was produced in court released on bail. BB_Tak @Biggboss_Tak1 tweeted: “Extremely Sad News from BiggBoss Set..Pista Dhakad, who was working as a talent manager with Endemol Shine India, has lost her life in an unfortunate accident yesterday's night, right after Weekend ka Vaar shoot ends..she was travelling on activa and met with an accident. RIPFolded hands”. TV actors, celebrities and former contestants expressed shock. Actress Shehnaaz Gill tweeted ‘Such a joyful, vibrant, and a happy soul. You will be missed by everyone who’s life you touched #RIP Pista’. Actress Kamya Punjabi posted on Instagram, ‘Thats @pista_dhakad 23yr old, a part of biggboss team since last few years and a very very very bright girl.... passed away last night. Rest in Peace sweetheart’.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/tv-show-talent-manager-dies-in-bike-mishap/articleshow/80307250.cms||Narayan Namboodiri
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Owner of five companies held for Rs 31 crore GST fraud||MUMBAI: The Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax (GST) Department on Friday arrested Anuj Gupta, proprietor of five firms in an alleged Rs 31 crore GST fraud. Gupta was remanded to 14 days judicial custody by a local court. Officials said that this is the third major arrest by the state GST department since November 2020. According to officials, Gupta is owns three firms registered under the Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017—Savvy fabrics, Shiv Textiles, and Shakti Textile, and 2 firms registered in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli—Subhlene Fabrics and Shubhmangal Textiles Industries. “These five firms have shown bogus purchases of more than Rs 272 crore and thereby, have availed bogus Input Tax Credit of more than Rs 31 crore, without actually buying any goods or services,” said an official. Officials said that the two firms at Dadra and Nagar Haveli have even received a refund of more than Rs 11 crore from the government. It was found that these companies physically possessed only 20% of the total stock. According to officials, Gupta is owns three firms registered under the Maharashtra Goods and Service Tax Act, 2017 and 2 firms registered in the Union Territory of Dadra and Nagar Haveli||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/here-gst-scam-ere-shail/articleshow/80308133.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata health workers get inoculated, vow to continue fight till coronavirus battle is won||KOLKATA: From doctors at the frontline and senior hospital administrators to nurses and sweepers, vaccination brought together a curious mix of health workers across Kolkata on the inaugural inoculation day. The recipients included several Covid survivors who had soldiered on in line of duty despite being affected. There were others who had ignored the risk. On Saturday, they vowed to carry on the fight with greater enthusiasm. Soma Laha, who became the first KMC medical officer to get vaccinated on Saturday, is a familiar face in the Chetla-Kalighat belt. A true Covid warrior, she didn't refuse a single patient even at the peak of the pandemic. While flagging off the the vaccination programme at Mayor's clinic (Chetla), chairman of the civic board of administrators Firhad Hakim mentioned that Laha didn't take a single day’s leave since the pandemic broke out. Laha said she would continue to do her best in maintaining a vigil since the virus remains active. "Now, with the power of the vaccination, I shall go the extra mile to ensure that people get right treatment at the right time," she said. Twenty-seven-year-old Sajida Ashraf had just joined the KMC ward health clinic at Ekbalpore as a medical officer when the pandemic started spreading. Along with five other medical officers, she queued up at Mayor's clinic at Chetla on Saturday. After receiving the shot, Sajida recalled the difficult period when the virus was spreading fast in the Ekbalpore--Kidderpore belt. She herself tested positive but returned to work after 14 days of isolation. “Initially, I was scared and had wished to resign. But my father kept me telling that it was my duty to serve people and a physician can't run away from a pandemic. I was convinced and never thought of quitting after that,” she said. However, this young medical officer is concerned about the casual approach of a section of people who don't even wear a mask. “The vaccination process will go a long way in creating a shield against the coronavirus in the years to come. I appeal to the prime minister to ensure that all citizens are vaccinated as soon as possible,” she said. Chittaranjan National Medical College (CNMC) medical superintendent-cum-vice-principal Sandeep Ghosh volunteered to be the first recipient at the hospital after noticing some hesitation among a section of staffers. “There seemed to be some doubts so I took the initiative,” Ghosh said. Beliaghata ID Hospital principal Anima Haldar queued up with MSVP Asis Manna, infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray and community medicine specialist Sanjib Bandyopadhyay. Manna, who took the jab at 11.30am, said he was relieved and hoped this would be the first step towards eradicating Covid. CNMC nurse Ruma Das said she felt excited to take the shot. “We are more vulnerable than the rest. Now, I feel more assured and am waiting for second dose,” she said. SSKM Hospital group D staffer Amit Poira joined the vaccination queue at 9.45am. “I got a call on Friday evening asking me to queue up for the vaccine by 10. I had been looking forward to it since I am more vulnerable as a hospital employee. This gives me the confidence to work fearlessly,” said the 30-year-old.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/health-workers-get-inoculated-vow-to-continue-fight-till-virus-battle-is-won/articleshow/80306593.cms||Saikat Ray
January 17, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region: Rays of hope in 50-plus strike rate on debut||PUNE: On Saturday, a total of 58% of health workers who had signed up to receive priority Covid vaccination turned up at sites across the district. Officials described the turnout as “hopeful” and “more than expected”. Some said they were confident the numbers would pick up over the next few days. Others said they would’ve liked to see a few more people in the waiting rooms. “We need to be communicating more. However, I must say I’m very relieved. This is a much better vaccination turnout than what I saw during swine flu in 2010,” a senior doctor at a top city hospital said. In the district, 1,802 out of 3,100 target beneficiaries were vaccinated on Saturday — just over half of those invited. There was no major difference between the zones that make up the Pune Metropolitan Region: Pune city (55%), Pimpri Chinchwad (57%) and parts of Pune rural (61%). Authorities said the turnout was particularly high among doctors and key medical staffers of hospitals, especially the lead nurses treating Covid-19 patients. This level of engagement among trained professionals, they said, would go on to have a cascading effect and encourage junior staff to get themselves vaccinated. “The junior staff work directly with doctors and nurses. They will go on to discuss the vaccines and inoculation. These daily interactions will help boost numbers,” said district civil surgeon Ashok Nandapurkar. Doctors also said the high turnouts percentages in small districts — Dhule, for example, recorded 97% — was because of the limited number of sites there. “Pune district has a higher number of vaccine sites (31) than Dhule (4). So a higher number of beneficiaries turning up at fewer vaccination locations boosts overall turnout figures,” said a senior public health official. The problem of technology partially plagued the process. Officials had said the CoWIN app, which needs a steady internet connection, may cause problems at vaccination centres. In a previous interview, public health expert Satish Pawar, additional director of the National Health Mission (NHM), Maharashtra, had said, “Record-keeping is integral to every mass vaccination campaign. But intensive use of technology makes the Covid drives a challenge.” On Saturday, data of beneficiaries who had received the vaccine was not visible at most sites. Many health workers said they had to resort to reams of paper to keep track. The app also did not send out reminder SMSes detailing time and location of shots. Medical staff tasked with managing beneficiaries had to make urgent calls in the last minute. Many felt CoWIN needed improvement. “This thing has been slow throughout the day. I could've done it faster with my pen and a notebook,” said a head nurse at a city hospital. Former Pune divisional commissioner and current member of the chief minister’s Covid-19 advisory group, Deepak Mhaisekar, said both the turnout figures and technical glitches were expected on the first day. “The process will only improve as it goes along. We will get better,” he told the reporters during a visit to the Aundh District Hospital. Fortunately then, it would seem the vaccination drive on Saturday was impacted more by the process than the actual vaccines. Before January 16, there was considerable concern that many might go on to reject Covaxin. But recipients said they were delighted to get the shot. Bharati Pathare, 43, staff nurse at the Aundh hospital, said, “We were part of the dry runs and have been thoroughly briefed. So, I’m not worried about the shot at all. I have been vaccinating people for the last 22 years. I’m just a bit scared of needles.” Sangram Kenjale, 35, a physiotherapist, said, “There are positives and negatives to anything, including vaccines. Only time will tell if Covishield or Covaxin is more effective. I believe in research. For now, we have to trust the shots.” There was relief even outside hospitals as the news of the vaccinations spread. At a tea shop in Aundh, a few metres from the Covaxin site, patrons noticed overall improvement in the mood. Suresh, the proprietor of the stall, said, “Last year, during the peak months of the pandemic, I would see at least 10 to 12 bodies a day. The hospital employees coming for tea here were always distraught. But today, I saw many smiles. I heard about the vaccines. I can’t wait to get a shot.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/1802-get-the-jab-in-disrict/articleshow/80308154.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Covid-19 cases reach 1.5L in Marathwada||Aurangabad: Coinciding with the launch of vaccine against Covid-19, the total number of confirmed cases of viral disease has reached 1.5 lakh in Marathwada by 9 am on Saturday. It includes total 1,43,593 cured patients whereas as many as 4,431 deaths. The eight districts of the region has a total of 1,976 cases with recovery rate among patients increasing to almost 96%, show official data. Observing considerable decline in fresh cases of Covid 19 post Diwali festival, Dr Santosh Ranjalkar, president of Aurangabad chapter of Indian Medical Association (IMA) said that public at large should not lower their guard against the disease. “Even if the vaccine against Covid 19 is launched, it is still not available for citizens so far with frontline health workers getting necessary immunization in early phase. The launch of vaccine should not develop any false sense of security and all must continue to follow Covid prevention norms,” he said. The mortality rate due to Covid 19 has reduced to 2.95% in Marathwada, which is almost equal to the current state average of 2.54%. At the state level, confirmed cases of Covid 19 has reached 19,84,768 in Maharashtra, including 18,81,088 recovered cases and 50,336 deaths and 52,152 active cases, show official data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/covid-19-cases-reach-1-5l-in-marathwada/articleshow/80306599.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||We have seen too many deaths to be afraid now, say ambulance drivers||PUNE: Avinash Gavade (56) and Shashikant Lohar (52), who drive ambulances for the Aundh District Hospital were in the first list of the Covaxin beneficiaries. Their tough workplace environment has turned Gavade and Lohar into pragmatists. They say they have seen too many deaths over a period of time as part of their job to be anxious about Covaxin and its efficacy. They recalled how they had transported hundreds of dead bodies and helped the injured when the Killari earthquake happened in 1993 and then during the Malin landslide in 2014. “We have carried so many dead bodies in the ambulance, yet have slept in the same vehicle. Do you think Covid can scare us? We do not have any doubt about the vaccine given to us. We feel honoured that we have been included in the first list of beneficiaries. This is our reward,” they said. Both Gavade and Lohar now work at the Aundh District Hospital. They believe that the fear of the vaccine is unnecessary. Scientists have worked hard day and night on it, and we should trust them, they pointed out. The ambulance drivers resumed their duty after getting their vaccine shots on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/we-have-seen-too-many-deaths-to-be-afraid-now-say-ambulance-drivers/articleshow/80308177.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Leaders are made, not born: Navy veteran Vinay Singh to IIM students||RUDRAPUR: Addressing the students of Indian Institute of Management (IIM) Kashipur in a webinar session on Saturday, Captain Vinay Singh, a veteran of the Indian Navy, said that ‘leaders are made, not born’. Singh said that a leader must be humble, honest, and considerate. Singh also shared day-to-day experiences of soldiers to highlight the importance of management skills. The webinar was organised by the academic committee of the premier institute under the theme — Management from a non-corporate lens. He concluded the session by sharing valuable insights on a new initiative “Sambhav Kadham”. Singh said, “Led by veterans, the initiative focuses on CSR activities, aims to provide employment opportunities to retired soldiers, and establishes a community for enhanced communication among the veterans.” It is worth mentioning that Captain Singh, a specialist in intelligence and Naval operations, retired after serving in the Indian Navy for 31 years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/leaders-are-made-not-born-navy-veteran-vinay-singh-to-iim-students/articleshow/80306066.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||81% beneficiaries get jab in Madhya Pradesh's Jabalpur||JABALPUR: Around 81% of the health workers who were called for vaccination were inoculated in Jabalpur on Saturday. Vaccination started at around 10.30 am and cleanliness worker Baishakhu Panagraha became the first person in Jabalpur to be vaccinated in presence of Union minister Prahlad Singh Patel at district hospital. “I am very happy that I became the first person to be vaccinated,” said Baishakhu Panagraha. Another beneficiary health worker, Ratanlal Nagesh who was second person to be vaccinated in Jabalpur, says, “I urge all my fellow colleagues to come forward and get vaccinated”. Vaccination drive continued till 5 pm in the evening. A total of around 24,000 health workers are to be vaccinated in the first phase of vaccination at Jabalpur. Chief medical and health officer Ratnesh Kuraria said, “A total of 570 people which includes 271 at three centres made in urban areas and 299 at four centres made in rural areas of the district were vaccinated. A total of 700 workers at the rate of 100 people per vaccination booth were sent messages.” “There are several reasons, like few people could not get messages on time, few were out of station and at some places few health workers who were called for vaccination were already ill,” he said. “It is to be made clear that vaccine has no side effects, I myself got vaccinated and then inspected the vaccination centres, I felt fit and fine as usual there were no issues,” Kuraria said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/81-beneficiaries-get-jab-in-jabalpur/articleshow/80307224.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 20-hour water cut in Kurla from January 19-20||The BMC announced a 20-hour water cut from January 19 to 20 in parts of L ward (Kurla), as it will take up repairs at 6 outlets in the Powai water reservoir. BMC officials said water supply will be completely cut off in some areas of the ward. The repair work will start at 8am on Januray 19 and end at 4am on January 20. Areas such as Uday Nagar, Tilak Nagar, Anees Compound, Shanti Nagar, will be hit.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/20-hour-water-cut-in-kurla-jan-19-20/articleshow/80308197.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Woman kills self, kin say she was harassed by in-laws for being ‘infertile’||RUDRAPUR: A 30-year-old woman allegedly killed herself as her in-laws and husband were harassing her for not being able to conceive a child. The death took place in Khadakpur Devipura village under ITI police jurisdiction area of Kashipur in Udham Singh Nagar district on Friday night. The deceased woman, identified as Rammurti Devi, was married to Jitendra Singh, a government school teacher, in 2011. Mohit Kumar, Devi’s brother, said that Singh and his family members began harassing her sister for being ‘infertile’ and thus, she took the extreme step. According to the SHO of ITI police station, Vidya Datt Joshi, the victim locked herself in her room on Friday. When she didn’t answer the door despite several attempts, her in-laws called the police. After the police arrived, the door was broken down and Rammurti was found hanging from the ceiling fan. “We have not received any complaint yet. The body has been handed to the kin after postmortem examination.” Notably, the couple had adopted a boy a year ago.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/woman-kills-self-kin-say-she-was-harassed-by-in-laws-for-being-infertile/articleshow/80306057.cms||Aakash Ahuja
January 17, 2021||Pune||71 health staffers refuse to get the shots in district||Pune: A total of 71 frontline health workers in the district refused to get the shots on the first day of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, while another 50 from Nashik, Ahmednagar and Jalgaon refused vaccination.The overall number of refusals to vaccination in Pune, Nashik, Aurangabad and Kolhapur was far less in terms of percentage of the total health workers enrolled for vaccination on day-one. The fear surrounding the Covaxin jab was expected to trigger refusals in large numbers, but the Covaxin sites in Pune and Aurangabad reported no such refusals.State immunisation officer Dr DN Patil told TOI, “What I have assessed is that there was none who came to the centre and refused. We can call these as delays, not refusals as their names are there and they can come for the next sessions. Many others could not make it to the vaccination centres due to other reasons like being out of station or were not feeling well. This will change and they can always be a part of the second session.”Of the 71 people who refused to get the shots in Pune district, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) area accounted for 32 people — 4% of the total 800 targeted health workers for vaccination on the first day. The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) limits accounted for 24 people — 3% of the total 800 targeted. Another 15 refusals were reported from rural Pune areas, where the authorities had targeted 1,500 vaccinations.The BJ Medical College and Sassoon Hospital reported 11 refusals, followed by seven at the Rajiv Gandhi hospital in Yerawada, five at the Noble Hospital in Hadapsar, four at Sutar Hospital in Kothrud, three at Ruby Hall Clinic and two at Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital — all in Pune city.Ashish Bharati, the head of the PMC’s health department, said, “Instructions came to start the vaccination only after the online registration system started. Some people waited and then left without vaccination. Some did not make it to the centres out of fear.”In Pimpri Chinchwad, the Talera and the New Bhosari hospitals reported nine and and seven refusals, respectively, while the Akurdi hospital reported another six refusals and the YCM hospital reported two refusals.In rural Pune, Indapur sub-district hospital (SDH) reported six refusals. The Junnar SDH and the Kanhe Phata and the Shikrapur rural hospitals reported three each.“Most of them who refused the shots were anxious and scared. They told us that they would first consult their family members and then participate in the drive,” said Ayush Prasad, the Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Ayush Prasad.(With inputs from Nashik, Kolhapur & Aurnagabad)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/71-health-staffers-refuse-to-get-the-shots-in-district/articleshow/80308156.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Frontline worker briefly ill after getting jab||Pune: There was brief panic at the primary health centre in Wagholi after a health worker started shivering, complained of breathlessness and perspired heavily a few minutes after getting vaccinated. The vaccination drive was suspended for about 40 minutes as the doctors on site tried to give her emergency care, before rushing her to a nearby private hospital. The doctors at the hospital found that the worker reported for the vaccination after a stressful night shift and without eating breakfast. She has since been discharged and is reportedly feeling normal.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/frontline-worker-briefly-ill-after-getting-jab/articleshow/80308198.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Gujarat: Microfinance lending takes a plunge||AHMEDABAD: Because of the Covid pandemic and shrinking incomes of factory workers and workers in the informal sector, microfinance lending has taken a massive hit.  Disbursals in the microfinance portfolio shrank by 84% in the September quarter in Gujarat, according to the latest quarterly report on microfinance lending by CRIF, a credit bureau. The report states that Rs 785 crore was disbursed in the second quarter of 2020-21, against Rs 1,583 crore in the corresponding quarter of 2019-20. “With near-nil economic activity in the first quarter of the financial year, the sector saw a huge decline in disbursements,” the report states. The major set of borrowers in the microfinance sector are factory workers, farm labourers and people working in the informal sector including domestic workers, vegetable vendors, micro-enterprise owners, among others, according to lenders in the sector. “Due to the lockdown, most people’s jobs were affected and their very survival was at stake because more than 50% of businesses were shut, drying up their sources of income. As they struggled to make ends meet, loan repayments suffered, in turn affecting credit,” said Mahesh Thakkar, director general, Finance Industry Development Council (FIDC). “Since the pandemic broke, the incomes of most borrowers shrank and they suffered job losses leading them to default on repayment. Consequently, credit rules of microfinance institutions got stricter because of which lending and disbursals were affected,” said Jayshree Vyas, managing director, Sewa Bank. Industry sources also said that several small finance banks – which hold a 42% share of microfinance loans – began lending to micro and small businesses after the pandemic began.  “Due to this, their loan portfolio strengthened, but priorities shifted from lending to the informal sector and small-time labourers due to which overall disbursals in micro lending went down,” said a source. With fresh disbursals falling, the gross loan portfolio (GLP) of lenders in Gujarat also shrank from Rs 69,000 crore in Q4 of 2019-20 to Rs 63,000 crore in Q2 of 2020-21, according to the data of the credit bureau, CRIF.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/microfinance-lending-takes-a-plunge/articleshow/80307252.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 17, 2021||Pune||Immunisation process runs smoothly in Pune Metropolitan Region despite minor hiccups & complaints||PUNE: Barring nine beneficiaries who complained of minor symptoms within a half-hour of vaccination, Saturday’s drive was smooth in Pune Metropolitan Region. The nine people who had complained of minor illnesses recovered within the hour and did not require hospitalization, officials said. “The vaccination centres in rural parts did not report any complaint post-vaccination,” Ayush Prasad, chief executive officer of the Pune zilla parishad, said. One woman fainted after getting vaccinated. The other eight were from Pimpri Chinchwad. “We monitored them for an hour and, after making sure they were fine, let them go,” Pawan Salve, PCMC additional health chief, said. He added that the health department also held back a few beneficiaries as they were unfit for the vaccination. No beneficiary at the eight PMC designated vaccination centres had any complaints. (With inputs from Swati Shinde Gole, Sandip Dighe, Piyush Bhusari & Prasad Kulkarni)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/immunisation-process-runs-smoothly-despite-minor-hiccups-complaints/articleshow/80308182.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Dehradun||Female tigress found dead in Shyampur, second big cat death in a fortnight in Uttarakhand||DEHRADUN: The forest authorities of Haridwar forest division found the carcass of tigress, around a five-year-old, in the Shyampur forest range on Friday evening. The post-mortem of the tigress has been conducted. However, the final report citing the exact reason behind the death of the tigress was received by the forest department till the time of filing this report. The tigress had an empty stomach and was severely anaemic and this is primarily being cited as the probable reason of its death, according to the DFO of Haridwar, Neeraj Verma. The official ruled out any poaching attempt or any accident behind the death of the big cat. “There arises no question of poaching or accident simply because the entire body of the tigress was intact and there is not even a single mark of injury on the carcass,” added Verma. The tigress was found in an area close to Chilla range of Rajaji Tiger Reserve and often big cats move in and out to Haridwar forest division from Chilla, according to the DFO. While the entire area has been under scanning since Friday, patrolling has also been escalated to ensure that anti-forest elements don’t target the region. This is the second big cat death within a fortnight in Uttarakhand. Earlier, a 12-year-old male tiger was crushed to death in Fatehpur range of Haldwani forest division on January 6 by a speeding SUV. Last year, the state lost just six tigresses, the lowest number in the past one decade. Prior to it, Uttarakhand had lost six tigers in 2010.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/dehradun/female-tigress-found-dead-in-shyampur-second-big-cat-death-in-a-fortnight-in-ukhand/articleshow/80306075.cms||Shivani Azad
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh CM should have taken first shot: Congress||BHOPAL: On the first day of anti-Covid vaccination, former minister Jeetu Patwari said that all doubts about vaccine would have been cleared and people would be more confident had chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan and his ministers taken the vaccine shots first. “The way doctors and health workers are taking the vaccines first is praiseworthy,” Jeetu Patwari said. “Priority should be given to run the vaccination programme in educational institutions including schools and colleges,” the former minister said. “Congress party welcomes the vaccine.” State Congress spokesman Narendra Saluja took to twitter and posted a photograph of chief minister Chouhan and his ministers Prabhuram Choudhary, Vishwas Sarang looking on as wardboy Sanjay Yadav took the first vaccine. Saluja tweeted, “Extremely shameful picture. Those persons who should have taken the vaccine dose first and set an example before the people of the state, they became the audience and was looking on at a wardboy. Salute to wardboy Sanjay Yadav. You are the real hero, these persons turned out to be zero.” Meanwhile, former chief minister and Rajya Sabha MP Digvijaya Singh on Saturday asked for clarification on what “Restricted Emergency Use” means in connection to the Coronavirus vaccines. The senior Congress leader said that the Centre has cleared vaccines Covaxin and Covishield for restricted emergency use. Taking to twitter on Saturday, Digvijaya Singh said, “I am happy that GOI has cleared Covishiled and Covaxin for “Restricted Emergency Use”. I would be grateful if they can clarify what does that mean. Should I volunteer to take it? As yet I don’t have any “Emergency” but would be very happy to be a Volunteer.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/cm-should-have-taken-first-shot-cong/articleshow/80307246.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Agra||Covid-19 vaccination day 1: 60% docs, healthcare workers take first shot||Agra: On the first day of Covid-19 vaccination programme, 60.16 percent registered doctors and healthcare workers reported at six designated centres of the Agra district to get the first dose of Covishield vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India. Around 39.83 percent healthcare staffers who were called for vaccination on the first day did not turn up at the centres. According to a senior health department official, doubts and lack of confidence related to the vaccine are major reasons behind the undesirable turnout of healthcare workers in majority of the districts. “We were expecting at least 80 percent turnout on the first day,” official said. In Agra district, the health department had called 600 doctors and healthcare workers for vaccination at six centres. Out of these, 361 came to get the first dose of the vaccine. Arrangement for vaccination of 100 individuals was made at each designated centre. According to the health department records, maximum 80 registered healthcare workers were administered with vaccine at Pushpanjali hospital, 79 at district hospital, 67 at Etmadpur community health centre, 48 at Khandoli community health centre, 46 at Lady Lyall hospital (district women hospital) and 41 at the SN Medical College. Chief medical officer of Agra district Dr RC Pandey said, “The vaccination programme was carried out smoothly at all the six designated centres in the Agra district. After administering the vaccine, people were kept under supervision at the centres for 30 minutes. No one reported any discomfort.” “Due to some misconceptions regarding the vaccine, some people didn’t come to get the first shot. However, 361 out of 600 healthcare workers getting vaccinated is satisfactory. The numbers will certainly increase in further rounds. The people who missed vaccination will be called again in the catch-up round after completion of the first phase of the vaccination.” In the neighboring Firozabad district, 213 (42.6 percent) out of the registered 500 healthcare workers took the shot at five centres. As compared to Agra and Firozabad district, the percentage of registered healthcare workers getting vaccinated was higher in Kasganj and Etah district. The state health department has not declared details about the second round of vaccination. In the first phase, doctors and healthcare staffers will be vaccinated. Their data has been compiled by the health department. After the medical staff, people above 50 years of age and those with co-morbidity will be vaccinated. Meanwhile on Saturday, the Covid-19 sample positivity rate reduced to 2.25 percent in Agra district. So far, 97.48% patients have been declared cured of Covid-19 and discharged in Agra out of the 10,423 cases reported in the district. The number of active Covid cases reduced from 106 on Friday to 92 on Saturday. So far, 10,423 people have been cured of Covid-19 infection in Agra district.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/agra/covid-19-vaccination-day-1-60-docs-healthcare-workers-take-first-shot/articleshow/80305486.cms||Deepak Lavania
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Vaccination a family affair for these medicos||AHMEDABAD: While some sections of the population still have apprehensions about getting a shot of Covid-19 vaccine, here are a few frontline corona warriors who took the jab along with their better halves! Ahmedabad recorded multiple instances where couples got vaccinated simultaneously at the same or at different locations. But the Shah family performed a unique feat – three members of the family got vaccinated in the first hour of the vaccination drive, and all three took vaccines at different hospitals. While Dr Kalpesh Shah, HoD (forensic medicine) at BJ Medical College, got vaccinated at Civil Hospital, his wife, Dr Cherry Shah, HoD (pathology) at SVP Hospital, got vaccinated at her hospital. Their daughter, Dr Nirali Shah, assistant professor (pathology) at GMERS Medical College, Sola, got vaccinated at Sola Civil Hospital. “I was also in-charge for plasma therapy and since March the entire family was in midst of corona and was taking all precautions,” said Dr Cherry Shah, adding that their son Shaival, also a doctor, could be among the recipients if he were not in Chennai. Dr Pranjal Modi, the vice-chancellor of Gujarat University of Transplant Sciences (GUTS), and his wife Dr Manisha Modi, a professor of anaesthesia and critical care, were also among the recipients of the vaccine at IKDRC on Saturday. “People should not be apprehensive – all vaccines carry some side effects. But one must look at its efficacy – which is very high,” said Dr Modi. Dr Ila Patel, head of anaesthesia department at Sola Civil Hospital, and Dr Bharat Patel, head of anatomy department at GCS Medical College, also got the shots at their respective hospitals. Dr Ila Patel told TOI that she had enrolled as soon as the process had started. “I have full faith in our scientists and system. They would not have rolled it out if it were not safe,” she said, adding that she has worked for Covid patients despite her co-morbidities such as asthma and hypertension. Dr Asha Shah, a professor of medicine at GCS Medical College, got her vaccine at her hospital, whereas her husband Dr Navneet Shah, an endocrinologist, got the shot at Civil Hospital. “Even after vaccination, precautions such as wearing mask and social distancing is a must,” said Dr Shah. (With inputs from Parth Shastri)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/vaccination-a-family-affair-for-these-medicos/articleshow/80307249.cms||Himanshu Kaushik
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||You can drive your car alone without mask: Ahmedabad cops||AHMEDABAD: If you are driving in your car alone with your windows rolled up then there’s no need to wear a mask, clarified a police notification issued by the special branch on Saturday. However, masks are mandatory in public places, at workplaces, or if there are two or more people in a car. The notification stated that auto drivers, taxi or cab drivers as well as their passengers will have to wear masks. If any such drivers or passengers are caught without masks, they will be fined according to the norms. The copy of the notification has been sent to traffic department and other enforcement agencies of police. There was confusion among citizens whether a single person driving a car should wear a mask or not. There were instances were people who were alone in a closed car were fined by cops or enforcement agencies. This led to brawls between car drivers and enforcement agencies several times. Even senior police officials of the city held differing views, while some of them chose to remain silent on the issue. A senior police official said, “Following the notification, a person alone in a car with the windows closed will not be fined for not wearing a mask. However, the driver must carry a mask to ensure that it is readily available in case s/he has to step out of the vehicle.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/you-can-drive-your-car-alone-without-mask-cops/articleshow/80307253.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Sheena Bora case: Driver seeks bail||Former accused turned approver, Shyamvar Rai, the driver in the 2015 Sheena Bora murder case, has moved the special CBI court seeking bail from Thane jail on Thursday. The court directed the prosecution to submit its reply. Rai has been one of the first to be arrested and been in jail since August 2015.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/sheena-bora-case-driver-seeks-bail/articleshow/80308230.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Covid-19: Gujarat records 93% vaccination on first day of drive||AHMEDABAD: On Saturday – the first day of the nationwide Covid vaccination drive – Gujarat vaccinated 12,320 healthcare workers, which accounted for 93% of the registered beneficiaries for the day. The drive will continue from Monday onwards, said senior state health department officials, adding that no major side effects were reported on Day 1. Dr Ketan Desai, former president of World Medical Association (WMA), was among the first from the state to get the shot of Covishield at 11.25am on Saturday in presence of Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani and deputy CM Nitin Patel at Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad. Several other prominent doctors also participated in the drive during the event, which included members of the Covid-19 task force and Covid-19 vaccination task force such as Dr H P Bhalodia, Dr Dileep Mavalankar, Dr Maharshi Desai, Dr Nishchal Bhatt, Dr Sapan Pandya and Dr Bhadresh Vyas to name a few. The CM also urged the citizens to take the vaccine without fear or apprehension. “Please don’t believe any misinformation. The vaccine is completely safe and scientifically proven,” he said. Deputy CM Patel on the occasion said that the participation of top doctors from both private and public sectors in the first leg of vaccination drive shows their trust in the process. “In the first two legs of vaccination, we will be covering over 10 lakh persons including healthcare workers and frontline workers,” said Patel, adding that every vaccination centre will be administering 100 shots daily. Other centres such as SVP Hospital, VS Hospital, LG Hospital, Shardaben Hospital, etc. also started the vaccination drive along with a few private hospitals in the city and state. Top health department officials said that the Co-WIN glitch, which was reported on Friday evening, was resolved and all the beneficiaries were enrolled on the software.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/gujarat-records-93-vaccination-on-1st-day-of-drive/articleshow/80307287.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai University distance education exams from Thursday||Online exams for the winter session of the Institute of Distance and Open Studies, Mumbai University will be held on Thursday. For students, online mock tests are being conducted starting Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/mu-distance-edu-exams-from-thurs/articleshow/80308239.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Ahmedabad: Legal-tech startup on hiring high||AHMEDABAD: One of the worst after-effects of the Covid-19 pandemic on the economy was perhaps the loss of jobs and consequently shrinking workforce. Bucking the trend of laying-off employees, Ahmedabad-based legal-tech startup, Legalwiz.in didn’t just begin hiring in November, it is in fact, looking to double its workforce by financial year 2021-22. The startup currently serves at least 5,000 firms across India, aiding them in legal, financial and taxation-related compliances. “Post-Covid, our revenues were at highest-ever levels, growing at 20% quarter-on-quarter in the first three quarters of 2020-21. With the increased digital push, we gained several new customers, who wanted to reduce their dependence on legal professionals operating out of brick-and-mortar chambers and turned to our company,” said Shrijay Sheth, founder, Legalwiz.in. “Our market share also grew. From our current team strength of 40 people, we are looking to double our workforce to 80 people by the end of 2021-22,” Seth said. Started in April 2016, the startup currently caters mainly to small and medium enterprises. “While working with a legal technology firm in the US, I realized the need for a slew of compliances on legal, financial, corporate and taxation fronts. I saw an opportunity there as many small and medium enterprises face challenges to address piling compliance burdens given the inherent complexities in the system,” said Sheth. “Our platform aids smaller enterprises in meeting this compliance requirement easily through a digital platform,” adds Sheth, who completed his postgraduate diploma in investment and financial analysis in San Diego. Prior to founding Legalwiz.in, he has worked with several hyper-growing tech-companies and e-commerce firms too. The startup recently raised funding worth Rs 3.8 crore from Contcentric IT services private limited, an enterprise content management firm. With the fresh funding, the startup plans to enhance its technology capabilities to improve its offerings. “We will deliver better customer and user experience through improvised technology by automating business operations, and boosting efficiency. We will introduce new tools to help users better manage their taxation-related compliances coupled with other business processes,” said Sheth. As on date, the startup caters to clients such as Bank of Baroda, Dev Accelerator, Hubilo, and a few other media companies besides SMEs in the technology, food and beverage, real estate and chartered accountancy sectors among others, across India. “Our clientele primarily comes from bigger cities which have a good startup ecosystem such as Delhi, Noida, Gurgaon, Hyderabad, Mumbai, and Bengaluru, among others,” Sheth added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/legal-tech-startup-looks-to-double-workforce-by-fy22/articleshow/80307290.cms||Niyati Parikh
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Second batch starts getting calls||KOLKATA: Even before the vaccination drive concluded on Friday, 100 beneficiaries for every vaccination site started receiving calls asking them to be present at the sites on Monday. The 18 hospitals vaccination sites in Kolkata and MR Bangur hospital plan to cover maximum beneficiaries next week in a four-day drive. Some hospitals have also proposed to have a second vaccination site from Monday, and Beliaghata ID and BG hospital has planned a five-day vaccination drive next week. Hospital sources said they had issued circulars to department heads or reached out individually to all vaccine recipients for Monday. “All 100 vaccine beneficiaries are likely to be present on Monday,” said an official. The turnout of beneficiaries at some hospitals was fewer than 100 on Saturday. Calcutta National Medical College and Hospital MSVP Sandip Ghosh said, “We had 100% attendance on Saturday. It will be the same on Monday.” The hospital also indicated that it was planning to double the vaccination site. “On Saturday, the teams were able to complete the drive by 3:30pm, much ahead of the 5pm deadline. We are confident that we will be able to run a second vaccination site on Monday, if we get the permission,” he said. Beliaghata ID and BG hospital principal Anima Haldar said the vaccination drive in the hospital will be done on all five days.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/second-batch-starts-getting-calls/articleshow/80306699.cms||Sumati Yengkhom
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||10% price-stamp duty variance relief on flat sale applies from ’02-’03: ITAT||MUMBAI: A recent ruling of the Income-Tax Appellate Tribunal’s (ITAT) Mumbai bench has come as a relief to taxpayers embroiled in litigation on capital gains arising out of sale of their flats due to the sale price being lower than the stamp duty valuation. ITAT has held that the benefit of a higher tolerance band of 10% for the difference between the sale price of a flat and the stamp duty valuation will apply with retrospective effect. The ITAT bench of vice-president Pramod Kumar and judicial member Saktijit Dey held this benefit would apply retrospectively from financial year 2002-03 (assessment year beginning April 1, 2003) when anti-abuse provisions were introduced in the income-tax Act. The ruling will help pending cases from these years when the acceptable variation rate was much lower or no such leeway was available. Tax experts said several such cases are pending at various levels, especially in larger cities such as Mumbai. To prevent tax abuse and deter the use of black money in property deals, Section 50C was introduced by the Finance Act, 2002. It provided that if the sale consideration claimed to be received by the seller is less than the stamp duty rate, the latter would be considered for determining capital gains.Thus, the quantum of capital gains would be the “higher” stamp duty valuation minus the “indexed” cost of the flat sold. This would result in higher capital gains and consequently a higher tax outgo. To factor the effects of inflation, the Income-Tax (I-T) Act permits application of a cost inflation index to the original cost of the property being sold. To minimise hardships in case of genuine transactions, the Finance Act, 2018, amended Section 50C and provided that no adjustment will be made in cases where the variation between stamp duty value and sale consideration was not more than 5% of the sale consideration. This proviso was further amended by the Finance Act, 2020, and enhanced the acceptable variation rate to 10%. I-T authorities submitted to ITAT that the amendment carried out by the Finance Act, 2018, would come into effect only prospectively from financial year 2018-19. Similarly, the enhanced variation rate will apply from financial year 2020-21. In the case before ITAT, the year covered by the litigation was 2010-11. The difference between the sale consideration as disclosed by the seller, Maria Fernandes Cheryl, and the stamp duty valuation was Rs 4.9 lakh. This was about 6.6% of the declared sale transaction. According to the I-T officer, the tolerance band of 5% and 10% applied only prospectively and did not cover the year under litigation. He accordingly enhanced the capital gains computation. The matter finally reached ITAT. ITAT disapproved of this enhancement and provided relief to the taxpayer. According to ITAT, the proviso amending the variation rate to 10% was curative in nature and must relate back to the date of introduction of the section itself. “What holds good in 2021 was also good in 2003. If variations up to 10% need to be tolerated and need not be probed further, in 2021 under section 50C, there were no good reasons to probe such variations, in the earlier periods as well,” states the order. The I-T department had also submitted to the ITAT that if its submissions of the amendments being prospective in nature are not accepted, the tax tribunal’s order should mention that “relief is being provided as a special case and this decision may not be considered as a precedent.” The ITAT has come down heavily on this plea, terming it as an “antithesis of the principle of equality before all.” It firmly stated that its order will hold good for all other similarly placed litigants as well.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/10-price-stamp-duty-variance-relief-on-flat-sale-applies-from-02-03-itat/articleshow/80308766.cms||Lubna Kably
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||BARC ex-CEO accused in TRP scam admitted to ICU||MUMBAI: Former CEO of BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) ) Partho Dasgupta, the main accused in the TRP manipulation racket, was admitted to JJ hospital after his health deteriorated late Friday night. Sources said he was admitted to the ICU in the middle of the night after he complained of uneasiness and a spike in blood pressure. His family has alleged there was delay in providing him medical aid. Pratyusha Dasgupta, his daughter, has addressed a letter to PM Modi asking him to “save” her father’s “life”. “Today at 3 am (Saturday) my mother received a phone call asking her to reach JJ Hospital immediately since my father was brought there. On reaching there, doctors asked us why no one from his family had come to the hospital for 12 hours since my father was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state at around 1pm on January 15. The reason provided was they did not have our phone numbers to contact us and hence, waited till my father was conscious enough to give them my mother’s phone number. This is in spite of the several mails we have sent to jail authorities requesting permission to reach my father with my phone number,” Pratyusha said in her letter. She added, “At the emergency room, he was incoherent, unable to speak or express himself properly when he desperately tried to talk to us, and his sugar levels had shot up to alarmingly high levels (516).” Pratyusha said her father had been suffering from serious ailments for many years, including diabetes, hypertension and ankylosing spondylitis. “Given the state he is in, I am deeply concerned about his life,” she added. She further said the family were law-abiding citizens and wanted the case to follow the natural course through the courts of law. “However, what we have been made to go through is a matter of utmost concern....My plea to you, sir, is to please save my father’s life by allowing proper medical treatment in a reputed hospital at our expense,” the letter said. A Taloja jail official said, “He missed his diabetes medicine after which his sugar levels shot up. Here, he was under medication and when his condition worsened, on doctor’s advice he was immediately moved to JJ. There was no delay from our side.” Dasgupta is accused of conniving with Arnab Goswami and others to manipulate TRP ratings and bring Republic TV channel to the No. 1 position. On January 4, a magistrate court had rejected his bail plea.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/barc-ex-ceo-accused-intrp-scam-admitted-to-icu/articleshow/80308251.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Doctors appeal to IMA to hold camps for farmers||Ludhiana: With farmers protesting at the Delhi borders for the last 50 days in this harsh winter, they are facing several health problems and as a result many have unfortunately lost their lives. Dr Arun Mitra, former senior vice-president, IMA Punjab, has written a letter to Dr J A Jayalal, national president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), New Delhi. He said, “Under these circumstances they need regular medical care. Whereas the government’'s support is negligible, several NGOs and doctor groups are coming forward to provide medical aid.” Other doctors have also appealed to the national president IMA to direct its units in different states particularly in and around Delhi to be proactive in providing medical aid to the farmers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/doctors-appeal-to-ima-to-hold-camps-for-farmers/articleshow/80306730.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||Pinning hopes on the Budget for impetus||AHMEDABAD/SURAT/ VADODARA: After having battled Covid-induced disruptions and slowdown, businesses are now looking at 2021 with great hopes of recovery. Several industrial sectors are expecting far-reaching measures in the forthcoming Union Budget for 2021-22 to boost economic revival. Special policy needed to boost APIs productionTo become self-reliant in drug manufacturing, the pharmaceutical industry wants a special policy and investment-based tax incentives for APIs (pharma raw materials) manufacturing in India Currently, the industry is heavily dependent on China for APIs. The Indian Drug Manufacturers Association also called for strengthening healthcare infrastructure in rural and semi-urban areas, and it has suggested a weighted tax deduction of 200% on the amount spent for such infrastructure activities. The other demands of the sector include Customs duty exemption to medical devices, applying 12% GST on medical grade alcohol-based hand sanitizers and extension of reduced tax (22%) benefit to non-corporates like distribution channel partners. Realtors want tax reforms for affordable housingStating that the real estate sector is slowly moving towards revival after battling for its survival in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, industry body CREDAI has suggested increasing tax benefits on investment in housing and called for tax reforms related to affordable housing to boost demand. According to CREDAI, availability of cheaper funds and longer repayment cycles will aid developers. Another real estate body, NAREDCO, has demanded allowing interest on home loans for income tax deductions without any ceiling. Currently, the limit is Rs 2 lakh. Resumption of subvention schemes for home buyers, focus on rental housing and more stress funds for stalled and stressed projects are some other measures the industry body is expecting from the Union Budget. Tax fabric imports from Vietnam, BangladeshThe Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) has demanded that the import of cheap fabric from Vietnam and Bangladesh should be taxed at the rate of 10% to safeguard the domestic weaving industry. Bharat Gandhi, chairman of FIASWI told TOI, “There is a huge increase of 60% in the polyester yarn prices in the last four months. We have demanded that the government should remove anti-dumping duty on all types of polyester yarn.” Industry players have also hinted at budget provisions for a huge integrated textiles park, which will provide a competitive ecosystem for manufacturing and exports of textiles. Engg wants raw material price rise checkedConcerned about rising prices of raw materials, the engineering sector is hoping the government will control them. “We are hoping that the government takes measures in the Budget to ensure that the prices come down. To start with, they can reduce the import duty on some raw materials,” said Nilesh Shukla, president, India SME Forum (Gujarat). “The government should focus on restarting the pending projects and also announce new ones. It will increase domestic demand for engineering products and help revive the sector that needs a booster shot. Both big businesses and MSMEs have their eyes trained on the Budget this time,” Shukla added. Reduce import duty on cut and polished diamondsTo increase exports, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has sought to reduce the import duty on cut and polished diamonds from 7.5% to 2.5% and amendment in the taxation provision to allow the sale of rough diamonds at the Special Notified Zones (SNZ) in Surat and Mumbai. The industry has also proposed direct sale of rough diamonds by miners in Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in India. That apart, jewellers and bullion traders expect reduction in the basic Customs duty on gold from existing 12.5% to 7.5% so that gold prices rationalize and in turn fuel business. That apart, they want that Tax Collection at Source (TCS) must be deferred for the time being as it is impacting revenues at a time when gold jewellery trade is low. Dyes, intermediates makers seek alternative for MEISIn a bid to boost exports, which stood at -30% year-on-year in November 2020, dyes and intermediates manufacturers have sought export incentives. “The government had repealed the Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme last year as part of which 2% export incentive was available. A year down the line, we expect the government to announce an alternative scheme to compensate for this incentive, to boost export competitiveness,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). That apart, industry players have also sought for reviewing anti-dumping duty on several basic chemicals, which are widely imported and whose costs have doubled. MSMEs expect liquidity boost, actual EODBBattling severe liquidity crisis and piling compliance burdens, micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are expecting measures to ease liquidity for the industry. “Despite the requirement for working capital loans, banks have failed to extend credit to the small and medium businesses. We expect measures like the credit guarantee scheme which will ease liquidity woes of the industry,” said Natubhai Patel, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). Frequent change in norms is another issue plaguing the industry and therefore, reducing compliance burden by simplifying the process of obtaining approvals, filing GST returns and adding to ease of business is a key demand. Tourism, hospitality seek interest subsidy on loansReeling under a drastic revenue shortfall due to the pandemic, the tourism and hospitality sector expects interest subsidy on working capital loans under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Industry players have also demanded that tax collection at source be abolished temporarily, as it is hurting the industry. “Liquidity has been a major constraint and thus we expect that the moratorium period must also be extended by at least six months, till the industry revives. That apart, we’ve also made a request before the GST Council for a rate cut,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/pinning-hopes-on-the-budget-for-impetus/articleshow/80310033.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Surat||Pinning hopes on the Budget for impetus||AHMEDABAD/SURAT/ VADODARA: After having battled Covid-induced disruptions and slowdown, businesses are now looking at 2021 with great hopes of recovery. Several industrial sectors are expecting far-reaching measures in the forthcoming Union Budget for 2021-22 to boost economic revival. Special policy needed to boost APIs productionTo become self-reliant in drug manufacturing, the pharmaceutical industry wants a special policy and investment-based tax incentives for APIs (pharma raw materials) manufacturing in India Currently, the industry is heavily dependent on China for APIs. The Indian Drug Manufacturers Association also called for strengthening healthcare infrastructure in rural and semi-urban areas, and it has suggested a weighted tax deduction of 200% on the amount spent for such infrastructure activities. The other demands of the sector include Customs duty exemption to medical devices, applying 12% GST on medical grade alcohol-based hand sanitizers and extension of reduced tax (22%) benefit to non-corporates like distribution channel partners. Realtors want tax reforms for affordable housingStating that the real estate sector is slowly moving towards revival after battling for its survival in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, industry body CREDAI has suggested increasing tax benefits on investment in housing and called for tax reforms related to affordable housing to boost demand. According to CREDAI, availability of cheaper funds and longer repayment cycles will aid developers. Another real estate body, NAREDCO, has demanded allowing interest on home loans for income tax deductions without any ceiling. Currently, the limit is Rs 2 lakh. Resumption of subvention schemes for home buyers, focus on rental housing and more stress funds for stalled and stressed projects are some other measures the industry body is expecting from the Union Budget. Tax fabric imports from Vietnam, BangladeshThe Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) has demanded that the import of cheap fabric from Vietnam and Bangladesh should be taxed at the rate of 10% to safeguard the domestic weaving industry. Bharat Gandhi, chairman of FIASWI told TOI, “There is a huge increase of 60% in the polyester yarn prices in the last four months. We have demanded that the government should remove anti-dumping duty on all types of polyester yarn.” Industry players have also hinted at budget provisions for a huge integrated textiles park, which will provide a competitive ecosystem for manufacturing and exports of textiles. Engg wants raw material price rise checkedConcerned about rising prices of raw materials, the engineering sector is hoping the government will control them. “We are hoping that the government takes measures in the Budget to ensure that the prices come down. To start with, they can reduce the import duty on some raw materials,” said Nilesh Shukla, president, India SME Forum (Gujarat). “The government should focus on restarting the pending projects and also announce new ones. It will increase domestic demand for engineering products and help revive the sector that needs a booster shot. Both big businesses and MSMEs have their eyes trained on the Budget this time,” Shukla added. Reduce import duty on cut and polished diamondsTo increase exports, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has sought to reduce the import duty on cut and polished diamonds from 7.5% to 2.5% and amendment in the taxation provision to allow the sale of rough diamonds at the Special Notified Zones (SNZ) in Surat and Mumbai. The industry has also proposed direct sale of rough diamonds by miners in Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in India. That apart, jewellers and bullion traders expect reduction in the basic Customs duty on gold from existing 12.5% to 7.5% so that gold prices rationalize and in turn fuel business. That apart, they want that Tax Collection at Source (TCS) must be deferred for the time being as it is impacting revenues at a time when gold jewellery trade is low. Dyes, intermediates makers seek alternative for MEISIn a bid to boost exports, which stood at -30% year-on-year in November 2020, dyes and intermediates manufacturers have sought export incentives. “The government had repealed the Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme last year as part of which 2% export incentive was available. A year down the line, we expect the government to announce an alternative scheme to compensate for this incentive, to boost export competitiveness,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). That apart, industry players have also sought for reviewing anti-dumping duty on several basic chemicals, which are widely imported and whose costs have doubled. MSMEs expect liquidity boost, actual EODBBattling severe liquidity crisis and piling compliance burdens, micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are expecting measures to ease liquidity for the industry. “Despite the requirement for working capital loans, banks have failed to extend credit to the small and medium businesses. We expect measures like the credit guarantee scheme which will ease liquidity woes of the industry,” said Natubhai Patel, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). Frequent change in norms is another issue plaguing the industry and therefore, reducing compliance burden by simplifying the process of obtaining approvals, filing GST returns and adding to ease of business is a key demand. Tourism, hospitality seek interest subsidy on loansReeling under a drastic revenue shortfall due to the pandemic, the tourism and hospitality sector expects interest subsidy on working capital loans under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Industry players have also demanded that tax collection at source be abolished temporarily, as it is hurting the industry. “Liquidity has been a major constraint and thus we expect that the moratorium period must also be extended by at least six months, till the industry revives. That apart, we’ve also made a request before the GST Council for a rate cut,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/surat/pinning-hopes-on-the-budget-for-impetus/articleshow/80310034.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||Pinning hopes on the Budget for impetus||AHMEDABAD/SURAT/ VADODARA: After having battled Covid-induced disruptions and slowdown, businesses are now looking at 2021 with great hopes of recovery. Several industrial sectors are expecting far-reaching measures in the forthcoming Union Budget for 2021-22 to boost economic revival. Special policy needed to boost APIs productionTo become self-reliant in drug manufacturing, the pharmaceutical industry wants a special policy and investment-based tax incentives for APIs (pharma raw materials) manufacturing in India Currently, the industry is heavily dependent on China for APIs. The Indian Drug Manufacturers Association also called for strengthening healthcare infrastructure in rural and semi-urban areas, and it has suggested a weighted tax deduction of 200% on the amount spent for such infrastructure activities. The other demands of the sector include Customs duty exemption to medical devices, applying 12% GST on medical grade alcohol-based hand sanitizers and extension of reduced tax (22%) benefit to non-corporates like distribution channel partners. Realtors want tax reforms for affordable housingStating that the real estate sector is slowly moving towards revival after battling for its survival in the wake of the Covid-19 outbreak, industry body CREDAI has suggested increasing tax benefits on investment in housing and called for tax reforms related to affordable housing to boost demand. According to CREDAI, availability of cheaper funds and longer repayment cycles will aid developers. Another real estate body, NAREDCO, has demanded allowing interest on home loans for income tax deductions without any ceiling. Currently, the limit is Rs 2 lakh. Resumption of subvention schemes for home buyers, focus on rental housing and more stress funds for stalled and stressed projects are some other measures the industry body is expecting from the Union Budget. Tax fabric imports from Vietnam, BangladeshThe Federation of Indian Art Silk Weaving Industry (FIASWI) has demanded that the import of cheap fabric from Vietnam and Bangladesh should be taxed at the rate of 10% to safeguard the domestic weaving industry. Bharat Gandhi, chairman of FIASWI told TOI, “There is a huge increase of 60% in the polyester yarn prices in the last four months. We have demanded that the government should remove anti-dumping duty on all types of polyester yarn.” Industry players have also hinted at budget provisions for a huge integrated textiles park, which will provide a competitive ecosystem for manufacturing and exports of textiles. Engg wants raw material price rise checkedConcerned about rising prices of raw materials, the engineering sector is hoping the government will control them. “We are hoping that the government takes measures in the Budget to ensure that the prices come down. To start with, they can reduce the import duty on some raw materials,” said Nilesh Shukla, president, India SME Forum (Gujarat). “The government should focus on restarting the pending projects and also announce new ones. It will increase domestic demand for engineering products and help revive the sector that needs a booster shot. Both big businesses and MSMEs have their eyes trained on the Budget this time,” Shukla added. Reduce import duty on cut and polished diamondsTo increase exports, the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has sought to reduce the import duty on cut and polished diamonds from 7.5% to 2.5% and amendment in the taxation provision to allow the sale of rough diamonds at the Special Notified Zones (SNZ) in Surat and Mumbai. The industry has also proposed direct sale of rough diamonds by miners in Special Notified Zones (SNZs) in India. That apart, jewellers and bullion traders expect reduction in the basic Customs duty on gold from existing 12.5% to 7.5% so that gold prices rationalize and in turn fuel business. That apart, they want that Tax Collection at Source (TCS) must be deferred for the time being as it is impacting revenues at a time when gold jewellery trade is low. Dyes, intermediates makers seek alternative for MEISIn a bid to boost exports, which stood at -30% year-on-year in November 2020, dyes and intermediates manufacturers have sought export incentives. “The government had repealed the Merchandise Export Incentive Scheme last year as part of which 2% export incentive was available. A year down the line, we expect the government to announce an alternative scheme to compensate for this incentive, to boost export competitiveness,” said Yogesh Parikh, president, Gujarat Dyestuff Manufacturers’ Association (GDMA). That apart, industry players have also sought for reviewing anti-dumping duty on several basic chemicals, which are widely imported and whose costs have doubled. MSMEs expect liquidity boost, actual EODBBattling severe liquidity crisis and piling compliance burdens, micro small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) are expecting measures to ease liquidity for the industry. “Despite the requirement for working capital loans, banks have failed to extend credit to the small and medium businesses. We expect measures like the credit guarantee scheme which will ease liquidity woes of the industry,” said Natubhai Patel, president, Gujarat Chamber of Commerce and Industry (GCCI). Frequent change in norms is another issue plaguing the industry and therefore, reducing compliance burden by simplifying the process of obtaining approvals, filing GST returns and adding to ease of business is a key demand. Tourism, hospitality seek interest subsidy on loansReeling under a drastic revenue shortfall due to the pandemic, the tourism and hospitality sector expects interest subsidy on working capital loans under Aatmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. Industry players have also demanded that tax collection at source be abolished temporarily, as it is hurting the industry. “Liquidity has been a major constraint and thus we expect that the moratorium period must also be extended by at least six months, till the industry revives. That apart, we’ve also made a request before the GST Council for a rate cut,” said Narendra Somani, president, Hotels and Restaurants’ Association (HRA) – Gujarat.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/pinning-hopes-on-the-budget-for-impetus/articleshow/80307288.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||All in West Bengal should get free vaccine: CM||KOLKATA: Addressing healthcare workers at 207 vaccination sites in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Saturday said she strongly felt “all people of West Bengal should get vaccines free of cost as early as possible.” The CM also said that if needed, the state will bear the financial burden. In a virtual-telephonic address to doctors, nurses, hospital support staff, student, auxiliary nurse midwife (ANMs) and ASHA workers who had gathered at these 207 sites, the CM said she has already requested the Centre to supply adequate number of vaccines not only for frontline workers but for all people. The chief minister said all frontline workers, including healthworkers, police and other field workers, have risked their lives to serve people in this unprecedented crisis. She said many lost their lives, many have lost the lives of their near and dear ones. Yet, Banerjee said, the healthworkers, police, other frontline workers kept fighting this greatest battle of humanity. The CM said it has been almost a year now and yet the battle goes on. The CM also thanked the ANM and ASHA workers for their tireless efforts. The programme on Saturday morning was also attended by senior doctors, healthworkers from both private and government hospitals and senior state government officials. After her address, prominent doctors and frontline healthworkers, who fought the battle valiantly, spoke of their experience and feelings on the day vaccination begins in the state. They included Dr Sukumar Mukherjee, Dr Shantanu Sen, the face of Bengal’s Covid battle Yogiraj Roy, Dr Sishir Naskar of MR Bangur Hospital and a few prominent nurses.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/all-in-bengal-should-get-free-vaccine-cm/articleshow/80306734.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||50-year-old driver travels 1,100km in 24hrs to get vaccines to Barmer||Jaipur: Vridha Ram, 50, driver of a government’s vaccine van in Barmer, was elated when the Covid-19 vaccination drive kicked off in his district bordering Pakistan.He has been supplying vaccines for various diseases in villages of Barmer for the past 19 years.When he came to know that he had to travel to Jaipur to collect Covid vaccines, he felt amused. Without giving a second thought, Ram agreed to drive 1,100km in 24 hours, travelling from Barmer to Jaipur and then back, for the vaccines. He felt proud of the fact that it was going to be him who would bring the life-saving vaccine to his home district. “Because of its location, which is close to the border and its topography, things take time to reach Barmer. I can’t help, but feel proud that I brought this ‘amrut’ home for my people,” he said.Ram was accompanied by one more driver Bhika Ram. “We know that we will not get time to rest during our travel as we had to transport the vaccines without wasting any time. We started at 8pm on January 13 and reached Jaipur at 6am. Though we travelled the farthest to collect vaccines, we were the first to ones to receive at Jaipur’s state-level vaccine storage,” he said.They left Jaipur at 11am and reached Barmer by 9pm. “I have been transporting vaccines in rural Barmer for 19 years, but this experience was different,” he said.Dr P C Deepan, deputy chief medical health officer, Barmer, who was travelling in a separate vehicle with his team to receive vaccine, said, “The drivers helped us reaching early and we safely transported the medicine to Barmer maintaining the required temperature for the vaccines. We got 11,560 doses of Covid-19 vaccines and as a result of that, we have managed to start the vaccination drive today (Jan 16).”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/50-year-old-driver-travels-1100km-in-24hrs-to-get-vaccines-to-barmer/articleshow/80307301.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Swasthya Bhawan turns 3-tier war room||Kolkata: The entire state administration, right from the chief minister to the chief secretary to the health secretary to lowest rung health workers to police, all worked in perfect synchronization to make the first day of Covid-19 vaccination an example of seamless service delivery. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee worked from her Kalighat home and checked out almost every move. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay reached the state secretariat Nabanna early to monitor every nitty gritty so that the vaccination goes smooth. He passed necessary instruction to untangle wherever things got stuck in an administrative knot. Health secretary Narayan Swarup Nigam was on a whirlwind tour around the city to drop in at certain vaccination centres to check out the progress. “I am very relieved to know that so far there has not been any adverse impact on vaccinated people. Barring some glitches in the Co-WIN, the vaccine software, everything moved smoothly. We are speaking to the Union health ministry on these glitches. During the glitch, we had to record everything manually,” said Nigam.The three-tier war room at Swasthya Bhawan was at the heart of the state’s vaccination programme that saw vaccination of 20,000 health workers simultaneously at 207 sites across the state. A control room (8am to 8pm) at Swasthya Bhawan was manned by six experienced doctors. But the queries coming to the control room is filtered by a 24X7 call centre manned by trained tele-callers.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/swasthya-bhawan-turns-3-tier-war-room/articleshow/80306744.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||No need to worry, vaccine verified: Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot||JAIPUR: The vaccination programme against Covid-19 got underway in Rajasthan with the first shot being given to Dr Sudhir Bhandari, the principal of SMS Medical College, as chief minister Ashok Gehlot, ministers and the people became witnesses through live telecast here on Saturday. Dr PC Dandiya, the 93-year-old emeritus professor of pharmacology at the same medical college, too was vaccinated as people watched on TV screens and social media apps like Facebook and YouTube to quell their concerns about the vaccine, if any. “No need to worry about the vaccine; the Government of India has verified it. India is the largest producer of vaccines in the world. We are the experts in vaccination,” chief minister Gehlot said, while launching the vaccination programme through video-conferencing from the CMR. “Earlier, it used to take up to 20 years to make vaccines but now it has taken just 10 months, so you can imagine how much hard work has been put for it,” Gehlot said. The CM, at the same time, cautioned people against getting casual in precautions against Covid now that the vaccine has arrived. “It will still take a year to break the Covid chain,” Gehlot said, adding that the state government will take strict measures to continue enforcing corona safety protocol. Gehlot and his ministers at the CMR had live interactions with doctors and healthcare workers from government health centres across the state on the preparedness and safety measures put in place for the vaccination drive. Ministers queried doctors on who was fit to get the vaccine, till when to remain vigilant after taking the two shots at a gap of 28 days and if the doses were to be taken empty stomach or after a light meal, among other questions related to the vaccination. Health minister Raghu Sharma said the Covid vaccination would go on at 167 sites across the state for next few days. “At least 100 persons will be vaccinated every day at each site,” Sharma said. In the first phase, 4,80,977 healthcare workers of the state and 6,755 healthcare workers of the Centre would be vaccinated, the health minister said. “Frontline workers will get the shot in second phase, people above 50 years will get it in the third phase and those below 50 years with co-morbities will get it in the fourth phase,” Sharma said, adding that registration was mandatory to get vaccinated. Sharma said the state was conducting 66,000 RT-PCR tests per day to check the spread of Covid. Gehlot praised the state health and medical department’s efforts in effectively fighting the disease since March last year. “When it started, we did not even have the testing facilities. Samples had to be sent to Pune for confirmations,” the CM said. He stressed that Rajasthan’s management was praised by the Centre, which asked others to follow the ‘Bhilwara model’. Gehlot highlighted that Rajasthan was able to keep the death rate of Covid below 1% and that the state’s recovery rate was quite high. “In Rajasthan, around 2,700 people died of Covid compared to around 7,000-8,000 in other states,” the CM said. Gehlot said healthcare workers in the state were compensated at par with their counterparts in the Centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/no-need-to-worry-vaccine-verified-gehlot/articleshow/80307303.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Netas, part of hospital panels, join vax queue||KOLKATA/EAST BURDWAN: Three members of the Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation’s board of administrators and an MLA from Burdwan took the Covid vaccine on the first day of the drive. The first lot of vaccines are intended for frontline Covid warriors, like healthcare workers. The politicians, though, pointed out that they were on hospital panels, and hence, entitled to the vaccine. Bidhannagar board of administrator (BOA) members Pranay Roy, who was previously Bidhannagar MMiC (health), and two other BOA members took the vaccine at a primary healthcare centre in Salt Lake’s Duttabad. Roy, while admitting that their names did not figure on the first list, said they had taken the vaccine after consulting senior health department officials as several of those listed did not turn up for the inoculation drive. “Only two persons had come in the first hour and the vaccination programme was held up. We stepped forward to take the vaccine to encourage others,” Roy said. Rajesh Chirimar, the other Bidhannagar BOA member who took the vaccine, cited the same reason. “We thought that there would be a rush for the vaccine. But that wasn’t the case. So I asked the health department officials whether I could take the vaccine and I was allowed. I have not deprived anybody of the shot,” he said. Bidhannagar civic officials said that out of 100 persons whose names had been listed for Saturday’s drive, only 54 had turned up. In East Burdwan, Katwa MLA Rabindranath Chatterjee took the vaccine on Saturday. He said he had been moving in their area as a Covid warrior all along and that his name was on the list. CMOH East Burdwan Pranab Kr Roy said that those involved in healthcare and with Rogi Kalyan Samity could take the vaccine.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/netas-part-of-hospital-panels-join-vax-queue/articleshow/80306737.cms||Suman Chakraborti
January 17, 2021||Ludhiana||SIT reviews arms licences issued in Ludhiana||Ludhiana: No fresh applications for arms licences will be accepted in Ludhiana till February 28, as a Special Investigating Team (SIT) is reviewing the previous licences issued by the city police. A notice to this effect has also been put up at the police commissioner’s office. According to officials, the SIT formed by commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal is reviewing if the arms licences issued so far were as per the laid down norms and also verifying the documents submitted by the licence seekers. The SIT—comprising joint commissioner of police (headquarters) J. Elanchezihan, deputy commissioner of police (law & order) Ashwani Kapur and assistant commissioner of police (licensing) Ranjit Singh—has already started the review work, which could lead to cancellation of some licences, the officials said. According to sources, the SIT was formed after a complaint was filed by a man, alleging that while he was not being issued a licence, many others were holding the same, which were obtained on fake documents and without valid reasons. The team is trying to verify the veracity of the claim. There are approximately 18,000 licensed arms holders under Ludhiana commissionerate. Joint commissioner of police J Elanchezihan, who is heading the SIT, said, “We have completed the review of nearly 40% of the total licences. During the review, we are checking all details, which have been put under various categories, like gender, profession, income, educational qualification, etc, besides the reason for obtaining the licence. We are checking if the reason or threat, as cited by the person while applying for the licence, still exists or not.” The officer said if the SIT finds any discrepancy in the information shared by the licence holders or it does not find the reason for acquiring weapons valid enough, their licences would be cancelled. “We are hoping to complete the review before February 28, so fresh licence applications are not being accepted till then,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/sit-reviews-arms-licences-issued-in-ludhiana/articleshow/80306738.cms||Payal Dhawan
January 17, 2021||Navi-mumbai||Aerocity plan in Navi Mumbai takes off; will have offices, schools, entertainment, hospitals||MUMBAI: Cidco has kicked off the process of developing an aerocity abutting Navi Mumbai International Airport. As airports serve as an engine to boost economy, the aerocity will be a commercial and residential district on its southern side spread over around 300 hectares. From financial services and corporate offices to residential and entertainment centres, hotels, hospitals, schools, and export-oriented services to aero-centric warehousing, the aerocity will accommodate and offer a range of activities and facilities. In all, 400 lakh square feet will be developed as part of the plan, including well-designed roads, Metro lines and automated waste collection systems. “There is a requirement for financial services and banks, besides residential and commercial facilities, as airports are economic engines. Building an aerocity serves that purpose,” a Cidco official said. Cidco vice-chairman and MD Sanjay Mukherjee said, “The land acquisition is complete, and the project has been divided into four packets. International consultants have been appointed for techno-economic feasibility, marketing assessment, and so on. As we begin our mission again, we are taking a holistic view on the development of Navi Mumbai.” Aerocities around the world are built with a focus on a particular sector while some serve as transit destinations. The sectors may range from financial to cargo services or aero-centric activities. Cidco officials said to enable a conducive urban design form and make the aerocity a benchmark for development in the country, it will be developed with a global floor space index. The Navi Mumbai Aerocity will also offer a central command-and-control operation to manage all utilities. More importantly, utilities will be laid through tunnels to avoid digging of roads. The concept plan has been finalised and a detailed master plan along with a detailed design of the facilities will be taken up shortly. While development of the infrastructure is likely to commence soon, Cidco is looking at various options and revenue models for the aerocity. For instance, Delhi International Airport has awarded rights for development of aerocity land to a realty firm with an arrangement for an annual lease and one-time payment. While Cidco looks at ensuring development of the aerocity in sync with completion of the development of the international airport and MTHL, it has initiated promotion of the project to create awareness among prospective firms about the benefits of locating their businesses in it. Meanwhile, Cidco is also looking at right market conditions for a global auction of its corporate park in Kharghar, close to the upcoming international airport.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/navi-mumbai/aerocity-plan-in-navi-mumbai-takes-off-will-have-offices-schools-entertainment-hosps/articleshow/80308767.cms||Sanjeev Devasia
January 17, 2021||Varanasi||439 health workers out of 600 turn up for Covid vaccination on first day||Kanpur: As many as 436 health workers in Kanpur received the Covishield vaccine shots on the first day of the nationwide vaccination drive against Covid-19. The first person to get vaccinated at LLR hospital was the hospital cook Sangeeta. At Kanshi Ram Hospital, chief medical officer Dr Anil Kumar Mishra was the very first vaccine recipient. CMO Mishra said that people should not be apprehensive about getting vaccinated against Covid-19. “The Covishield vaccine has proved to be effective, and we should not believe in rumours suggesting otherwise,” he added. Senior district officials including divisional commissioner Dr Raj Shekhar and DM Alok Tiwari were present at the CMO office in Ramadevi where Dr Mishra was to get vaccinated. There were six vaccination centres on Saturday. Although 100 health workers were supposed to get vaccinated at each centre, only 439 workers received the vaccine shots by the end of the day (5 pm), informed district immunisation officer Dr AK Kanaujia. Sarsaul community health centre recorded the highest turnout of health workers (92), while only 40 showed up at LLR hospital on the inaugural day of the drive.. When TOI contacted Dr Kanaujia, he said that it was not clear why all 600 health workers did not report at the vaccination centres. The reason for the same is being looked into, he added. After receiving the first dose, all recipients were made to sit under observation for half an hour before being allowed to leave. All the 439 health workers also got their names registered at the centres.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/varanasi/439-health-workers-out-of-600-turn-up-for-covid-vaccination-on-first-day/articleshow/80307316.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Mumbai parks offer airy alternatives for work & play||Up until a stranger interrupted her with a stupid question about the park she was sitting in, Sharda Sharma was on a higher plane. Seated on a metal bench, Sharma was engrossed in a Hindi pocket book titled ‘Apni Khabar’ (Knowing yourself). “We tend to know all about what’s happening in other people’s lives but we barely know our own selves,” said the bespectacled matriarch of a household of four who checks in on herself every evening by emerging from her domestic-help-less home few metres away and breathing “open air”, watching civilisation and hearing stray conversations .As the city’s joints unlock after its prolonged hibernation, parks across the city have not only been witnessing the birth of quiet unprecedented urban activity such as reading but also the return of familiar sounds such as the guffaws of laughter clubs, squeals of kids playing kho-kho, bass-heavy beats of hip-hoppers and TikTok mourners and tedious work calls of WFH employees. If an independent media professional from the UK, stranded in Mumbai during lockdown, used a suburban park for socially distanced reunions with friends, a musician uses the space for socially distanced jamming sessions. Even as malls and cinema halls struggle to inspire confidence, these public parks — with their free entry, see-saws and expansive views — have become levellers for those seeking cheap recreation during the downturn. On his daily walks around Matunga, KA Viswanathan has heard laughter yoga reclaim the air at Five Gardens at dawn and watched parents steal me-time by leaving their kids to play in the secure garden at King’s Circle while they catch a quick walk. Some like Khar resident Mahalakshmi Giri discovered the joys of unwinding in a park in the afternoon only after lockdown. Every afternoon, from 2pm to 4pm, Giri and her kids troop to the Raosaheb Patwardhan Udyan in Khar to “lie down or read a book.” Giri credits her husband for discovering it. “He was fed up of staying cooped up indoors for WFH, started venturing to the park in the afternoon to make phone calls and has been talking of carrying a camera along to capture insects,” said Giri. While pets are not allowed in BMC gardens unless specially designated zones have been created as visible in Colaba, Bandra, Matunga and Andheri, gardens are only open from 6am to 8pm. “After the lockdown, we have stopped the 24x7 scheme,” said Jitendra Pardeshi, BMC’s Superintendent of Gardens, revealing that the municipality recently catered to the demand for kabaddi facilities in Parel and basketball in Byculla. At Borivli’s Mother Teressa garden, around 55 masked senior citizens are back to playing carrom in the unused storeroom which had been turned into a carrom club a few years ago. “Elders missed the carrom club. It was their chance to interact with others their age,” said Carmo Monteiro, adding that the BMC permitted the club to reopen in November “with strict Covid-19 norms.” Ex-corporator Abhishek Ghoshalkar from Borivali, who had received a request from local and state level sports players to resume use of playgrounds for practice not too long ago, has noticed a lot more walkers in parks now as compared to pre-Covid times. Besides walking and jogging, the “Indian” need to socialise lures the paranoid to catch up with friends in these open spaces, observes the coach who has resumed training her kids on a terrace in Shivaji Park for a month. From this vantage, she can see uneven patches of ground. “Corona has done half the job of raising awareness about open spaces,” says Upadhye. “Now, it’s up to the administration to do the rest of the job.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/city-parks-offer-airy-alternatives-for-work-play/articleshow/80308271.cms||Nitasha Natu
January 17, 2021||Ludhiana||Residents complain against contrator pruning trees in SBS Nagar||Ludhiana: Residents in block E of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar have complained against the ‘brutal’ pruning of trees in parks as well along roadside in the locality by a private contractor hired by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust for the purpose. The residents rued that it takes a long time for the trees to grow and if pruning would be done so mercilessly, then how these will grow properly in future. Already, the city’ green cover is shrinking like anything and such kind of attitude will create more problems. A resident of the area, Arvind Sharma, while complaining said, “Over a month ago similar kind of activity had been started in the area and trees were being pruned badly. When we raised the matter with LIT officials, even they had expressed ignorance about the pruning and claimed that they were yet to hire a contractor for the job. Any how, now, when the job has been allocated to a contractor, even then similar practice was going on in the area.” He said they had requested the officials to pay attention towards the ongoing work so as to control any major problem related to this later on. Another resident of area Prannath Bhatia said he had called up the officials concerned about the ongoing activities in the locality and also asked for getting the pruning done in the presence of some officer. But as of now nobody has listened to their complaints. He said if this would go on like this, then all trees would lose their shade even as some have already been axed near their roots. Meanwhile, Charanjit Singh, another resident of the area, said that there was difference between axing and pruning of trees, but here people only cut down the trees in the name of pruning. He said in the parks there was shade from these trees, but now these were being pruned so badly that it would take some time for the trees to grow again. The superintending engineer (additional charge) of LIT, Boota Ram, he said, “We have already given directions to the contractor to do the pruning carefully and no tree should be harmed in the process, but in case anything has happened, I will get it checked.” He said their employees remain at the spot and if there would be any issue, then they would let him know.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ludhiana/residents-complain-against-contrator-pruning-trees-in-sbs-nagar/articleshow/80306761.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Bird death count surpasses 5,000-mark in Maharashtra||Pune: The number of bird deaths in the state crossed 5,000, as 982 poultry birds were found dead in Thane, Raigad, Satara, Sangli and Ahmednagar, among other locations, on Saturday. The animal husbandry department officials said more bird samples from the state turned out to be positive for avian flu in some pockets in districts like Parbhani, Latur, Nanded, Solapur, Need, Ahmednagar and Raigad as well as Mulshi and Daund in Pune, as per results of samples sent to the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal. The process of declaring “infected zone” and thereafter, culling of poultry birds in 1km radius of such zones has also been initiated in Parbhani, Latur Beed, Raigad, Pune and Solapur districts. Samples of poultry birds from seven districts in Maharashtra are positive for avian influenza, while those from two districts, Amravati and Akola, are negative. Peacock samples from Khandala Arni in Yavatmal district have also been found positive for H5N1. Over 700 poultry birds have been dying in Maharashtra every day over the past couple of days. On Friday, as many as 753 poultry birds were found dead in the state. Infected zones Pune collector has now declared 1km area from affected pockets at Nande in Mulshi taluka and Boribel in Daund as “infected zone”. An area of 10km from there has been declared as surveillance zone. Orders have been issued on culling and disposal of birds (in the infected zone) as well as poultry products like eggs in a scientific manner.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/bird-death-count-surpasses-5000-mark-in-maharashtra/articleshow/80307324.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Covid-19 vaccination: Top Jaipur doctors show the way||Jaipur: City’s prominent doctors were among those who got Covid-19 vaccines early on Saturday to encourage others. They called the vaccines safe and a result of scientific and academic excellence of country’s scientists. Dr Sudhir Bhandari, principal and controller of SMS Medical College, was the first to receive Covid-19 vaccine. Not only Dr Bhandari but also office-bearers of doctors’ association and others holding key positions came forward to infuse a sense of confidence among other healthcare workers to get the vaccination done. Bhandari said, “I am happy to say that I am the first to get Covid-19 vaccine with strong faith and conviction. I am totally convinced about the scientific and academic excellence of our scientists. This vaccine is indigenous and scientifically proven and people should get it confidently. After getting the vaccine, I have no physical symptoms. I am very confident, in fact, my sense of happiness, wellbeing and excitement has enhanced.” He appealed to the people not to pay any heed to rumours. “I request to the countrymen not to mix rumours with science as it is most scientific vaccine. It is well tested and indigenous vaccine. We should protect society and nation and I am live example in front of you that I am feeling so confident after the vaccination,” said Bhandari. Dr Tarun Patni, president of Jaipur Medical Association, said, “Today, I got vaccinated. I do not have any adverse effect of the vaccine. I am feeling excited for being a partner in preventing spread of the virus. I am feeling the same like I was feeling earlier. I will see my patients going back to my hospital just like I do it on normal days. All should get vaccinated as it has no major side effect. It is effective, safe, cheapest vaccine and easiest way to win over the virus,” he said. Ish Munjal, president of Rajasthan Medical Council said, “I am feeling happy after getting the vaccination done. It is the feeling of winning over Covid-19. I have no pain or any complaint following immunization. I request all to get vaccinated without any fear.” Dr G L Sharma, a city-based cardiologist, termed January 16 as another ‘Independence Day’ from Covid-19. “This day will go down in history. It was August 15, 1947 when India got independent from the Britishers, now, the day January 16 is just like another ‘Independence Day’ from Covid. In coming years, the people will celebrate it. I am now at OPD and it has no side effect. I request the countrymen to keep away rumours. I am feeling proud of being an India as I have got Indian Covid-19 vaccine,” said Sharma.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/top-city-docs-show-the-way/articleshow/80307311.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: ED arrests firm director in Rs 100-crore loan fraud||HYDERABAD: The Enforcement Directorate, Hyderabad, on Saturday arrested Narendar Kumar Patel, director of Jay Ambe Gowri Chem Ltd, in connection with a Rs 100 crore bank loan fraud. According to the ED, Patel has been absconding since 2015. Two CBI cases of loan fraud are pending against Patel. ED sources said the key accused was arrested in Ahmedabad International Airport after he landed there. Earlier, a lookout notice was issued against him by the ED. The accused is being brought to Hyderabad from Ahmedabad for further investigation. “We will seek police custody of the accused. We will identify all the crime proceeds and work on the attachment of the properties,” said an ED official. Patel has been living abroad to avoid his arrest in the case. The accused defrauded State Bank of India to the tune of Rs 65 crore. The CBI had earlier booked case against Patel and eight other directors in 2018 but has not arrested him. From 2009, the accused company took credit facilities such as cash credit, term loan and letter of credit. The account turned into a non-performing asset in April 2014 and was declared a fraud account in 2016. Investigations found diversion of funds and withdrawals in cash, while the company removed stocks without the bank’s consent and gave disputed properties as a collateral security. The CBI had booked another FIR in Rs 35 crore loan fraud case. It named other directors — Madhu Munuswami and Jagisha Patel. Paluri Ramakrishna, K Vijaya Lakshmi and K Narsing Rao, who stood as guarantors and mortagagors, were also named as accused in the case. The CBI had registered cases under IPC sections of criminal conspiracy, cheating and forgery and under the Prevention of Corruption Act. A CBI official said the fraud was committed between 2009 and 2014.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/ed-arrests-firm-director-in-rs-100-cr-loan-fraud/articleshow/80307323.cms||U Sudhakar Reddy
January 17, 2021||Pune||Monday’s vaccination unlikely in state, team to study initial drive||Pune: The Covid-19 vaccination drive may not be conducted on Monday across Maharashtra, state immunization officer D N Patil told TOI on Saturday. He said they would review Saturday’s vaccination drive, including the time taken for vaccinations, and the practical difficulties. Though the drive has to be carried out on four days in a week, districts can decide the days they want for this vaccination drive, depending on the routine immunization for children. “The healthcare facilities involved in the Covid vaccination drive also have such routine immunization schedules. Hence, the Covid-19 vaccination drive should be fixed on days when there is no other vaccination scheduled,” Patil said. Healthcare workers and vaccinators working for routine immunization are the same for the Covid-19 vaccination drive, he added. National Health Mission commissioner Ramaswami N said the plan was to carry out the drive for four days in a week. “In Maharashtra, a decision on Monday’s session will be taken after discussions with our team. We have some flexibility in deciding the days for the Covid vaccination drive. The first phase is likely to continue for the next 15-20 days,” he said. District immunization officer Sachin Edake said they had to analyse Saturday’s proceedings. “Except for this Monday, Pune district may fix Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday for the Covid-19 drive. But, a clearer picture will emerge after the deliberations,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/mondays-vaccination-unlikely-in-state-team-to-study-initial-drive/articleshow/80308262.cms||Neha Madaan
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||115-yr-old heritage studio back to making films||Kolkata: The year 2020 might have left the darkest and deepest scars in each of our lives, but it also made people more resilient and determined to fight against odds. Amid the pandemic, Aurora Film Corporation — India’s oldest functioning cinema producing and distributing organization since 1906 — dared to produce a new feature film, ‘Kalkokkho’ after a long break with a new-generation team, headed by National Award-winning film-maker duo Rajdeep Paul and Sarmistha Maiti — both alumni of Satyajit Ray Film & Television Institute.‘Kalkokkho’ also marked the launch of the fourth-generation film-makers of the 115-year-old Aurora Film Corporation led by its third-generation custodian and director-producer Anjan Bose. It set the prologue for the new era of Bengali cinema to keep rolling with the support of the best infrastructure of the studio system that Aurora claims to be setting up in the City of Joy. A part of ‘Kalkokkho’ was shot on the new floor of the heritage Aurora Studio.“Since the inception of cinema in India — with the legacy of producing and distributing Satyajit Ray’s ‘Jalsaghar’ and ‘Aparajito’ and also distributing Ray’s ‘Pather Panchali’ and Ritwik Ghatak’s ‘Ajantrik’ among others — Aurora has always supported novel creative minds and enlightening the vision of noble cinema. The saga continues with our latest production and I hope it marks a new beginning for the Bengali film industry,” Bose said.Set in the middle of a pandemic, ‘Kalkokkho’ tells the story of an apathetic but adept doctor who is taken hostage by a young woman in a desperate attempt to ensure the safety of her family. Captive in an almost desolate house inhabited by three women — his abductor, an amnesic old woman and a lonely young girl — the doctor discovers that forces beyond his comprehension are at play and he could be trapped not only in space, but also in time. The makers, who conceived the film during the lockdown, said ‘Kalkokkho’ was a cinematic experience of a time loop that explored the sense of being trapped in time where life was a dreadful paranoia with the constant reminder of our own mortality that we all had experienced during the severity of the pandemic when we were locked in our homes, trying to save ourselves from an invisible enemy. It also explores the dark aspects of our selfish nature that the pandemic laid bare as was evident from the numerous instances of social apathy and lack of trust that shocked everyone.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/115-yr-old-heritage-studio-back-to-making-films/articleshow/80306759.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan: Cops happy to guard vaccines 24/7||JAIPUR: The five policemen guarding the state-level vaccine storage facilities say that they feel as proud as soldiers guarding the borders. On round-the-clock duty, the policemen have been stationed here since the vaccines arrived last week. “We do not mind being here 24/7, after all, we are safeguarding the thousands of lives these vaccines will save,” said 26-year-old constable Arun Kumar. “Since the day vaccines were brought here on January 13, we are ensuring its security. During lockdown period, we were deployed in different areas of the city aiming at preventing spread of the virus, now we are safeguarding vaccines, we feel proud,” said Hukum Singh, another policeman deployed at the state vaccine storage facilities. The contribution of the vaccine store in-charges is also praiseworthy. Surendra Singh, vaccine store in-charge in Jaipur, despite being injured in an accident on January 11, ensured that he will remain present and fulfil his duty of storing vaccines safely before being distributed to districts across the state. “It was a challenging task before us to store the vaccines and distribute them to different districts, but it was successfully done,” said Neeraj Varshney, vaccine store in-charge, Sethi Colony, Jaipur. The efforts of vaccine van drivers, police, health department officials, and other department’s contribution ensured successful launch of Covid-19 inoculation drive. Family welfare director Dr Laxman Singh Ola, state nodal officer (immunization) Dr Raghuraj Singh, chief medical health officer (Jaipur-I) Dr Narrottam Sharma along with other health department officials ensured that the vaccines are kept safely in the stores and distributed to districts before being inoculated to the beneficiaries. Health minister Raghu Sharma said, “During the last nine months, corona warriors, sanitation workers, police, ambulance drivers, doctors, nurses and others have given their immense contribution in the fight against Covid-19.” He said it is commendable how Rajasthan fought the battle against coronavirus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/cops-guarding-vaccines-do-not-mind-24/7-duty/articleshow/80307307.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||At the six Covaxin sites in Maharashtra, equal mix of surprise and relief||PUNE: They turned up with smiles on their faces. Staff at the Aundh district hospital on Saturday were expecting high refusal among beneficiaries set to receive Covaxin. But the worry lifted almost immediately. Sixty people were administered Bharat Biotech's shot — approved without a phase-3 trial — at the hospital by 5pm. The doses were extracted from exactly three vials. Three people were “kept on hold” due to certain underlying conditions and medication history. On the 37 absentees, district civil surgeon Ashok Nandarpurkar said authorities would try and counsel more class 4 staff. “There are doubts among a few. But nursing staff and doctors haven't had any issues with the vaccine,” he said. Covaxin sites at other parts of the state too reported encouraging turnouts. Dr D N Patil, state immunisation officer, said there was 65% vaccination at the six Covaxin sites, in line with the overall vaccination figures in the state. “Refusals were not there. Some beneficiaries were out of station or could not make it to centres,” Patil said. At the Aurangabad government medical college and hospital, 74 of the 100 registered beneficiaries turned up for the vaccination — 32 doctors and 42 medical staff. None of them developed any reaction. Dr Suresh Harbade, superintendent of the Aurangabad GMCH, who was also the first to receive Covaxin there, said he was hopeful of more people coming forward. “I'm one of many frontline health workers treating Covid patients. I'm delighted to get the vaccine. I'm also sure more people will come forward to get the shot. There have been no adverse effects so far,” he said. The centre at Solapur medical college, reported 60% vaccination. Hospital staff TOI spoke to said they trust the science behind Covid vaccines in India. At Aundh, Vaishali Kardile, a 44-year-old paediatric nurse, said, “I'm confident about Covaxin and its effectiveness. Let's stop spreading rumours,” she said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Mohammed Akhef, Satyajit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/at-the-six-covaxin-sites-in-maha-equal-mix-of-surprise-and-relief/articleshow/80308265.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Noapara gets 1st convention centre||Kolkata: State urban development and municipal affairs minister Firhad Hakim on Saturday inaugurated the Bikash Basu Smrity Convention Centre at Noapara’s Ghoshpara area under North Barrackpore municipality in North 24 Parganas. The convention centre, named in memory of former Noapara MLA Bikash Basu and set up by the Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority (KMDA) has a 528-seat auditorium with modern sound, acoustics and lighting systems and centralized air conditioning facilities. The convention centre has modern firefighting and protection equipment. This is the first-of-its-kind convention centre under North Barrackpore Municipality and its adjacent areas, officials said. The cost to set up the convention centre was about Rs 11.2 crore.Hakim, who is also the KMDA chairman, said different kinds of play, Rabindra Sangeet, Nazrul Geeti and other programmes will be organized at the centre . Rajya Sabha MP Dinesh Trivedi, Naihati MLA Partha Bhowmik, North Barrackpore Municipality board of administrators chairperson Malay Ghosh and former MLA of Noapara Manju Basu along with other officials of KMDA and North Barrackpore Municipality were present on the occasion. Hakim also said that a modern waste disposal plant will be set up soon for North Barrackpore Municipality area.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/noapara-gets-1st-convention-centre/articleshow/80306763.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Hyderabad: Cops nab former techie who snatched chain||HYDERABAD: A former software engineer, who earlier worked at a prominent multi national company (MNC), was arrested by Chikkadpally police on Saturday as he was involved in a chain-snatching. Chikkadpally police said that 37-year-old G Rama Krishna, on January 7, snatched a chain from a 60-year-old woman. Upon investigating, police saw CCTV footage in which they found a person changing his clothes on the road. The police traced the accused based on the colour of his bike and arrested him from his residence in Musheerabad. “After committing the offence, he changed his clothes. Though he made efforts to evade cops, he was caught on CCTV footage,” Chikkadpally detective inspector Prabhakar said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-nab-former-techie-who-snatched-chain/articleshow/80307326.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nashik||At the six Covaxin sites in Maharashtra, equal mix of surprise and relief||PUNE: They turned up with smiles on their faces. Staff at the Aundh district hospital on Saturday were expecting high refusal among beneficiaries set to receive Covaxin. But the worry lifted almost immediately. Sixty people were administered Bharat Biotech's shot — approved without a phase-3 trial — at the hospital by 5pm. The doses were extracted from exactly three vials. Three people were “kept on hold” due to certain underlying conditions and medication history. On the 37 absentees, district civil surgeon Ashok Nandarpurkar said authorities would try and counsel more class 4 staff. “There are doubts among a few. But nursing staff and doctors haven't had any issues with the vaccine,” he said. Covaxin sites at other parts of the state too reported encouraging turnouts. Dr D N Patil, state immunisation officer, said there was 65% vaccination at the six Covaxin sites, in line with the overall vaccination figures in the state. “Refusals were not there. Some beneficiaries were out of station or could not make it to centres,” Patil said. At the Aurangabad government medical college and hospital, 74 of the 100 registered beneficiaries turned up for the vaccination — 32 doctors and 42 medical staff. None of them developed any reaction. Dr Suresh Harbade, superintendent of the Aurangabad GMCH, who was also the first to receive Covaxin there, said he was hopeful of more people coming forward. “I'm one of many frontline health workers treating Covid patients. I'm delighted to get the vaccine. I'm also sure more people will come forward to get the shot. There have been no adverse effects so far,” he said. The centre at Solapur medical college, reported 60% vaccination. Hospital staff TOI spoke to said they trust the science behind Covid vaccines in India. At Aundh, Vaishali Kardile, a 44-year-old paediatric nurse, said, “I'm confident about Covaxin and its effectiveness. Let's stop spreading rumours,” she said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Mohammed Akhef, Satyajit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nashik/at-the-six-covaxin-sites-in-maha-equal-mix-of-surprise-and-relief/articleshow/80309478.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 17, 2021||Kolhapur||At the six Covaxin sites in Maharashtra, equal mix of surprise and relief||PUNE: They turned up with smiles on their faces. Staff at the Aundh district hospital on Saturday were expecting high refusal among beneficiaries set to receive Covaxin. But the worry lifted almost immediately. Sixty people were administered Bharat Biotech's shot — approved without a phase-3 trial — at the hospital by 5pm. The doses were extracted from exactly three vials. Three people were “kept on hold” due to certain underlying conditions and medication history. On the 37 absentees, district civil surgeon Ashok Nandarpurkar said authorities would try and counsel more class 4 staff. “There are doubts among a few. But nursing staff and doctors haven't had any issues with the vaccine,” he said. Covaxin sites at other parts of the state too reported encouraging turnouts. Dr D N Patil, state immunisation officer, said there was 65% vaccination at the six Covaxin sites, in line with the overall vaccination figures in the state. “Refusals were not there. Some beneficiaries were out of station or could not make it to centres,” Patil said. At the Aurangabad government medical college and hospital, 74 of the 100 registered beneficiaries turned up for the vaccination — 32 doctors and 42 medical staff. None of them developed any reaction. Dr Suresh Harbade, superintendent of the Aurangabad GMCH, who was also the first to receive Covaxin there, said he was hopeful of more people coming forward. “I'm one of many frontline health workers treating Covid patients. I'm delighted to get the vaccine. I'm also sure more people will come forward to get the shot. There have been no adverse effects so far,” he said. The centre at Solapur medical college, reported 60% vaccination. Hospital staff TOI spoke to said they trust the science behind Covid vaccines in India. At Aundh, Vaishali Kardile, a 44-year-old paediatric nurse, said, “I'm confident about Covaxin and its effectiveness. Let's stop spreading rumours,” she said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Mohammed Akhef, Satyajit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolhapur/at-the-six-covaxin-sites-in-maha-equal-mix-of-surprise-and-relief/articleshow/80309477.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||At the six Covaxin sites in Maharashtra, equal mix of surprise and relief||PUNE: They turned up with smiles on their faces. Staff at the Aundh district hospital on Saturday were expecting high refusal among beneficiaries set to receive Covaxin. But the worry lifted almost immediately. Sixty people were administered Bharat Biotech's shot — approved without a phase-3 trial — at the hospital by 5pm. The doses were extracted from exactly three vials. Three people were “kept on hold” due to certain underlying conditions and medication history. On the 37 absentees, district civil surgeon Ashok Nandarpurkar said authorities would try and counsel more class 4 staff. “There are doubts among a few. But nursing staff and doctors haven't had any issues with the vaccine,” he said. Covaxin sites at other parts of the state too reported encouraging turnouts. Dr D N Patil, state immunisation officer, said there was 65% vaccination at the six Covaxin sites, in line with the overall vaccination figures in the state. “Refusals were not there. Some beneficiaries were out of station or could not make it to centres,” Patil said. At the Aurangabad government medical college and hospital, 74 of the 100 registered beneficiaries turned up for the vaccination — 32 doctors and 42 medical staff. None of them developed any reaction. Dr Suresh Harbade, superintendent of the Aurangabad GMCH, who was also the first to receive Covaxin there, said he was hopeful of more people coming forward. “I'm one of many frontline health workers treating Covid patients. I'm delighted to get the vaccine. I'm also sure more people will come forward to get the shot. There have been no adverse effects so far,” he said. The centre at Solapur medical college, reported 60% vaccination. Hospital staff TOI spoke to said they trust the science behind Covid vaccines in India. At Aundh, Vaishali Kardile, a 44-year-old paediatric nurse, said, “I'm confident about Covaxin and its effectiveness. Let's stop spreading rumours,” she said. (With inputs from Nisha Nambiar, Mohammed Akhef, Satyajit Joshi)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/at-the-six-covaxin-sites-in-maha-equal-mix-of-surprise-and-relief/articleshow/80309479.cms||Piyush Bhusari
January 17, 2021||Pune||Pune Metropolitan Region: Coronavirus warriors breathe easy after vaccine rollout||PUNE: For most people who worked behind the scenes for the safe administration of vaccines on Saturday, the routine was not new. They have been used to crying babies, wringing their hands out of the nurses’ grip, while they carefully administered a vaccine. Despite the relative ease of administering a vaccine to an adult as compared to a child, and the years of experience in this field, some still felt the tension rise because they knew that the whole world was watching, while they were creating history by administering the Covid-19 vaccine, which made the experience momentous for them. Savita Vedpathak, an administrator from Jijamata hospital in Pimpri, said, “I have 20 years of experience of administering different types of vaccines. But, I was a little tensed when I got to know that I would be the first administrator in Pimpri Chinchwad for this vaccine and I will have to administer the first jab to our additional medical officer of health, Pavan Salve.” Yashaswita Bankhele, a vaccinator and public health nurse at Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH) in Pimpri, said the staff has been excited and a little nervous ever since the vaccine vials arrived at the hospital. “Many of my colleagues working in various departments and sections here succumbed to the virus. Today I feel relieved as we can save people by vaccinating them,” she added. “On January 12 evening, I was tasked to transport vials of Covid-19 vaccine from Pune. My colleague Rahul Pavara, a pharmacist, two others and I went to the vaccine distribution centre around 4pm. We returned with the vials around 1.30am. The next day, we distributed it to seven centres in PCMC-limits. At all centres, staff and doctors welcomed us with garlands,” said senior pharmacist Tanaji Gavande, who was tasked with transporting vials for PCMC centres. “Health workers and others fighting the virus were working selflessly and without any breather. Getting the recognition for our works after such a testing time is a satisfactory experience,” Mrinalini Kolte, a senior official of PMC’s health department, said. “Whatever difficulties the centres will face today, could be used as an opportunity to make all necessary rectifications before vaccine drive is open to the masses, as we’ll be dealing with much larger numbers of beneficiaries,” said Rebecca John, assistant medical director, who was managing the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/corona-warriors-breathe-easy-after-vaccine-rollout/articleshow/80308267.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Single hop-on-hop-off pass for bus, tram, ferry||KOLKATA: West Bengal Transport Corporation (WBTC) on Saturday introduced a single hop-on-hop-off travel pass, which people can use to travel on buses, trams and ferries in the city for unlimited times on a day. The pass will be available from January 21. Called the ‘City Travel Pass’, it is modelled on the ticketing system in London and Singapore, where visitors buy all-day tickets for city tours. . It will cost Rs 100 per person a day, while a 10% discount can be availed of if more than 20 passes are bought together. “If someone has a day’s layover in the city between train or flight travels, the pass is an ideal thing to opt for. We are developing a guide map with route details to help visitors,” said a senior WBTC official. He added that it was mainly aimed at those looking to explore the city for fun or commuters who travel by multiple modes of transport regularly. “With the pass, you can travel as much as you like in the City of Joy. You can buy a pass and take the ferry from Howrah to Millennium Park, hop on a bus from there or catch a tram from Esplanade and go to the iconic book market on College Street,” the official said. The WBTC is launching a Tram Pass for Rs 100 per person, especially designed for those who want to enjoy iconic trams rides, zigzagging through the city. “The idea behind the City Travel Pass and Tram Pass is to make commute in the city convenient for regular passengers as well as visitors, who can have a city tour, including on trams, without much hassle,” said managing director of WBTC Rajanvir Singh Kapur. “A big advantage is the convenience of not having to buy tickets again and again,” said Rachpal Singh, chairman WBTC. For now, the passes can be bought from conductors on buses, trams, ferry ticket counters and at all WBTC points of sale. They will also be available at the airport and Sealdah and Howrah stations. The passes can be booked on the WBTC website. The Tram Pass can be used to travel by unlimited number of trams on any route through the day, be it AC, non-AC, the tram library, or any special tram. The main incentive is the free ride on Paat Rani, the jute tram, which usually costs Rs 99. The pass-holder can also have a free entry into Tram World Kolkata, where the fee is Rs 30. The Tram World was started by WBTC on December 22, 2020 to mark the 140th anniversary of CTC (then Calcutta Tramways Company formed in London). So, even if one saw just those two, it would be a saving, an official said. The Tram World Kolkata was launched on December 22, 2020 by WBTC to mark CTC’s 140th anniversary. “The travel pass will help you save time as you need not stand in queues at a jetty. It will facilitate seamless commute to and from the airport,” said Kapur. Clubbed with Pathadisha App, which enables one to track bus and ferry schedules, the City Travel Pass can make commute in Kolkata smooth.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/single-hop-on-hop-off-pass-for-bus-tram-ferry/articleshow/80306768.cms||Krishnendu Bandyopadhyay
January 17, 2021||India||BARC ex-CEO accused in TRP scam admitted to ICU||MUMBAI: Former CEO of BARC (Broadcast Audience Research Council) Partho Dasgupta, the main accused in the TRP manipulation racket, was admitted to JJ hospital after his health deteriorated late Friday night. Sources said he was admitted to the ICU in the middle of the night after he complained of uneasiness and a spike in blood pressure. His family has alleged there was delay in providing him medical aid. Pratyusha Dasgupta, his daughter, has addressed a letter to PM Modi asking him to “save” her father’s “life”. “Today at 3 am (Saturday) my mother received a phone call asking her to reach JJ Hospital immediately since my father was brought there. On reaching there, the doctors asked us why no one from his family had come to the hospital for 12 hours since my father was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state at around 1pm on January 15. The reason provided was that they did not have our phone numbers to contact us and hence, waited till my father was conscious enough to give them my mother’s phone number. This is in spite of the several mails we have sent to jail authorities requesting permission to reach my father with my phone number,” Pratyusha said in her letter. Read AlsoArnab Goswami &amp; ex-BARC CEO chats go viralThe chats document a constant flow of communication between Dasgupta and Goswami and chats between former BARC’s chief operating officer Romil Ramgarhia and Republic TV CEO Vikas Khanchandani. Dasgupta is in judicial custody, while Ramgarhia and Khanchandani are out on bail.She added, “At the emergency room, he was incoherent, unable to speak or express himself properly when he desperately tried to talk to us, and his sugar levels had shot up to alarmingly high levels (516).” Pratyusha said her father had been suffering from serious ailments for many years, including diabetes, hypertension and ankylosing spondylitis, an autoimmune disorder. “Given the state he is in, I am deeply concerned about his life,” she added. She further said the family were law-abiding citizens and want that the case should follow the natural course through the courts of law. “However, what we have been made to go through is a matter of utmost concern....My plea to you, sir, is to please save my father’s life by allowing proper medical treatment in a reputed hospital at our expense,” the letter said. A Taloja jail official said, “He missed his diabetes medicine after which his sugar levels shot up. Here, he was under medication and when his condition worsened, on doctor’s advice he was immediately moved to JJ. There was no delay from our side.” Dasgupta is accused of conniving with Arnab Goswami and others to manipulate TRP ratings. Dasgupta’s lawyer Arjun Singh Thakur said, “He was admitted at JJ but the family was not informed until much later.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/barc-ex-ceo-accused-in-trp-scam-admitted-to-icu/articleshow/80309089.cms||Ahmed Ali
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Nod for Amberpet infrastructure projects||SECUNDERABAD: Administrative sanction for civic works and proposals for infrastructure projects that have been pending for years in the Secunderabad Lok Sabha constituency, especially in the Amberpet assembly constituency, were approved on Saturday. MAUD minister KT Rama Rao on Saturday held a meeting at Pragathi Bhavan and directed officials to speed up works pertaining to construction and strengthening the retaining wall of the 5.7-km Hussainsagar surplus nala, for which Rs 68.40 crore was sanctioned. “The minister said he was ready to sanction more funds and insisted the works be taken up on a war-footing basis,” Amberpert MLA Kaleru Venkatesh, who attended the meeting along with Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) commissioner DS Lokesh Kumar and Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) officials, told TOI. Hundreds of families living in Arundhati Nagar, Ratna Nagar, Avanti Nagar and parts of Kvadiguda, who suffer with every downpour (due to inundation), would be relieved once the wall is built. “Initially, we will remove encroachments, connecting nalas will also be strengthened apart from construction and strengthening of the retaining wall,” GHMC zonal commissioner, Secunderabad, B Srinivas Reddy said. Another flood-related issue addressed was construction of a new bridge from Amberpet to Moosarambagh. GHMC officials were directed to prepare estimates and place a proposal for construction of a new bridge within a month and the minister said that he would lay foundation for the bridge. Speeding up works pertaining to the Amberpet flyover, development of Kachiguda crematorium like Mahaprasthanam at Prashasan Nagar (Jubilee Hills), allocation of three acre land for graveyards and construction of Narayanguda police station were given a nod by the minister.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/nod-for-amberpet-infra-projects/articleshow/80307358.cms||Nabinder Bommala
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||PI suspended for absenteeism||An inspector attached to Agripada police was recently suspended by senior officials for irresponsible behaviour and absenteeism. An officer said inspector Abhishek Dake, transferred to Mumbai in 2019, was absent for several days, even during the Covid-19 pandemic.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/pi-suspended-for-absenteeism/articleshow/80308308.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Gulzar to open this year’s virtual Hyderabad Lit Fest||HYDERABAD: The 11th edition of the Hyderabad Literary Festival (HLF) is set to kick off on January 22. This year’s festival has been shortened to a three-day affair and will be held virtually in the wake of constraints posed by Covid-19. Legendary poet Gulzar will be opening the event with renditions from his recently-published anthology: A Poem A Day. The festival will have headline names such as Amitav Ghosh, Harsh Mander, Amish, and Aakar Patel, among others. Addressing reporters on Saturday, IT principal secretary and festival chairman Jayesh Ranjan said that while it was a challenge, the festival committee had decided to carry on with the event this year. “The Hyderabad Lit Fest has become an important event in the country’s calendar of literature festivals. Hence, we have decided to maintain the momentum,” he said. The organising committee explained that author interactions, talks, workshops and exhibitions will be held as usual in tune with the festival’s efforts to give a platform to minorities, LGBTQ community, women and children. However this time, the festival will not have its ‘foreign language-Indian language’ segment which has been a mainstay. “We have to inform foreign delegations at least six months in advance but given the circumstances it was not possible as even we were unsure if the festival would go ahead,” said HLF director, professor T Vijay Kumar. This year’s edition will pay tributes to playback singer SP Balasubrahmanyam and Bengali actor Soumitra Chatterjee, both of whom passed away last year. According to organisers, most authors will address 55-minute-long sessions with 15 minutes dedicated to audience interactions which will take place through a chat box and communicated by a moderator.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/gulzar-to-open-this-yrs-virtual-hyd-lit-fest/articleshow/80307333.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Jadavpur University meet on January 25 over campus reopening||KOLKATA: Jadavpur University stakeholders will meet on January 25 to decide on a blueprint and draw up proposals for phased reopening of student activities on the campus. The proposals, it was decided at the meeting on Saturday, would be placed before the state for approval. After teachers and students insisted on beginning face-to-face interactions on campus, the university authorities called for a meeting. “We held an extensive interaction on Saturday, when all the sections of JU agreed that it was time to resume academic activities in physical presence,” said a faculty member. He added, “The decision is to allow research students access to all campus facilities, including laboratories and hostels. Subsequently, the final-year students will be given preference. The rest will follow after that.” It has been a long- standing demand of students to reopen the campus. The pressure escalated after Calcutta University informally gave the go-ahead to hold on-campus practical classes in batches for postgraduate students. “We are not in a position to decide till the state government grants permission to the higher education institutes in Bengal to allow physical attendance of students,” said a senior JU official. Students at Presidency University have also been requesting the authorities to resume access to labs and begin on-campus classes, particularly for the final years.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/ju-meet-on-jan-25-over-campus-reopening/articleshow/80306805.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||School chief arrested, 2 booked for hiring scam||Pune: The economic offences wing (EOW) of the city police arrested the president of an aided school in Pimpri Chinchwad and booked its secretary, besides an officer of the Pune Zilla Parishad (ZP)’s education department for facilitating employment of a clerk and a peon in 2016 in violation of the state’s ban on recruitment. On Saturday afternoon, the EOW produced Sambhaji Subhash Kshirsat (35), the school president, before a magisterial court, which ordered his release on bail. Rajendra Sathe (46), an officer from the Pune ZP, lodged a complaint with the Samarth police on Friday in relation to the alleged illegal recruitment at the aided school in Pimpri Chinchwad. The matter was handed over to the EOW for investigation as the government had released salaries and other dues to the two recruited employees over a period of time. Assistant commissioner of police (EOW) Shivaji Pawar said, “Kshirsat is also a key office-bearer of the teachers’ association and runs the aided school. In 2012, the state had banned recruitment in aided schools. In 2016, Kshirsat’s school and the ZP officer came together and prepared backdated recruitment letters for the appointment of the clerk and the peon. For a year, the government issued salaries to these two employees. In all, the school took a sum of Rs1.46 lakh from the government. We seized all the documents from the ZP office and from the school on Wednesday.” Pawar said, “Last year, after the fake teachers’ recruitment scam came to light, the two school office-bearers and the ZP officer returned the money to the state government by making deposits in the state treasury. But this does not mean that they did not cheat the government by submitting forged and fabricated documents. We shall also arrest other persons involved in the case.” The police registered a case under sections 420, 409, 465, 468, 471and 34 of the IPC.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/school-chief-arrested-2-booked-for-hiring-scam/articleshow/80307331.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Anganwadi, Asha workers willing to get inoculated||Pune: Anganwadi workers and Accredited Social Healthcare Activists (Asha), who strived relentlessly when Covid-19 cases were initially detected in their areas, said that they are more than willing to get the vaccination and registered their names for the process as soon as it was announced. Jayashree Ghume, an anganwadi worker from Kotawadi village, said, “Even today, we are helping patients or even visiting door-to-door to identify symptomatic individuals. In such a case, if the vaccine is of any help to us, then we are happy to take the shots.” Medical superintendent at the Shikrapur rural hospital Archana Shede was happy to note the response from the workers. “They have really worked very hard going to every door in the village and conducting the survey. They deserve the vaccine first and it would boost their confidence further.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/anganwadi-asha-workers-willing-to-get-inoculated/articleshow/80308268.cms||Swati Shinde Gole
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||5 bikes recovered from 3 thieves||Aurangabad: As many as three history-sheeters have been arrested by the crime branch of the city police for stealing two-wheelers and have seized five stolen motorbikes from them. The suspects — Sunil Pakhre, Gokul Wagh and Ganjit Jadhav — used to target new vehilces as they got good returns by selling them. The investigation team has found that to evade arrest, Wagh and Jadhav, were living in Shaktishwanagar on Ambad road in the neighbouring Jalna district. Crime branch inspector Avinash Aghav said that a team led by police sub-inspector Pawan Ingle learnt about Pakhre’s involvement in a recent bike theft committed in the limits of Pundaliknagar. He was detained and questioned about the stolen motorbike. During interrogation he confessed to stealing the two-wheeler with the help of his two aides. “The suspects are habitual offenders and we think they are involved in many more cases of two-wheeler thefts that have been committed in the limits of different police stations in the city,” Aghav said. After arresting the three suspects, police found that they had stolen five two-wheelers in the last few months. The suspects have been handed over to the area police station for carrying out further investigation. Initial probe has revealed that the trio would sell the stolen bikes at throwaway price and would collect a portion of the amount on assurance that they will collect the remaining amount after handing over all the documents.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/5-bikes-recovered-from-3-thieves/articleshow/80299429.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||We wanted to be part of the process, say techie couple||PUNE: The need to contribute to end the pandemic encouraged Kalpesh Desai and his wife Pallavi to participate in the vaccine trial last year. “We thought of it as our social responsibility to participate in a trial that would help make the indigenous vaccine available to people in India as well as the rest of the world. It is an achievement for India and we wanted to play a role in the process. Moreover, since it was developed by a Pune-based company, it hit close to home,” said the 48-year-old IT professional. Desai and his wife, who did not have any pre-existing medical conditions, were given the first shot of the vaccine at the end of October, followed by another dose in the first week of December last year. “We had a check up earlier this month, which went well. When we went for the trial, a panel of doctors provided information on social distancing and explained everything about the vaccine. A basic check up was done before the shots were given. Our height and weight measurements were recorded. My wife had to take a pregnancy test. We were guided pretty well. All medical professionals we met were very courteous and helpful,” said Desai, a Wanowrie resident. “The point of the trial was to see if the vaccine works. The fact that it is now in the distribution phase, indicates that it does. I travel a lot within the city for work and knowing that I have been vaccinated makes me feel confident in places that are crowded or where people do not follow social distancing properly. Even after taking the vaccine, it is important to follow social distancing protocols but at least I am confident that I will not get the infection,” Desai said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/we-wanted-to-be-part-of-the-process-say-techie-couple/articleshow/80308269.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Techie dead, friend injured in accident||Pune: A 27-year-old software engineer was killed and his friend suffered injuries after their motorcycle was hit by a vehicle on the flyover in Bavdhan on Katraj-Dehu Road bypass around 8pm on Saturday. The Hinjewadi police identified the techie as Sagar Patil. His friend, Ajay Jadhav, is undergoing treatment at a private hospital. Patil was wearing a helmet, but it was completely broken in the accident impact. He succumbed to head injuries, an officer from the Hinjewadi police said. . The victim’s friend, Jadhav, told TOI, “Patil was on his way to Sangli to meet his parents. He was going to drop Jadhav, a native of Satara district, on the way.” He said, “We do not know how the accident occurred. But Patil’s motorcycle was damaged at the rear. We suspect that some vehicle must have hit it, because of which Patil might have lost control over the vehicle and the motorcycle crashed into the wall of the flyover,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/techie-dead-friend-injured-in-accident/articleshow/80307389.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||At 16.6°C, Mumbai’s minimum temperature drops to lowest this year, AQI improves||MUMBAI: Minimum temperatures in the city saw a sharp dip on Saturday, giving Mumbai a chilly morning. Indian Meteorological Department’s Santacruz observatory recorded a minimum of 16.6 degrees Celsius, down from Friday’s 19.5 degrees and the lowest this year. Similarly, Colaba’s minimum temperature dipped from 21 degrees on Friday to 19 degrees on Saturday. Track the pollution level in your cityThe minimum at Santacruz and Colaba was 0.6 and 0.2 degree lower than normal. Weathermen attributed the dip in temperature to easterly winds. “A winter spell is expected in the state from January 20. Temperatures will dip gradually over the next few days due to cold easterly winds. Minimum temperatures in Mumbai are expected to hover around 16 degrees,” said KS Hosalikar, deputy director general, western region, IMD. The lowest minimum temperature the city has recorded this winter season was 15 degrees on December 29, 2020. Day temperatures though closer to normal were marginally higher than Friday. Santacruz and Colaba recorded a maximum of 31.2 and 29.6 degrees respectively on Saturday. Meanwhile, air pollution improved in the city on Saturday. System of Air Quality Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR) recorded an overall air quality index of 166 for Mumbai on Saturday vis-à-vis 190 on Friday. “Due to low wind speed, lower fluctuation of temperature, and low boundary layer height Mumbai’s AQI will remain moderate to poor for two days,” said a short-range forecast by SAFAR. It was the first time on Friday that the city’s AQI went into the moderate category (poses no harm to general public). SAFAR has forecast an AQI of 149 on Sunday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/at-16-6c-mumbais-minimum-temp-is-lowest-this-year/articleshow/80307248.cms||Vinamrata Borwankar
January 17, 2021||Pune||No cases against lockdown violators: ​Pune police commissioner||PUNE: City police commissioner Amitabh Gupta said on Saturday that the police would not register any case of disobedience under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code against those found violating lockdown norms. Between March and December 2020, the city police had registered 28,304 cases under section 188 of the IPC. Apart from violation of lockdown norms and night curfew, the police had also taken details of people who were found moving around without masks. The police had let them off at that time after taking down their names, vehicle numbers and related details for prosecution at an apt time in future. Over the last few days, several residents had received notices asking them to report to their respective police station authorities for the process of registration of offences under Section 188 of the IPC. This has spread considerable panic among them. However, the police chief put all their fears to rest. “People have already faced hardships last year during the lockdown. And now, there is no point in putting them through fresh hardship. again. I have asked police stations not to pursue these matters against the people. I have already briefed police stations in this regard and people should not panic,” the city police commissioner said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/cp-no-cases-against-lockdown-violators/articleshow/80307362.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Pune||Testing over 20 lakh; daily recoveries top cases & 4 more succumb to virus||Pune: The Pune Metropolitan Region (PMR) recorded more recoveries as compared to cases on Saturday, with 467 people testing positive for the contagion in the region in the last 24 hours and 522 patients being discharges after successful recovery. The total sample testing in the region surged above 20 lakh-mark on Saturday. A report released by the district health officer, Bhagwan Pawar, stated the municipal corporations of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad added 192 and 110 patients as against discharges of 234 and 150 patients, respectively. The rural areas recorded 165 new cases and 138 recoveries. With this, the total recoveries in PMR have risen above 3.58 lakh, while its caseload has increased above 3.72 lakh.The rise in recoveries as compared to new cases led to further drop in active cases in the region. On Saturday evening, the active caseload in PMR reached 5,415. Of these, as many as 2,081 patients were admitted in various hospitals, while 3,334 were in home isolation. Daily deaths dropped to four in the region on Saturday. All four deaths were reported in the Pune municipal areas. The PCMC and rural areas did not report any fatalities due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. The total deaths due to the infection reached 8,950, of which 4,871 have been reported in the PMC limits, followed by the rural areas (2,293) and the PCMC limits (1,786). Among the testing, the region conducted 6,973 tests in the 24 hours ending Saturday evening. Of the total tests conducted so far in the region, the PMC has tested 9.77 lakh samples, followed by the PCMC (5.89 lakh) and the rural areas (4.33 lakh). On Saturday, the PMC conducted 3,049 tests, while the PCMC and the rural areas tested 2,081 and 1,843 samples, respectively. Health officials have urged citizens to abide by Covid-appropriate behaviour, including wearing of masks and social distancing.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/testing-over-20-lakh-daily-recoveries-top-cases-4-more-succumb-to-virus/articleshow/80308273.cms||Sarang Dastane
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Baekban or thali?||CHENNAI: Diana Rao got interested in Korean cuisine about six years ago. Hailing from the northeast, she found the food was healthy, delicious and similar to Indian fare. "Korean food is tasty and even if you eat a lot, you don’t feel stuffed," says Rao, who used the spare time she had during the lockdown to try her hand at cooking some of the dishes including Keranmaari (egg roll), Kimchi (fermented vegetables), and Dak Mandu (rose shaped chicken dumplings). Whether it’s through a love for Korean culture or K-pop, many Indians are now discovering a love for Korean cuisine. And a few, after mastering the art of dishing out Korean food, are now making their own culinary videos to help fellow enthusiasts. Rao, who learned to cook Korean dishes by watching YouTube videos, has her own cooking channel, Diana’s Food and Travel, where she demonstrates how to cook her favourite Korean food. Engineer Mary Princy launched her culinary channel, Foodcas, a little more than a week ago. The 25-year-old was introduced to Korean cuisine when she attended a K-pop and K-drama event at a city mall. "I attended it as I was heavily into K-pop, and also used to watch a lot of K-dramas, which portrays a lot of food from Korea," says Princy, who sampled some of the dishes at the event. In 2019, she went on a holiday to Korea where she got to taste all the traditional dishes. "Their food, like ours, is spicy, and I also like the variety of noodles," she says. "Two years ago, I learned to make Korean dishes at home by watching YouTube videos," says Princy, whose favourite dish is Tteokbokki or spicy Korean rice cakes. On her YouTube channel, Princy, along with her sister, plans to upload two videos a week. "We have just uploaded two videos on how to make spicy Ramyeon with fish cake and Jajangmyeon or black bean noodles and the response has been amazing," she says. Last year, the Korean Tourism Organisation (KTO) came out with a booklet, ‘The Korean Culinary Series — Korean Cooking for Indian Homes’. It has 10 recipes of popular Korean dishes, which can easily be made in Indian homes. And now, the InKo Centre, in association with KTO, is streaming it as an episodic series on its YouTube channel to reach a wider audience. "All recipes included in the booklet were sourced from www.hansik.org, which is managed by the Korea Food Promotion Institute, a public institution established to promote and globalise the traditions of Korean food," says Rathi Jafer, director, InKo Centre. In both Korea and India, food is viewed as medicine and the importance of the seasonal ingredients is emphasised, says Jafer. "The traditional Korean and Indian table consists of a variety of dishes which represent the five tastes of spicy, sweet, sour, bitter, and salty," she says. Fermented food that boosts immunity and little or no oil that makes the food easily digestible, is the trademark of Korean cuisine. "Any basic Korean cooking includes kimchi, which has been praised for its anti-carcinogenic properties and nutritional value, gochujang (red pepper paste), a traditional condiment made by fermenting a mixture of chilli pepper and other ingredients; deonjang (soybean paste) and ganjang (soy sauce), which is known to aid digestion. Grilling, boiling, pan-frying and steaming, which make the food healthy, are practised in Korean cuisine. And that’s also what attracts Indians to it. "There are similarities between the cuisines in terms of concepts, for instance, a traditional Korean meal or baekban and our traditional thali. We have all side dishes within the thali, complementing a serving of rice. The contemporary Korean table, however, has all dishes outside with a pot of rice served individually," says Jafer. The Korean sweet yakhwa, though smaller in size, is also similar in taste to the south Indian athirasam. Rao also finds the tastes are alike. "The Korean Doenjang-jjigae (soybean paste stew), which can be made with vegetables, seafood or meat is similar to Nagaland’s Axone," she says. "Dak Mandu (chicken dumplings) or cabbage dumplings are like momos and the Samgyetang (full chicken soup) with gingseng is akin to Nagaland’s Nruigi (full chicken soup), which doesn’t use gingseng." Inko’s culinary series will present two dishes each month till April. Jafer is hoping it will encourage people to try out the cuisine. "It might be an interesting opportunity for those curious in experimenting with cuisines from around the world."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/baekban-or-thali/articleshow/80306803.cms||Priya Menon
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Kolkata: Senior citizen was hit with cooker, throat slit||KOLKATA: A day after a 73-year-old man was found dead in his flat on Phears Lane in Bowbazar on Friday, the post-mortem on Saturday revealed he might have been murdered violently, with a knife being used to slit his throat and his head was bashed in with a pressure cooker. Both the objects were recovered from the flat. Police said Ayub Fida Ali Agha, a hardware store owner, was killed by someone who probably had easy access to his home. Officers are checking footage from four CCTV cameras to identify those entering the five-storey building and the third-floor flat. Ayub lived with his daughter, Tahera Ayub Aga, who had gone to work on Friday around 10am. “Ayub’s daughter-in-law, Fatima Zulfikar Agha, who lived next door, went to gibe him his tea around 4.30pm, when she discovered him,” police said. Tahera said some ornaments and cash were missing from their almirah.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/sr-citizen-was-hit-with-cooker-throat-slit/articleshow/80306816.cms||Dwaipayan Ghosh
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab urban local body polls on February 14||CHANDIGARH: The elections to Punjab urban local bodies (ULBs) will be held on February 14. Announcing the schedule on Saturday, the state election commission said these will include elections/byelections to eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils and nagar panchayats. With the announcement of polls, the election model code of conduct has come into force with immediate effect in municipalities where elections will be held. Punjab election commissioner Jagpal Singh Sandhu said the process for filing nominations would commence on January 30 and February 3 would be the last date to do so. Nominations would be scrutinised on February 4, while the last date of withdrawal of nominations is February 5. Election campaigning will end on February 12, voting will be held on February 14 and counting of votes will be done on February 17. In all, 145 returning officers (ROs) and 145 assistant returning officers (AROs) have been appointed for conducting elections, while 30 IAS/PCS officers would be appointed as election observers to ensure peaceful, free and fair elections.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-urban-local-body-polls-on-feb-14/articleshow/80307391.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||State’s first ZP museum to attract tourists||Aurangabad: More than a century old Nizam-era structure, which has been housing Aurangabad Zilla Parishad office since 1961 and will be converted into the state’s first ZP museum, is set to attract many tourists in Aurangabad. ZP CEO Mangesh Gondawle told TOI, “The century-old structure is one of the finest Nizam-era intact structures in the region and we have decided to not only restore and preserve it but also convert it into state’s first ZP museum.” As per the plans, the structure, which is about 80m X 25m, will depict the evolution of ZP in the past seven decades, the works done by ZP during this span along with a library with some rare collection of documents, books and records. The move to convert the Nizam-era structure is the result of the state granting approval to the construction of a state of the art new building for Aurangabad ZP with a budget of about Rs 48 crore. The proposed structure is set to come up in the vicinity of this heritage building. The structure currently houses, cabins and chambers of ZP CEO, chief accounts and finance officer, general administration office, ZP president and vice president, while the first floor has general body meeting hall. Over the period this building started proving insufficient, so four different structures were constructed at different times to accommodate 12 departments of the ZP. Deputy CEO Santosh Kawde said, “The ground and the oldstructure is beautiful and reflects the cultural richness. As a part of the preparation, a couple of rounds with architects has been carried out.” He said all the alterations and changes that have been made to the structure in the past seven decades will be removed to give it the original look. Those privy to the development said during the Nizam-era, the structure was a school building and over some time, it has handed over to the district local board authority (DLBA). The structure once housed erstwhile DLBA, a pre-independent era authority for decades, before The Maharashtra Zilla Parishads and Panchayat Samitis Act 1961 was passed and DLBA was replaced by ZP.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/states-first-zp-museum-to-attract-tourists/articleshow/80299454.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 17, 2021||Pune||NFAI to preserve film historian’s collection||Pune: The National Film Archive of India (NFAI) has announced that it would preserve the archives of late film historian, filmmaker and film society pioneer Vijaya Mulay, including rare books on films as well as VHS tapes and educational films. “We have been in touch with Mulay family even before the passing of Vijaya Mulay in 2019. Her daughter, actor Suhasini Mulay, donated the collection to us for preservation. The handing over was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The logistics also needed to be worked out as the archives were in Delhi and the Mulay family lives in Mumbai,” said Praksah Magdum, NFAI director. Magdum added that one of the standout collections in the archive was a three-episode programme VHS tape on then French public broadcaster RTF. There Italian filmmaker Roberto Rossellini, known for his work with Indian public broadcasters in the 1950s, spoke about his experiences in India in an interview with the journalist Etienne Lalou. The interview is interspersed with footage that Rossellini shot during his time in India. Also in the collection are books about cinema of auteurs, such as Akira Kurosawa and Satyajit Ray and books about theory and language of cinema across film industries as well as cinema collectives all over the world. The film that Mulay’s family donated to NFAI is Kishan and the Magic Chariot, which Mulay produced in 1980 in 16mm format. It is on methods to teach young children by invoking their curiosity. Another tape, Bhopal Beyond Genocide, a documentary from 1986 co-directed by younger Mulay, speaks about stories of loss, and the timeline of incidents post the tragedy in 1984.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/nfai-to-preserve-film-historians-collection/articleshow/80307394.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||On Opinion Poll Day, opposition urges people to unite against govt||Margao: Rallying under a unifying theme “Ek Pavl Ekacharachem” (A Step Towards Unity), a host of organisations came together and leveraged the commemoration of the Opinion Poll Day to rail against the government for what they called its “high-handedness” and “anti-people policies”. The speakers, among whom were also opposition legislators, launched a diatribe against the government, particularly over the three contentious Centre-sponsored infrastructure projects, and vowed to intensify their agitation until their demand for scrapping the projects — railways double tracking, NH4A expansion, and laying of the 400KV transmission line — was met. The public meeting adopted several resolutions — that the process of land acquisition for the Castlerock-Vasco railway track doubling work be immediately stopped and de-notified, that the Railways stop the double tracking work, that the NH4A four laning work and laying of 400KV power transmission lines at Mollem be stopped, that the Major Ports Authority Bill, 2020, “that will give absolute powers and autonomy to the Mormugao Port Trust (MPT) be amended to ensure that MPT is excluded from the bill and the jurisdiction of all rivers and the entire coast along the state be handed over to Captain of Ports”, and that all “destructive” projects envisaged by MPT under Sagarmala programme be scrapped. If the three linear projects aren’t scrapped, the protesters said that “Goa’s tourism will collapse as coal and tourism cannot coexist, and our green and vibrant state will be destroyed once and for all”. Leader of opposition, Digambar Kamat, in his address said that the Railways double tracking project was against the interests of the state and its people. He called for a “revolution” to ensure that the project is stopped. Kamat assured to raise his voice against the project in the assembly as well as on the streets. GFP president Vijai Sardesai called for unity to defeat the BJP at the husting. “In order to bring the government on its knees, we will need to do some sacrifices,” he said. Curtorim MLA Alexio Reginaldo Laurenco also gave a call to the people to fight the BJP unitedly. “If BJP wins, tourism and the coastal belt will be destroyed,” he said. NCP president Jose Philip D’Souza and AAP spokesperson Surel Tilve also addressed the gathering.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/on-opinion-poll-day-opposition-urges-people-to-unite-against-govt/articleshow/80308306.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||Rachakonda cops want Chinese man back in custody||HYDERABAD: When Chinese national HE Jian, alias Mark, was questioned by Rachakonda police few days ago after being arrested in the instant loan app harassment case, he was tight lipped. As a result, police are in the process of taking Jian into custody once again with the permission of a local court. Sources in Rachakonda police said all through the investigation, Jian was mostly smiling while evading the interrogators’ questions by claiming that he was ignorant about the loan app business. “Apart from smiling during the questioning, Jian asked us to provide spicy chicken burger, when he was asked about his preference of food,” official sources told TOI. When he was caught, Jian was surrounded by several books related to accounts, which Jian specialises in. In fact, police stumbled on Jian’s role in this case accidentally while looking for one of the directors of the companies involved—Ankoor Singh. After they went to Maharashtra, the actual offices belonging to the accused were closed. When a special team of policemen when they were on the look out for Singh, they got a lead that some of the key members of these shut companies had moved their operations to a different place. They also came to know that there was a Chinese national along with Singh and few others. When the police raided the new office, Jian was found.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/cops-want-chinese-man-back-in-custody/articleshow/80307417.cms||Srinath Vudali
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Chants of ‘Ganpati Bappa Morya’ fill festive centres in Mumbai||MUMBAI: Floral arrangements, til ladoos and Maharashtra’s favourite chant “Ganpati Bappa Morya” marked the first day of vaccination at the city’s 40 centres spread across 10 public hospitals. Many of the vaccinated healthcare workers got a round of applause, if not a piece of cake or a samosa, as they walked out of the centres. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray set the mood at the Bandra-Kurla Complex field hospital on Saturday morning by using terms such as “revolutionary step” and “corona warriors”. “The mood was festive,” said Dr Harish Shetty, a psychiatrist who got vaccinated at the BKC field hospital on Saturday morning. After 11 months of collating information about Covid-positive cases and counting the deaths—over three lakh cases and 11,237 deaths till Saturday —the men and women of medicine seemed to be celebrating the final assault on the Covid pandemic. Floral rangolis and lamps adorned many centres. Even the hastily renovated vaccine centre at J J Hospital, Byculla (because it got only three days’ notice to set up the centre), had a brass lamp with flowers right in the centre of the observation room. “It feels like an accomplishment to be able to get the vaccine after fighting Covid-19 from the front throughout last year. The vaccine is the hope that we won’t have to once again see the tragedy that we witnessed during the peak of the pandemic,” said Vidya Thakur, medical superintendent of Rajawadi Hospital, Ghatkopar. Her hospital kickstarted the vaccination rounds with chants of “Ganpati Bappa Morya” and exchange of sweets. A red carpet and a round of applause followed for everyone who walked in for and after the jab. At the centre, 289 out of the 474 healthcare workers were vaccinated on Saturday. At KEM Hospital, Parel, a small packet of til ladoos was distributed to everyone present around the kickoff time of 11.30am. A round of applause followed when Dr Milind Nadkar, the man who was the force behind KEM Hospital’s Covid care, became the first to take the Covishield vaccine. The turnout at the BKC vaccine centre was a study in contrast with the jumbo Covid centre next door. “This is a very emotional moment for us, this place wore a deserted look for several months with only relatives of patients waiting to know about them. But today, with the vaccination drive being rolled out, it gives us a boost of confidence to continue working for the patients,” said Snehal Rane, who works as a nurse at the Centre. While beneficiaries started trickling in around 10am, staffers at the centre were well coordinated and refreshments were being given at regular intervals to beneficiaries and also to the staffers. In a bid to boost the confidence in the vaccine, BMC had invited members of the Covid-19 task force to the BKC centre. Dr Shashank Joshi who was present at the centre’s inauguration by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also took the vaccine shot post the event. “The vaccine is safe and everyone should take it,” he said. Other task force members such as Dr Rahul Pandit and Dr Gautam Bhansai were administered the vaccine too. Cooper Hospital, the model vaccination centre in Mumbai, had created a red carpet feel for beneficiaries to get vaccinated on the first day. Maharashtra's former health minister Dr Deepak Sawant was the first to take the vaccine. The staffers heard in rapt attention as PM Narendra Modi delivered his address that was displayed on a giant screen. Soon as the speech got over, Dr Sawant was given the vaccine. At all the centres, staffers were advised to be courteous and keep interacting with beneficiaries and mediapersons. Doctors and nurses, wearing badges identifying their roles, kept walking through the centre, asking beneficiaries if they were feeling well. Quite a change from the image of overworked men and women of public hospitals who don’t know how to smile.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/chants-of-ganpati-bappa-morya-fill-festive-centres/articleshow/80307423.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||One dies, 3 injured on way to Digha||Howrah: A woman was killed and three of her family members were injured when a gas tanker hit the car they were travelling in to Digha from North 24 Parganas early on Saturday. The accident took place on NH-6 at Jelepara in Howrah’s Uluberia. Police are yet to arrest the accused tanker driver as he drove away. Police said two families —one from Gaighata and the other from Barrackpore—were headed for Digha on Saturday morning. The two families had hired cars to reach the coastal town, where they had planned to spend the weekend. As they were crossing Uluberia’s Jelepara, a gas tanker hit one of the cars from behind. Shukla Ray (51), who was in the car, suffered severe injuries and died on the way to Uluberia State General Hospital. Doctors at the hospital declared her “dead on arrival”. Three others from her family, who were also in the same car, sustained injuries and were admitted to the Uluberia hospital for treatment. Cops from the Uluberia police station, who reached the spot, suspected early-morning fog might have had blurred the tanker driver’s vision. The accident led to a traffic jam on NH-6 for a while early in the morning.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/one-dies-3-injured-on-way-to-digha/articleshow/80306822.cms||Rupak Banerjee
January 17, 2021||Pune||Dense fog in north India delays several Delhi-bound flights||Pune: Heavy fog in northern India delayed several inbound and outbound flights from/to Delhi and other places on Saturday morning.A Delhi-bound SpiceJet flight slated to take off from the city around 8.05am was delayed by over two hours. Similarly, an Air India flight scheduled to land in Pune from Delhi at 8.40am was delayed by almost three-and-a-half hours, an airport official said. Between 9.30am and 10.40am, five departing flights to different destinations — four to Delhi and one to Chandigarh — were delayed in the range of an hour-and-a-half to almost four hours. During the same time period, three inbound flights from Delhi and one from Chandigarh were delayed.The delays continued later in the day. Two afternoon flights to the national capital took off around 4.50pm and 5.40pm on Saturday . Similarly, two flights arriving in Pune from Delhi, during the same time, got delayed. Airport sources said owing to dense fog in the national capital, more than 100 flights to and from Delhi had been heavily impacted. “I did not know about the delay, nor did the airline inform me. It was sudden and very frustrating. Since this was a weather phenomenon, there is nothing much we can do about it,” ” a Chandigarh-bound passenger told TOI. “I am just worried about the wait as my mother, a senior citizen, is travelling with me,” the passenger added. Some flyers complained about the facilities, though. “Air India’s AI851 is delayed by more than three hours but no arrangement for water and snacks for old people and children... Passengers have been left at their own fate (sic),” Sharmendra, a flyer, wrote on Twitter. Different airlines put up advisories on their social media pages about their flights to and from different destinations in north India seeing delays. SpiceJet, from the wee hours, cautioned travellers about delay in flights to and from places like Delhi, Varanasi, Kanpur and Surat because of bad weather. Other airlines, like IndiGo and GoAir, also put out similar advisories.“We have little choice when weather plays foul and passenger safety comes to the forefront, which cannot be compromised with,” the representative of an airline told TOI on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/pune/dense-fog-in-north-india-delays-several-delhi-bound-flights/articleshow/80307420.cms||Joy Sengupta
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Data tampered: Polls delayed in Punjab's Phagwara||PHAGWARA: While election schedule for eight municipal corporations and 109 municipal councils has been announced, elections for Phagwara municipal corporation will be held later after several deficiencies were found in the voters’ list. A case has been registered against a government employee who manipulated settlement of objections and complaints about voters’ lists. However, it is not yet clear at whose behest he was working. The elections to Phagwara MC have been withheld after sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Amit Sareen wrote to state election commissioner about the defects in the voters’ lists. Sareen, who joined less than a month ago on December 19, said objections about voters’ lists were settled till December 23 and after their online entry, lists were printed. He said the state election commissioner, after final electoral rolls were published on January 6, had several anomalies brought to his notice by the political parties. He revealed that during investigation it came out that Punjab State Power Coporation Limited (PSPCL) employee Sandeep Singh, who was working in the election branch and had the access to the system, manipulated entries of hundreds of objections due to which out of 1,800 objections only 400 could be resolved. He also pointed out that 800 votes were shifted to other wards to benefit the political parties. SDM Sareen argued that it was imperative to prepare the electoral rolls afresh to ensure transparency in elections. Meanwhile, clerk Sandeep Singh has been booked under sections 409, 477 A, 120 B of IPC and 13(1) of Prevention of Corruption Act.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/data-tampered-polls-delayed-in-phagwara/articleshow/80307418.cms||IP Singh
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Five held with 57kg marijuana||Aurangabad: Five people got arrested in a joint operation carried out by the crime branch and MIDC Cidco police for carrying around 57 kg of marijuana in an SUV. According to police, the suspects — Ramchandra alias Bandya Pimple, Vishwanath alias Kolhya Pimple, Ram Gawande, Siddheshwar Ghayal and Sunil Pawar — are habitual offenders and part of a major chain involved in sale, supply and smuggling of marijuana. Commissioner of police Nikhil Gupta said that orders have been issued for unearthing the entire racket. MIDC Cidco police inspector Vithal Pote said, “Police sub-inspector Vithal Chaskar received specific information about the suspects and the consignment from his sources following which we along with members of the crime branch carried out the joint operation at an old by-pass road in Chikalthana.” The members of the team first intercepted the four-wheeler and then asked the occupants to step out. The suspects started to run but were caught by the police. Upon searching the vehicle, police found marijuana stacked in brown packets. Crime branch inspector Avinash Aghav said the car was searched in the presence of the panchas and marijuana packets were found to have been covered with plastic bags and were kept under the seats.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/five-held-with-57kg-marijuana/articleshow/80299468.cms||Mohammed Akhef
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Staff strike hits garbage collection in city yet again||Nagpur: Door-to-door garbage collection was affected yet again in half of the city on Saturday after around 850 BVG India sanitary workers went on a flash strike protesting termination notice to 113 employees.Five days ago, garbage lifting in Laxmi Nagar, Dharampeth and Dhantoli was affected after employees of AG Enviro, one of the garbage lifting companies, launched a strike to oppose removal of 140 colleagues.“The Saturday strike completely affected garbage lifting from areas under Gandhibagh, Satranjipura, Lakadganj, Ashi Nagar and Mangalwari zones,” said deputy municipal commissioner (NMC’s solid waste management) Dr Pradip Dasarwar.“The firm has been directed to resolve the issue at the earliest and resume the service on Sunday or we will initiate disciplinary action against BVG India,” he added.Sources said that both the firms — BVG India and AG Enviro Infra Project Pvt Ltd — had appointed excess employees from the previous employer, Kanak Resources and Management Limited. Both the firms had appointed excess staff due to pressure from corporators from various political parties in the NMC. “Now, firms are unable to bear the establishment expenditure of excess employees. BVG India on Friday issued termination notices to 113 employees,” a source told TOI.Aggrieved employees said the company issued termination notice without prior intimation. Both the companies were sacking workers at will, they said. Even labour laws are not being implemented by the firms, they alleged.Residents of the five affected zones are upset. They pointed out that since the two new companies were assigned the job of door-to-door garbage lifting, strikes by employees have increased manifold. “Every other day, there is news of employees of these companies going on strike,” said Hemant Thakur, a resident of Lakadganj.Congress corporator Ramesh Punekar blamed the BJP-ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation for the mess and claimed the civic administration had replaced Kanak with the two companies stating that garbage lifting would improve in the city. “Now, it is going southward even though we are paying them excess money compared to the earlier company,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/staff-strike-hits-garbage-collection-in-city-yet-again/articleshow/80306808.cms||Proshun Chakraborty
January 17, 2021||Hyderabad||GHMC mayor poll after February 10||HYDERABAD: Telangana State  Commission on Saturday issued the gazette notification notifying the names of all the 150 elected corporators of Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) along with their party affiliation and reservation particulars, thereby setting the stage for conduct of election of the Mayor and Deputy Mayor. It will be an indirect election of the Mayor any time after February 10. The gazette notification is mandatory for the elected corporators to take oath. The term of the present elected body will end on February 10. The State Election Commission is likely to issue a notification in the last week of January for election of Mayor and Deputy Mayor. The bye-election to the Lingojiguda ward will be held after the mayoral election. The Lingojiguda seat fell vacant following the death of Akula Ramesh Goud of BJP before taking oath. The first meeting of the new elected body would be convened after February 10 and the elected members would be administered with the oath, following which the corporators along with ex-officio members would elect the Mayor on the same day or on a day as notified by the election commission in its poll schedule. The seat of mayor of GHMC is reserved for the woman. As per the GHMC Act, the election of the deputy mayor can be held only after the Mayor is elected.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/hyderabad/sec-notifies-corporators-mayor-election-after-feb-10/articleshow/80307422.cms||Roushan Ali
January 17, 2021||Rajkot||Charity flew high on Uttarayan day||RAJKOT: They didn’t want to waste their pocket money on kites and also break Covid rules by gathering a crowd of friends at one spot. Instead, this group of Muslim youths in Savarkundla town of Amreli district, wanted their charitable spirit to soar high on Uttarayan. “On occasion of Makarsankranti, besides the usual fun, our Hindu friends also donate to poor, or to charitable institutions and feed animals as part of the ritualistic celebrations. We too got inspired by their noble action and do something for the mute animals and so pooled in our resources to offer fodder to ailing cows,” Irfan Jadav, one of the group members, told TOI. Along with Irfan, Jubair, Sahid Bavaliya and many other friends purchased nearly 50kg of green fodder on Thursday from a farmer and fed it to cows near Navli river passing through Savarkundla town. While their noble intentions, tied to the thread of amity and kinship, flew high in the Amreli sky, their good deeds sweetened the year’s first celebration.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/charity-flew-high-on-uttarayan-day/articleshow/80305635.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Jamshedpur||1 death, 119 new cases and 158 recoveries reported in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported one Covid-related death, 119 new cases and 158 recoveries on Saturday. As per government figures, a total of 1,17,599 people have been infected by the virus till date, of which 1,15,300 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.04%. As many as 1050 people have died in the state while 1,249 persons are still battling the infection. The state capital reported 71 cases, followed by East Singhbhum (15) and Dhanbad with 11 cases while Chatra, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Hazaribag, Khunti, Koderma, Pakur, Sahebganj and Saraikela did not report any case. The rest of the districts reported cases in single digit. The seven-day growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.10% against the national average of 0.13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jamshedpur/1-death-119-new-cases-and-158-recoveries-reported-in-state/articleshow/80312167.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||1 death, 119 new cases and 158 recoveries reported in Jharkhand||RANCHI: Jharkhand reported one Covid-related death, 119 new cases and 158 recoveries on Saturday. As per government figures, a total of 1,17,599 people have been infected by the virus till date, of which 1,15,300 have recovered, taking the recovery rate to 98.04%. As many as 1050 people have died in the state while 1,249 persons are still battling the infection. The state capital reported 71 cases, followed by East Singhbhum (15) and Dhanbad with 11 cases while Chatra, Deoghar, Garhwa, Giridih, Godda, Hazaribag, Khunti, Koderma, Pakur, Sahebganj and Saraikela did not report any case. The rest of the districts reported cases in single digit. The seven-day growth rate in Jharkhand was 0.10% against the national average of 0.13%.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/1-death-119-new-cases-and-158-recoveries-reported-in-state/articleshow/80306764.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||66% of those picked turn up for anti-Covid shot on Day One in Jharkhand||Ranchi: A total of 3,200 persons – translating to about 66.6% or two in three persons-- of the 4,800 picked to get inoculated against Covid-19 on the launch day of world's biggest vaccination exercise turned up at to receive the shot at 48 centres across all 24 districts (two centres in each district) in the state on Saturday. Sources in the state health department said the figure could be updated later. Though department officials rejected the notion that many persons were hesitant to get vaccinated, healthcare workers on the ground conceded that not everyone listed for vaccination was at ease and a few tried to avoid receiving the shots on Day One. “We had to recuse those suffering with some illness or those pregnant or lactating,” said Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP)’s state head Dr Praveen Kumar Karn. State health department secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, who has played a key role in orchestrating the state’s response through the pandemic, said, “We have started vaccinating healthcare workers and none of them have developed any complications. We have also made elaborate arrangements for monitoring each person and all centres have been equipped and clubbed with district hospitals to address any emergency.” Pakur, which is the only Covid-free district in the state with zero active cases and juyt two deaths, carried out several rounds of counselling and awareness. However the turnup at both the centres was at 50%. “I wouldn’t call it hesitancy but no one can deny that some people are afraid of even common injections,” said Pakur civil surgeon Dr Ramdev Paswan. Earlier on the day, chief minister Hemant Soren and Governor Droupadi Murmu launched the vaccination drive at sadar hospital in Ranchi, congratulating the country’s scientists for coming out with a vaccine in a short span. “It is because of our talented scientists that we can start the drive,” Murmu said in an official communication. She also appealed to the people to continue wearing masks and maintain social distancing norms. Soren along with state health minister Banna Gupta and senior officials of state government, including chief secretary Sukhdev Singh and health secretary Nitin Madan Kulkarni, monitored the whole process of vaccine administration among the first ten beneficiaries of state and spoke to them about their experiences. Talking to media after attending the inaugural function of vaccination drive Soren said: “The vaccine will prove to be a boon for the people. Everyone is relieved that we have finally received a vaccine for the pandemic which has been haunting the world for a year. The state government had made elaborate arrangements for the vaccination drive.” He added, “We are at a decisive stage in our fight against the Covid-19 pandemic. In the last one year, the entire world has been through many phases of trauma, despair and hope. From here, we hope that we shall be able to overcome the virus,” he said, adding that even after taking the vaccine, people must continue with the prescribed precautionary steps to prevent any infection. Soren lamented that the number of vaccination centres in the state were reduced in the eleventh hour, but expressed confidence the numbers would be increased if and when needed. “We have to manage vaccine administration efficiently and we will not gain much only by increasing the number of centres,” he said, citing example of Covid testing centres which was gradually increased in the state. The vaccination drive will continue at all the 48 centres on four days a week (Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday) while regular immunization (RI) drive will continue for two days and Sunday will be a holiday. Dr Karn said that the days many vary from district to district. The RI schedule is decided by health officials at the local level keeping under consideration day scheduled for village haat so that maximum attendance is ensured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/66-of-those-picked-turn-up-for-anti-covid-shot-on-day-one-in-jharkhand/articleshow/80306953.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Woman sanitation worker of Ranchi sadar hosp is Jharkhand’s 1st vax recipient||Ranchi: A female sanitation worker, a frontline Covid warrior who worked at Ranchi’s sadar hospital through the pandemic, became the first person to receive the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Saturday. “It feels good. I was elated when I was told that I have been selected for the first phase of the vaccination drive. However, I had no idea I would be the first person in the state to get inoculated,” said Mariyam Guriya (29), moments after was injected with 0.5ml dose of the vaccine developed by Serum Institute Of India (SII), Oxford University and AstraZeneca. Flanked by chief minister Hemant Soren, health minister Banna Gupta and a senior doctor at the hospital, Mariyam, who has been working at the hospital for 13 years now, looked confident when the vaccine was administered to her. Asked about any inconvenience or discomfort she faced immediately after being administered the vaccine, Mariyam later said, “I did not experience any difficulty. I waited for half an hour at the observation room. It feels good.” Even though she has been on Covid duty since March, Mariyam said she did not contract the virus and was more concerned that she would end up infecting her 10-year-old son. “When I used to return home from the hospital, I used to fear for my child. I have no reason to worry anymore and will be able to serve the hospital with renewed vigour.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/woman-sanitation-worker-of-ranchi-sadar-hosp-is-jharkhands-1st-vax-recipient/articleshow/80306985.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Latehar woman dies as IED planted by rebels explodes||Daltonganj: One woman died and the other sustained an injury in an IED blast triggered by Maoists at Pandra forest in Garu police station area of Latehar on Saturday. Police said Ravinder Ganjhu’s squad, that exchanged fire with the security forces recently, had laid down the booby trap in the jungles to target the forces. Latehar SP Prashant Anand, who was overseeing the combing operation in the jungle, said, “The jungle is dotted with numerous improvised explosive devices. Security forces have recovered a good number of land mines. Some blood trails have also been found, which indicate Maoists have suffered injuries too. Police have recovered shoes and walkie-talkie sets.” Meanwhile, Piparwar police in Chatra on Saturday arrested two extremists — TSPC commander Ganesh Ganjhu and his accomplice Naresh. The arrests came after a tip-off was received by the superintendent of police Rishav Kumar Jha. The arrest is seen as a big blow for Tritiya Sammelan Prastuti Committee (TSPC) whose second in command Mukesh Ganjhu had surrendered on Friday, weakening the outfit. Police seized a revolver and two live bullets from the duo. Tandwa SDPO Vikas Pandey said, “A tip-off was received that a squad of the TSPC is moving around Piparwar area to commit something big. The SP constituted a team which raided Lukaiya forest resulting in the arrest of the two rebels.” He added that other than Chatra, the duo was wanted in other neighbouring districts. They were responsible for a blast at a weigh bridge in Piparwar in 2013. Mcluskiegunj and Khalari police from Ranchi also came to Piparwar to interrogate the duo.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/latehar-woman-dies-as-ied-planted-by-rebels-explodes/articleshow/80306994.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||Vadodara: Crocodile rescued from storm water drain||VADODARA: An 11-foot-long crocodile was rescued by volunteers from the Asoj village near the city on Saturday morning. The crocodile was spotted while work was being conducted on a storm water drain. The crocodile was spotted by local residents at the construction site and rescue expert Hemant Vadhwana was informed regarding it. Vadhwana and officials of the forest department rushed to the spot to rescue the crocodile. It came to light that the crocodile was trapped inside the pipe of the storm water drain and also had injury on its snout. The pipe was broken and opened with the help of a backhoe loader taking care that the crocodile was not injured.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/crocodile-rescued-from-storm-water-drain/articleshow/80306084.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||PM launches Rs 1,000 crore seed fund for start-ups||NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday launched a Rs 1,000 crore seed fund for the start-up sector assuring there would be no shortage of funds for the sector and said the Centre will help them raise equity through guarantees. “This will help in starting and growing new start-ups. Fund of funds scheme is already helping start-ups raise equity capital. India is working for a start-up ecosystem based on the mantra ‘Of the Youth, By the Youth, For the Youth’, We have to fix our goals for the next five years and these goals should be that our start-ups, our unicorns should emerge as global giants and lead in the futuristic technologies,” Modi told the virtual Start-Up India International Summit. The PM also said future technologies and entrepreneurs should come together in Asia as it is also the century of Asia. He urged Asian countries to join hands, collaborate and take responsibility for leading this effort. Modi said the biggest USP of the start-up world is its disruption and diversification capacity. “The greatest feature of this ecosystem is that it is guided more by passion than pragmatism. This ‘can-do’ spirit is evident in the way India is working today,” he said. He cited the example of BHIM UPI which has revolutionised the payment system and in December last year, 4 lakh crore worth of transactions took place through UPI in the country. Similarly India is leading in solar and AI sector. The PM said the start-ups are changing the demographic characteristics of businesses. Citing data, he said that 44% recognised start-ups have women directors and number of women working in these start-ups is high. He said every state is supporting and incubating start-ups as per local possibilities and 80% of districts of the country are now part of the Start-Up India mission. Youth from all types of background are able to realise their potential in this ecosystem. The PM said this helped change mindsets and attitudes. “From ‘Why don’t you do a job? Why a start-up?’ to ‘Job is alright, but why not create your own start-up!’. In 2014, only 4 Indian start-ups were in the ‘unicorn club’ now, more than 30 start-ups have crossed the $1 billion mark,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/pm-launches-1000-crore-seed-fund-for-start-ups/articleshow/80309103.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Covaxin or Covishield? Here, it’s just ‘Covid vaccine’||GURUGRAM: Savita (34), an anganwadi worker, stepped out of the session site at Chauma and took a few selfies with other healthcare workers. She had just taken a shot of the Covid vaccine and was feeling hale and hearty. When TOI approached her and asked if she knew what vaccine she had been given, Savita wore a blank look on her face. “I know it’s only a Covid vaccine,” she shrugged. Like Savita, most of the healthcare workers who were inoculated at the Chauma centre had no idea about the make and specifications of the vaccine they were being injected. Chauma is the only centre in Gurugram where Covaxin shots are being given. Most of the healthcare workers who were listed for the vaccination here were anganwadi and ASHA staff and were unaware that there is another make of the Covid vaccine called Covishield. Covishield has been developed by AstraZeneca and Oxford University and is being manufactured in the country by the Serum Institute of India. On the other hand, Covaxin has been developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and has been approved while still undergoing phase 3 clinical trials. Health officials have vouched for both the vaccines as being equally effective and have said they are unlikely to cause any side effects. The turnout at the Chauma site, which was set up at DPSG School in Palam Vihar, was particularly low on Saturday. Of the 104 healthcare workers who were listed for the vaccination here, only 39 turned up. And of them, 35 were women. Most of the vaccine recipients TOI spoke to said they just signed the consent form because the vaccinator asked them to do so and did not read what the contents were. Aanand Lata (46), who has been working as an anganwadi worker for the past 19 years, also did not know about the difference between Covaxin and Covishield. “All I know is that it’s a vaccine for Covid. When the Covid numbers were rising in the district and people were hesitant to even step out of homes, we went around containment zones to collect data and even distribute ration. So, even if some of our families are apprehensive, we decided to get ourselves vaccinated first. If we don’t come forward, how will others?” asked Lata. At 11.28pm, she was the first to get the Covaxin shot at this centre. After the vaccination, Lata complained of uneasiness and her blood pressure also shot up. However, doctors at the Chauma centre who examined her said she was on medication for hypertension and had not taken her morning dose. Lata was kept in the observation room for an hour and was allowed to leave only after she said she felt better. Another anganwadi worker, Renu, complained of nausea. She was kept under observation for more than 30 minutes and left for home after she felt better. Doctors called them up later to enquire about their health. While anganwadi and ASHA workers were not aware about Covaxin, nurses of the health centres in Chauma and Laxman Vihar said they very well knew the difference between Covaxin and Covishield and did not have any apprehension about taking the shots. Before the 39 recipients were given the vaccines at the Chauma site, their photo IDs were checked and details such as addresses and contact numbers noted down. They were then asked to sign the consent form, which had the exact time and date of the vaccination, contact details, and a set of nine questions.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/covaxin-or-covishield-here-its-just-covid-vaccine/articleshow/80308794.cms||Vishakha Chaman
January 17, 2021||Delhi||RTI applicant must disclose interest in seeking info, says Delhi HC||NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court has held that an RTI applicant seeking information should disclose his/her interest in it to prevent a "roving and fishing enquiry". Justice Pratibha M Singh upheld the order of the Central Information Commission to deny material sought by an applicant under the Right to Information Act about appointments to a particular position at President's Estate in Rashtrapati Bhavan. "This court is of the opinion that whenever information is sought under the RTI Act, disclosure of an interest in the information sought would be necessary to establish the bonafides of the applicant. Non-disclosure of the same could result in injustice to several other affected persons whose information is sought," the court noted, while also slapping a cost of Rs 25,000 on the applicant. Har Kishan had sought information that included the complete address and father's name of all those who had been appointed to the post of multitasking staff, and alleged irregularities. Ulterior motives in seeking RTI info, says HCLater a probe was carried out that showed 10 candidates obtained jobs on the basis of fake certificates, and their appointments were terminated, but President's Estate refused to furnish the details sought in the RTI. During the hearing of Har Kishan’s appeal against the CIC order, the HC found that his daughter had also applied for appointment, which he didn’t mention. He also hid the fact that he had himself worked at President's Estate on an adhoc basis. "The seeking of the above information, especially after the petitioner’s daughter did not obtain employment, clearly points to some ulterior motives," the court observed. It pointed out that even otherwise "the information sought in respect of the names of the fathers and residential addresses of the candidates is completely invasive".||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/rti-applicant-must-disclose-interest-in-seeking-info-says-delhi-hc/articleshow/80309121.cms||Abhinav Garg
January 17, 2021||Goa||Melauli locals to keep fighting for land rights||Valpoi: Even as the government scrapped the IIT project at Melauli, villagers on Saturday said that they will continue the agitation until their demands are fulfilled, particularly regarding land ownership rights. A local, Ram Melekar said that they welcome the government’s decision to scrap the proposed IIT project. “Our agitation will continue till we get land ownership title,” he said. Melekar said that the land has been already transferred to IIT and demanded that the government cancel IIT’s ownership rights and instead enter the villagers’ names on Form I & XIV. While pushing for the IIT project, the state government had insisted that the locals are encroachers on government land as they didn’t possess property documents. However, the locals refuted the government’s claim, stating that they have been in possession of the land for decades and hence should get ownership rights for being tillers. An elderly person from Melauli said that they didn’t have any proof that says the IIT project has been shifted.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/melauli-locals-to-keep-fighting-for-land-rights/articleshow/80307679.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Goa||‘Unity and people power won’||Valpoi: Aam aadmi party led by its national spokesperson Raghav Chaddha visited Melauli and assured the people their support to get them the land ownership rights. Interacting with the locals, Chaddha said that he “appreciates the locals of Melauli village for fighting against the powerful politicians” and “a dictatorial government”. Chaddha said that unity and people’s power defeated the government’s plan of imposing a project on the land against the wishes of the people. He said that Melauli’s scenario clearly showed that people power is supreme. “I condemn the act of the arrogant MLA Vishwajit Rane and his government for harassing the villagers by using police force,” he said. Chaddha blamed the politicians for the villagers not getting land rights.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/goa/unity-and-people-power-won/articleshow/80307685.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||New rules in place at Vizag’s rythu bazaars||VISAKHAPATNAM: The Visakhapatnam district administration has decided to alter the functioning of rythu bazaars from February 1. The decision was taken on the basis of a three-member committee report. The committee studied rythu bazaars and irregularities in their functioning and made the suggestions. Committee members carried out surprise checks at all rythu bazaars in Visakhapatnam, said deputy director marketing department P Papa Rao. One of the significant recommendations made in the report is that shops allotted to Dwakra communities in farmers’ markets should be selected and allotted to newcomers in accordance with rules in place for those who have completed three years as per government order number 29. The report further recommends the following: all farmers should issued identity cards and new cards should be issued every six months and that rates should be fixed at 10am and remain consistent throughout. The report states that in order to carry out allocation of shops in a transparent manner, a website should be set up to receive applications, allotments, receive complaints and make information available to the public.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/new-rules-in-place-at-vizags-rythu-bazaars/articleshow/80306403.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Andhra Pradesh village volunteer travels to Bengaluru to help three-year-old cancer patient||VISAKHAPATNAM: In a heroic endeavour, an Andhra Pradesh village volunteer, Baratam Varaha Narasinga Rao, travelled to Bengaluru from Srikakulam district to save the life of a three-year-old boy suffering from cancer. The three-year-old, child of migrant workers, has been identified as G Darshan. Darshan is currently receiving treatment at St. John’s Medical College in Bengaluru. He is suffering from sarcoma second stage. His parents, G Ravi Kumar and G Sudha, are natives of Ondrujola village in Kotturu mandal of Srikakulam district. When village volunteer Narasinga Rao came to know about the boy’s condition, he realised that the boy could be treated for free if the family had an Aarogyasri card. Reluctant to tell the child’s parents who were at the hospital to come down to Srikakulam to get the card, Narasinga Rao, himself boarded a bus and went to Bengaluru to obtain biometric thumb impressions for the Aarogyasri card. Speaking to TOI, Narasinga Rao said that the child’s parent’s had gone to Bengaluru before the pandemic-induced lockdown. In December, they came to know about their child’s health condition. The child had to be admitted on January 5. When hospital authorities asked parents about Aarogyasri card, parents approached the volunteer. “Seeing their plight, I did not want to bring them here. So I decided to go to Bengaluru myself and get the work done. On Saturday, the AP government responded promptly and issued the health card to the parents,” Narasinga Rao said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/village-volunteer-travels-to-bengaluru-to-help-three-year-old-cancer-patient/articleshow/80306420.cms||V Kamalakara Rao
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Tribal farmers in Vizag Agency to start growing avocado and litchi||VISAKHAPATNAM: After strawberry, dragon fruits and apples, farmers in Visakhapatnam agency have now started cultivating avocado and litchi. More than 400 tribal farmers are slated to take up cultivation of these fruits in 300 acres land. The Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) is preparing ground for cultivation of these fruits on an experimental basis by providing saplings from other states including Kerala and Bihar. ITDA has identified tribal farmers for cultivation. Avocado will be grown in 100 acres and litchi in 200 acres. Avocado and litchi plants can survive in the weather of some parts of Visakhapatnam Agency, say sources. ITDA project officer Salijamala Venkateswar said, “We have sent proposals to the tribal welfare department. Around 200 farmers will cultivate half acre land each. We need 60 plants.” Avocado, commonly known as ‘butter fruit’ in India, originated in Mexico and Central America. A tropical fruit, it looks similar to the pear. Avocados are said to be a good source of nutrients. They are said to be good for digestion and natural detoxification. The fruits are also said to be healthy for pregnant women and are said to protect from chronic diseases. They are rich in vitamins B, E and K. According to project director Venkateswar, avocado plants were earlier grown along fences to protect other crops. But now, the fruit has emerged as a prime cash crop owing to low production costs and high returns. The ITDA will be spending Rs 6 lakh on procuring saplings.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/vizag-agencys-tribal-farmers-to-start-growing-avocado-and-litchi/articleshow/80306433.cms||Siva G
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Vijayawada: Migrant worker found dead in drainage canal||VIJAYAWADA: A 40-year-old migrant worker was found dead under suspicious circumstances in a drainage canal under Governorpet police station limits on Saturday. The deceased, Alla Bagh, was a resident of Bihar. The incident came to light after locals found the body in the drainage canal. Upon receiving information, police reached the spot, examined the scene and identified the deceased. The body was then sent for post mortem to Vijayawada Government General Hospital (GGH). Preliminary investigation revealed that there were some injuries on the deceased’s body. The cause of death is yet to be ascertained. Cops said that the deceased was in an inebriated condition prior to death. Sub inspector Durga Devi said that Alla Bagh worked as a goldsmith at a workshop at Besant Road. Police suspect that he might have collapsed in the drain in a heavily intoxicated condition. However, other causes of death have not been ruled out. A case has been registered under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death).||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/migrant-worker-found-dead-in-drainage-canal/articleshow/80306441.cms||Ujwal Bommakanti
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||No Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh, second time after January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported zero deaths on Saturday — the day Covid-19 vaccine was launched across the country, including in the state — while its active cases tally dropped below the 2,000-mark. The cumulative caseload rose to 8,85,824 with the detection of 114 new positive cases. It’s for the second time this month after January 1 that the state did not report any Covid-19 mortality. As many as 326 patients were declared cured. The active caseload dropped below the 2,000-mark to 1,987 as 326 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. While the number of cumulative recoveries stands at 8,76,698, the active caseload dropped below the 300-mark in all districts. Five districts have so far achieved a 99% recovery rate. Chittoor reported 24 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (22). The remaining 11 districts recorded less than 20 cases, while eight districts were limited to single-digit case numbers. The active cases are less than 100 in Kurnool, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. While Chittoor has contributed to 846 cumulative deaths, the highest for any district in the state, Vizianagaram has recorded the lowest fatalities (238). As many as 25,542 samples were tested on Saturday to detect the 114 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The state has so far conducted 1.25 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7%. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/no-covid-19-deaths-in-ap-second-time-after-jan-1/articleshow/80309881.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||No Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh, second time after January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported zero deaths on Saturday — the day Covid-19 vaccine was launched across the country, including in the state — while its active cases tally dropped below the 2,000-mark. The cumulative caseload rose to 8,85,824 with the detection of 114 new positive cases. It’s for the second time this month after January 1 that the state did not report any Covid-19 mortality. As many as 326 patients were declared cured. The active caseload dropped below the 2,000-mark to 1,987 as 326 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. While the number of cumulative recoveries stands at 8,76,698, the active caseload dropped below the 300-mark in all districts. Five districts have so far achieved a 99% recovery rate. Chittoor reported 24 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (22). The remaining 11 districts recorded less than 20 cases, while eight districts were limited to single-digit case numbers. The active cases are less than 100 in Kurnool, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. While Chittoor has contributed to 846 cumulative deaths, the highest for any district in the state, Vizianagaram has recorded the lowest fatalities (238). As many as 25,542 samples were tested on Saturday to detect the 114 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The state has so far conducted 1.25 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7%. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/no-covid-19-deaths-in-ap-second-time-after-jan-1/articleshow/80306443.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Amaravati||No Covid-19 deaths in Andhra Pradesh, second time after January 1||VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh reported zero deaths on Saturday — the day Covid-19 vaccine was launched across the country, including in the state — while its active cases tally dropped below the 2,000-mark. The cumulative caseload rose to 8,85,824 with the detection of 114 new positive cases. It’s for the second time this month after January 1 that the state did not report any Covid-19 mortality. As many as 326 patients were declared cured. The active caseload dropped below the 2,000-mark to 1,987 as 326 patients were discharged from various treating facilities. While the number of cumulative recoveries stands at 8,76,698, the active caseload dropped below the 300-mark in all districts. Five districts have so far achieved a 99% recovery rate. Chittoor reported 24 new infections, followed by Visakhapatnam (22). The remaining 11 districts recorded less than 20 cases, while eight districts were limited to single-digit case numbers. The active cases are less than 100 in Kurnool, Prakasam, Srikakulam, Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. While Chittoor has contributed to 846 cumulative deaths, the highest for any district in the state, Vizianagaram has recorded the lowest fatalities (238). As many as 25,542 samples were tested on Saturday to detect the 114 new cases, translating to a case positivity rate of about 0.5%. The state has so far conducted 1.25 crore Covid-19 tests with an overall case positivity rate of 7%. The mortality rate remains stable at 0.8%. tnn||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/no-covid-19-deaths-in-ap-second-time-after-jan-1/articleshow/80309880.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra suspends drive for 2 days over Co-WIN glitches||MUMBAI: The vaccination drive across the state has been put on hold for the next two days in wake of operational glitches in Co-WIN, the government’s IT platform to implement and monitor inoculations.  The no-show of the app —it barely sent SMSes to registered beneficiaries—was mainly blamed for the poor turnout (48%) in Mumbai on Saturday. Centres in Lucknow also struggled with the app and opted for paper registrations. Co-WIN could not generate a list of recipients or intimate them through automated messages and officials had to organise calls late on Friday to inform beneficiaries about the date and time of inoculation, report Sumitra DebRoy and Bhavika Jain.With most centres unable to access all modules of the app, the drive had to be carried out manually. Names of those who turned up to receive the jab were then ticked off printouts to be uploaded later. Beneficiaries told to come at notice of less than 12 hrsAfter suspending the vaccination drive for two days upon encountering glitches in the Co-WIN app, the state said it would discuss the matter with the Centre. Dr Pradeep Vyas, state principal health secretary, said the vaccination drive will continue after the discussion on the technical glitches. Additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said the city’s administration was advised to halt the drive for two days. “Co-WIN is not supporting at this moment and we cannot carry on the drive and keep too much offline data to be uploaded later,” he said. In areas across the state which faced issues with the app, the health ministry had allowed for manual registrations on Saturday. BMC officials recalled the harrowing experience of Friday night when messages did not reach beneficiaries and frantic calls had to be made to nearly 4,000 of them over a span of three hours. The launch of the mega-drive hinged on the healthcare workers showing up at 10 centres. In the absence of a functioning app, BMC’s public health department manually prepared a list of beneficiaries from its own pool of employees, community health workers, ward level officials, doctors and nurses working in medical colleges who would come to centres at a notice of less than 12 hours. The lists were handed to the Covid war rooms of all 24 civic wards at 9.30pm on Friday, while officials were asked to start calling immediately but stop by 1am. Executive health officer Dr Mangala Gomare said they had to fall back on their public health emergency response protocols after the app crashed. Kakani said Mumbai’s low turnout of 48% could be blamed on the glitch as people could not be informed on time. Most beneficiaries said they had received calls from the BMC ward office. “I received a call at 6:30 am saying that I have been shortlisted to get the vaccine on Saturday at the BKC Centre,” said Dr Sachin Jain, head of microbiology at Hinduja hospital, Khar. Community health worker Deepali Powar received a call around midnight saying she had to come to Cooper Hospital at 10am for vaccination. Dr Bomi Pardiwalla, a surgeon from Masina, said he received a call around 11.30pm. “I thought it was a hoax call. But I called the ward office and got confirmation,” he said. Another doctor said he received a call past midnight. The staffers who called were very apologetic and patiently answered all his questions. Kakani said beneficiaries will be given three chances to show up for vaccination before their names are removed from the list. “People who were shortlisted to show up today will be given two more chances, dates and timings for which will be communicated via messages,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/mumbai/maharashtra-suspends-drive-for-2-days-over-co-win-glitches/articleshow/80309142.cms||Sumitra Debroy
January 17, 2021||India||Vaccination Drive: Texts don’t go out, calls bring in people||NEW DELHI: The Co-WIN app developed by the Centre to track beneficiaries and dosage appeared to struggle on Day One in Pune, Mumbai and Lucknow, but fortunately most vaccination sites had paper registrations going simultaneously. TOI reporters in Pune quoted officials as saying that they had to call people on Friday night to ensure a good turnout as many beneficiaries did not receive automated invites via SMS. Pune region deputy director for health Dr Sanjay Deshmukh said that while the app was “surprisingly functional” in rural areas, vaccinators in urban centres were unable to log in. The Co-WIN app registers information about beneficiary details, dosages, second dose prompts and other data. “With 100 beneficiaries per site on day one, the app did delay the process a bit. But we were able to vaccinate most who came in. Most who couldn’t were either out of station or unwell, Deshmukh said. Most sites in Pune city, including Sassoon General Hospital, and some primary health centres opted for offline registrations after Co-WIN went down. In Mumbai, too, there were glitches with the app and most beneficiaries didn’t receive any message through the app; the BMC had to call each of the 4,000 beneficiaries in Mumbai. The metropolis registered a turnout of less than 50% — of 4,000 healthcare workers to be vaccinated, only 1,926 were vaccinated. Civic officials in Mumbai started making frantic calls at around 10 pm on Friday after realising that Co-WIN had not stated generating auto text messages. Ward-level war rooms were told to start calling anything between 150 and 180 beneficiaries. Many worked the telephone till 1am and started again at 6.30am. Some beneficiaries got 2-3 calls. In Lucknow, the centralised portal had crashed on Friday due to a technical fault in Delhi. It came up again on Saturday but developed a snag within minutes of the vaccination process starting at 10am. Verification of identification and data entry had to be done manually. Due to the same fault on Friday, authorities were unable to send bulk SMSes to 1,200 beneficiaries selected to receive the jab on Day 1. However, health officials said the manual process went off smoothly.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccination-drive-texts-dont-go-out-calls-bring-in-people/articleshow/80309145.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||SoU train flag off in presence of leaders, saints at Kevadiya||VADODARA: Kevadiya on Sunday will be a platform for eminent personalities from across diverse fields including political, social and religious to Padma awardees, industrialists and educationists when Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually flag off eight trains from different locations to Kevadiya, home to world’s tallest statue – the Statue of Unity (SoU). The trains will provide direct rail connectivity to tourists till Kevadiya railway station, located 5 km away from SoU. Modi will inaugurate the newly-developed Kevadiya railway station apart from new station buildings of Dabhoi and Chandod and the railway line. Two special trains — one each from Ahmedabad and Vadodara — will also be flagged off will passengers travelling as special invited guests. Both these special trains (Ahmedabad-Kevadiya-Ahmedabad and Vadodara-Kevadiya-Vadodara) will be specially decorated with the theme of national integrity and ‘Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat’. Passengers will be travelling in various coaches having themes of unity. Saints and sadhus travelling by these special trains will be taken to Shoolpaneshwar temple for darshan and puja.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/sou-train-flag-off-in-presence-of-leaders-saints-at-kevadiya/articleshow/80306123.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Few object to Covaxin in Karnataka||BENGALURU: Amid some concerns over safety and efficacy, state health officials on Saturday achieved a higher level of Covaxin acceptance at the six designated vaccination sites. Karnataka had received 20,000 doses of Covaxin and half of these were sent to the six centres, one each in Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Davanagere, Hassan, Shivamogga and Chikkamagaluru districts. Most of these centres are medical colleges. At the Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences in Ballari, 62 out of 100 registered beneficiaries turned up on Day 1. Of these, 58 took the vaccine. “On the first day, we had listed group D employees and administrative staff of the medical college. Some of them raised issues like why the college was given Covaxin, while other centres were supplied with Covishiled. We explained to them that both vaccines had proved to be efficient. Four refused to take it,” said Dr Gangadhar Gowda, the dean of the institute. Dr Gowda and other medical staff will take jabs on Monday. “All those who have undergone Covaxin vaccination signed consent forms. We had forms in Kannada also and we explained the content. Confusion will settle down in a couple of days, once we all take the vaccine,” said Dr Gowda. At the Hassan Institute of Medical Sciences (HIMS), 74 out of 100 registered beneficiaries took the vaccine. “We had made a list of the first 100 persons and counseled all of them. But the government’s new list had other names. This created a bit of confusion and some people did not come forward to take the vaccine. But very few have refused,” said Dr BC Ravi Kumar, the dean and director of HIMS. He was the third person to take the shot at HIMS. “None of us have experienced ant side effects or adverse events so far. It has been safe,” he added. At the Chamarajanagar Medical College, 64 out of 100 registered healthcare workers took Covaxin. “Those who are aged above 50 and suffering from comorbidities were a bit apprehensive on the first day. They will take the vaccine once they gain confidence after seeing others,” said Chamarajanagar District Health Officer Dr MR Ravi.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/few-object-to-covaxin-in-ktaka/articleshow/80308305.cms||Sunitha Rao R
January 17, 2021||Rajkot||IMFL worth Rs 25 lakh seized near Rajkot||RAJKOT: The rapid response (RR) cell of Rajkot range police arrested a truck driver at Wankaner boundary on Rajkot-Ahmedabad highway for ferrying Indian-Made Foreign Liquor (IMFL) worth Rs 24.6 lakh on Friday night. Police officials said that they had been on the lookout for such illegal activities on the highway at Wankaner boundary and when the truck arrived at the check-post with a suspicious container cops stopped it for checking. They found boxes containing 6,468 liquor bottles. The driver of the truck Raghuvir Singh Rameshwarlal could not produce any license for the liquor stock and admitted that it was illicit liquor. Rameshwarlal was detained and during questioning, he told police that the liquor was brought from Mumbai and was to be delivered in Rajkot. Rameshwarlal also said that he was asked to call on a mobile phone number on reaching Kuvadava road in Rajkot. Cops are now investigating the mobile phone number and also the ownership of the truck in which the liquor was dispatched.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/imfl-worth-rs-25l-seized-near-rajkot/articleshow/80305692.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Covid vaccination drive: In Delhi, 51 mild reactions, one in hospital for 2 hours||NEW DELHI: A total of 52 healthcare workers of the 4,319 who received the Covid jab on Saturday reported adverse events post vaccination. While 51 reported minor events, one person who got inoculated at Northern Railway Central Hospital reported severe effects and was referred to a hospital. Deepak Kumar, CPRO, Northern Railway, said the individual developed adverse effects primarily due to undisclosed co-morbidities. "He suffers from high blood-pressure, sugar and liver problem. His blood pressure was high while receiving the vaccine that he did not disclose, which likely caused the impact. He was kept under observation for two hours and declared fine," said Kumar. The rest of the 51 vaccination impacts were minor, officials said. "The vaccine is safe and effective but adverse occurrences happen with other vaccines too," he added. One case where a person required admission to the hospital was reported late in the evening from AIIMS, in addition to the data shared by the government. The healthcare worker, who received the vaccine during the day, was admitted following fever and pain at the injection site, sources said. Two healthcare workers at Charak Palika Hospital felt uncomfortable post vaccination. "The workers felt pain in their chest. However, they were released after 30 minutes of observation," said an NDMC official. Watch Delhi: 52 out of 4,319 beneficiaries report adverse events after Covid-19 jab||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/in-delhi-51-mild-reactions-one-in-hospital-for-2-hours/articleshow/80309186.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Vaccine drive: Building a wall, prick by prick||NEW DELHI: As the vaccination drive rolled out on Saturday, cities across the country saw healthcare workers getting inoculated, with many cities meeting a sizable percentage of the target. The drive saw a lot of enthusiasm, with vaccination centres welcoming the vaccine boxes with flowers and balloons at some places and people celebrating. There were reports of minor adverse events in some cities and health workers refusing the shot in some places. In Delhi, more than 53% of total health workers enrolled for vaccination on the first day turned out to receive Covid shots at 81 centres. As many as 4,319 healthcare workers out of 8,117 were vaccinated. A total of 51 minor adverse events following vaccination were reported from the Capital and one person who got inoculated at Northern Railway Central Hospital reported severe adverse event. He had high BP, sugar and liver problems. He was discharged after being kept in observation for two hours. Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal and health minister Satyendar Jain inspected the drive at Lok Nayak Hospital and said the Covid vaccines were safe and asked people not to pay heed to rumours. At most centres, ‘Covishield’ was administered while at some central hospitals ‘Covaxin’ was administered. Some healthcare workers had apprehensions about the lack of safety or efficacy of Covaxin — India’s indigenously developed vaccine. But the apprehensions subsided after AIIMS director Dr Randeep Guleria and Dr V K Paul of Niti Aayog, who came along with his wife, took Covaxin at AIIMS. At many centres the beneficiaries were seen waiting for vaccination which was started began after the conclusion of PM Modi’s speech marking the launch of the world’s largest vaccination programme. In Lucknow, 840 healthcare workers received the first jab on Saturday. Some centres decorated vaccination rooms while others welcomed the cold storage boxes carrying vaccines with garlands and balloons. Kolkata saw a healthy turnout of 92% though scepticism led a few to skip their turns at Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health clinics. In Bengaluru, 73% of the targeted 878 frontline workers received shots. Chandigarh clocked a healthy 75% turnout. In Ahmedabad, 550 women and 565 men among doctors and health workers took the shot. The Gujarat Cancer Society and government dental college at civil hospital recorded 100% attendance. In Hyderabad, while the target was 420, 417 got vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/vaccine-drive-building-a-wall-prick-by-prick/articleshow/80309187.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Noida||After initial apprehensions, opening day ends with 95% turnout in Ghaziabad, 1/3rd stay away in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: UP’s two biggest NCR cities began the first day of vaccinations similarly but ended on different notes as Ghaziabad managed to inoculate nearly all recipients, but only around two-thirds of the frontline workers scheduled to get the Covishield shots turned up in Noida. Saturday did not begin like the most awaited day in more than a year should. The launch of vaccinations to protect from the Covid-19 pandemic that has upended lives like nothing else did not trigger a rush to inoculation centres, quite contrary to the sense of relief and enthusiasm associated with the vaccine rollout, as apprehensions about the vaccine made many hesitate. Some turned up after coaxing and counselling. But quite a few didn’t. The first inoculations in Ghaziabad happened at the District Women’s Hospital, where the first dose was to be given to Laxmi, a Group-D staff member. But she did not reach on time. Instead, chief medical superintendent Dr Sangeeta Goyal got the jab. She admitted several frontline workers who came for the inoculations were apprehensive. “After 10-12 people got the vaccine and came out of the observation room, several others went in to take the shots,” she said. At Dasna, Kusum Lata (59), a ward attendant, could not muster the courage to get herself vaccinated. “I have high blood pressure and I have had surgeries in the past. I got scared. But I will get the shot in the next round,” she said. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said no case of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported. Some people complained of minor discomfort for a little while after taking the vaccine. According to doctors, heaviness in the head, increased blood pressure and mild fever are some of the common effects of vaccination. The day began slowly at the vaccination centres in both NCR cities. While the six booths in Noida (GB Nagar) recorded 20-25% initial turnout, in Ghaziabad, the process slowed down further at some places after a glitch in the CoWIN portal. The turnout picked up later in the day in Ghaziabad, touching 95%. In GB Nagar, the turnout was 66%. Baghpat, with 96%, was the best performer in the Meerut zone. While Ghaziabad had set up four centres — Santosh Hospital, Dasna community health centre, Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi, and District Women’s Hospital — in GB Nagar, the booths were at Sharda Hospital, Child PGI, GIMS, Kailash Hospital and the community health centres at Bhangel and Bisrakh. With the turnout remaining indifferent till 1pm, vaccination administrators started calling up those whose names were on the lists and appealed to them to take the shots. Till 1pm, Santosh Hospital had seen just 15 people take the vaccines. Although the process that started around 11am and was supposed to go on till 5pm, it was extended by an hour in some centres that saw recipients coming in late. Till Saturday evening, 379 heath workers were vaccinated in Ghaziabad, which had a target of 400. In GB Nagar, of the 600 health workers who were to get the shots, 393 were vaccinated. “We made several phone calls to Asha and ANM workers to ensure that they reach the vaccination centres,” said an official in Noida. Some people said they had to convince their families. “We knew we would get the vaccine first. We have been at the forefront in the fight against Covid for the past one year. Yes, there was some anxiety in the family. I made a video call to my daughters to assure them I was fine,” said Devendra Kumar, a laboratory technician who took the vaccine. Shamin Sheikh (24) was the first to get the jab in GB Nagar, at Child PGI, after the inoculations started at 11.15am, following the PM’s address. Noida MP Dr Mahesh Sharma was the first to get the jab at Kailash Hospital. At Sharda Hospital, the CoWin portal did not open for some time and officials switched to manual recording of details to speed up the process. The centre saw about 50% turnout. “Some were out of town, others were not available while some were not well,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, the joint registrar and spokesperson, Sharda Hospital. At Bisrakh and Bhangel, only a few turned up to take the shots despite officials sending them text messages. Later in the day, the nodal officers in charge of the centres called up people and requested them to get the shots. “While some phone numbers were not correct, some health workers were busy with routine immunisation drives. Some of them came after 1pm,” said Dr Sachindra Mishra, medical superintendent, CHC Bisrakh. An ambulance driver who reached the Bisrakh centre around 2.45pm, said he would waited for a few hours to get the vaccine. “We will get the shot, but not now. We will get it at 5pm,” he said. Asked why he wanted to wait, he said he wanted to see how the others feel after taking the shot. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said: “I feel proud to be a part of this. Officers and employees of the health department are working on a war footing for the past one year.” What happens to those who missed out on Day 1? Those not covered on Saturday will be vaccinated in the following rounds, a senior health official said. The details of the plan have not been finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/after-initial-apprehensions-about-vaccines-opening-day-ends-with-95-turnout-in-ghaziabad-1/3rd-stay-away-in-noida/articleshow/80308805.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 17, 2021||Ghaziabad||After initial apprehensions, opening day ends with 95% turnout in Ghaziabad, 1/3rd stay away in Noida||NOIDA/GHAZIABAD: UP’s two biggest NCR cities began the first day of vaccinations similarly but ended on different notes as Ghaziabad managed to inoculate nearly all recipients, but only around two-thirds of the frontline workers scheduled to get the Covishield shots turned up in Noida. Saturday did not begin like the most awaited day in more than a year should. The launch of vaccinations to protect from the Covid-19 pandemic that has upended lives like nothing else did not trigger a rush to inoculation centres, quite contrary to the sense of relief and enthusiasm associated with the vaccine rollout, as apprehensions about the vaccine made many hesitate. Some turned up after coaxing and counselling. But quite a few didn’t. The first inoculations in Ghaziabad happened at the District Women’s Hospital, where the first dose was to be given to Laxmi, a Group-D staff member. But she did not reach on time. Instead, chief medical superintendent Dr Sangeeta Goyal got the jab. She admitted several frontline workers who came for the inoculations were apprehensive. “After 10-12 people got the vaccine and came out of the observation room, several others went in to take the shots,” she said. At Dasna, Kusum Lata (59), a ward attendant, could not muster the courage to get herself vaccinated. “I have high blood pressure and I have had surgeries in the past. I got scared. But I will get the shot in the next round,” she said. Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said no case of adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) was reported. Some people complained of minor discomfort for a little while after taking the vaccine. According to doctors, heaviness in the head, increased blood pressure and mild fever are some of the common effects of vaccination. The day began slowly at the vaccination centres in both NCR cities. While the six booths in Noida (GB Nagar) recorded 20-25% initial turnout, in Ghaziabad, the process slowed down further at some places after a glitch in the CoWIN portal. The turnout picked up later in the day in Ghaziabad, touching 95%. In GB Nagar, the turnout was 66%. Baghpat, with 96%, was the best performer in the Meerut zone. While Ghaziabad had set up four centres — Santosh Hospital, Dasna community health centre, Yashoda Hospital, Kaushambi, and District Women’s Hospital — in GB Nagar, the booths were at Sharda Hospital, Child PGI, GIMS, Kailash Hospital and the community health centres at Bhangel and Bisrakh. With the turnout remaining indifferent till 1pm, vaccination administrators started calling up those whose names were on the lists and appealed to them to take the shots. Till 1pm, Santosh Hospital had seen just 15 people take the vaccines. Although the process that started around 11am and was supposed to go on till 5pm, it was extended by an hour in some centres that saw recipients coming in late. Till Saturday evening, 379 heath workers were vaccinated in Ghaziabad, which had a target of 400. In GB Nagar, of the 600 health workers who were to get the shots, 393 were vaccinated. “We made several phone calls to Asha and ANM workers to ensure that they reach the vaccination centres,” said an official in Noida. Some people said they had to convince their families. “We knew we would get the vaccine first. We have been at the forefront in the fight against Covid for the past one year. Yes, there was some anxiety in the family. I made a video call to my daughters to assure them I was fine,” said Devendra Kumar, a laboratory technician who took the vaccine. Shamin Sheikh (24) was the first to get the jab in GB Nagar, at Child PGI, after the inoculations started at 11.15am, following the PM’s address. Noida MP Dr Mahesh Sharma was the first to get the jab at Kailash Hospital. At Sharda Hospital, the CoWin portal did not open for some time and officials switched to manual recording of details to speed up the process. The centre saw about 50% turnout. “Some were out of town, others were not available while some were not well,” said Dr Ajit Kumar, the joint registrar and spokesperson, Sharda Hospital. At Bisrakh and Bhangel, only a few turned up to take the shots despite officials sending them text messages. Later in the day, the nodal officers in charge of the centres called up people and requested them to get the shots. “While some phone numbers were not correct, some health workers were busy with routine immunisation drives. Some of them came after 1pm,” said Dr Sachindra Mishra, medical superintendent, CHC Bisrakh. An ambulance driver who reached the Bisrakh centre around 2.45pm, said he would waited for a few hours to get the vaccine. “We will get the shot, but not now. We will get it at 5pm,” he said. Asked why he wanted to wait, he said he wanted to see how the others feel after taking the shot. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said: “I feel proud to be a part of this. Officers and employees of the health department are working on a war footing for the past one year.” What happens to those who missed out on Day 1? Those not covered on Saturday will be vaccinated in the following rounds, a senior health official said. The details of the plan have not been finalised.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ghaziabad/after-initial-apprehensions-about-vaccines-opening-day-ends-with-95-turnout-in-ghaziabad-1/3rd-stay-away-in-noida/articleshow/80309210.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 17, 2021||Aurangabad||Govt will soon clear plan to rename Aurangabad: Minister||State industries minister and Shiv Sena leader Subhash Desai on Saturday said the state government will soon approve a proposal to rename Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar. Desai, who was in Aurangabad to inaugurate public projects, asserted that CM Uddhav Thackeray had explicitly backed the demand to give the name of Maratha king Sambhaji Maharaj to Aurangabad, adding every local should also support the move. “Certain formalities need to be completed. Our late party chief Balasaheb Thackeray had ‘renamed’ Aurangabad as Sambhajinagar 25 year ago,” he said. Desai’s comments came as the row over renaming Aurangabad is straining ties within MVA government with Congress maintaining it was not part of the CMP. BJP, Sena engage in poster warThe state government is transforming Aurangabad into a city that everyone can feel proud of. It will fill hearts of all 15 lakh citizens of Aurangabad with joy,” Desai told mediapersons on the sidelines of his visit. Meanwhile, BJP and Sena engaged in a poster war ahead of top leaders visiting the city on Saturday. Even as Sena put up posters of ‘Aaple Sambhajinagar’ at prominent places, BJP countered it with ‘Super Sambhajinagar’ posters. Desai said nobody should have qualms over calling Aurangabad ‘Aaple Sambhajinagar’ or ‘Super Sambhajinagar’. NCP leader Supriya Sule, who was also in town, said the issue can be resolved through talks. “We can talk to sections of society and then arrive at a decision,” she said, when asked about her party’s stand. There is also a controversy over renaming Osmanabad as a ‘Dharashiv’ by Sena.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/aurangabad/govt-will-soon-clear-plan-to-rename-aurangabad-minister/articleshow/80309195.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||99 recipients have adverse reactions, 2 hospitalised||NEW DELHI: Ninety-nine people across India experienced adverse reactions after being vaccinated on Saturday but only two were considered serious enough to require hospitalisation. However, central officials said there were no reports of adverse effects requiring hospitalisation till Saturday evening, Eleven adverse reactions were noticed in Telangana, 22 in Maharashtra (14 of 22 were minor cases), 52 in Delhi and 14 in West Bengal. Fifty-one out of the 52 healthcare workers in Delhi who had an adverse reaction were minor adverse events. One adverse event, which required hospital admission, was reported late Saturday evening from AIIMS where the healthcare worker had been admitted. In Kolkata, top health official Ajay Chakravorty said that all but one of the 14 who had experienced adverse reactions had been allowed to go home after an hour’s observation.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/99-recipients-have-adverse-reactions-2-hospitalised/articleshow/80309198.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi CM at Lok Nayak: Don't pay heed to rumours, vaccines are totally safe||NEW DELHI: After inspecting the inoculation exercise at Lok Nayak Hospital, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said that the vaccines were completely safe and asked people not to pay heed to any rumours. He stressed that people should continue wearing masks and practice social distancing even after vaccination. Congratulating Delhiites, Kejriwal said the vaccination process was running smoothly and people who had been vaccinated were not experiencing any difficulties or side-effects. "We are at Lok Nayak Hospital and I have inspected the services provided during the vaccination process. The people who have been vaccinated are very happy and not experiencing any difficulties or side-effects. Please continue wearing masks and maintaining social distancing even after being vaccinated," said Kejriwal, accompanied by health minister Satyendar Jain, who also inspected the drive at Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty Hospital. The CM said vaccination had been started at 81 sites. "The number of locations for vaccination will be increased to 175 in the coming days. When the quantity of vaccines will be large, inoculation will be done at 1,000 sites. At first, only health workers will be vaccinated, including doctors, paramedic staff and other personnel. These are our corona warriors and it is very important that they are protected from Covid so that they can serve others. Frontline workers, policemen, people above 50 years, and then people below 50 years but with comorbidities will be next in line to receive the vaccines," added Kejriwal. Atmaja Priyadarshini Nayak, nursing officer at Lok Nayak Hospital, was given the shot in the presence of the CM. Out of the scheduled 100 healthcare workers, only 32 got the shot on the first day. Lok Nayak Hospital director Dr Suresh Kumar said, "The doctors, nurses, technicians and other staff were very happy because people will finally get some relief from Covid-19. We have treated about 11,000 infected people. During the process, many of our health workers also contracted the disease. I want to request people to participate in the vaccination drive wholeheartedly."||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-cm-at-lok-nayak-dont-pay-heed-to-rumours-vaccines-are-totally-safe/articleshow/80309200.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||‘Couldn’t sleep entire night, kept praying’||BENGALURU: Jesima Jalarmathi, a nursing officer at Nimhans, was ridden with fear after getting a call on Friday night asking her to be prepared to administer Covid-19 vaccines. “I have been a nurse for the last 21 years but this is a new vaccination and I was worried. I couldn’t sleep the entire night and kept praying to the Almighty throughout,” the 46-year-old vaccinator told STOI on Saturday after giving the jab to 38 people at Nimhans. The first dose was given to Nimhans director Dr G Gururaj, and Jesima said that she was jittery while administering the first injection but got over the initial fear afterwards. “All my colleagues helped me regain confidence and I eventually overcame my trepidation and was able to administer the injection gently,” Jesima said. By the end of the day, Dr Gururaj appreciated Jesima saying that she was a gentle injector. While administering the vaccine shots, Jesima said that she could not help but recall the coronavirus cases she had seen among her colleagues and a fellow nursing officer who succumbed to the infection.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/couldnt-sleep-entire-night-kept-praying/articleshow/80309204.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||‘Don’t go for the 1st round, my kids said’||HYDERABAD: When she showed up for work at Gandhi Hospital on Saturday, sanitation worker S Kishtamma had little idea she’d become the first to get vaccinated in Telangana. Initially slotted for Monday, she jumped to the front of the line as PM Modi was expected to interact with beneficiaries there and the authorities wanted some sanitation staff there along with doctors. “I was a bit nervous initially, but I’m absolutely fine now,” she said after stepping out of the observation room. Her family, though, was apprehensive. “My children weren’t comfortable with me getting vaccinated in the first round,” said the mother of three. But she decided to go ahead with it, nonetheless.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/dont-go-for-the-1st-round-my-kids-said/articleshow/80309208.cms||Amrita Didyala
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||On V-Day, Vid reports lowest Covid cases, deaths in weeks||Nagpur: Vaccine day has brought some more delight for Vidarbha in the terms of daily Covid-19 cases and deaths. On Saturday, only 575 new cases were reported from Vidarbha, which is lowest day’s case count not only in the New Year but also in the last many weeks. Less than 575 cases were reported last time on December 28 (568). Total 10 deaths, including six in Nagpur were reported on Saturday, which is also lowest since December 25. Recovery rate further improved to 94.6% and case fatality rate remained at 2.57%. Number of patients under treatment in the region reduced to 7480 which is less than 3% of the total cases reported in the region so far. Vaccination drive was in its full swing across the region on Saturday, but the number of tests conducted in a day was also maintained by most district authorities. More than 4,000 tests were conducted in Nagpur district while all other districts in Vidarbha also followed their average daily test number on Saturday. Nagpur became the first district in Vidarbha to achieve the milestone of 10 lakh Covid-19 tests codnucted since the beginning. Till date, Nagpur has conducted 1003679 tests. Gondia district did not release Covid-19 statistics on Saturday. Chandrapur: There were just 9 cases on Saturday. In all, 13 patients were discharged, while solitary death was reproved. The caseload has risen to 22,828, while the recoveries amount to 22,165. There are 282 active cases in the district. Amravati: Seventy-nine new cases took the district’s caseload to 20,699 on Saturday while 72 recoveries took the total to 19,928. There was no death. There are 363 active cases. Yavatmal: The district reported 40 new cases. Currently, 440 active positive patients are undergoing treatment. Total 13,583 cases have been recorded of which 12,723 have recovered. Wardha: With new 31 cases, the caseload of the district increased to 9,672 while 15 patients were discharged. The recoveries have reached 9,046. Total 335 patients are active positive patients here. Gadchiroli: Total 13 new cases were reported while 18 patients recovered. Total cases reached 9,266 including 9036 recoveries. Recovery rate is above 97% in Gadchiroli. No death was reported. Bhandara: The district reported death of a Covid positive patient which took the toll to 314. With 21 new cases and 39 recoveries, the district now has 12,964 cases and 12,311 recoveries. Akola: Of more than 600 tests conducted in the last 24 hours, Akola reported 34 new cases taking the number to 11,117. With 41 patients getting recovered, total 10,180 of them have recovered till date. Two patients died during treatment. Washim: The district still has lowest number of cases in Vidarbha. On Saturday, 12 new cases were reported while 11 patients recovered. No death was reported. Buldhana: More than 600 reports were received of which 62 tested positive. On the other hand, 38 patients recovered. No death was reported.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/on-v-day-vid-reports-lowest-covid-cases-deaths-in-weeks/articleshow/80306695.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Give Covaxin a shot, it’s safe & sound: Volunteers||Nagpur: While hundreds of doctors and health workers received the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday, the most discussed and debated issue of the day was the safety of Covaxin — a fully indigenous Covid vaccine which was administered at two centres in Vidarbha. As reported by TOI yesterday, a large number of health workers were sceptical about the jab of Covaxin. While manufacturers, authorities and the experts have asserted that the vaccine is safe, TOI spoke to three volunteers from city who had participated in the human trials of Covaxin held in Nagpur between July and September. Nagpur was the only city in Central India where all three phases of human trials of Covaxin were conducted. The first phase was held in July, second in September and the third is ongoing. Together, more than 1,700 people from Nagpur have already received Covaxin jabs. “The vaccine was given to me in July. I never experienced any health issues in the last six months,” said a 23-yr-old IT professional. A 56-yr-old housewife said she too had no side effects. “I used to have cough and cold with weather change. I have had no such experience since July,” she said. Another 43-year-old volunteer said that health parameters of all the participants are monitored on regular basis. Dr Ashish Tajne, who coordinated all three phases of the trials, said that not a single participant in Nagpur had any complications. “The vaccine is safe. Hundreds in different age groups and family backgrounds were vaccinated and there was no complaint on health parameters,” he said. Dr Chandrashekhar Gillurkar, whose hospital conducted the first two phases of the trials, informed that the participants were observed for 2 hours post-vaccination to assess the reactogenicity and were instructed to record the local and systemic reactions (days 0 to 7 and days 14 to 21) post-vaccination using memory aids. “Our experts used to call them and ask if they experienced pain, tenderness, redness, erythema, swelling etc. We also checked for fever, fatigue/malaise, myalgia, body aches, headache, vomiting, anorexia, chills, rash and diarrhoea. Nothing has been reported till date,” said Dr Gillurkar. SAFE COVAXIN July: 55 got 2 Covaxin jabs as part of Phase I of human trial September 2020: 50 more get as part of Phase II trials December 2020: 1600+ got Covaxin jabs, most of them have also got second dose by now All participants being monitored regularly No health complications reported||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/give-covaxin-a-shot-its-safe-sound-volunteers/articleshow/80306723.cms||Chaitanya Deshpande
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||IGGMCH’s Covid warrior turns its first vaccinator||Nagpur: It has been 10 agonizing months for junior resident-III Dr Priti Tiwari, 29, at Indira Gandhi Government Medical College and Hospital (IGGMCH) which was the other government Covid hospital in the city beside GMCH and AIIMS. January 16 would go down as a memorable day in her life as she was assigned the task of administering the first Covishield shot to dean Dr Ajay Keoliya. She had helplessly witnessed many patients die of Covid during the last 10 months. IGGMCH treated and discharged over 2,100 patients but could not save over 1,300 moderate to severe patients admitted to the hospital. “It is a hope at last. We had seen the time when everyone was fearful, everyone was eagerly waiting for a vaccine. The long wait is over,” she said after giving the first jab to her dean. It was also the first vaccine given in Nagpur. Before TOI could pose her next query, Dr Tiwari excused herself to vaccinate the next beneficiary. Returning after administering another Covishield shot, Dr Tiwari said, “Wearing the PPE kit for 12 hours, dehydration and sleepless nights are all now a thing of the past. Having lived all those nightmares, I am still happy we did our job with conviction,” she said. She said the entire team at the community medicine department along with rest of the doctors, nurses attendants and other staff of the college played a key role in this fight against Covid. Professor and head Dr Ashok Jadhao said his department imparted training to all health workers when Covid infection spread in the city. “Public health, NMC, ayurvedic college and medical college workers were trained by our department. All cases, deaths were reported by us in different formats to ICMR, DMER, NMC. Our residents worked in Covid OPDs round the clock and in wards too during the peak,” he said, recalling the challenges. Dr Jadhao said one associate professor, three lecturers, six PG students and 41 interns from the department turned Covid positive in line of duty. Dr Jyotsana Deshmukh and Dr Nisha Agrawal from the department too played crucial roles. Both were seen busy with vaccination programme on Saturday. Dr Tiwari belongs to Yavatmal and her father is a businessman. Dr Tiwari said though the last 10 months were gruelling, she didn’t realize how time lapsed. “I haven’t gone home or taken a leave since March 2020. My parents used to worry a lot. I didn’t go home fearing I may infect them,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/iggmchs-covid-warrior-turns-its-first-vaccinator/articleshow/80306732.cms||Sarfaraz Ahmed
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||What physical problems? They all line up at Daga Hosp||Nagpur: Rolling up his wheelchair, Dr Irfaan Shaikh reached the first registration desk at Daga Memorial Hospital’s vaccination centre on Saturday morning. A staffer at the hospital, today he’s a ‘guest’, courtesy his name being on Covishield’s beneficiary list on day one.Though physically challenged, Dr Irfaan, as he is popularly called by everyone around, is an epitome of positivity. “Everyone is talking about the vaccine and their fears about what will happen. I believe that everything will be alright. I am extremely happy that I am receiving this vaccine on day one and would like to tell everyone that there’s nothing to be afraid of. This vaccination drive will go a long way in increasing herd immunity,” said Dr Irfaan.Veena Ghadge, in-charge of the family planning department at DMH, is a cancer survivor. “I have survived one of the most dreaded diseases so everyone must believe me when I say that there is nothing to fear about this vaccine. I look forward to getting my vaccine shot and playing a role in making our society stand strong against Covid-19 virus,” said Ghadge.Vaishali Sahare, a trained nurse who works on the administrative side of the hospital management, said arrangements have been made for social workers to be present and counsel people. “We may have a situation where someone has second thoughts about the vaccination or has queries on what to do next. For this, we have a social worker and counsellor here who will help them through this mental process,” said Sahare. On the lighter side, setting up a vaccination centre also brought forth a new “challenge” for DMH. S Barde, a senior nurse at DMH, said, “Our hospital is basically for women and children. So toilet facilities for males was a big problem. But since both males and females will come for Covid-19 vaccination, we approached Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vikas Mahatme. Through his MP funds we will be getting portable toilets to be set up by tomorrow.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/what-physical-problems-they-all-line-up-at-daga-hosp/articleshow/80306742.cms||Abhishek Choudhari
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Don’t fear vax: Mayo’s pulmonolgy dept head||Nagpur: “Today is a golden day, and nectar is being showered.” Translating an old Marathi adage, IGGMCH professor and head of the pulmonology department Dr Radha Munje chronicled the historic moment of being in the first 100 beneficiaries to receive Covishield vaccine at the hospital. In an audio clip, Dr Munje said she a witness to the historic moment beside being a beneficiary of the vaccine. “Everyone was awaiting the arrival of this vaccine. Preparation for registering the beneficiaries started more than three months ago by department of PSM and its team. I am happy doctors and healthcare workers are in the priority list. This is a privilege for all frontline Covid warriors.” Dr Munje also recalled how the medical college prepared ahead of the V-day being helped and guided by dean of IGGMCH and administration. “Safety of patients, care of vaccine, room for observation, and all the preparation were done by the team. I got an SMS (about vaccination) yesterday evening. I was very happy and a little apprehensive. Today, I received my vaccine with many of my colleagues. None of us had any negative effect. The protocol was strictly followed and taken care of to the word by the IGGMCH team.” She also allayed fears of getting pricked. “It is as easy prick as for any other vaccine. January 16, 2021, will be etched in my memory forever,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/dont-fear-vax-mayos-pulmonolgy-dept-head/articleshow/80306762.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||509 get the jab at seven rural centres of district||Nagpur: Even though Hingna Rural Hospital had drawn up a list of 100 persons to be administered Covid vaccine on the first day of the drive, the authorities were able to vaccinate only 76 people. Medical superintendent Dr Ravikant Ghoderao told TOI that of the 100 persons, only 81 turned up at the hospital. “Three persons straightaway refused to take a vaccine while two requested that they be vaccinated later on the advice of their doctors as they were unwell,” he added. The drive was wound up at 5pm. According to Dr Dipak Selokar, district health officer, 509 persons were administered vaccines in the seven rural centres of the district. “In percentage terms, our strike rate was 72.71,” he added. Covid vaccination started late in the rural centres as the district administration had instructed the doctors to start the process only after Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s address to the nation was over. PM’s address was over at around 11.15am and the Hingna Rural Hospital authorities began the process after it. The first dose was administered to Dr Dilip Gode (67), dean of Datta Meghe Medical College, at around 11.30am. Nurse Geeta Durge was chosen to administer the vaccine. Five persons, whose names were on the top of the list, were asked to go inside the vaccination section. They were asked to sit in the waiting room while Dr Gode was asked to come to the vaccination room. Thereafter, the vaccinated person was asked to wait for half an hour in the observation room. If the person did not have any reaction, he or she was allowed to leave. No cases of any reaction were reported in Hingna on Saturday. Police personnel were posted at the entrance of the vaccination section. They called out the names of the persons to be vaccinated, who had to show their identity cards. They were then scanned for fever and asked about any symptoms of cough and cold by the nurses. Then they were allowed to go to the waiting room. Dr Gode told the media that he had chosen to be the first person to be vaccinated in Hingna to quell unfounded rumours on WhatsApp about reactions of the vaccine. “I was administrated a vaccine and I am absolutely fine. There is no after effect. I appeal to people to not believe in these rumours and get vaccinated when their turn comes,” he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/509-get-the-jab-at-seven-rural-centres-of-district/articleshow/80306755.cms||Ashish Roy
January 17, 2021||Nagpur||Music at V-centre calms anxious nerves||Nagpur: The moment one steps inside the makeshift observation room of the Pachpaoli Sutika Gruha (women’s hospital) where vaccine beneficiaries are kept around half-an-hour for gauging adverse effects following immunization, there would be some soothing music flowing from a music system to greet. The music system, which mostly doled out melodies of the past, was the idea of health officials like addl health officer Dr Vijay Joshi, who wanted the beneficiaries have a soothing experience. Dr Dipankar Bhivgade, zonal medical officer, Ashi Nagar zone, said the beneficiaries are overawed by the occasion in addition to their already underlying tension about the outcome of the dose. “The music was planned to have a psychological effect on the nerves of the beneficiaries, some of who may have anxiety attacks. Music will work on their psyche,” he said. “Apart from counselling and pep talk, music is also expected to support us to make the beneficiaries relaxed and comfortable,” he said. Dr Bhivgade said the system was installed even for the jabbers and other support workers who too must feel relaxed during the daylong programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/nagpur/music-at-v-centre-calms-anxious-nerves/articleshow/80306766.cms||Soumitra Bose
January 17, 2021||India||Every Indian is proud on this historic day, says Amit Shah||NEW DELHI: “The ‘Made in India’ vaccines are testimony to the country’s pledge to make India self-reliant,” said home minister Amit Shah as he joined several BJP functionaries, including defence minister Rajnath Singh and party president JP Nadda, to hail the launch of the massive Covid-19 vaccination drive by PM Narendra Modi. Shah said the “New India” under Modi develops adversities into opportunities and challenges into achievements. “India is among select few countries which have achieved success towards combating the biggest crisis for the humankind. Every Indian is proud of this unprecedented achievement,” Shah said soon after the PM rolled out the drive. “On this historic day, I bow to all our corona warriors,” Shah tweeted. Defence minister Rajnath Singh said the launch of the largest vaccination drive is a decisive step towards winning the war against Covid-19. “There are no words to define the unusual determination and commitment PM Modi showed right from the manufacturing of the vaccines up to the vaccination drive,” he said. Calling it a momentous day, BJP chief JP Nadda said, “Usually it takes years to develop a vaccine but Indian scientists and doctors have done a miracle by developing two ‘Made in India’ vaccines. PM Modi is the stellar example to the world how to control and effectively deal with a pandemic, how to create opportunities even in adversities, and how to lead a nation of over a billion people at the time of crisis,” he said. “We salute our doctors, nurses, healthcare workers for making great efforts at this time. They are the real heroes,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/every-indian-is-proud-on-this-historic-day-says-amit-shah/articleshow/80309223.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Over 3,500 military personnel get shots on day one of Op Vax||NEW DELHI: Over 3,500 personnel of the over 15-lakh strong armed forces, mainly doctors, nurses and other healthcare workers deployed across the country from Ladakh to Vizag, were administered the Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday. The number of those vaccinated stood at 3,129 in the Army, with the figure being around 250 each in the much smaller Navy and IAF. “The first category in the armed forces include medical personnel but frontline soldiers, submariners and fighter pilots are also right up there in the priority list,” said a senior official. In Ladakh, where around 50,000 soldiers are deployed in the nine-month-long military confrontation with China in the eastern sector, medical personnel were given the vaccine shots on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/over-3500-military-personnel-get-shots-on-day-one-of-op-vax/articleshow/80309227.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Satabdi hopeful after talks, says TMC will return to power||Kolkata: Trinamool Congress’s Birbhum MP Satabdi Roy has appealed to party workers to work together along with her for a third TMC government under Mamata Banerjee. Satabdi’s Facebook post on Saturday came a day after she shelved her Delhi visit following a meeting with Trinamool leader Abhishek Banerjee. Satabdi explained why she did a U-turn after saying that she was going to meet friends in Delhi. She also didn’t rule out a meeting with Union home minister Amit Shah. “I had a detailed discussion with leader of the Trinamool family Abhishek Banerjee. I apprised him of the problems. We had a positive discussion. I am hopeful of an early solution,” she said. The Birbhum MP’s profile picture was also different from that on Thursday, when she gave vent to her grievances. The colour of her attire changed from saffron to pink and yellow on Saturday. “Election is in the offing. Some Trinamool activists may have grievances like I had. We need to sort them out within the party,” she said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/satabdi-hopeful-after-talks-says-tmc-will-return-to-power/articleshow/80308431.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Education among worst affected sector in Covid||Ranchi: Chief minister Hemant Soren on Saturday said that education sector suffered the most during the Covid-induced lockdown and the fact that pupils still managed to continue with their studies despite facing a challenging situation speaks volumes about their discipline. Speaking as a chief guest at the 59th convocation ceremony of Xavier Institute of Social Services (XISS) here via video conferencing, Soren congratulated the 304 graduating students and urged them learn new skills “as the next phase of their life is going to be tough”. “Since the path ahead will not be always smooth, you should rely on some basic qualities to face life’s adversities,” he added. He further said, “The upcoming phase is going to be crucial and challenging and there is a need for smart managerial skills, which I feel will not be a problem for the XISS students as they are warriors in the field of management.” He advised the students to cherish the memories of their time in XISS and keep in mind the persons who helped them reach their goals. The CM also praised the institute for continuing to nurture the students who have brought glory to the state and the country. “There is a long queue for getting admission at XISS and the institute not nurtures students coming from the affluent class but the ones from weaker sections of the society also find a place here. I hope XISS will continue with its good work,” he said. XISS director Joseph Marianus Kujur highlighted the institute’s achievements during the 2019-20 session and said it introduced a redesigned course in human resource management. “The rural development curriculum was revised comprehensibly to increase professional competency and the marketing management syllabus was upgraded to make it more market-friendly,” he said. He added that XISS conducted several extracurricular programmes for industrial and rural exposure of its students. It conducted around 30 national and international webinars on nation building during the lockdown. The institute current placement figure is 88. 5%. “We will focus on strengthening the bond between alumni and the institute further and intensifying scientific writing with emphasis on virtual interactive sessions,” Kujur said. Ajit Xess, who is president of the institute’s governing body, said, “Management studies is all about holistic growth and if you are able to leverage your excellent quality education from XISS and combine it with a positive attitude, I am sure you all will contribute something meaningful to society.” As many as 304 students of Batch 2018-20 were awarded their diplomas virtually in the ceremony. A total of 26 students from all five programmes were declared top rank holders. Eleven gold, eight silver and five bronze medals along with two cash prizes were distributed among them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/education-among-worst-affected-sector-in-covid/articleshow/80306600.cms||टाइम्स न्यूज़ नेटवर्क
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Info about vaccine, counselling key to successful drive: Experts||RANCHI: Even as the vaccination drive began in Jharkhand along with the rest of the country, public health experts in the state said providing information about the vaccine and counselling people will be the two most crucial steps towards reducing the hesitancy towards being inoculated. They added that in the era of social media and instant messaging, misinformation can spread quickly and so authorities must be prepared to tackle the situation. Expressing concerns over the kind of misinformation and speculations doing the rounds, Dr Devesh Kumar of Rims said proper scientific and authoritative communication is the only way to build confidence. “Considering a committee designated to address the inquisitiveness of the common people can be a good idea,” he said. Kumar admitted that there is a sense of doubt even among medical professionals. “Not everyone is dealing with Covid-19 or vaccination in everyday life and there are apprehensions because of information pouring in from different sources,” he said. Kumar said that though the government is training medical professionals and disseminating information about the vaccine, a robust counselling mechanism has to be developed alongside the vaccination drive. Former national vice-president of Indian Medical Association Dr Ajay Kumar Singh said that during his rural posting in the 90s, he had experienced reluctance about polio vaccination which had to be dealt with carefully taking social workers into confidence. “The ICDS programme, which was integrated with the Anganwadi centres operated by the welfare department, helped a lot in pushing any regular immunization drive because people are more connected to the anganwadi centres than doctors coming from the cities,” Singh said, suggesting roping in social workers and influential people from society who can help build confidence. Experts also believe that anyone receiving the shots should be aware that pain at the site of inoculation and mild fever are associated with any vaccine and should be considered normal. “There is apprehension about data of the stage three trial of Covaxin, but the fact is that both the vaccines have successfully completed the safety trials. Stage three data speaks about efficiency among masses which should not be a cause of concern for those getting the shots,” Kumar said. Secretary health Nitin Madan Kulkarni said IEC programmes have been conducted for healthcare experts and they have been directed to guide those getting the vaccines. “We are also conducting mass awareness drives and even the Co-WIN platform will answer queries,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/info-about-vax-counselling-key-to-successful-drive-experts/articleshow/80306670.cms||Jaideep Deogharia
January 17, 2021||Vadodara||Two cross-dressers arrested for making obscene gestures||VADODARA: With miscreants making it their haven, the Sayajigunj citybus stand seems to have become a menace at night. On Friday night too, two men, dressed as women, were arrested after they seen making obscene gestures at male passers-by. Police said that during patrolling near the city bus stand the two cross-dressers, identified as Jaanhar alias Bipasa Parmar and Pravin alias Vidya Thakor, were found standing outside a public toilet at the bus stand. They were passing lewd remarks and making obscene gestures at the men, cops said. “The duo was posing as prostitutes to lure customers. They would either take people in a deserted lane in Sayajigunj or near the ravine of Bhukhi Nullah opposite Pratapgunj police chowki,” a police official said. Thakor, a resident Kishanwadi, was arrested in October last year too for committing same crime. On October 5 last year, Thakor and two other men were arrested near Sayajigunj police station.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vadodara/two-cross-dressers-arrested-for-making-obscene-gestures/articleshow/80306139.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||MLA questions ‘outsider’ campaign, Trinamool hits back||Bally (Howrah): Trinamool Congress’s Bally MLA Baishali Dalmiya on Saturday condemned her party’s “outsider” narrative and wanted it to drop the campaign for driving a wedge between people, particularly in Howrah. “The campaign has spread scare among non-Bengalis in the state. My family priest is also afraid,” she said. Coming from a non-Bengali family residing in the state for generations, Baishali represents an assembly constituency that has a sizeable number of non-Bengali voters. Trinamool Howrah chairman and minister Arup Ray was taken aback with Baishali’s comment. “I fail to understand why Baishali Dalmiya is playing to the BJP tune despite her being in Trinamool. I fear she is saying all these after coming under someone’s influence. BJP is deliberately spreading confusion among non-Bengali residents,” Ray said. Clarifying TMC’s stand on the issue, he added: “Our party has a clear standpoint. We consider all those residing in Bengal as Bengalis. We are putting the outsider tag only on those who do not reside in Bengal. They are coming from outside and meddling in Bengal politics.” Saying that the “outsider” campaign might adversely affect TMC’s prospects, Baishali added: “I am getting panic calls from people who are asking if Bengal was outside India. They are accusing my party of targeting non-Bengalis. They want me to clarify if Trinamool wants a Bengal for Bengalis only.” The Trinamool MLA didn’t hesitate to “condemn” the campaign. “Didn’t our party have KD Singh as Rajya Sabha member? Don’t we have Prashant Kishor as election strategist? Many people with non-Bengali surnames are staying in Bengal for more than 50 years. Are they going to be stamped as outsiders?” she asked.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/mla-questions-outsider-campaign-trinamool-hits-back/articleshow/80308414.cms||Rupak Banerjee
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Holding on to my patience, Rajib says at FB interaction||Howrah: Trinamool minister Rajib Banerjee took to social media on Saturday to keep his supporters posted on the problems he was facing in the party and sought suggestions about his future course. “I am holding on to my patience till date. I want you to join me in finding out what I should do,” Banerjee said during a Facebook interaction. “There are a few leaders coming in the way of my good work. My mission is to remain with people. It pains me when I see youths moving out for jobs and education. The outward flow can stop if industries come up in the state. We have enough skills and human resources. We can build a robust IT sector. Am I saying anything wrong? Why then some people are taking an oblique view when I say all these? Am I supposed to carry out party directives only without having the freedom to say or do something?” Banerjee asked. He also responded to a viewer who messaged him saying what was the use of all the “drama” ahead of the assembly polls. “I tell you this is no drama. I have told about them in proper forums earlier. I didn’t speak out to serve my personal interests. I have no hankering for posts either. I say all these for people’s sake because I want to stay with them. Our party leader (Mamata Banerjee) also wants it. I will carve out my course the way people want it because I don’t want to lose public connect,” Banerjee said. “I met the Trinamool secretary general, told him about the problems and also expressed my views. I have so far maintained party discipline. But the leaders have not said anything to those who always take an oblique view to my efforts,” the minister said. Trinamool senior and MP Saugata Roy empathised with Banerjee. “I am happy he has raised some pertinent points. He didn’t accuse anybody,” Roy said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/holding-on-to-my-patience-rajib-says-at-fb-interaction/articleshow/80308440.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Trade bodies see ‘light at end of tunnel’ after vax drive starts in state||Ranchi: The nationwide rollout of Covid-19 vaccine on Saturday made the trade and industry bodies of the state hope for normalcy in business with many still battling the aftereffects of the lockdown imposed in March last year. In Jharkhand, extended lockdowns across sectors remained in force for months despite unlock at the national level. Vice-president of the Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI) Kishore Mantri said they are expecting economic activities to gain pace. “Even after the phased unlock, the entire business and economic activities are still to return to the pre-covid level. But after the vaccination started, we can finally see light at the end of tunnel,” Mantri said, adding that they are keeping fingers crossed over the efficacy of the vaccine. “All that everyone is now praying for is that India’s vaccines turn out to be a boon for the country without any major problem,” he said. Mantri said transport, hospitality and entertainment are a few key sectors which took a major beating in the state due to the extended lockdown. The entertainment sector, comprising cinema halls, amusement centres and the likes, are still shut. An official of Ranchi’s PVR Cinemas said they are expecting resumption of services in the state soon. “Almost every sector is now open, including malls. It’s time to allow cinema halls too. We are hopeful that soon, we shall come out of the locked down mode with the launch of the vaccine,” he said, adding that although there is still time for the common man to get access to the vaccine, with frontline workers getting vaccinated, curbing the spread of the virus will be easier. Meanwhile, political parties rejoiced throughout the day. Congress, a coalition partner in the state government, said Jharkhand will manage to become the top performing state for Covid inoculation. “The state government is committed towards public health and the entire machinery is now prepared to undertake the twin fights — curb the spread of the virus and ensure a hassle-free inoculation. We made a good start on day one,” said party spokesperson Alok Dubey, appealing the Union government to refrain from politics over the distribution of vaccines to the states that aren’t ruled by BJP. Last year, the ruling alliance in the state had been accusing the Union government of a step brotherly attitude in distributing funds and resources for the fight against Covid since the outbreak of the virus.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/trade-bodies-see-light-at-end-of-tunnel-after-vax-drive-starts-in-state/articleshow/80306596.cms||ASRP Mukesh
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Adhir takes aim at BJP and TMC over jobs, plight of Waqf properties||Bhangar (South 24 Parganas): Congress Lok Sabha leader Adhir Chowdhury hit out at both BJP and Trinamool from a rally on Saturday, in a bid to expand the party’s support base in South 24 Parganas. “The corrupt in politics have started changing jerseys. They are leaving Trinamool to join BJP, which is giving shelter to those accused in Sarada and Narada scams. Both parties have no mission. Trinamool institutionalised the ‘mere khawa rajniti’ in Bengal; BJP is taking it a step further,” Chowdhury said. Addressing the crowd in Bhangar, which has a heavy Muslim presence, the West Bengal Congress president pointed out that no government other than Congress had taken the initiative of absorbing minorities in government jobs. “Muslim participation in government jobs was 9% when Siddhartha Shankar Ray was CM. Now, the percentage has come down to 1.45%. Didi (CM Mamata Banerjee) is giving ‘Imam bhata’ like she is giving money to Puja committees without increasing job opportunities. People are moving out of the state looking for jobs,” he said. The Congress leader also pointed to the sorry plight of Waqf properties in Bengal. “Monetisation and commercial utilisation of Waqf properties in Bengal can generate huge money for the welfare of the Muslims,” he said. Chowdhury said people fought in the freedom struggle with ‘Bande Mataram’ on their lips. “Many of them sacrificed their lives. They didn’t give ‘Jai Shri Ram’ slogans,” he said, accusing BJP of trying create division along religious lines.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/adhir-takes-aim-at-bjp-and-tmc-over-jobs-plight-of-waqf-properties/articleshow/80308457.cms||Monotosh Chakraborty
January 17, 2021||Ranchi||Puja-like scene at sadar hosp as vax drive begins||Ranchi: The sadar hospital in Ranchi wore a festive look with balloons hanging from the ceilings and rangolis on the floor as the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the city around 10.45am on Saturday. After 10 months of the pandemic, the vaccination to control the pandemic commenced at 48 centres across the state. Dr Ranju Sinha, a pathologist working with at the hospital and among the first five recipients of the vaccine, was excited to get inoculated on Day One and was counselling her colleagues as she prepared to get the shot. “I have complete trust in the work of our scientists and researchers who have worked day and night to come up with this vaccine. You shouldn’t harbour an iota of doubt over its efficacy,” the 49-year-old said, while motivating one of her colleagues. Dr Ajit Kumar, general surgeon at the hospital, was also vaccinated during the day and conducted a surgery at the operation theatre barely 30 minutes after getting the jab. He said, “The vaccine is completely safe and I did not feel anything out of the ordinary.” Dr Vijay Mishra, medical director of Medica hospital, who got vaccinated in front of the CM came out from the centre and showed his vaccination mark on his arm. “I feel privileged today as I was selected among healthcare workers who were administered the vaccine in the first slot. The vaccine is completely safe and it will help us in decimating the pandemic.” he said. The centre was well decorated for the historic moment.and it was like a festival with many not on the list of beneficiaries had arrived to witness the grand moment. The vaccination centre at the hospital was decorated like a Puja pandal, with posters highlighting the safety and efficacy of the vaccine. Earlier in the day, chief minister Hemant Soren was welcomed by a group of tribal dance troupe before he launched the inoculation drive in the state. The vaccination venue had a video conferencing unit linked with the PMO so that PM Narendra Modi could interact with beneficiaries. Soren was also taken by surprise after he went out for an inspection around the district hospital campus when a girl in her 20s came towards him and touched his feet. Soren was told that she is the daughter of Susheela Lakra, a member of the Jharkhand movement. “Hamar beti hau (she is my daughter),” Susheela told Soren.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ranchi/puja-like-scene-at-sadar-hosp-as-vax-drive-begins/articleshow/80306631.cms||Gaurav Pandey
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Singur farmers to join Delhi border protest||Singur: A delegation of 100 farmers from Singur will leave for the Singhu border next week to join the protest against the farm laws. They will reach the site, where farmers have been demanding repeal of the three acts, on January 20. “It is an issue that will deeply impact farmers across the country. Farmers in Singur have shown their resolve earlier as well. A 100-member delegation will join the agitating farmers there,” said Rabindranath Bhattacharya, state minister and Singur MLA. “It is a very regressive law and people across the country are showing their solidarity with farmers every day. If implemented, this will be deadly.” Mahadeb Das, convenor of the Singur Krishijami Rakkha Committee, said: “We have fought for long. The time has come for farmers in the country to show that those at the Singhu border are not alone. We will decide on the next course of action after a meeting next week.” Last month, a five-member delegation of Trinamool Congress MPs went to the Singhu border. Chief minister Mamata Banerjee is also in touch with a section of farmers on a regular basis.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/singur-farmers-to-join-delhi-border-protest/articleshow/80308515.cms||Falguni Banerjee
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Visva-Bharati wants state land department to measure Amartya holding||Santiniketan: Visva-Bharati University has sought the state land and land reforms department’s help to measure the land under Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen’s possession in Santiniketan to find out if he was holding on to land in excess to what was admissible. Visva-Bharati, in a press release, stated: “The university’s claim over land purportedly being occupied by Professor Sen beyond what is admissible to him can be conclusively settled if the surveyor of the land and land reforms department measures the land. We want this done at the earliest to end the controversy.” The release was issued in presence of VB’s officiating registrar Ashok Mahato. It also touched upon the reported telephonic conversation between vice-chancellor Bidyut Chakrabarty and Sen over illegal encroachment that had kicked up a storm. “We have access to technology to ascertain who rang up the vice-chancellor. The issue can be conclusively settled,” the release added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/visva-bharati-wants-state-land-department-to-measure-amartya-holding/articleshow/80308523.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kolkata||Most vaccinate, a few vacillate: 92% of those enrolled turn up in Kolkata to receive the jab||KOLKATA: The fight against the pandemic got a booster shot on Saturday with the commencement of the vaccination programme as frontline health workers queued up to take the first jab at 207 sites across the state. Kolkata saw a healthy turnout of 92% though scepticism led a few to skip their turns at the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s health clinics. The overall state turnout stood at 75.9% with 15,707 of the enlisted 20,700 health workers turning up to receive the jabs. According to director of health services, Ajay Chakraborty, 14 people reported “adverse events” following the immunisation. All except one were allowed to leave after an hour’s observation. A 36-year-old nurse of B C Roy Hospital with a past history of allergic reactions was admitted to NRS Hospital. Her condition is stable but she will be kept in hospital under observation for the next two days. “Total AEFI (adverse event following immunisation) was less than one in a thousand. It proves we have a robust AEFI surveillance in Bengal,” the DHS said. At medical colleges, hospitals and health clinics across the city, doctors, nurses and health staff queued up enthusiastically long before the vaccination was scheduled to take off at 10.30 am. At Beliaghata ID Hospital, the first institute in the state to join the fight against the virus, principal Anima Haldar said she not only felt proud to be one of the first recipients but also privileged to “be able to show respect to the scientists’ community that has developed the vaccine”. “I am quite hopeful that if seniors like us show the way, all health workers will follow. All of us need to be immunized so that we can serve the rest,” she said. Among those who received the vaccine at Beliaghata ID were also community medicine specialists Sanjib Bandypadhyay and infectious diseases specialist Yogiraj Ray — both have been at the forefront of the Covid battle from the first day of the pandemic’s outbreak in Kolkata — and MSVP Asis Manna. The excitement though wasn’t unalloyed. In several hospitals and civic health clinics, a marked wariness about the vaccine led to some of those listed for the shot to skip the session on Saturday. At these centres, particularly in the KMC ward clinics, vaccination officers and support staff roped in other health workers to meet the day’s inoculation quota. When officials at Calcutta Medical College & Hospital urged staff volunteers to take the lead, Amritesh Maji, a doctor in the paediatric department, stepped forward. He wished to set an example among his friends and colleagues. “There are people who have reservations about the vaccine but I will only tell them to be more scared of the virus than the vaccine,” said the young doctor. The nursing superintendent of Bangur Institute of Neurosciences volunteered for vaccination on Saturday after a majority in her team expressed apprehension. Her move paid off. “When I registered, other nurses followed suit,” said Indrani Mitra who is in her early 60s. The reserve list came in handy at MR Bangur Hospital as well where 12 persons did not turn up for Saturday’s session. At SSKM hospital, too, there were some dropouts and the coordinating officers called in other senior doctors to fill in. “We had a tough time stitching together the first days’ list to ensure 100% attendance on the first day. The list kept changing till 9.30 pm on Friday,” said a senior official of the Beliaghata hospital. Two persons had to be refused at SSKM. While one had a past history of allergy, the other had taken a tetanus shot less than two weeks ago. Four private hospitals – Apollo Gleneagles, Peerless, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS) and AMRI – vaccinated more than their quota of 100 on Saturday. While RTIICS and AMRI vaccinated 110 each, Peerless and Apollo inoculated 101 and 108 recipients respectively. “We didn’t have to persuade any of our staffers and each one joined the queue enthusiastically,” said AMRI CEO Rupak Barua. Apollo Gleneagles Hospital oncologist Subir Ganguly – who took the shot on Saturday – felt apprehensions will recede as more medics like him got inoculated. “Some of my junior colleagues have been asking me if they should go ahead. I asked them to take the shot without hesitation since nothing provided a better shield. Since governments have approved the vaccine, we can be reasonably sure about its efficacy,” said Ganguly. A delegation from the state health department did the rounds of vaccination sites during the day. At places where the queue appeared unusually small like the civic clinic in Chetla, KMC officials were asked to call up beneficiaries and ensure they turned up.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kolkata/most-vaccinate-a-few-vacillate-92-of-those-enrolled-turn-up-in-city-to-receive-the-jab/articleshow/80308659.cms||Tamaghna Banerjee
January 17, 2021||Rajkot||Rajkot: Special badges with vaccine jab||RAJKOT: As the vaccine drive began across the country on Saturday, many health workers including senior doctors took the jab in Saurashtra region. Every person who took the vaccine were given special badges to appeal and encourage others too. In Rajkot district, nine centres have been set up for administering the vaccine. Of these nine centres, six centres are at Rajkot Civil Hospital, Padma Kunvarba Hospital, Sterling and Wockhardt hospitals and Shyamnagar and Kothariya health centres. Officials said that daily 100 people will be given vaccines from each of these centres. At a centre in Rajkot, medical van driver Ashokbhai was the first recipient of the vaccine dose. He felt "honoured" to be the first one to get the jab, he said, adding that "everyone should take it". The Gujarat Health Department has identified 4.31 lakh health workers for vaccination in the first phase. In the second phase, 6.93 lakh frontline workers, such as police personnel, 1.05 crore persons above age 50, and 2.75 lakh people under 50 but with co-morbidities will be covered.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/rajkot/special-badges-with-vaccine-jab/articleshow/80305770.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||‘India has a dense pipeline of future Covid vaccines’||As head of the national expert group on vaccines, Niti Aayog member Dr V K Paul has been at the centre of India’s vaccination strategy. He speaks to TOI’s Sushmi Dey on vaccine rollout and future strategies. Excerpts:How would you describe India’s fight against Covid-19 in the last 10 months?As a nation, we took preemptive, pro-active and comprehensive steps to contain the pandemic. Despite a large and dense population, the number of confirmed cases of Covid-19 have been relatively low at 7,629 per million compared to 12,010 as global average. Our cumulative mortality is only 110 per million compared to 1,199 in the US and 1,263 in UK, and fatality rate of only 1.4%. One important pillar has been science and technology, which is not only about vaccines, but also diagnostics, IT platforms, and critical products such as PPEs and ventilators. How was the vaccination programme against Covid planned, what were the preparations?First, development and production of vaccines. India is proud to host a comprehensive R&D and industry ecosystem that led to two vaccines reaching the state of emergency use authorisation, and four others in active clinical trials. There are over 15 vaccine candidates in various stages of pre-clinical development in the country. Thus, we have a dense pipeline of future vaccines. The second is vaccine implementation across a very large population and geography. The government started preparatory work several months back. This included ramping up of the cold-chain system, leveraging additional supplies of syringes and needles, identification and training of vaccinators, preparing AEFI (Adverse Effect Following Immunisation) protocols and developing a robust IT platform (CoWIN). Steering mechanisms at the state, district and block levels have been created, helplines activated and monitoring systems established. How will the vaccination programme progress after day one?Typically, each vaccine site will be responsible for vaccinating 100 persons a day. On the first day, it may be somewhat less but coverage will pick up rapidly. What is your estimation for dropouts from the vaccination drive and what is the minimum percentage required for herd immunity?I would like to see no dropouts at all in this campaign that is critically important for the lives and livelihood to become normal. Everyone who is identified for vaccination must come for inoculation and thereby protect self, family and the community at large. Herd immunity is a state when individuals cannot get infection because of immunity gained by a large number of people, either with vaccination or natural infection. One does not know exactly what proportion of immune persons would be required to create herd immunity for Covid-19. A general belief is that this would require about 60-70% of people to have protective antibodies. Do health and frontline workers have a choice not to get vaccinated?Getting vaccination for Covid-19 is voluntary and anyone can choose not to take the vaccine. But refusing vaccination is not rational in the face of a raging pandemic. The public health imperative demands that we all should embrace vaccination and extinguish this once and for all. Many are talking about vaccine equity. However, so far the government has announced free vaccine only for 3 crore healthcare and frontline workers. What about the priority population? Who all will get vaccines free?The government has clarified that vaccination for frontline health workers and pandemic-responsive team is free-…Going forward, clarification regarding funding for vaccinating others will be shared. Many states have started promising free vaccine for all. Can states procure vaccines on their own?The consensus at present is that Covid-19 vaccination programme should be a national effort. Vaccine supplies are relatively limited compared to potential demand and it is imperative that we dent the impact of the pandemic nationwide in the shortest time. Under these circumstances, it is best to have a national approach led by the Union government. When will vaccine be available over the counter in pharmacies ?The present focus is to achieve the twin public health objectives of protecting vulnerable population and safeguarding healthcare and pandemic response system. As the vaccine stock-piles build up and this objective is achieved, other options can be considered. You head the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for Covid-19 (NEGVAC). What is next on the agenda?As the vaccine programme moves forward, the group will serve as a forum to help navigate emerging challenges, and examine approaches for future phases of the programme.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/india-has-a-dense-pipeline-of-future-covid-vaccines/articleshow/80309233.cms||Sushmi Dey
January 17, 2021||India||‘I’m proud to have brought this amrut’||JAIPUR: Vridha Ram, the driver of a government vaccine van in Rajasthan’s Barmer, has been transporting vaccines to villages in the district bordering Pakistan for the last 19 years. Hence, when he got the opportunity to ferry life-saving Covid vaccines from Jaipur, the challenge of covering 1,100km in 24 hours didn’t deter the 50-year-old. Elated that he was chosen to carry out the arduous task, travelling from Barmer to Jaipur and back, Ram said, “Because of its location and topography, things take time to reach Barmer. I can’t help but feel proud to have brought this ‘amrut’ (elixir of life) home for my people.” Ram was accompanied by another driver, Bhika Ram, in the journey. “We knew we wouldn’t get time to rest during our travel as we had to transport the vaccines without wasting time. We started at 8pm on January 13 and reached Jaipur at 6am the next day. Though we travelled the farthest to collect the vaccines, we were the first to receive the consignment at the state vaccine storage in Jaipur,” said Ram. The duo left Jaipur at 11am on January 14 and reached Barmer by 9pm. “I have been transporting vaccines to rural Barmer for 19 years but the experience this time was different,” said the 50-year-old. Barmer deputy CMO Dr P C Deepan said, “The drivers helped us reach Jaipur early... We got 11,560 doses and as a result, we managed to start the vaccination drive today.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/im-proud-to-have-brought-this-amrut/articleshow/80309263.cms||Syed Intishab Ali
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Knife attached to rooster kills man, 65, in Tamil Nadu||A man died after a knife tied to a rooster injured him during a Pongal rooster fight at Poolamvalasu in Karur on Saturday. According to police, the knife was tied to the bird's leg in violation of rules. The deceased was identified as Thangavel, 65. When he was readying his rooster for the fight, another rooster inflicted injuries on his thigh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/knife-attached-to-rooster-kills-man-65-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80309274.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Telugu poem PM quoted was contender for national anthem||VIJAYAWADA: Many in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were taken by surprise on Saturday when PM Narendra Modi quoted famous Telugu poet and reformist Gurajada Apparao in his address to the nation while launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Modi, while emphasising the need for working for the general good of all, recited the oft-quoted verses from Apparao’s poem, ‘Desabhakti’, published in 1910. “Sonta labham konta manukuni... Porugu vaaniki todupadavoi… Desamante matti Kaadoi Desamante manushuloi (Help others while shunning selfishness, as a nation is made up of people but not soil),” Modi said in his speech. ‘Desabhakti’, originally titled ‘Desamunu Preminchumanna’ (Love your country) was once suggested as the national anthem. Many literary giants, including Sri Sri, had batted for Apparao’s poem as the national anthem. They were of the view that it had high literary and patriotic value. Sri Sri in his autobiography ‘Anantam’ even wrote that Gurajada’s patriotic song should have been the national anthem. He said Gurajada’s song was more inclusive and superior in literary value. Author N Venu Gopal, who wrote a book on this song alone, said Gurajada’s works did not reach the then national leadership during his time.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/telugu-poem-pm-quoted-was-contender-for-national-anthem/articleshow/80309277.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Bengaluru: Co-Win application functions smoothly||BENGALURU: Activated on Saturday, the Co-Win application launched by the Centre is functioning sans glitches. The app through which users will be able to register for the Covid-19 vaccine is only being used by government officials at present and is not available on Google Play Store or Apple App Store. “Zonal officers in charge of monitoring the vaccine will feed the data into the app. No one else can use it right now,” said B Vijayendra, chief health officer, BBMP. From the second phase, people will be able to download and use the application and register themselves. One month before the vaccine drive, BBMP had informed zonal officers to prepare a detailed list of all healthcare workers in their zones, including those from the smallest of clinics. “The details are already in the Co-Win application. The information has been verified and addresses checked,” said Dr Bhaskar Rajakumar, nodal officer, BBMP’s Covid War Room. The vaccine will only be administered to those who are registered. “Doctors or hospital officials can’t request us to add new names to the list now. They will have to wait for the second phase,” added Rajakumar. As soon as a beneficiary gets the vaccine, data in the app automatically changes so that there’s no confusion. The app will also provide real-time information on vaccine stock and storage temperature. “The beneficiaries will reportedly receive a digital certificate, which will help them keep track of dosage and will also create a database of those who’ve completed the course,” said the officer. The app is linked to the BBMP war room and state war room to ensure there is no mismanagement of data.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bengaluru-co-win-application-functions-smoothly/articleshow/80309295.cms||Nithya Mandyam
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai had 4 of 6 fresh Covid deaths, 6,128 fighting infection in Tamil Nadu||CHENNAI: The state discharged 775 patients from the Covid-19 registry and added 610 fresh cases on Saturday, which pushed the cumulative case tally to 8,30,183. Active cases dropped to 6,128 from 8,272 on January 2. The state reported six deaths due to the viral infection until Saturday noon, which took the Covid-19 death toll to 12,257. Barring Chennai (4) and Chengalpet (2), there were no other Covid-19 deaths reported in the state. The case fatality rate – number of patients dead over the total number of people tested positive – stood at 1.48%. Infectious diseases experts and critical care specialists say most deaths in TN were among patients with comorbid conditions such as diabetes and hypertension, heart disease, renal ailments or cancer. On Saturday, 52,049 people underwent RT-PCR in the 251 authorised labs. The state has tested more than 1.48 crore people since February. More than 85% of the tests done in the state were done in the 67 government labs free of cost. Ariyalur and Perambalur districts reported zero cases on Saturday. With 176 people testing positive, Chennai continued to top the new cases table followed by Coimbatore, which reported 80 new cases. All other districts reported cases below 40, and 17 districts reported a single-digit increase — the Nilgiris (8), Dharmapuri (7), Karur (7), Cuddalore (6), Nagapattinam (6), Ranipet (6), Sivaganga (6), Theni (6), Tirupathur (6), Tuticorin (6), Villupuram (6), Kallakurichi (5), Pudukottai (4) and Tenkasi (4), Krishnagiri (3), Tiruvarur (3), and Ramanathapuram (2). The eleven districts in the north reported 312 fresh cases and six deaths. All deaths were in the Chennai region, which reported 387 new cases. After the northern districts, the eight districts in the west together reported 159 fresh cases. The ten southern districts reported 86 cases, while the central districts reported 51 cases. The south, central and western zones had zero deaths. Active cases were highest in the northern districts (3,199), including 2,722 in the Chennai region. There were 1,589 active cases in the west compared to 748 in the south and 576 in the centre.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-had-4-of-6-fresh-covid-deaths-6128-fighting-infection-in-tamil-nadu/articleshow/80309298.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Call on lockdown was not easy, assessed impact: PM||NEW DELHI: Recalling India’s fight against Covid-19, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that the decision to go in for a nationwide lockdown in March 2020 was not easy as the government had assessed its impact on the economy and people’s livelihood and worked to devise welfare nets. “A lockdown was also announced and it was not an easy decision. To keep such a big population at home is impossible, we realised it. And here everything in the country was going to be shut…We had analysed the effect of lockdown on the lives and livelihood of people, its impact on the economy. But the country moved ahead with ‘Jaan hai toh jahaan hai’ and gave priority to saving lives of the countrymen,” Modi said. He said strenuous efforts were made to ensure foodgrains and other assistance reached the poor and their hardships were mitigated. India now has vaccines that would prevent the disease but there is need to remain cautious and observe safety measures. There are districts in India where there hasn’t been a single Covid death and no new Covid case for the past two weeks, he said underlining that the infection is tapering. He said the whole world has seen how well the pandemic was tackled in India by taking timely steps such as evacuating Indian citizens stuck abroad to ramping up production of PPE kits and expanding the network of testing labs. “India remained vigilant round the clock and took the right decisions at the right time. On January 30, 2020, the first case of coronavirus was reported in India. Two weeks before this, India had already constituted a high-level committee. That day in 2020, we began surveillance. India issued its first advisory on January 17, 2020. India was among the first nations that began screening of travellers at airports,” PM Modi said. He also recalled how basic necessities and services were taken care of during the lockdown and India emerged as one of the few countries which despite challenges, continued supplying medicines and medical help to over 150 countries around the world. “The arrangement of free food to the poor was made and a supply of essential items including food, gas and medical supply was ensured. We have set examples for the world at various levels... India's economy hit by lockdown is also progressing and moving ahead,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/call-on-lockdown-was-not-easy-assessed-impact-pm/articleshow/80309305.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Waive newsprint import duty, say Covid-hit news publishers||NEW DELHI: Newsprint cost has jumped 20% in the last three months due to demandsupply imbalance post pandemic, prompting news publishers to petition the government for waiver of 5% import duty to help cut cost. The industry has been hit hard due to Covid-19 led disruptions and the most newspapers have stopped sending newspapers to rural areas where there is less than 50 copies to reduce the distribution cost, said the Indian Newspaper Society (INS) president L Adimoolam. In a representation to the finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday ahead of the forthcoming union budget, INS has suggested to take steps as to reduce the customs duty on import of newsprints, a stimulus package for the industry or at least to help the publications by releasing advertisement with an increased tariff of 50%. It has also asked to extend the validity of Registrar of Newspapers for India (RNI) Circulation Certificates up to March 31, 2022 which will enable DAVP rates to remain the same till next year. It is estimated that the print media would take two or three years to recover from the current situation, the INS added. When asked about the situation, Adimoolam said, “We have been asking for the stimulus package. The government is helping a few industries with stimulus packages. We are (also) expecting some stimulus.” After the pandemic, reportedly 3 million tonnes of newsprint capacities have been closed or converted to brown paper grades worldwide, resulting in a demandsupply imbalance. “Prices of newsprint have shot up by 20% in the last three months. Another increase of 10-15% is in the anvil next month which will severely impact the publishers,” said the INS in the memorandum.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/waive-newsprint-import-duty-say-covid-hit-news-publishers/articleshow/80309319.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||BJP govt in Karnataka will complete full term: Amit Shah||BENGALURU: Amid rumbles following the cabinet expansion, Union home minister Amit Shah was upbeat on Saturday about the BJP government in Karnataka. “I saw media reports about Congress leaders trying to create doubts among people about the stability of the BJP government in the state. I categorically state that the government will complete its term and the party will return with a thumping majority after five years,” said Shah after flagging off the Emergency Response Support System Vehicles and launching police housing projects. Shah said ministers and legislators have a lot to do. “The Modi-led Centre has done so much for Karnataka and it wants to do more. So, you have a lot of things to do under Yediyurappa’s leadership,” Shah said. “My ministry is the nodal agency for Covid management and Karnataka has done well.” Yediyurappa camp members said the high command is in favour of continuing with him as CM. “It is up to people how they interpret Shah’s speech,” said BJP spokesperson N Ravikumar. “But, there are indications there is no threat to the government’s stability and Yediyurappa will continue for the rest of the term.” Hours later, at a state core committee meet, Shah urged leaders to reach out to dissidents and ensure there is no bickering in the open. ‘Leaders should protect party image’Dissidence that erupted after cabinet expansion showed no signs of abating. The latest discordent note is Madikeri MLA Appachu Ranjan. He said: “Party loyalists and disciplined workers have been given a raw deal. Some people who adopted dubious strategies have got ministerial berths.” Shah attended the state core committee meeting late at night. It lasted about an hour and dissidence in the wake of cabinet expansion was also discussed. Shah reportedly instructed state leaders to reach out to disgruntled legislators and assuage them. He reportedly said such resentment is natural but local leaders should ensure bickering does not come out in the open. Leaders should protect the image of the party, he added. Yediyurappa, state BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, party general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh, organisational secretary BL Santosh, Jagadish Shettar and Govind Karajol were among those at the meeting.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/bjp-govt-in-karnataka-will-complete-full-term-amit-shah/articleshow/80309326.cms||B V Shiva Shankar
January 17, 2021||Ahmedabad||ICOMOS puts Louis Kahn’s IIM-Ahmedabad campus on worldwide heritage alert||AHMEDABAD: The advisory body to Unesco and an independent think tank in matters of world heritage, the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS), has issued a ‘worldwide heritage alert’ to amplify awareness on the threat to Louis Kahn designed Indian Institute of Management - Ahmedabad (old campus) buildings. The alert, aims to draw an “urgent attention” to the “eminent risk of loss of the internationally significant buildings that make up the cultural landscape designed by Louis Kahn with his team of Indian architects and engineers,” ICOMOS had announced on its website. Hailing it as an “international icon”, ICOMOS said it was ready to offer its full scope of expertise in support of preserving the exceptional Old Campus of IIM-A. ICOMOS had also communicated to the IIM-A Board of Governors (BoG) their concern, earlier this week. ‘Old buildings interconnected’The country’s premier BSchool was dragged into a controversy after it issued an expression of interest last month inviting architects and designers to submit plans for reconstructing most of the student dormitories at the campus, designed by noted American architect Kahn. Following national and international outcry on the issue, the BoG cancelled the EOI. Earlier this week, a letter dated January 12, addressed to the IIMA governing council chairman and leading industrialist Kumar Mangalam Birla, ICOMOS commended IIM-A’s decision. “All Kahn designed buildings on the IIM-A Old Campus are inextricably interconnected,” according to a letter signed by president of ICOMOS International Scientific Committee on Twentieth Century Heritage Jack Pyburn and Secretary General of ICOMOS Mario Santana Quintero. The letter adds , “The dormitory buildings are architecturally outstanding. However, absent the context of the larger Kahn planned campus and buildings, the significance of the dormitories is substantively diminished. Conversely, if the integrity of the dormitories as a group and individually is lost or diminished, the integrity of the Kahn campus plan, landscape and other Kahn buildings is likewise degraded,” the letter claimed.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/ahmedabad/icomos-puts-louis-kahns-iim-ahmedabad-campus-on-worldwide-heritage-alert/articleshow/80309336.cms||Maulik Pathak
January 17, 2021||Bengaluru||Realtor out for walk found murdered in Bengaluru||BENGALURU: A realtor-cum-grocery shop owner was murdered by unidentified assailants in Devanahalli, northeast part of the city, on Friday night. Police said victim Nagaraja Murthy, 65, a resident of Tippu Road went missing on Friday evening, after he left home for his regular walk. Murthy’s Family made desperate attempts to find him and even visited houses of friends and relatives in and around Devanahalli. However, there was no trace of Murthy, whose mobile was switched off. On Saturday morning, the public alerted police on seeing a body near Silicon Layout in Devanahalli. Police, with the help of family members, identified the person as Murthy. “Preliminary investigation revealed the assailants hit Murthy on the head with a blunt object and stabbed his neck. The body has been sent to Devanahalli government hospital for autopsy,” Devanahalli police said adding, “We suspect that a financial rivalry could be the motive behind the killing.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bengaluru/realtor-out-for-walk-found-murdered-in-bengaluru/articleshow/80309337.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Tamil Nadu: 16% show the way to 100% cure||After reporting less than 16% attendance at the vaccination centres till 5.30pm, the directorate of public health announced that it was making changes in protocol by allowing all willing healthcare providers – registered and unregistered – to take the shots across the state on Sunday. The public health department had targeted 16,000 people on the first day, but it did not have the count of beneficiaries who received the invitation from the Cowin portal. In addition, some healthcare professionals including senior doctors who turned up at the venue found their names weren’t listed on the portal. “We have asked vaccinating officers to verify their identity, write their names on a register and offer the vaccination. The data will be fed into the system manually later,” said joint director (immunisation) Dr Vinay Kumar after discussions with senior health officials and the Centre. Besides problems with the portal, senior doctors said many healthcare providers including some doctors were apprehensive about taking the vaccine on the first day. “They wanted to ensure there were no adverse reactions or delays in the process. In addition, there were several myths about the vaccine. For instance in Madurai, some sanitary workers thought the vaccine will change women’s gender,” said Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association president Dr K Senthil. “We changed the beneficiaries list for the CM’s visit several times till late on Friday night,” he said. On Saturday, senior doctors including Tamil Nadu Dr MGR Medical University vicechancellor Dr Sudha Seshayyan, and government medical college deans Dr E Theranirajan and Dr R Jayanthi took the vaccine. Apollo Hospitals chairman Dr Prathap C Reddy, MGM Healthcare director Dr Prashanth Rajagopalan, Dr Agarwal’s Eye hospitals chief Dr Amar Agarwal, Senior diabetologist Dr V Mohan and several others also took it as did Several nurses, medical students, paramedics and hospital workers. All volunteers were given 0.5ml of the vaccine after officers verified their identities and updated the records – online or offline. All beneficiaries were made to wait for 30 minutes in the observation room where they were served coffee and snacks. Director of public health Dr T S Selvavinayagam said the real vaccination day was different from the two dry runs held earlier. In some districts, vaccinators were not able to empty the vials they had opened. Until 5.30pm, there were only two people who were vaccinated at Perambalur. The vials which carry doses for 10 people could not be used. “There were challenges but with our experience we know more people will volunteer in the coming days. We did not report any adverse event anywhere. That’s our big success,” he said. Health minister C Vijayabaskar also said he was proud of the state’s achievement. “We have allotted five vaccinators besides doctors and health officials to each centre. They ensured that vaccines were provided with adequate infrastructure and facilities. We will be increasing the centres when more people start coming in,” he said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/tamil-nadu-16-show-the-way-to-100-cure/articleshow/80309331.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic advisory ahead of Republic Day||NEW DELHI: Delhi Traffic Police on Saturday issued an advisory about traffic arrangements and restrictions put in place to facilitate the smooth conduct of rehearsals for the Republic Day parade. Officials said the rehearsals of the January 26 parade will take place from January 17 to 21 from Vijay Chowk up to C-Hexagon, crossing on Rajpath and India Gate. There will be restrictions on the movement of traffic crossings at Rafi Marg, Janpath and Man Singh Road from 9am to 12pm on the rehearsal days, said joint commissioner of police (traffic) Manish Kumar Agrawal. Rajpath from Vijay Chowk to India Gate will also remain closed. "Because of diverted traffic, congestion is likely on these roads. Motorists are requested to have patience, observe traffic rules and road discipline and follow directions of traffic police personnel deployed at all intersections," Agrawal said. According to the advisory, commuters travelling from north to south corridor and vice-versa are suggested to take routes that include Ring Road, Ashram Chowk, Sarai Kale Khan, IP Flyover, Rajghat, Lajpat Rai Marg, Mathura Road, Bhairon road, Aurobindo Marg, Safdarjung Road, Mother Teresa Crescent and Baba Kharak Singh Marg. For east to west corridor and vice-versa, motorists have been suggested to take Ring Road, Bhairon Road, Mathura Road, Lodhi Road, Kamal Ataturk Marg, Safdarjung road, Chadgi Ram Akhara via IP College and Mall road via Azadpur and Punjabi Bagh.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-traffic-advisory-ahead-of-republic-day/articleshow/80309342.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Azam Khan trust to lose 173 acres of land due to rule violations||RAMPUR: In another trouble for senior Samajwadi Party leader and former Uttar Pradesh cabinet minister Azam Khan, the Rampur district administration on Saturday issued orders for acquisition of 173 acres of land belonging to Maulana Muhammad Ali Jauhar Trust, which is run and owned by Khan’s family. The court of additional district magistrate (admin) JP Gupta ruled that the trust had violated norms while purchasing the land and ordered the SDM to acquire the varsity land. Additional district government counsel (civil) Ajay Tiwari said, “The trust had violated the government order (GO) that permitted it to purchase more than 12 acres only on the condition that it will have to follow rules laid down by the GO. It said the trust would not buy land belonging to people from SC/ST categories, nor acquire riverbeds or floodplains or any land belonging to gram samaj land or a chak road. But the trust violated these terms as well as sections of the Uttar Pradesh Revenue Act.” “The court had also issued notices and summons to Azam Khan, the chairman of the trust earlier, at Sitapur jail but he had refused to receive the notices,” Tiwari said. In January 2020, a revenue board court in Prayagraj had also directed the government to take over around 100 bighas of land in Rampur allegedly purchased from 12 Dalit farmers under coercion.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/azam-khan-trust-to-lose-173-acres-of-land-due-to-rule-violations/articleshow/80309339.cms||Nazar Abbas
January 17, 2021||Jaipur||6 dead, 17 injured as bus catches fire in Rajasthan's Jalore||JALORE: Six people were killed and 17 others sustained injuries as a bus caught fire after coming in contact with an electric wire in Maheshpur of Jalore district late on Saturday night. The incident took place around 10.30pm yesterday near district headquarters, Chagan Lal Goyal, Jalore additional district collector said. The driver and the conductor of the bus died on the spot, while the four persons succumbed to their injuries during treatment in hospital. "Seven persons among the 17 injured have been referred to a Jodhpur hospital. However, the driver and the conductor of the bus died on the spot while four succumbed to injuries during treatment in hospital," Goyal said.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/jaipur/6-dead-17-injured-as-bus-catches-fire-in-rajasthans-jalore/articleshow/80309369.cms||---
January 17, 2021||India||Job scheme sees record work, but share per family drops||NEW DELHI: As the demand for work under MGNREGS during the pandemic unemployment shot through the roof, the share of work per household slipped by four days. Surprising as it seems, the average employment per household was 48.40 days in 2019-20 when the number of families that worked under the job scheme was 5.48 crore. In contrast, the employment per household has gone down to 44.38 days in 2020-21 when the number of families has zoomed to 6.90 crore. Under MGNREGA, every household is entitled to 100 days of work per year. Also, total persondays generated in 2019-20 was 265.38 crore as against 306.39 crore in the pandemic year when formal employment took a serious hit due to the lockdown. It implies while more households sought and found work under the job scheme this year, the individual share of employment was lower. Interpretations and reasons vary. While the government believes the temporary share in MGNREGA of migrants who returned to villages skewed the figures, job scheme activists say the administrations have not been able to generate work owing to the surge as well as budgetary constraints resulting in a serious gap between the demand and work given. “The overall figures may be hiding two averages. The migrants sought work in villages and later went back to cities. These additional workers are not seeking work any more under MGNREGA but are dragging down the per family share. If the migrants are taken out of the calculation, the work per household may go up. It requires a detailed study,” a senior rural development ministry official said. The rise in work demand without concomitant increase in work per household (HH) is a national pattern. In Uttar Pradesh, the average HH work dropped from 46 days in 2019-20 to 38 days in 2020-21 even as the number of families working went up from 53.14 lakh to 88 lakh. In Bihar, it has fallen from 42 days to 39 days, Chhattisgarh from 55.69 days to 43.17 days and Maharashtra from 41 days to 35 days. Here, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh are exceptions — Odisha per HH average has gone up from 48 days to 49 days and in MP, from 53 days to 55 days. It is to be seen if the remaining two and half months in the financial year change the average since overwhelming number of migrants are said to have since returned to the cities.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/job-scheme-sees-record-work-but-share-per-family-drops/articleshow/80309376.cms||Subodh Ghildiyal
January 17, 2021||Delhi||Delhi: After first shot in arm, they vax eloquent||NEW DELHI: As the capital battled Covid-19, Raj Nath Shah, a 43-year-old housekeeping staff at Fortis Escorts Heart Institute in South Delhi, didn’t go home for close to six months for fear of exposing his family to the deadly virus. On Saturday, Shah was a much-relieved man after being one of the 4,319 health workers in Delhi to be inoculated in the first phase of vaccination. “I was informed by the hospital that I would be getting the vaccine and I was happy about it,” said Shah, who stood in a queue near the vaccination booth in the open air after his night duty got over. “I would also like to tell others that there is nothing to be scared about. I am completely fine,” he added. The scene at west Delhi’s Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Hospital was also celebratory on Saturday morning. The first few recipients of the vaccine were quick to take their seats in the pre-waiting area. Ritu, a vaccinator, said that she and other vaccinators received their training on December 25. “I am privileged to get this opportunity and it is something I am going to remember all my life. I hope this vaccine works for everyone and the pandemic ends soon,” she added. The vaccination was described as a 45-minute, threestep process by those who took it. The vitals were checked after 15 minutes of the vaccine being administered and each of them monitored for half an hour. They were allowed to leave only if their pulse and blood pressure recorded normal readings. While only registered healthcare workers are being administered the vaccine at the moment, it didn’t deter some people from walking up to the registration area at Fortis Shalimar Bagh in northwest Delhi to enquire if they could get a shot at the shot. “I have four elders in my family who want to protect themselves against the virus,” explained Kamalnath Bhatia. “But I was told that only healthcare workers can get the jab right now.” Among those that received Covaxin shots was Sarb Deo, 41, an operation theatre technician at Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. Deo said he did not know much about which of the two vaccines was better, but was hopeful either would protect him. “I got a call only late last night. The first time for any such thing is scary, but I am thinking positive,” declared Deo. Dr Parul Goyal, 44, got the Covaxin shot at RML Hospital and said, “We were waiting for the vaccination for months. The vaccine has gone through phase 1 and 2 trials and the central government has given emergency approval for it. I believe something is better than nothing. My husband, a doctor at another hospital, also had no issue with it,” she said. At Shahdara’s Guru Tegh Bahadur Hospital, additional waiting and observation rooms were created in tents to ensure the vaccination drive did not interfere with OPD operations. Dr Pragya Shukla of the oncology department, also the nodal vaccine officer at GTB, volunteered to be the first to take the injection to motivate the staff. Lab assistant Divya said, “Unlike in other countries, we didn’t see Indian leaders volunteering for the jabs, so all of us were initially scared about taking the vaccine. But when our seniors stepped forward to have themselves injected, we realised that this was not the time to be afraid.” Divya, who lives with her parents and two sisters, said her family had been apprehensive about her participation in the vaccine drive and would have preferred for her to wait. But she reassured them and joined the 4,318 others in receiving the vaccine on Saturday.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/delhi/delhi-after-first-shot-in-arm-they-vaccine-eloquent/articleshow/80309370.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Active Covid cases drop below 2,000 in Chennai, TPR is down too||CHENNAI: Of every 100 people tested in the city, less than two samples returned positive, official data from Greater Chennai Corporation revealed on Friday. Data also showed that the test positivity rate (TPR) — a measure of the spread of the infection — was 1.85% on Friday. The corporation has marginally scaled down its testing, bringing the figure blow the 10,000-mark for the first time since the Diwali season in November last year. On Friday, 9,850 people were tested, of which only 180 tested positive. The day India rolled out its vaccination programme was also marked by Chennai’s active case count falling below the 2,000-mark for the first time since May last year. Chennai now has 1,971 active cases. During the peak of the pandemic in May and June 2020, active Covid-19 cases in the city were as high as 22,000. North Chennai, which was a major hotspot in the early days of the pandemic last year, is now the region with the least active cases. Tiruvottiyur (56), Manali (29), Madhavaram (69) and Tondiarpet (93) zones in this region have less than 100 active cases. Shollinganallur zone (58) in south Chennai also has less than 100 cases. Perungudi, which reported less than 100 cases throughout last week, now has 101 active cases. Only Kodambakkam (250) and Anna Nagar (230) zones have more than 200 cases. The city’s case fatality rate (CFR) has settled at 1.77% with a total of 4,059 people having died of the viral infection. Teynampet and Tiruvottiyur reported the highest CFR at 2.31%. Teynampet (505) is the only zone that has reported more than 500 deaths due to Covid. Teynampet is followed by neighbouring Anna Nagar (459) and Kodambakkam (457) in terms of the highest number of Covid deaths in the city. Corporation officials said the infection is largely under control, but reiterated through public messages on social media that people must follow Covid rules. The civic body has urged the public to wear masks and ensure physical distancing. “Wash hands after travelling in public transport,” the corporation added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/active-covid-cases-drop-below-2000-in-chennai-tpr-is-down-too/articleshow/80309313.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Chennai||Chennai: Pattabiram residents irked with poor storm water drains||CHENNAI: Residents of Pattabiram in Avadi suffer due to stagnant water on the roads due to poorly constructed stormwater drains. Residents complained the water in streets such as Sudarsanam Street, Pandian Street, Indira Gandhi Street and Nehru Street that also enters their homes when it rains. "Despite several complaints to local authorities, the condition remains the same," said A Roy Rozario, general secretary of People's Voice, Pattabiram. The residents have also written to the chief minister's office seeking intervention. In the letter, they mentioned that the Avadi municipal corporation has not undertaken storm water drain work in all interior streets in Ward 44, Pattabiram, and in the ones they did, they have damaged the existing drains which were in good condition. A few newly-laid drains, like the one on Nehru Street has also reduced the roads' width by 100m to half its original size, said Rozario. "The drains are unevenly built and are on a higher level. You can find water stagnated in the interior roads at all times," said P Lenin Charles, a resident. Rozario said because the drains on the Chennai-Tiruvallur high road are blocked, all the sewerage water is flowing back into their streets and accumulating. "The very purpose of providing the drains seem to have lost because the sewage, instead of flowing from all interior roads to the drainage on high road is actually coming back to our streets. They have also not connected the interior drains to main drain which is on the high road." Residents said the road condition gets worse every time it rains, as water mixed with sewage enters into their houses. Officials from the municipal corporation, however, refuted the allegation of water entering homes and said all the drains were functioning well. "Water stagnation is there in some places, because a few people have built their houses on catchment areas and they all have the necessary documents for the same. What more can we do?" said a senior official. The official said they have completed construction of drains in 90% of the areas and the rest will be completed in two months time. Residents called the construction work 'erratic' and asked authorities to take their feedback while carrying out the work. "We want the officials to repair the drains and lay the new ones as early as possible," said Lenin.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chennai/chennai-pattabiram-residents-irked-with-poor-storm-water-drains/articleshow/80309382.cms||Aditi R
January 17, 2021||Business||HDFC Bank Q3 profit up 18% to ?8,758 crore||MUMBAI: HDFC Bank has reported its highest ever quarterly net profit of Rs 8,758 crore for the three months ended December 2020, an increase of 18% from Rs 7,416 crore in the corresponding quarter last year. The bank’s deposits grew 19% at Rs 12,71,123 crore from Rs 10,67,433 crore while advances grew 15% at Rs 10,82,324 crore. Following the increase in business, the bank’s net interest income rose 15% at Rs 16,317 crore from Rs14,172 crore in the corresponding period last year. The bank’s provisions for the quarter, including for bad loans, was up 12% at Rs 3,414 crore. Even as the business grew by over 15%, the bank managed to curtail its operating expense growth to 8.6% at Rs 8,574 crore.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/hdfc-bank-q3-profit-up-18-to-8758-crore/articleshow/80309385.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Ayodhya’s Muslims open purses for Ram temple||AYODHYA: Muslims in Ayodhya are donating to VHP’s crowdfunding drive for the Ram temple, striking a blow for the holy city’s syncretism and secular moorings. Prominent among the Muslim donors so far are Faizabad native Wasi Haider and Shah Bano, who have donated Rs 12,000 and Rs 11,000 respectively. Iqbal Ansari, one of the oldest surviving litigants in the Ayodhya title suit that had dragged for decades, welcomed VHP’s campaign since Friday to reach 55 crore people across the country. “I will definitely donate,” he said, “If Muslims donate for the construction of the Ram temple, it will strengthen harmony and cement their bonding with Hindus.” Anil Singh, an RSS functionary based in Ayodhya, confirmed to TOI that many Muslims in the temple town had either donated already or sent feelers that they would like to pitch in. “We will definitely go to our Muslim brothers and accept whatever they give for the temple,” he said. Sirajuddin, a local cleric, said the quantum of donation wouldn’t matter if Muslims were willing to be part of the drive. “We must respect the beliefs of our Hindu brothers and join their moment of happiness. We should donate, even it’s one rupee.” Lawyer and social activist Sayyad Tahir Ali said, “While we may be opposed to the ideology of an organisation, remember that only a handful of Hindus subscribe to that agenda. The majority of Hindus are secular and we should show respect to their faith in Lord Ram and donate.” On the eve of the launch of the crowdfunding campaign, Samajwadi Party parliamentarian S T Hasan had laced his appeal to maintain calm with a warning that BJP might deploy stone-pelters to incite communal violence during the course of the drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/ayodhyas-muslims-open-purses-for-ram-temple/articleshow/80309397.cms||Arshad Afzal Khan
January 17, 2021||India||Won’t implement new privacy policy till May 15: WhatsApp||NEW DELHI: WhatsApp on Saturday said that it has delayed the implementation of its new privacy policy and terms of service until May 15. “Thank you to everyone who’s reached out. We’re still working to counter any confusion by communicating directly with @WhatsApp users. No one will have their account suspended or deleted on Feb 8 and we’ll be moving back our business plans until after May,” the company tweeted on Saturday, while sharing a blogpost on the microblogging platform. It also said it would instead “go to people gradually to review the policy at their own pace before new business options are available on May 15.” On January 6, the instant messaging platform had announced that it was making it mandatory for users to share their data with its parent company, Facebook. It had not given an option to opt out of the changes and had said people would lose access by February 8, if they did not accept the new terms. The move, digital experts had said, was a blow to privacy as it maximised data collection. Reacting to WhatsApp’s new post, cyber security expert Jiten Jain pointed out that privacy concerns around the update still exist since WhatsApp has not rolled back the policy. “They have just delayed the new policy. It’s only a tactic to escape public anger and stop the mass exodus of people to other platforms,” he said. The blog post said there had been a “lot of misinformation causing concern (around the new policy) and we want to help everyone understand our principles and facts.” It said WhatsApp would continue to protect users through end-toend encryption, a method which doesn’t allow the company to read content of people’s messages. “It’s why we don’t keep logs of who everyone’s messaging or calling. We also can’t see your shared location and we don’t share your contacts with Facebook. None of that is changing,” it wrote, adding that “This update does not expand our ability to share data with Facebook.” In another tweet, WhatsApp said, “never planned to delete any accounts based on this and will not do so in future.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/wont-implement-new-privacy-policy-till-may-15-whatsapp/articleshow/80309406.cms||Anam Ajmal
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 20.3% vaccine coverage, Himachal Pradesh 61.4%||CHANDIGARH: The first day of the much-awaited Covid-19 immunisation was marred by low coverage in Punjab as only 20.33% of registered health workers received their first dose. In Himachal Pradesh, the coverage was 61.46%. A total of 5,900 registered beneficiaries were to be administered doses of vaccine made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) at 59 sites, each having a maximum capacity of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries in a day, but only 1,200 received the shot. No case of post-vaccination hospitalisation was reported. The low coverage was largely due to many health workers on the list either not receiving the message informing them about the location of the inoculation centre and the time or getting it too late. Day 1 response low due to teething problems, says minThe communication gap occurred due technical snag in the digital portal from where the messages were to be sent. According to officials of the health department, the portal started working properly around 3.30am, eight hours before the official launch of the drive. The issue was taken up with the central government and the state government has been assured that the system speed will be optimised. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the response was low on opening day due to teething problems. He, however, sounded confident that numbers will improve from January 18. The vaccination drive was rolled out in the presence of chief minister Amarinder Singh in whose presence first five beneficiaries — Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Charan Kamal, Dr Dimple Dhaliwal Srivastva, computer operator Asha Yadav and class IV employee Surjit Singh — were vaccinated. In total, 1.74 health workers will be inoculated in the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/punjab-logs-20-3-vaccine-coverage-himachal-pradesh-61-4/articleshow/80309411.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 17, 2021||Shimla||Punjab logs 20.3% vaccine coverage, Himachal Pradesh 61.4%||CHANDIGARH: The first day of the much-awaited Covid-19 immunisation was marred by low coverage in Punjab as only 20.33% of registered health workers received their first dose. In Himachal Pradesh, the coverage was 61.46%. A total of 5,900 registered beneficiaries were to be administered doses of vaccine made by Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) at 59 sites, each having a maximum capacity of vaccinating 100 beneficiaries in a day, but only 1,200 received the shot. No case of post-vaccination hospitalisation was reported. The low coverage was largely due to many health workers on the list either not receiving the message informing them about the location of the inoculation centre and the time or getting it too late. Day 1 response low due to teething problems, says minThe communication gap occurred due technical snag in the digital portal from where the messages were to be sent. According to officials of the health department, the portal started working properly around 3.30am, eight hours before the official launch of the drive. The issue was taken up with the central government and the state government has been assured that the system speed will be optimised. Punjab health minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said the response was low on opening day due to teething problems. He, however, sounded confident that numbers will improve from January 18. The vaccination drive was rolled out in the presence of chief minister Amarinder Singh in whose presence first five beneficiaries — Dr Sandeep Singh, Dr Charan Kamal, Dr Dimple Dhaliwal Srivastva, computer operator Asha Yadav and class IV employee Surjit Singh — were vaccinated. In total, 1.74 health workers will be inoculated in the first phase.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/shimla/punjab-logs-20-3-vaccine-coverage-himachal-pradesh-61-4/articleshow/80309412.cms||Vinod Kumar
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: BJP declares six more names for Vidhan Parishad polls||LUCKNOW: The Bharatiya Janata kept caste and regional equations in mind as it selected the remaining six candidates for the forthcoming Vidhan Parishad polls on Saturday. The party, which is sure to win 10 out 12 seats falling vacant, had earlier announced the names of four candidates. The six names announced on Saturday are: former working chairman of Vidhan Parishad Kunwar Manvendra Singh, former MLA and state BJP vice-president Salil Vishnoi, Govind Shukla and Ashwini Tyagi, both state general secretaries and Mati Kala Board chairman Dharmaveer Prajapati. The sixth candidate is Surendra Chaudhary, who quit BSP to join BJP five years ago and had been given a ticket from Soraon. However, the seat went to Apna Dal in the pre-poll alliance and he had to wait for four long years for his rehabilitation. He is considered close to deputy CM Keshav Maurya. The four candidates announced earlier are BJP state president Swatanra Dev Singh, deputy CM Dinesh Sharma, retired IAS officer AK Sharma and and party veteran Laxman Acharya. According to political observers, the ruling party is likely to play safe and not go for the 11th candidate as it has strength to get 10 candidates elected. SP which can get elected one candidate has fielded two nominees. Out of 10 candidates, six belong to upper castes, two backwards and two scheduled castes. Among six upper castes, there are two Brahmins, two Bhumihars and one Vaishya. One Kurmi and a Prajapti completes the OBC list while a Dhobi and a Kharwar are the two dalits.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-bjp-declares-six-more-names-for-parishad-polls/articleshow/80309418.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Gurgaon||Haryana: Hackers send fake e-mails, rob firm of Rs 1 crore||YAMUNANAGAR: Industrial unit ISGEC Heavy Engineering suffered a fraud of about Rs 1.05 crore after some unidentified persons hacked its communication with raw material suppliers based in France and Germany. Police have booked a London-based bank and the unknown fraudsters and registered two separate cases on charges of cheating and criminal breach of trust of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) as well as relevant sections of the Information Technology (IT) Act on the complaint of Anil Sunder, vicepresident (material department) of the company. In his police complaint, Anil Sunder said, “ISGEC Heavy Engineering Limited, Yamunanagar deals in manufacturing of heavy engineering goods. Our company placed an order to purchase naval brass plates with a company of Germany on November 3, 2020. During this communication process, the unknown fraudsters monitored our emails and hacked the accounts. The fraudsters sent spoof emails to our purchase officer, who treated them as genuine emails of the company with which a purchase order was placed. Treating the spoof emails as genuine, our company, through an Indian bank, transferred Euro 34,431 (Rs 30,08,236) in the bank account of the fraudsters on November 20, 2020,” the complainant said. In the second case, Anil Sunder stated, “Our company placed an order to import engineering goods from a company of France in October 2020. The unknown fraudsters monitored the communication process of our emails and hacked their email accounts. The fraudsters sent fake bank details to our manager and our company transferred the payment of Euro 86,503.37 (Rs 75,11,520) in their bank account on October 10, 2020.” The complainant demanded action against the Londonbased bank, which allegedly opened fake account at the behest of the fraudsters without verifying facts and received payments in the fake accounts. Yamunanagar City police station house officer (SHO) subinspector (SI) Satpal Singh said, “We have registered a case against a London-based bank manager and unknown fraudsters who hacked the email communication of the complainant firm and siphoned off about Rs 1.05 crore in a fraudulent manner and started investigations.”||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/haryana-hackers-send-fake-e-mails-rob-firm-of-rs-1-crore/articleshow/80309443.cms||JK Singh
January 17, 2021||India||‘China actions reaction to border infra boost’||NEW DELHI: In one of the longest meetings of the MEA’s consultative committee on Friday, foreign minister S Jaishankar and foreign secretary Harsh Shringla answered questions on India’s China strategy and foreign policy priorities. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi led the opposition charge against the government, demanding a “clear and concrete” strategy rather than a “laundry list” of government achievements. In the three-and-half-hour meeting, sources said Jaishankar answered questions for over 2 hours and Shringla gave a detailed presentation for over 75 minutes. Jaishankar said China’s actions of the sudden military buildup in eastern Ladakh had undermined peace and tranquillity. The government’s strategy at present was to hold the line militarily on the border areas and support the armed forces in their efforts. Jaishankar stressed that the real problem with China was the rapid growth of India’s border infrastructure efforts, adding that this had been slow until 2014. Since then, the government had trebled the infrastructure budget and quadrupled the pace of implementation, according to official sources. Gandhi questioned whether the government had a strategy that could be “summarised in three sentences”. More specifically, he asked, what India would do to counter a situation where Chinese strategy moves from the maritime to the terrestrial, where the old Silk Road is changed into a land route that links China to Europe (BRI) and through Pakistan (CPEC) to the Gulf in order to diminish India’s centrality. He also asked whether India had a strategy to deal with a more “bipolar” (read the US versus China) world. Jaishankar replied that India’s strategy on the BRI and connectivity had been made clear from the first BRI Forum in 2017. India’s position was now echoed by many other countries in the world, he said. India, he added, was working to creating a more multipolar world, of which the first step would be to create a multipolar Asia. Rahul Gandhi said he wanted the minutes to be circulated in advance. Jaishankar informed him that in previous years the minutes used to be circulated, but the practice had been stopped by Pranab Mukherjee when he was foreign minister for security reasons. Other MPs are also learnt to have red-flagged concerns over the dangers of protectionism and cautioning against too much ‘atma nirbharta’. Sources said Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, in particular, sought clarity on whether India proposed to take sides on US-China tensions or if it will continue to have it both ways. Among six questions he sought clarity on, Tharoor also asked whether India’s “dysfunctional domestic politics” has provided an opportunity to Pakistan and China to “fish in troubled waters”. Congress MP Anand Sharma, sources said, spoke about the importance of Afghanistan and why India has remained absent from the table in the Afghan peace process. Bhagwant Mann, T Chandrasekhar and Priyanka Chaturvedi also raised concerns over India’s domestic politics creating the “wrong perceptions” especially in the context of difficulties faced by people on Vande Bharat flights and the migrants crises.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/china-actions-reaction-to-border-infra-boost/articleshow/80309447.cms||Swati Mathur
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||Wait for govt jobs in Haryana gets longer||CHANDIGARH: After the intervention of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the Haryana government has decided to scrap the recently made appointments for sports and school special assistant posts. The government will now invite fresh applications by giving due publicity and public notice. Earlier, the state government had opened a web portal for a few hours on October 24 to adjust the dismissed physical training instructor (PTI) teachers and to avoid their wrath during the Baroda bypoll that was held on November 3. However, when some of the candidates had challenged the government’s move of opening the web portal only for a few hours without prior public notice, the Haryana government on Friday gave an undertaking to hold the selection process afresh. “The state government has taken a decision to invite the applications for filling up the post of sports and school special assistant, after issuing the public notice. Due publicity shall be given, enabling the interested candidates to apply,” the counsel for Haryana government informed the HC on Friday. With this, the selection made by the state government on the post of sports and school special assistant from among the dismissed PTIs would be considered scrapped and they will have to apply a fresh according to the government new notification. Importantly, the selection of 1983 PTIs, who were recruited through the HSSC in 2010, was set aside by the HC and the orders were also upheld by the apex court with the directions to the state to hold a fresh selection of PTI. The dismissed PTIs had launched a state-wide protest against the state government. Although the state government had conducted fresh examination, but all the dismissed PTIs were not selected. To avoid the wrath of the dismissed PTIs, the state government on October 24, when the poll campaign for Baroda bypoll was at its peak, had advertised these posts on a web portal for a short period assuring them to give jobs. The matter, however, had reached before the HC in the wake of a petition filed by Tejpal, a resident of Ishrana village in Mohindergarh district and others. They had sought quashing the government’s decision for filling up the post of sports and school special assistant on the basis of pick and choose policy without issuing any advertisement and without adopting the selection process. Hearing this plea, the HC had on December 22, restrained the state government from making appointments on these posts .||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/wait-for-govt-jobs-in-haryana-gets-longer/articleshow/80309459.cms||Ajay Sura
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||Active Covid cases drop below 2,000 mark as vaccine drive starts in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Saturday rolled out the Covid-19 vaccine for healthcare workers, marking a momentous day in its Covid-19 trajectory. Incidentally, the day also witnessed zero Covid-19 mortality while the active cases dropped below the 2,000-mark. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy formally launched the drive at government general hospital in Vijayawada. Of the targeted 31,570 healthcare workers, 19,108 people received the vaccine by 8:30 pm on Saturday, translating to about 61% coverage on day one in Andhra Pradesh. The state witnessed a total of eight adverse events following the immunisation process, including the three minor ones. Of these eight events, one is from Anantapur, two are from Nellore and five are from Kurnool. Officials maintained that the side-effects were not vaccine related. The government gave Covishield vaccine, though it also has doses of Covaxin, which is currently under Phase-III clinical trials. Covaxin will also be administered to health workers later. B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitary staff working at GGH-Vijayawada, received the first vaccine shot in the state in the presence of the chief minister, who later inaugurated the information and communication (IEC) material related to the awareness camps on the safety of the vaccine. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually launched the pan-India roll-out. A health worker, Radha, felt dizzy and experienced uneasiness after receiving the jab at GGH-Vijayawada. She was provided immediate medical care and recovered soon. GGH authorities said the dizziness happened due to her skipping breakfast and dehydration, and was not a side-effect of the vaccine. The state health department has not officially reported any adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) in its official release on the vaccine coverage. The health department has set up 332 session sites across the length and breadth of the state to vaccinate 3.87 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase. The state has received 4.97 lakh Covid-19 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Director of medical education Dr K Venkatesh, who took the vaccine on Saturday, said he did not experience any side effects or other complications. “As the vaccine would be given to the general public in the next phases, people should come forward to get vaccinated without any fears,” said Dr Venkatesh. After taking the vaccine, NTR University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr Syama Prasad P said the vaccine works against majority of mutant strains of the novel coronavirus. “Healthcare workers should be immunised first as they are working closely with Covid-19 patients. The best protection will start 15 days after getting the booster shot in about four weeks,” added Prasad. As per the operational guidelines of the vaccination programme, the recipients were subjected to temperature check, physical distancing, and sanitation protocol before enrolling their names into Co-Win, the real-time anti-coronavirus vaccine delivery monitoring platform. The beneficiaries were also educated on the potential side-effects for about five minutes, and what they have to monitor on the health front for the next three months. The recipients were observed for 30 minutes for any adverse effect following the inoculation before they got the nod to leave the session site. A doctor has been deployed for close supervision at each session site. The state health department has also set up AEFI treatment facilities, which are a prerequisite for the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/active-covid-cases-drop-below-2000-mark-as-vaccine-drive-starts-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80309466.cms||Venu Lanka
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Active Covid cases drop below 2,000 mark as vaccine drive starts in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA/VISAKHAPATNAM: Andhra Pradesh on Saturday rolled out the Covid-19 vaccine for healthcare workers, marking a momentous day in its Covid-19 trajectory. Incidentally, the day also witnessed zero Covid-19 mortality while the active cases dropped below the 2,000-mark. Chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy formally launched the drive at government general hospital in Vijayawada. Of the targeted 31,570 healthcare workers, 19,108 people received the vaccine by 8:30 pm on Saturday, translating to about 61% coverage on day one in Andhra Pradesh. The state witnessed a total of eight adverse events following the immunisation process, including the three minor ones. Of these eight events, one is from Anantapur, two are from Nellore and five are from Kurnool. Officials maintained that the side-effects were not vaccine related. The government gave Covishield vaccine, though it also has doses of Covaxin, which is currently under Phase-III clinical trials. Covaxin will also be administered to health workers later. B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitary staff working at GGH-Vijayawada, received the first vaccine shot in the state in the presence of the chief minister, who later inaugurated the information and communication (IEC) material related to the awareness camps on the safety of the vaccine. Earlier, Prime Minister Narendra Modi virtually launched the pan-India roll-out. A health worker, Radha, felt dizzy and experienced uneasiness after receiving the jab at GGH-Vijayawada. She was provided immediate medical care and recovered soon. GGH authorities said the dizziness happened due to her skipping breakfast and dehydration, and was not a side-effect of the vaccine. The state health department has not officially reported any adverse event following immunisation (AEFI) in its official release on the vaccine coverage. The health department has set up 332 session sites across the length and breadth of the state to vaccinate 3.87 lakh healthcare workers in the first phase. The state has received 4.97 lakh Covid-19 doses of Covishield and Covaxin. Director of medical education Dr K Venkatesh, who took the vaccine on Saturday, said he did not experience any side effects or other complications. “As the vaccine would be given to the general public in the next phases, people should come forward to get vaccinated without any fears,” said Dr Venkatesh. After taking the vaccine, NTR University of Health Sciences vice-chancellor Dr Syama Prasad P said the vaccine works against majority of mutant strains of the novel coronavirus. “Healthcare workers should be immunised first as they are working closely with Covid-19 patients. The best protection will start 15 days after getting the booster shot in about four weeks,” added Prasad. As per the operational guidelines of the vaccination programme, the recipients were subjected to temperature check, physical distancing, and sanitation protocol before enrolling their names into Co-Win, the real-time anti-coronavirus vaccine delivery monitoring platform. The beneficiaries were also educated on the potential side-effects for about five minutes, and what they have to monitor on the health front for the next three months. The recipients were observed for 30 minutes for any adverse effect following the inoculation before they got the nod to leave the session site. A doctor has been deployed for close supervision at each session site. The state health department has also set up AEFI treatment facilities, which are a prerequisite for the vaccination drive.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/active-covid-cases-drop-below-2000-mark-as-vaccine-drive-starts-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80309442.cms||Venu Lanka
January 17, 2021||Chandigarh||‘Chinese checkers’: Preparing for the summer onslaught||There has been a flurry of visits to the LAC by members of the top military hierarchy, including Ladakh and Arunachal. Such forays amidst the ongoing border crisis, besides raising the morale of troops on the ground, enable review of preparedness. The latter assumes greater relevance as there is considerable apprehension about the possible Chinese strategy after winter. It is rather risky to forecast the Dragon’s moves, especially when it has embarked on a very unpredictable course. Chinese misadventures would have made the great statesman and wise Deng Xiaoping turn in his grave. Why should China have adopted the aggressive and ‘bull in China’ shop stance, when by all accounts, two more decades of peaceful rise, prescribed by Deng, would have put her in a commanding pole position? In the process, it has destroyed its limited soft power capital and disconnected with a generation of Millennials. For others, it has indeed been a rude wake-up call for introspective analysis of the degree of dependencies on China, triggering de-coupling of manufacturing chains and economies. China is also being seen as a knowledge pirate and shunned from collaborative research. Ambitious projects like BRI and Digital Silk road (Huawei lead 5G) are stalled and need to be reworked. The world is turning towards ‘gated-globalism’ with fading trust and enhanced verification protocols. In this new normal, China is the Dragon and has been forced to explore its own version of ‘Atmanirbhar’, dubbed as ‘Dual-circulation’ with increased focus on domestic demand. The new jargon notwithstanding, the writing on the wall is clear, demand is drying up. The only saving grace for Beijing has been the Health Silk road with supply of equipment to developing countries, especially Africa. Another supportive distraction has been the antics of Trump, presenting a stark choice between two irresponsible global hegemons. China has failed to fulfill even basic obligations, as a responsible leading power, by covering up on the Wuhan virus and gross violation of agreed treaties and protocols with smaller neighbours. The moot questions are- will China allow its insecurities to drive more irrational responses or will we have the respite of dealing with a chastened China? The urgency to show gains and meet targets in the centenary year of CCP in 2021 and PLA in 2027 has already catalysed the ‘aggressive China’ policy. Major roll-back is unlikely and will require Quad and many more collaborative endeavours to stymie the Chinese juggernaut, especially in Indo-Pacific region. In the Indian context, despite an over-kill by strategic experts, there is no clarity on the real aims of Chinese misadventures. Politically, it was probably to push down India in the Asian hierarchical order, where Chinese accept the next incumbent couple of pegs below them. In order to achieve such a hiatus, the aspiring claimant has to be administered regular doses of humiliation. Unfortunately, China misread India respecting Chinese sensitivities, articulated in the Shangri-la dialogue by PM Modi, where he espoused the concept of a shared Pacific as weakness. China perceived Indian reticence on Quad and Wuhan spirit as signs of capitulation. Militarily, it was a diabolic exploitation of the ancient Chinese tack of ‘loot the house on fire.’ The pandemic aided timing, as even limited operations in high-altitude areas require preparation and logistical build up. The truth is that sustained erosion of our dissuasion capability due to inadequate funding emboldened PLA. Another contributory factor has been the misplaced belief that China will remain focused on economic build up for another decade. This promoted the ‘Pak first’ policy, where also there has been excessive reliance on the security domain with tardiness on other critical socio-political and economic drivers. It is to the credit of the government that infrastructure projects in the border areas got enhanced impetus. However, new connectivities coupled with avoidable rhetoric on reclaiming Aksai Chin heightened Chinese anxieties. Bold rejection of BRI and RCEP fuelled Chinese angst and desire to teach India another lesson after 1962. Like Pakistan in 1965, China also probably surmised that with narrowing asymmetries, the window of opportunity is fast closing. Operationally, it was attempted application of Sun Tzu’s maxim of conquering without fighting. The process started with creeping incursions (described as transgressions), starting with Depsang (2013), Chumar (2014) and Doklam in 2017. It will be interesting to analyse the role of Gen Zhao Zhongqui, erstwhile Western Theatre Commander, who probably wanted reordered LAC as a defining feather in his cap. Alas, the obstinate General didn’t foresee Indian resoluteness, making it a tragic swan song. PLA utilised the familiar ploy of diversionary fracas in Naqu La, in inconsequential Muguthang Valley (Sikkim). Coupled with physical incursions, Chinese unleashed multi-dimensional intimidation as part of three warfares. The hype on techno-asymmetry replete with swarms of drones, microwave oven and barbaric weapons has been part of this sinister plot. It is to the credit of the current hierarchy, that hesitancy on overdue rebalancing, to Northern borders by repositioning 1 Corps and other formations has been overcome. It has spurred much needed modernisation and initiatives in the Atmanirbhar defense production. Indian tactical defiance at Galwan, operational brilliance in pre-emptive deployment on the Kailash range and unveiling of Tibetan (SFF) card have defined the current stalemate. The Chinese will have to either find a face saving exit or attempt another limited foray, maybe in the North East. Stalemate amounts to loss for the aggressor. The current reorganisation will further limit options in the kinetic domain. While fiscal penalties for Indians are considerable, transition from a roving LAC management with minimum force to fixed deployment translates into similar costs for the PLA. It is time for the Chinese to realise that teaching lessons to aspiring and resolute India, is no longer possible. The sensible way forward is reasonable dialogue. The writer is former Army Commander, Western Command||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/chandigarh/chinese-checkers-preparing-for-the-summer-onslaught/articleshow/80307469.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Visakhapatnam||GGH sanitation worker gets first Covid vaccine shot in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitation worker at government general hospital in Vijayawada, was the first in the state to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Pushpa Kumari got vaccinated in the presence of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, deputy chief minister Alla Nani and other authorities. Expressing happiness at being the first frontline worker to be inoculated, she said taking the vaccine in front of the chief minister gave her strength. “He stood beside me while I took the vaccine. Interacting with him gave me confidence and hope. I never imagined I would get a chance to meet the chief minister,” she told TOI. Pushpa Kumari has been working as a sanitation worker at Vijayawada GGH for the last three years. “Working during the Covid-19 outbreak was a great challenge. Personal safety helped me stay safe. Despite human loss many people are hesitating to take the vaccine due to certain myths. I wanted to bust those myths and inspire others. So I convinced my family and took the vaccine jab,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/visakhapatnam/ggh-sanitation-worker-gets-first-covid-vaccine-shot-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80309885.cms||Venu Lanka
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||GGH sanitation worker gets first Covid vaccine shot in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitation worker at government general hospital in Vijayawada, was the first in the state to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Pushpa Kumari got vaccinated in the presence of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, deputy chief minister Alla Nani and other authorities. Expressing happiness at being the first frontline worker to be inoculated, she said taking the vaccine in front of the chief minister gave her strength. “He stood beside me while I took the vaccine. Interacting with him gave me confidence and hope. I never imagined I would get a chance to meet the chief minister,” she told TOI. Pushpa Kumari has been working as a sanitation worker at Vijayawada GGH for the last three years. “Working during the Covid-19 outbreak was a great challenge. Personal safety helped me stay safe. Despite human loss many people are hesitating to take the vaccine due to certain myths. I wanted to bust those myths and inspire others. So I convinced my family and took the vaccine jab,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/ggh-sanitation-worker-gets-first-covid-vaccine-shot-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80309475.cms||Venu Lanka
January 17, 2021||Amaravati||GGH sanitation worker gets first Covid vaccine shot in Andhra Pradesh||VIJAYAWADA: B Pushpa Kumari, a sanitation worker at government general hospital in Vijayawada, was the first in the state to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Pushpa Kumari got vaccinated in the presence of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, deputy chief minister Alla Nani and other authorities. Expressing happiness at being the first frontline worker to be inoculated, she said taking the vaccine in front of the chief minister gave her strength. “He stood beside me while I took the vaccine. Interacting with him gave me confidence and hope. I never imagined I would get a chance to meet the chief minister,” she told TOI. Pushpa Kumari has been working as a sanitation worker at Vijayawada GGH for the last three years. “Working during the Covid-19 outbreak was a great challenge. Personal safety helped me stay safe. Despite human loss many people are hesitating to take the vaccine due to certain myths. I wanted to bust those myths and inspire others. So I convinced my family and took the vaccine jab,” she added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/ggh-sanitation-worker-gets-first-covid-vaccine-shot-in-andhra-pradesh/articleshow/80309886.cms||Venu Lanka
January 17, 2021||Business||Despite being on watchlist, RBI to continue intervening in forex mkt||MUMBAI: The RBI will continue to intervene in foreign exchange market despite being on the currency manipulator watchlist, governor Shaktikanta Das indicated on Saturday while delivering the Nani Palkhivala lecture here. As per Das, given the uncertain global economic environment, emerging markets have no recourse but to build their forex reserve buffers even at the cost of being included in currency manipulators list or in the monitoring list of US treasury. His statement comes in the wake of the US adding India to its currency watchlist for intervening to support the dollar despite the country turning a current account surplus. RBI added over $100bn to its reserves in 2020 after negative interest rates in several global markets resulted in global capital flooding Indian markets. Das warned that while the medium-term growth outlook is positive, domestic financial markets must be prepared for sudden stops and reversals, should the global risk aversion factors take hold. Going forward, the bank’s focus would be on ensuring the stability of banks and other lenders, external sector stability and fiscal stability. He urged the government to set up a roadmap for fiscal discipline. “It becomes imperative that fiscal roadmaps are defined not only in terms of quantitative parameters like fiscal balance to GDP ratio or debt to GDP ratio but also in terms of measurable parameters relating to the quality of expenditure, both for center and states,” he said. Pointing out that the rush of capital into Indian markets is an outcome of accommodative liquidity conditions created by regulators globally, Das said the rise in forex reserves are now 18.4% of import cover and 236% of short-term debt. During the current crisis, RBI’s response has been to mitigate the impact of the pandemic through loan moratorium and standstill arrangements.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//business/india-business/despite-being-on-watchlist-rbi-to-continue-intervening-in-forex-mkt/articleshow/80309482.cms||Mayur Shetty
January 17, 2021||Noida||Nine vehicles pile up on Eastern Peripheral Expressway on foggy morning, four injured||NOIDA: Long snarls were witnessed on the Noida-Greater Noida Expressway when two vehicles collided with each other near Noida’s Sakipur village on Saturday evening. The jam extended up to Pari Chowk. Meanwhile, four people suffered minor injuries during a multi-vehicle pile-up due to fog on the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) in Greater Noida on Saturday morning, police said. Nine vehicles, including some cars, got piled-up on the EPE in Kasna police station area in the morning due to reduced visibility amid dense fog, a police spokesperson said. “Four people got minor injuries in the incident and were taken to hospital,” the spokesperson added. A local police team had reached the incident spot and damaged vehicles were cleared off the road with the help of a crane to ensure normal traffic movement on the expressway, the official said. The Eastern Peripheral Expressway, also known as the Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal Expressway, is a 135-km-long six-lane road stretch connecting Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. It passes through Gautam Budh Nagar. Foggy conditions resulted in traffic woes on the Yamuna Expressway too when police had to resort to making announcements using loudspeakers guiding commuters to drive slow or stop to ensure there is no pile-up. Foggy conditions resulted in traffic woes on the Yamuna Expressway too when police had to resort to making announcements using loudspeakers guiding commuters to drive slow or stop to ensure there is no pile-up. Cold weather conditions persisted in Gautam Budh Nagar on Saturday, with the mercury reaching a low of 5 degrees Celsius and high of 17 degrees Celsius amid “very dense fog”, according to the weather department.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/9-vehicles-pile-up-on-epe-on-foggy-morning-four-injured/articleshow/80307901.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Noida||Noida: Many health workers give jab a miss||NOIDA: Only 50 health care workers (HCWs) were vaccinated at Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida till 5 pm, the lowest in the district. Around 48 HCWs either did not turn up or were not available. They will now be vaccinated in the last lot of the drive. Rest other five centres from GB Nagar reported a better turnout. Dr Ajit Kumar spokesperson from Sharda hospital said, “There were 52 HCWs present to be vaccinated today. Two were found not eligible due to their health condition as one was pregnant while the other had medical condition. The remaining 48 did not turn up. Some were out of town and others were not available. They will now be vaccinated in the last lot of this drive.” Similarly, Child PGI reported only 60 vaccinations on Saturday while remaining 40 could not be given the shot for similar reasons. Of the 100 beneficiaries, an average 66% turnout was reported across all centres. While GIMS vaccinated the maximum of 79 HCWs, Bisrakh CHC came second with 73 vaccinations, followed by CHC Bhangel (68). Meanwhile, Kailash hospital reported 63 vaccinations. In some centres, HCWs did not receive the SMS alert while others had to be called. Overall, the district reported 393 vaccinations of the total 600 beneficiaries that were slotted for the inaugural day of the drive on Saturday, said, Dr Neeraj Tyagi, district immunisation officer and in-charge of Covid vaccine process in GB Nagar. In the first round of vaccination, Ghaziabad stood second in the Meerut zone with 95% turnout. Baghpat with 96% turnout was the first and GB Nagar stood fifth with 66% coverage. In Ghaziabad of the 400 selected HCWs, 379 got themselves vaccinated.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/many-health-workers-give-jab-a-miss/articleshow/80308400.cms||Meenakshi Sinha
January 17, 2021||Vijayawada||Telugu poem PM quoted was National Anthem contender||VIJAYAWADA: Many people in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana were taken by surprise on Saturday when Prime Minister Narendra Modi quoted famous Telugu poet and reformist, Gurajada Apparao, in his address to the nation while launching the Covid-19 vaccination drive. Modi, while emphasising the need for working for the general good of all, recited the oft-quoted verses from Apparao’s poem, ‘Desabhakti’, published in 1910. “Sonta labham konta manukuni... Porugu vaaniki todupadavoi… Desamante matti Kaadoi Desamante manushuloi (Help others while shunning selfishness, as a nation is made up of people but not soil),” Modi said in his speech. ‘Desabhakti’, originally titled ‘Desamunu Preminchumanna’ (Love your country) was once suggested as the National Anthem. Many literary giants including Sri Sri had batted for Apparao’s poem as the national anthem. They were of the view that it had high literary and patriotic value. Sri Sri in his autobiography ‘Anantam’ even wrote that Gurajada’s patriotic song should have been the National Anthem. He said Gurajada’s song was more inclusive and superior in literary value. Another noted poet, C Narayana Reddy, also took the same stand. Author N Venu Gopal, who wrote a book on this song alone, said that Gurajada’s works did not reach the then national leadership during his time. His works were recognised after the 1950s, but by then the National Anthem had been selected. Also, many in the Congress leadership at the time saw Gurajada as a communist. Rachapalem Chandra Sekhar Reddy, who extensively researched Gurajada’s works, said that there was a feeling among the Telugu literary circles that it should have been made the National Anthem. His work depicts the true spirit of secular India as he spoke about universal brotherhood, he said. Gurajada, who was born in Visakhapatnam on September 21, 1862, authored his most celebrated of plays ‘Kanyasulkam’ in 1892. Among the several works of Gurajada are the poems ‘Puttadi bomma poornamma’, ‘Kanyaka’ and ‘Subhadra’. Gurajada died in Vizianagaram on November 30, 1915. (Inputs by Sushil Rao)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/vijayawada/telugu-poem-pm-quoted-was-national-anthem-contender/articleshow/80309489.cms||Srikanth Aluri
January 17, 2021||Gurgaon||Gurugram: Misinformation rife, many wary of vaccine||GURUGRAM: The first day of Covid-19 vaccinations in the city received a mixed response. While many were excited and felt privileged to be getting the shot, there were others who had apprehensions about possible side-effects of the vaccine, their anxieties fed by hearsay, rumours and misinformation. Unsurprisingly, none of the city’s six vaccination centres saw a 100% turnout of those originally scheduled to take the vaccine on Saturday. Several National Health Mission (NHM) workers said they were unsure about the vaccine. An anganwadi worker at Daultabad seemed very worried. “I am a single mother with small children. If something were to happen to me, there is no one to look after my children,” she said. Asked what had triggered this fear, she added, “I had visited a hospital last week to check up on a relative. A person had come there whose hand had been affected due to the vaccine, whereas another had died,” she said, oblivious to the fact the first inoculations were happening only on Saturday. After much coaxing from health department officials, she finally decided to take the vaccine almost an hour later. Some others didn’t. Recipients at the centre said some of them had decided to go back home without taking the shot as they were worried about the side-effects. “My family members have advised me against taking the vaccine. They are worried that there may be side-effects,” said Kavita, an anganwadi worker. There were some who came for the vaccine shots despite their families not agreeing with them. Renu, an ASHA worker who was administered Covaxin at the Chauma centre, said, “We have been part of the surveys where we were asked to record the co-morbidities of the people living in containment zones. We have been working tirelessly during the pandemic. If we don’t get vaccinated now, how will we motivate other people to get vaccinated? Our families have been apprehensive and also questioned our decision but we decided to receive the shot.” There were also some who had medical issues and hence were not given the vaccine. An NHM worker had just recovered from typhoid and hence wasn’t given a shot. Officials from the health department said they were counselling frontline workers to not miss their chance. “This is a voluntary exercise. We can’t force anyone to take the vaccine if they don’t want to. However, we are trying to educate them and counsel them to take the shots,” said Dr Rupali, medical officer at Daultabad. Some vaccine recipients told TOI that they were under pressure from their seniors to take the shots. “I don’t want to take the vaccine, but they are telling me that if I don’t take it now, I won’t be able to get the vaccine even if I get infected with Covid,” said an anganwadi worker, requesting anonymity. Meanwhile, others turned up at the centres even though it was not their turn to get vaccinated on Saturday. At Wazirabad, several ASHA workers were present just to observe the vaccination drive. They said they had apprehensions and wanted to see others getting doses. “I decided to visit the centre to check how things are with people who are getting vaccinated,” said Anita, an ASHA worker. Another ASHA worker, Sheetal, added, “I was told by some of my neighbours that the vaccine is harmful and some people died while taking it in some other states. I was confused. Here, doctors told us the vaccine is safe. Hence, I am here to observe. I noticed there are no side-effects. I am ready to get vaccinated.” (With inputs from Vishakha Chaman)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/misinformation-rife-many-wary-of-vaccine/articleshow/80308413.cms||Shubhra Pant
January 17, 2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh: Indigenous Covid vaccine to be exported, says Rajnath Singh||LUCKNOW: After India kicked off the world’s largest Covid-19 immunisation drive on Saturday, defence minister Rajanth Singh announced the country would soon start exporting indigenously developed corona vaccines. “Soon, we will start exporting indigenous vaccines as there is a huge demand. We believe in the concept of ‘vasudhaiva kutumbakam’ (the whole world is one) as well as ‘s arve bhavantu sukhinah, sarve santu nira maya h ’ ( May all sentient beings be at peace, may no one suffer from illness),” said Singh, who is MP from Lucknow. “Two indigenous vaccines have been rolled out and four more will be launched... We will inoculate everyone to fight Covid-19,” Singh told reporters after laying the foundation of a central command hospital in Lucknow. The event was attended by chief minister Yogi Adityanath and chief of Army staff General Manoj Mukund Naravane. “Nobody had imagined that in just one day trains, flights, markets, schools, offices would be closed. But our PM took the challenge. He chaired two-three meetings in a week to take stock of the situation. There were only a couple of laboratories to conduct Covid tests, there was shortage of PPE kits, ventilators and masks, but within four-six months, we were in a position to export the kits. Today, there are over 1,000 laboratories. This is not a small feet.” “If last year was of obstacles, this will be of solutions,” he said. Singh said, “I salute the doctors, paramedics, sanitary workers, who are the real warriors against coronavirus. They performed their duties with full dedication at high risk. I know many doctors who stayed away from their families during the crisis.” “Health insurance for all was an unimaginable thing, but in the last two years, over 2.5 crore people have benefited from Ayushman Bharat scheme. This is unparalleled health insurance system in the world. People get Rs 5 lakh health cover which renews every year,” he added. (With inputs from Vivek Singh Chauhan)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/lucknow/uttar-pradesh-indigenous-covid-vaccine-to-be-exported-says-rajnath-singh/articleshow/80309486.cms||Arvind Chauhan
January 17, 2021||Gurgaon||Jab & jig: Shaking a leg in the middle of vaccine||GURUGRAM: The Prime Minister’s address had just ended and the local MLA had cut the ribbon for the vaccination programme to start. At the Bhangrola public health centre, the mood was sombre and it resembled a voting day — the early vaccine recipients waiting in line, holding in hand their photo IDs, and a few health officials sitting in desks to jot down their details. All of a sudden, the TV set and loudspeakers brought to air the PM’s address had started to blare again. Everyone looked back. Dr Neeru Yadav, the senior medical officer, was standing on the ground with a mic borrowed from a TV journalist. “Come on, play some Bollywood songs,” she said, as every other health official raised an eyebrow. As the music system played “swag se karenge sabka swagat”, some reluctantly came forward to shake a leg. But it took just a minute or two for the mood to turn celebratory — almost everyone joined in, throwing their hands and legs in the air, as if to break the shackles that the pandemic had tied them in for months at a stretch. When some women declined to join the jig despite repeated requests, Dr Yadav told them: “Ghar ke shaddio mein dance nahi kiya? Karna kya hai, haath aur pair hi to hilana hai (Have you never danced in weddings? You only need to move your hands and legs, that’s it).” That worked for some. With the mic borrowed from the journalist, Dr Yadav also conducted mock interviews of a few recipients who had already received the shot. “So, how did you feel after taking the vaccine?” she asked one of them. After the dance sequence, Dr Anubha, another health official at the centre, treated everyone to sweets and snacks that she had brought from home to celebrate her brother’s wedding. A little later, everyone was back at work. The second half was, however, not as interesting. It was already 3pm, and only 47 of the 100 listed recipients had come to take the vaccine shots. Health officials began calling up the others, but failed to persuade most of them. Although the official time for closing the vaccination was 5pm, health officials had started to wrap up by 4pm. “What to do? We have been calling up each and every recipient, but they are making some excuse or the other not to come to the vaccine centre. We will try to persuade them again on Monday,” said Dr Shalu Vashist, in charge of the Bhangrola PHC. It had been an early start to the day for the health officials at Bhangrola. Most of them had left their homes early in the morning and reached the health centre by 8am after a bumpy ride through potholes and muck-filled craters. The vaccine programme was supposed to start at 9am. As the clock ticked, both the recipients and the workers waited for Pataudi MLA Satya Prakash Jrawta. It was around 11.45am that a convoy of police vehicles screeched to a halt near the Bhangrola centre. Jrawta rushed in. “Am I late?” he asked Dr Yadav. She replied politely, “No, Sir. We were just waiting for you.” The MLA finally cut the ribbon, lit up the lamp and then joined other health workers to listen to the PM’s address on TV. When the telecast was interrupted due to technical reasons, the health officials used the opportunity to take selfies with the MLA. Dr Yadav then informed the MLA that a similar vaccine drive would be conducted on Monday at the Pataudi health centre. “Will you have a similar programme at Pataudi PHC as well? I have some engagements at 9am, I will be free at 9.30am (to join the programme at Pataudi),” the MLA said. The entire programme was marked by a few glitches too. While there were many who did not turn up, there were other recipients who waited all day but had to return home without getting a jab. Officials said there was some confusion regarding the list, and those who did not get the vaccine on Saturday would be given the shots in the next rounds.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/gurgaon/jab-jig-shaking-a-leg-in-the-middle-of-vaccine/articleshow/80308439.cms||Bagish Jha
January 17, 2021||Amaravati||Kurnool airport gets DGCA nod||TIRUPATI: The directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) has accorded aerodrome licence for public use to Orvakal greenfield airport in Kurnool. Orvakal is one of 50 low-cost airports proposed across the country to enhance air connectivity to remote areas by grounding no-frills facilities which are energy-efficient with minimum security hold. The foundation stone for the airport, which is spread over 1,000 acres, was laid in June 2017 and inaugurated in January 2019 by then chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu. Later, chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy held several rounds of meetings with officials of the Union civil aviation ministry to secure airport licence. On January 15, the DGCA accorded aerodrome licence to Andhra Pradesh Airports Development Corporation Limited to commence commercial operations. The state government has mooted a pilot training institute and aircraft repair centre at Orvakal. Once operational, the airport will fulfil a long-cherished dream of the people of Kurnool district to fly from their home district to desired destinations across the country.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/amaravati/kurnool-airport-gets-dgca-nod/articleshow/80309511.cms||Sandeep Raghavan
January 17, 2021||Noida||Dry fruits fraud: Two more held, cops to seek Mohit Goyal’s custody||NOIDA: Police have apprehended two more persons in connection with the alleged Rs 200 crore fraud orchestrated by Freedom Rs 251 mobile phone seller Mohit Goyal and his six accomplices, taking the total number of arrests in the case to four. The arrested have been identified as Sumita Negi, who served as the HR manager in three of several companies formed by Goyal — Dubai Dry Fruits Pvt Ltd, Spices Hub Pvt Ltd and Family Off Dry Fruits India Pvt Ltd — and Amarjit, who was a senior accountant in these three companies as well as Shri Shyam Tradings. Sumita had been staying in a flat taken on rent by her friend Sumit Yadav, one of the main accused in the case, in Noida’s Mahagun Moderne society in Sector 78. ACP Rajnish Kumar told TOI that Sumita was first appointed by Sumit in his security firm Invictus Guard Services Pvt Ltd. “Sumita and Sumit had told the other employees that they both were engaged. However, Sumita has denied any such relationship to police and claimed they were just friends. Sumita is pursuing an MBA from an institute in Delhi,” Anil Kumar, Sector 58 station officer, said. Both Sumita and Amarjit were employed on a salary of about Rs 40,000 and both would get a 10% share in the total fraud amount, Kumar added. Originally from Haryana’s Ballabgarh, Amarjit’s job was to transfer the money flowing into most of the companies to the accounts of the main accused. He would allegedly get cash from Ghaziabad’s kirana mandi and deposit the same in their accounts, the officer said. Meanwhile, police intend to take Mohit and another accused, Om Prakash Jangid, in their custody. Sector 58 police will submit an application for seeking their 10-day custody in the Surajpur court on Monday, another police official said. The two are currently lodged in jail under judicial custody. While police have not been able to arrest any other major accused, look-out notices have been issued against them to prevent them for travelling abroad, he added.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/dry-fruits-fraud-2-more-held-cops-to-seek-mohit-goyals-custody/articleshow/80307937.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 17, 2021||Noida||Noida: Home guard held for snatching silver bar, another on run||NOIDA: Two men who allegedly duped a driver-helper duo of an Agra-based trader by posing as cops and took a silver bar as a “bribe” in exchange for letting them go without any action were actually home guards attached to two police stations in Noida, police said. The two victims had come to Delhi on Tuesday to procure silver bars for their employer and were robbed by the two homeguards while on their way back the next morning. While one of the home guards, identified as Vikrant Singh, have been arrested, Umesh, the other accused, is on the run. They are deployed at the Sector 20 and Expressway police stations of Gautam Budh Nagar, respectively. They would dupe people with the help of two others — a jeweller named Shaukinder and another accused, Dharmendra, who would often mediate between the two home guards and their targets, police said. Around 6.45 am on Wednesday, Vikrant and Umesh on a sports bike intercepted the victims — driver Ajay Kumar and his helper Tanuj, who were returning to Agra in their employer’s Duster — on the expressway. Posing as cops, the duo wearing khaki soon started checking the boot of the car. And after they found the silver bars, they had asked to see the bill. When Ajay produced the bill, the duo termed it as fake, and insisted that they follow them to the local police station. En route, Vikrant and Umesh compelled the victims to hand over a silver bar, which they picked up and sped away. Additional DCP (Noida) Ranvijay Singh said that Vikrant owns a KTM bike which the accused would use for committing such crimes. “They have not admitted to any more of such crimes, but it seems they were involved in extortion. Vikrant is deployed at the Sector 20 police station but has been absent for the past six months.” Interestingly, the home guard continued to be absent for so long despite preparations of their attendance muster rolls in the aftermath of the multi-crore home guard payroll scam.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/noida/home-guard-held-for-snatching-silver-bar-another-on-run/articleshow/80307970.cms||Shikha Salaria
January 17, 2021||India||In ‘dry’ Bihar, this MBA bootlegger made Rs 9 lakh per day||PATNA: In “dry” Bihar, he created a flourishing oasis of illicit liquor to build a fortune that he loved flaunting — luxury wheels, fancy phones and a designer lifestyle. Both luck and liquor ran out for 28-year-old Atul Singh, who has an MBA degree from a reputable Noida university, on Friday when Bihar police raided his rented accommodation at the city’s Mahatma Gandhi Nagar. Over 1,100 litres of liquor worth Rs 21 lakh were found stocked in the house. Manoranjan Bharti, SHO, Patrakarnagar police station, said entries in Atul’s diary suggested he sold liquor worth around Rs 9 lakh a day in various parts of the city. The police are digging into his bank passbooks and documents related to monetary transactions to find out more about his business. Atul, a resident of Alawalpur village in Patna rural, told interrogators that he would employ jobless youths to deliver liquor to his customers across Patna. As per police, he paid Rs 500 for every successful delivery. Around 30 to 40 youths were involved in the trade. The police laid a trap for Atul following the arrest of two of his alleged accomplices, Indrajit Singh and Sanjiv Kumar. Initially, he tried to mislead the cops by claiming to be a management student. “He produced an identity card of a Noida university. But the raid party had evidence and he was forced to make a confession,” the SHO told TOI on Saturday. Two rooms of the house were used to stock liquor supplied to him by four smugglers from Vaishali, police said. Raids are underway to nab suppliers. Police have also arrested his alleged associate Vishal Kumar. On Friday, Atul, Sanjiv and Indrajit were produced in a local court and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Bharti said all four accused have been booked under Bihar Prohibition and Excise (Amendment) Act, 2018. A Honda Amaze car, a Kawasaki Ninja motorbike, Rs 1.75 lakh in cash and two iPhones are among the items confiscated from them.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/in-dry-bihar-this-mba-bootlegger-made-rs-9-lakh-per-day/articleshow/80309522.cms||Ramashankar
January 17, 2021||India||89 get bail in Palghar lynching case||MUMBAI: The Thane special court on Saturday granted bail to 89 people accused in April 2020 Palghar lynching case, in which two seers and their driver were killed by a mob in a village in Kasa, Palghar. Arguments on their bail applications were heard by district Judge SB Bahalkar on January 6. They were released on a bail of Rs 15,000 each and surety. Special public prosecutor Satish Maneshinde had then told the court that the accused seeking bail were present at the crime scene on April 16, 2020, but had played no active role in the crime. The Kasa police had filed a case of murder and other sections against a mob of over 500 unidentified people from the tribal villages in Kasa. Of the 246 accused, 115 are already out on bail.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//india/89-get-bail-in-palghar-lynching-case/articleshow/80309533.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Thiruvananthapuram||Day one: 8,062 health workers get inoculated in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Covid-19 vaccination drive took off smoothly in all 133 designated centres in the state on Saturday. Senior medical officials and veteran doctors led the way by volunteering to be first recipients of the Covishield vaccine. On the first day, 8,062 health workers were administered the vaccine. Palakkad district which administered the vaccine to 857 health workers topped the chart. In Thiruvananthapuram 763 persons and in Ernakulam 711 persons were administered the shot. No serious side effects were reported by health workers who took the vaccine on the first day, said health minister K K Shailaja. Thiruvananthapuram has 11 vaccination centres. Director of medical examination Dr A Ramla Beevi was the first recipient at the Pangappara integrated family health centre, marking the official inauguration of the drive in the district. “I am 61 years old and diabetic. I also take medicines for hypertension and cholesterol. All went well,” Ramla Beevi told reporters after taking the shot. Director of health services Dr R L Saritha was the first recipient at the Thycaud government woman and child hospital. “Vaccination is the most effective weapon against any pandemic. I urge everyone to join the drive,” she said after taking her first dose. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and district collector Navjot Khosa were present at the Pangappara hospital. Central protocol was strictly followed at all centres. Only the recipient and vaccinator were allowed into vaccination rooms. As the recipient entered the premises, she/he had to verify their identity with the provided list and after that proceed to the vaccine room. Each recipient then underwent a 30-minute observation for side effects. After that candidates were allowed to go. All who took the first dose on Saturday will have to take the second dose on an assigned date between four and six weeks of the first shot. On Friday night, the district collector issued an order banning photography and videography at vaccination centres. Shooting the process even on mobile phones is not allowed. Kerala has received 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune’s Serum Institute. While Ernakulam received 73,000 doses, Thiruvananthapuram got 4,020 doses. There are 12 vaccination centres in Ernakulam and 11 centres in Thiruvananthapuram. In other districts, there are nine vaccination centres each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/thiruvananthapuram/day-one-8062-health-workers-get-inoculated-in-kerala/articleshow/80309539.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kozhikode||Day one: 8,062 health workers get inoculated in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Covid-19 vaccination drive took off smoothly in all 133 designated centres in the state on Saturday. Senior medical officials and veteran doctors led the way by volunteering to be first recipients of the Covishield vaccine. On the first day, 8,062 health workers were administered the vaccine. Palakkad district which administered the vaccine to 857 health workers topped the chart. In Thiruvananthapuram 763 persons and in Ernakulam 711 persons were administered the shot. No serious side effects were reported by health workers who took the vaccine on the first day, said health minister K K Shailaja. Thiruvananthapuram has 11 vaccination centres. Director of medical examination Dr A Ramla Beevi was the first recipient at the Pangappara integrated family health centre, marking the official inauguration of the drive in the district. “I am 61 years old and diabetic. I also take medicines for hypertension and cholesterol. All went well,” Ramla Beevi told reporters after taking the shot. Director of health services Dr R L Saritha was the first recipient at the Thycaud government woman and child hospital. “Vaccination is the most effective weapon against any pandemic. I urge everyone to join the drive,” she said after taking her first dose. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and district collector Navjot Khosa were present at the Pangappara hospital. Central protocol was strictly followed at all centres. Only the recipient and vaccinator were allowed into vaccination rooms. As the recipient entered the premises, she/he had to verify their identity with the provided list and after that proceed to the vaccine room. Each recipient then underwent a 30-minute observation for side effects. After that candidates were allowed to go. All who took the first dose on Saturday will have to take the second dose on an assigned date between four and six weeks of the first shot. On Friday night, the district collector issued an order banning photography and videography at vaccination centres. Shooting the process even on mobile phones is not allowed. Kerala has received 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune’s Serum Institute. While Ernakulam received 73,000 doses, Thiruvananthapuram got 4,020 doses. There are 12 vaccination centres in Ernakulam and 11 centres in Thiruvananthapuram. In other districts, there are nine vaccination centres each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kozhikode/day-one-8062-health-workers-get-inoculated-in-kerala/articleshow/80309540.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Kochi||Day one: 8,062 health workers get inoculated in Kerala||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The Covid-19 vaccination drive took off smoothly in all 133 designated centres in the state on Saturday. Senior medical officials and veteran doctors led the way by volunteering to be first recipients of the Covishield vaccine. On the first day, 8,062 health workers were administered the vaccine. Palakkad district which administered the vaccine to 857 health workers topped the chart. In Thiruvananthapuram 763 persons and in Ernakulam 711 persons were administered the shot. No serious side effects were reported by health workers who took the vaccine on the first day, said health minister K K Shailaja. Thiruvananthapuram has 11 vaccination centres. Director of medical examination Dr A Ramla Beevi was the first recipient at the Pangappara integrated family health centre, marking the official inauguration of the drive in the district. “I am 61 years old and diabetic. I also take medicines for hypertension and cholesterol. All went well,” Ramla Beevi told reporters after taking the shot. Director of health services Dr R L Saritha was the first recipient at the Thycaud government woman and child hospital. “Vaccination is the most effective weapon against any pandemic. I urge everyone to join the drive,” she said after taking her first dose. Tourism minister Kadakampally Surendran and district collector Navjot Khosa were present at the Pangappara hospital. Central protocol was strictly followed at all centres. Only the recipient and vaccinator were allowed into vaccination rooms. As the recipient entered the premises, she/he had to verify their identity with the provided list and after that proceed to the vaccine room. Each recipient then underwent a 30-minute observation for side effects. After that candidates were allowed to go. All who took the first dose on Saturday will have to take the second dose on an assigned date between four and six weeks of the first shot. On Friday night, the district collector issued an order banning photography and videography at vaccination centres. Shooting the process even on mobile phones is not allowed. Kerala has received 4,33,500 doses of Covishield vaccine from Pune’s Serum Institute. While Ernakulam received 73,000 doses, Thiruvananthapuram got 4,020 doses. There are 12 vaccination centres in Ernakulam and 11 centres in Thiruvananthapuram. In other districts, there are nine vaccination centres each.||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/kochi/day-one-8062-health-workers-get-inoculated-in-kerala/articleshow/80309541.cms||---
January 17, 2021||Bhopal||13-year-old gang-raped by 9 men thrice in 24 hours in Madhya Pradesh||BHOPAL: A 13-year-old girl was gangraped thrice by nine men in less than 24 hours, passed on by truck driver to truck driver in MP’s Umaria district, on January 11-12. The horror and physical trauma has shocked her to the point she is unable to speak properly. She was kidnapped and gangraped first by two truckers, who raped her again with five others and then two more raped her the next day before they dumped her on a highway. According to her statement, four of these men had gangraped her January 4 but she hadn’t told anyone out of fear. Police have arrested seven of the nine accused, including a dhaba owner. Search teams are out looking for the two others. News of the unspeakable crime got out on Saturday after the arrests. The girl, a student of Class 9, was out on an errand on the afternoon of January 11when two truck drivers abducted her and took her to a jungle where they raped her. Then, holding her hostage in the truck, they drove to a dhaba where they gangraped her again, and were joined by the eatery owner and four other truckers, she has said in her complaint. She was held hostage and raped repeatedly through the night. Almost senseless from the torture, she was picked up and tossed into a truck in the morning and taken on the road again. The drivers may have planned to continue the sexual assault. She kept pleading with the driver to let her go, but he raped her and then dumped her in the middle of the road. Her nightmare wasn’t over. She pleaded with passing motorists for help. A truck driver headed in the direction of Umaria stopped and took her in, but raped her, she says. By now, her parents were frantically looking for her. They had searched all night and decided to report to the police in the morning. The trucker dropped her near Umaria and sped away, the survivor says. This time, she found some policemen and approached them. “The girl was recovered soon after receiving the complaint on January 12. She was in a state of shock and mental trauma and unable to talk properly,” Umaria SP Vikas Kumar Shahwal told TOI. She was counselled for 20 hours before she could even begin to speak. It was during counselling that she revealed she had been gangraped by five of the same men on January 4, the SP said. They had again ambushed her a week later. “According to the doctors, she has not sustained any major injuries but she is in deep mental trauma and shock. We have kept her under observation at one-stop crisis centre, where she is being counselled,” said Shahwal. (The victim's identity has not been revealed to protect her privacy as per Supreme Court directives on cases related to sexual assault)||http://timesofindia.indiatimes.com//city/bhopal/13-year-old-gangraped-by-9-men-thrice-in-24-hours-in-madhya-pradesh/articleshow/80309568.cms||---
